"x"
"1" "\"My fellow citizens, I stand here today humbled by the task before us, grateful for the trust you have bestowed, mindful of the sacrifices borne by our ancestors. I thank President Bush for his service to our Nation, as well as the generosity and cooperation he has shown throughout this transition. <p>Forty-four Americans have now taken the Presidential oath. The words have been spoken during rising tides of prosperity and the still waters of peace. Yet every so often, the oath is taken amidst gathering clouds and raging storms. At these moments, America has carried on not simply because of the skill or vision of those in high office, but because we the people have remained faithful to the ideals of our forebears and true to our founding documents. <p>So it has been; so it must be with this generation of Americans. <p>That we are in the midst of crisis is now well understood. Our Nation is at war against a far-reaching network of violence and hatred. Our economy is badly weakened, a consequence of greed and irresponsibility on the part of some, but also our collective failure to make hard choices and prepare the Nation for a new age. Homes have been lost, jobs shed, businesses shuttered. Our health care is too costly. Our schools fail too many. And each day brings further evidence that the ways we use energy strengthen our adversaries and threaten our planet. <p>These are the indicators of crisis, subject to data and statistics. Less measurable but no less profound is a sapping of confidence across our land, a nagging fear that America's decline is inevitable, that the next generation must lower its sights. Today I say to you that the challenges we face are real. They are serious, and they are many. They will not be met easily or in a short span of time. But know this, America: They will be met. <p>On this day, we gather because we have chosen hope over fear, unity of purpose over conflict and discord. On this day, we come to proclaim an end to the petty grievances and false promises, the recriminations and worn-out dogmas that for far too long have strangled our politics. <p>We remain a young nation, but in the words of Scripture, the time has come to set aside childish things. The time has come to reaffirm our enduring spirit, to choose our better history, to carry forward that precious gift, that noble idea passed on from generation to generation: the God-given promise that all are equal, all are free, and all deserve a chance to pursue their full measure of happiness. <p>In reaffirming the greatness of our Nation, we understand that greatness is never a given. It must be earned. Our journey has never been one of shortcuts or settling for less. It has not been the path for the fainthearted, for those who prefer leisure over work or seek only the pleasures of riches and fame. Rather, it has been the risk-takers, the doers, the makers of things--some celebrated, but more often men and women obscure in their labor--who have carried us up the long, rugged path toward prosperity and freedom. <p>For us, they packed up their few worldly possessions and traveled across oceans in search of a new life. For us, they toiled in sweatshops and settled the West, endured the lash of the whip, and plowed the hard Earth. For us, they fought and died in places like Concord and Gettysburg, Normandy and Khe Sanh. <p>Time and again, these men and women struggled and sacrificed and worked 'til their hands were raw so that we might live a better life. They saw America as bigger than the sum of our individual ambitions, greater than all the differences of birth or wealth or faction. <p>This is the journey we continue today. We remain the most prosperous, powerful nation on Earth. Our workers are no less productive than when this crisis began. Our minds are no less inventive. Our goods and services no less needed than they were last week or last month or last year. Our capacity remains undiminished. But our time of standing pat, of protecting narrow interests and putting off unpleasant decisions, that time has surely passed. Starting today, we must pick ourselves up, dust ourselves off, and begin again the work of remaking America. <p>For everywhere we look, there is work to be done. The state of the economy calls for action, bold and swift, and we will act not only to create new jobs but to lay a new foundation for growth. We will build the roads and bridges, the electric grids and digital lines that feed our commerce and bind us together. We will restore science to its rightful place and wield technology's wonders to raise health care's quality and lower its cost. We will harness the sun and the winds and the soil to fuel our cars and run our factories. And we will transform our schools and colleges and universities to meet the demands of a new age. All this we can do. All this we will do. <p>Now, there are some who question the scale of our ambitions, who suggest that our system cannot tolerate too many big plans. Their memories are short, for they have forgotten what this country has already done, what free men and women can achieve when imagination is joined to common purpose and necessity to courage. <p>What the cynics fail to understand is that the ground has shifted beneath them, that the stale political arguments that have consumed us for so long no longer apply. The question we ask today is not whether our Government is too big or too small, but whether it works; whether it helps families find jobs at a decent wage, care they can afford, a retirement that is dignified. Where the answer is yes, we intend to move forward. Where the answer is no, programs will end. And those of us who manage the public's dollars will be held to account to spend wisely, reform bad habits, and do our business in the light of day, because only then can we restore the vital trust between a people and their government. <p>Nor is the question before us whether the market is a force for good or ill. Its power to generate wealth and expand freedom is unmatched. But this crisis has reminded us that without a watchful eye, the market can spin out of control. The Nation cannot prosper long when it favors only the prosperous. The success of our economy has always depended not just on the size of our gross domestic product, but on the reach of our prosperity, on our ability to extend opportunity to every willing heart, not out of charity, but because it is the surest route to our common good. <p>As for our common defense, we reject as false the choice between our safety and our ideals. Our Founding Fathers, faced with perils that we can scarcely imagine, drafted a charter to assure the rule of law and the rights of man, a charter expanded by the blood of generations. Those ideals still light the world, and we will not give them up for expedience's sake. And so to all the other peoples and governments who are watching today, from the grandest capitals to the small village where my father was born, know that America is a friend of each nation and every man, woman, and child who seeks a future of peace and dignity, and we are ready to lead once more. <p>Recall that earlier generations faced down fascism and communism not just with missiles and tanks but with sturdy alliances and enduring convictions. They understood that our power alone cannot protect us, nor does it entitle us to do as we please. Instead, they knew that our power grows through its prudent use. Our security emanates from the justness of our cause, the force of our example, the tempering qualities of humility and restraint. <p>We are the keepers of this legacy. Guided by these principles once more, we can meet those new threats that demand even greater effort, even greater cooperation and understanding between nations. We will begin to responsibly leave Iraq to its people and forge a hard-earned peace in Afghanistan. With old friends and former foes, we will work tirelessly to lessen the nuclear threat and roll back the specter of a warming planet. We will not apologize for our way of life, nor will we waver in its defense. And for those who seek to advance their aims by inducing terror and slaughtering innocents, we say to you now that our spirit is stronger and cannot be broken. You cannot outlast us, and we will defeat you. <p>For we know that our patchwork heritage is a strength, not a weakness. We are a nation of Christians and Muslims, Jews and Hindus and nonbelievers. We are shaped by every language and culture, drawn from every end of this Earth. And because we have tasted the bitter swill of civil war and segregation and emerged from that dark chapter stronger and more united, we cannot help but believe that the old hatreds shall someday pass, that the lines of tribe shall soon dissolve; that as the world grows smaller, our common humanity shall reveal itself, and that America must play its role in ushering in a new era of peace. <p>To the Muslim world, we seek a new way forward based on mutual interest and mutual respect. To those leaders around the globe who seek to sow conflict or blame their society's ills on the West, know that your people will judge you on what you can build, not what you destroy. To those who cling to power through corruption and deceit and the silencing of dissent, know that you are on the wrong side of history, but that we will extend a hand if you are willing to unclench your fist. <p>To the people of poor nations, we pledge to work alongside you to make your farms flourish and let clean waters flow, to nourish starved bodies and feed hungry minds. And to those nations like ours that enjoy relative plenty, we say we can no longer afford indifference to suffering outside our borders, nor can we consume the world's resources without regard to effect, for the world has changed, and we must change with it. <p>As we consider the road that unfolds before us, we remember with humble gratitude those brave Americans who, at this very hour, patrol far-off deserts and distant mountains. They have something to tell us today, just as the fallen heroes who lie in Arlington whisper through the ages. We honor them not only because they are guardians of our liberty, but because they embody the spirit of service, a willingness to find meaning in something greater than themselves. And yet at this moment, a moment that will define a generation, it is precisely this spirit that must inhabit us all. <p>For as much as Government can do and must do, it is ultimately the faith and determination of the American people upon which this Nation relies. It is the kindness to take in a stranger when the levees break, the selflessness of workers who would rather cut their hours than see a friend lose their job, which sees us through our darkest hours. It is the firefighter's courage to storm a stairway filled with smoke, but also a parent's willingness to nurture a child, that finally decides our fate. <p>Our challenges may be new. The instruments with which we meet them may be new. But those values upon which our success depends--honesty and hard work, courage and fair play, tolerance and curiosity, loyalty and patriotism--these things are old. These things are true. They have been the quiet force of progress throughout our history. What is demanded then is a return to these truths. What is required of us now is a new era of responsibility, a recognition on the part of every American that we have duties to ourselves, our Nation, and the world. Duties that we do not grudgingly accept but, rather, seize gladly, firm in the knowledge that there is nothing so satisfying to the spirit, so defining of our character, than giving our all to a difficult task. <p>This is the price and the promise of citizenship. This is the source of our confidence, the knowledge that God calls on us to shape an uncertain destiny. This is the meaning of our liberty and our creed; why men and women and children of every race and every faith can join in celebration across this magnificent Mall, and why a man whose father less than 60 years ago might not have been served at a local restaurant can now stand before you to take a most sacred oath. <p>So let us mark this day with remembrance of who we are and how far we have traveled. In the year of America's birth, in the coldest of months, a small band of patriots huddled by dying campfires on the shores of an icy river. The Capital was abandoned. The enemy was advancing. The snow was stained with blood. At a moment when the outcome of our Revolution was most in doubt, the Father of our Nation ordered these words be read to the people: <p>\\"Let it be told to the future world . . . that in the depth of winter, when nothing but hope and virtue could survive . . . that the city and the country, alarmed at one common danger, came forth to meet [it].\\" <p>America, in the face of our common dangers, in this winter of our hardship, let us remember these timeless words. With hope and virtue, let us brave once more the icy currents and endure what storms may come. Let it be said by our children's children that when we were tested, we refused to let this journey end; that we did not turn back, nor did we falter. And with eyes fixed on the horizon and God's grace upon us, we carried forth that great gift of freedom and delivered it safely to future generations. <p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"2" "\"Hello, everybody. Please be seated. Still getting used to that whole thing. [<i>Laughter</i>] Please be seated. Thank you so much. I wanted to get everyone together on the first day to welcome you to the White House. <p>From our vantage point yesterday, you couldn't help but be inspired by the sight of Americans as far as the eye could see. They were there because they believe this is a moment of great change in America, a time for reinvigorating our democracy and remaking our country. They've entrusted all of us with a great responsibility. And so today I'd like to talk with you about our responsibility to keep that trust. <p>In a few minutes, I'm going to be issuing some of the first Executive orders and directives of my Presidency. And these steps are aimed at establishing firm rules of the road for my administration and all who serve in it and to help restore that faith in Government, without which we cannot deliver the changes we were sent here to make, from rebuilding our economy and ensuring that anyone who is willing to work can find a well-paying job to protecting and defending the United States and promoting peace and security. <p>However long we are keepers of the public trust, we should never forget that we are here as public servants, and public service is a privilege. It's not about advantaging yourself. It's not about advancing your friends or your corporate clients. It's not about advancing an ideological agenda or the special interests of any organization. Public service is, simply and absolutely, about advancing the interests of Americans. <p>The men and women in this room understand this, and that's why you're here. All of you are committed to building a more responsible, more accountable Government. And part of what that means is making sure that we're spending precious tax dollars wisely and cutting costs wherever possible. <p>During this period of economic emergency, families are tightening their belts, and so should Washington. And that's why I am instituting a pay freeze on the salaries of my senior White House staff. Some of the people in this room will be impacted by the pay freeze, and I want you to know that I appreciate your willingness to agree to it, recognizing that it's what's required of you at this moment. It's a mark of your commitment to public service. <p>But the American people deserve more than simply an assurance that those who are coming to Washington will serve their interests. They also deserve to know that there are rules on the books to keep it that way. They deserve a Government that is truly of, by, and for the people. As I often said during the campaign, we need to make the White House the people's house. And we need to close the revolving door that lets lobbyists come into Government freely and lets them use their time in public service as a way to promote their own interests over the interests of the American people when they leave. <p>So today we are taking a major step towards fulfilling this campaign promise. The Executive order on ethics I will sign shortly represents a clean break from business as usual. As of today, lobbyists will be subject to stricter limits than under any other administration in history. If you are a lobbyist entering my administration, you will not be able to work on matters you lobbied on or in the agencies you lobbied during the previous 2 years. When you leave Government, you will not be able to lobby my administration for as long as I am President. And there will be a ban on gifts by lobbyists to anyone serving in the administration as well. <p>Now, the new rules on lobbying alone, no matter how tough, are not enough to fix a broken system in Washington. That's why I'm also setting new rules that govern not just lobbyists, but all those who have been selected to serve in my administration. <p>If you are enlisting in Government service, you will have to commit in writing to rules limiting your role for 2 years in matters involving people you used to work with and barring you from any attempt to influence your former Government colleagues for 2 years after you leave. And you will receive an ethics briefing on what is required of you to make sure that our Government is serving the people's interests and nobody else's, a briefing, I'm proud to say, I was the first member of this administration to receive last week. <p>But the way to make a Government responsible is not simply to enlist the services of responsible men and women or to sign laws that ensure that they never stray. The way to make Government responsible is to hold it accountable. And the way to make Government accountable is to make it transparent so that the American people can know exactly what decisions are being made, how they're being made, and whether their interests are being well served. <p>The directives I am giving my administration today on how to interpret the Freedom of Information Act will do just that. For a long time now, there's been too much secrecy in this city. The old rules said that if there was a defensible argument for not disclosing something to the American people, then it should not be disclosed. That era is now over. Starting today, every agency and department should know that this administration stands on the side not of those who seek to withhold information but those who seek to make it known. <p>To be sure, issues like personal privacy and national security must be treated with the care they demand. But the mere fact that you have the legal power to keep something secret does not mean you should always use it. The Freedom of Information Act is perhaps the most powerful instrument we have for making our Government honest and transparent, and of holding it accountable. And I expect members of my administration not simply to live up to the letter but also the spirit of this law. <p>I will also hold myself as President to a new standard of openness. Going forward, anytime the American people want to know something that I or a former President wants to withhold, we will have to consult with the Attorney General and the White House Counsel, whose business it is to ensure compliance with the rule of law. Information will not be withheld just because I say so. It will be withheld because a separate authority believes my request is well grounded in the Constitution. <p>Let me say it as simply as I can: Transparency and the rule of law will be the touchstones of this Presidency. <p>Our commitment to openness means more than simply informing the American people about how decisions are made. It means recognizing that Government does not have all the answers, and that public officials need to draw on what citizens know. And that's why, as of today, I'm directing members of my administration to find new ways of tapping the knowledge and experience of ordinary Americans--scientists and civic leaders, educators and entrepreneurs--because the way to solve the problem of our time is--the way to solve the problems of our time, as one nation, is by involving the American people in shaping the policies that affect their lives. <p>The Executive orders and directives I'm issuing today will not by themselves make Government as honest and transparent as it needs to be. And they do not go as far as we need to go towards restoring accountability and fiscal restraint in Washington. But these historic measures do mark the beginning of a new era of openness in our country. And I will, I hope, do something to make Government trustworthy in the eyes of the American people in the days and weeks, months, and years to come. That's a pretty good place to start. <p>Thank you very much. All right. <p>[<i>At this point, the President signed Executive Order 13489, Presidential Records; Executive Order 13490, Ethics Commitments by Executive Branch Personnel; and memoranda on the Freedom of Information Act, a pay freeze for senior White House staff, and transparency and open Government.</i>] <p>Thank you. Lisa, our schedule now? The swearing-in is going to be taking place, and the Vice President is going to be carrying that out? Okay. <p>Before the Vice President does that, let me just say how proud I am of all of you. This is an extraordinary collection of talent, and you inspire great confidence in me. I think the more the American people get to know you, the more you will inspire great confidence in the American people. All of you have made extraordinary sacrifices to be here. Many of you have brought your families here; they're making extraordinary sacrifices. <p>But what a moment we're in. What an opportunity we have to change this country. And for those of us who have been in public life before, these kinds of moments come around just every so often. The American people are really counting on us now. Let's make sure we take advantage of it. I know you will. So thank you for your commitment. <p>Joe, do you want to administer the oath?\" "
"3" "\"Thank you so much. It is my privilege to come here and to pay tribute to all of you, the talented men and women of the State Department. I've given you an early gift, Hillary Clinton. You--[<i>applause</i>]. <p>In her you will have a Secretary of State who has my full confidence, and I want to thank Chairman Kerry and the Senate for acting swiftly to confirm her, because we have no time to lose. <p>My appearance today, as has been noted, underscores my commitment to the importance of diplomacy and renewing American leadership, and it gives me an opportunity to thank you for the services that you perform every single day. Sometimes I think the American public doesn't fully understand the sacrifices that you and your families make, the dedication that is involved in you carrying on your tasks day in, day out. And I know I speak for Joe Biden, as well as everybody else on this stage, when we tell you that we are proud of you. <p>You are carrying on a vital task in the safety and security of the American people. And part of what we want to do is to make sure that everybody understands that the State Department is going to be absolutely critical to our success in the years to come. And you individually are going to be critical to our success in the years to come. And we want to send a signal to all kinds of young people who may be thinking about the Foreign Service that they are going to be critical in terms of projecting not just America's power, but also America's values and America's ideals. <p>The inheritance of our young century demands a new era of American leadership. We must recognize that America's strength comes not just from the might of our arms or the scale of our wealth, but from our enduring values. And for the sake of our national security and the common aspirations of people around the globe, this era has to begin now. <p>This morning I signed three Executive orders. First, I can say without exception or equivocation that the United States will not torture. Second, we will close the Guantanamo Bay detention camp and determine how to deal with those who have been held there. And third, we will immediately undertake a comprehensive review to determine how to hold and try terrorism suspects to best protect our Nation and the rule of law. <p>The world needs to understand that America will be unyielding in its defense of its security and relentless in its pursuit of those who would carry out terrorism or threaten the United States. And that's why, in this twilight struggle, we need a durable framework. The orders that I signed today should send an unmistakable signal that our actions in defense of liberty will be just as our cause, and that we the people will uphold our fundamental values as vigilantly as we protect our security. Once again, America's moral example must be the bedrock and the beacon of our global leadership. <p>We are confronted by extraordinary, complex, and interconnected global challenges: the war on terror, sectarian division, and the spread of deadly technology. We did not ask for the burden that history has asked us to bear, but Americans will bear it. We must bear it. Progress will not come quickly or easily, nor can we promise to right every single wrong around the world. <p>But we can pledge to use all elements of American power to protect our people and to promote our interests and ideals, starting with principled, focused, and sustained American diplomacy. To carry forward that effort, we are going to be calling on your hard work and perseverance in the months and years to come. Given the urgency and complexity of the challenges we face, and to convey our seriousness of purpose, Secretary Clinton and I are also calling upon the two distinguished Americans standing with us today. <p>It will be the policy of my administration to actively and aggressively seek a lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians, as well as Israel and its Arab neighbors. To help us pursue these goals, Secretary Clinton and I have asked George Mitchell to serve as Special Envoy for Middle East Peace. <p>George is renowned in this country and around the world for his negotiating skill. He brings international stature and a lifetime of service. His years in the Senate were marked by strong leadership and bipartisan achievement. His efforts on behalf of peace in Northern Ireland were indispensable in reconciling a painful and protracted conflict. Time and again in public service and private life, he has acted with skill and acted with integrity. He will be fully empowered at the negotiating table, and he will sustain our focus on the goal of peace. <p>No one doubts the difficulty of the road ahead, and George outlined some of those difficulties. The tragic violence in Gaza and southern Israel offers a sobering reminder of the challenges at hand and the setbacks that will inevitably come. <p>It must also instill in us, though, a sense of urgency, as history shows us that strong and sustained American engagement can bridge divides and build the capacity that supports progress. And that is why we will be sending George to the region as soon as possible to help the parties ensure that the cease-fire that has been achieved is made durable and sustainable. <p>Let me be clear: America is committed to Israel's security, and we will always support Israel's right to defend itself against legitimate threats. For years, Hamas has launched thousands of rockets at innocent Israeli citizens. No democracy can tolerate such danger to its people, nor should the international community. And neither should the Palestinian people themselves, whose interests are only set back by acts of terror. <p>To be a genuine party to peace, the Quartet has made it clear that Hamas must meet clear conditions: recognize Israel's right to exist, renounce violence, and abide by past agreements. <p>Going forward, the outline for a durable cease-fire is clear. Hamas must end its rocket fire. Israel will complete the withdrawal of its forces from Gaza. The United States and our partners will support a credible anti-smuggling and interdiction regime so that Hamas cannot rearm. <p>Yesterday I spoke to President Mubarak and expressed my appreciation for the important role that Egypt played in achieving a cease-fire, and we look forward to Egypt's continued leadership and partnership in laying a foundation for a broader peace through a commitment to end smuggling from within its borders. <p>Now, just as the terror of rocket fire aimed at innocent Israelis is intolerable, so too is a future without hope for the Palestinians. I was deeply concerned by the loss of Palestinian and Israeli life in recent days and by the substantial suffering and humanitarian needs in Gaza. Our hearts go out to Palestinian civilians who are in need of immediate food, clean water, and basic medical care, and who have faced suffocating poverty for far too long. <p>Now we must extend a hand of opportunity to those who seek peace. As part of a lasting cease-fire, Gaza's border crossings should be opened to allow the flow of aid and commerce, with an appropriate monitoring regime with the international and Palestinian Authority participating. <p>Relief efforts must be able to reach innocent Palestinians who depend on them. The United States will fully support an international donors conference to seek short-term humanitarian assistance and long-term reconstruction for the Palestinian economy. This assistance will be provided to, and guided by, the Palestinian Authority. <p>Lasting peace requires more than a long cease-fire. And that's why I will sustain an active commitment to seek two states living side by side in peace and security. Senator Mitchell will carry forward this commitment, as well as the effort to help Israel reach a broader peace with the Arab world that recognizes its rightful place in the community of nations. <p>I should add that the Arab Peace Initiative contains constructive elements that could help advance these efforts. Now is the time for Arab States to act on the initiatives promised by supporting the Palestinian Government under President Abbas and Prime Minister Fayyad, taking steps towards normalizing relations with Israel, and by standing up to extremism that threatens us all. <p>Jordan's constructive role in training Palestinian security forces and nurturing its relations with Israel provide a model for these efforts. And going forward, we must make it clear to all countries in the region that external support for terrorist organizations must stop. <p>Another urgent threat to global security is the deteriorating situation in Afghanistan and Pakistan. This is the central front in our enduring struggle against terrorism and extremism. There, as in the Middle East, we must understand that we cannot deal with our problems in isolation. There is no answer in Afghanistan that does not confront the Al Qaida and Taliban bases along the border, and there will be no lasting peace unless we expand spheres of opportunity for the people of Afghanistan and Pakistan. This is truly an international challenge of the highest order. <p>That's why Secretary Clinton and I are naming Ambassador Richard Holbrooke to be Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan. Ambassador Holbrooke is one of the most talented diplomats of his generation. Over several decades, he served on different continents and as an outstanding Ambassador to the United Nations. He has strengthened ties with our allies, tackled the toughest negotiations, and helped deliver a hard-earned peace as an architect of the Dayton Accords. He will help lead our effort to forge and implement a strategic and sustainable approach to this critical region. <p>The American people and the international community must understand that the situation is perilous and progress will take time. Violence is up dramatically in Afghanistan. A deadly insurgency has taken deep root. The opium trade is far and away the largest in the world. The Afghan Government has been unable to deliver basic services. Al Qaida and the Taliban strike from bases embedded in rugged, tribal terrain along the Pakistani border. And while we have yet to see another attack on our soil since 9/11, Al Qaida terrorists remain at large and remain plotting. <p>Going forward, we must set clear priorities in pursuit of achievable goals that contribute to our collective security. My administration is committed to refocusing attention and resources on Afghanistan and Pakistan and to spending those resources wisely. And that's why we are pursuing a careful review of our policy. We will seek stronger partnerships with the governments of the region, sustained cooperation with our NATO allies, deeper engagement with the Afghan and Pakistani people, and a comprehensive strategy to combat terror and extremism. We will provide the strategic guidance to meet our objectives. And we pledge to support the extraordinary Americans serving in Afghanistan, both military and civilian, with the resources that they need. <p>These appointments add to a team that will work with energy and purpose to meet the challenges of our time and to define a future of expanding security and opportunity. Difficult days lie ahead. As we ask more of ourselves, we will seek new partnerships and ask more of our friends, and more of people around the globe, because security in the 21st century is shared. But let there be no doubt about America's commitment to lead. We can no longer afford drift, and we can no long afford delay. Nor can we cede ground to those who seek destruction. A new era of American leadership is at hand, and the hard work has just begun. <p>You are going to be at the frontlines of engaging in that important work. And I am absolutely confident that with the leadership of Secretary Clinton, with wonderful envoys like Richard Holbrooke and George Mitchell, with the dedicated team that is before me today, that we are going to be able to accomplish our objectives, keep America safe, and bring better days not just to our own country, but all around the world. <p>Thank you very much, everyone.\" "
"4" "\"We begin this year and this administration in the midst of an unprecedented crisis that calls for unprecedented action. Just this week we saw more people file for unemployment than at any time in the last 26 years. And experts agree that if nothing is done, the unemployment rate could reach double digits; our economy could fall a trillion dollars short of its full capacity, which translates into more than $12,000 in lost income for a family of four; and we could lose a generation of potential as more young Americans are forced to forego college dreams or the chance to train for the jobs of the future. <p>In short, if we do not act boldly and swiftly, a bad situation could become dramatically worse. That is why I've proposed an American recovery and reinvestment plan, to immediately jump-start job creation, as well as long-term economic growth. <p>I'm pleased to say that both parties in Congress are already hard at work on this plan, and I hope to sign it into law in less than a month. It's a plan that will save or create 3 to 4 million jobs over the next few years, and one that recognizes both the paradox and the promise of this moment: the fact that there are millions of Americans trying to find work, even as all around the country there's so much work to be done. <p>That's why this is not just a short-term program to boost employment, it's one that will invest in our most important priorities, like energy and education, health care and a new infrastructure that are necessary to keep us strong and competitive in the 21st century. <p>Today I'd like to talk specifically about the progress we expect to make in each of these areas. To accelerate the creation of a clean energy economy, we will double our capacity to generate alternative sources of energy like wind, solar, and biofuels over the next 3 years. We'll begin to build a new electricity grid that lay down more than 3,000 miles of transmission lines to convey this new energy from coast to coast. <p>We'll save taxpayers $2 billion a year by making 75 percent of Federal buildings more energy efficient and save the average working family $350 on their energy bills by weatherizing 2.5 million homes. <p>To lower health care costs, cut medical errors, and improve care, we'll computerize the Nation's health records in 5 years, saving billions of dollars in health care costs and countless lives. And we'll protect health insurance for more than 8 million Americans who are in danger of losing their coverage during this economic downturn. <p>To ensure our children can compete and succeed in this new economy, we'll renovate and modernize 10,000 schools, building state-of-the-art classrooms, libraries, and labs, to improve learning for over 5 million students. We'll invest more in Pell grants to make college affordable for 7 million more students, provide a $2,500 college tax credit to 4 million students, and triple the number of fellowships in science to help spur the next generation of innovation. <p>Finally, we will rebuild and retrofit America to meet the demands of the 21st century. That means repairing and modernizing thousands of miles of America's roadways and providing new mass transit options for millions of Americans. It means protecting America by securing 90 major ports and creating a better communications network for local law enforcement and public safety officials in the event of an emergency. And it means expanding broadband access to millions of Americans, so business can compete on a level playing field, wherever they're located. <p>I know that some are skeptical about the size and scale of this recovery plan. I understand that skepticism, which is why this recovery plan must and will include unprecedented measures that will allow the American people to hold my administration accountable for these results. We won't just throw money at our problems, we'll invest in what works. Instead of politicians doling out money behind a veil of secrecy, decisions about where we invest will be made public and informed by independent experts whenever possible. <p>We'll launch an unprecedented effort to root out waste, inefficiency, and unnecessary spending in our Government. And every American will be able to see how and where we spend taxpayer dollars by going to a new website called recovery.gov. <p>No one policy or program will solve the challenges we face right now, nor will this crisis recede in a short period of time. But if we act now and act boldly, if we start rewarding hard work and responsibility once more, if we act as citizens and not partisans and begin again the work of remaking America, then I have faith that we will emerge from this trying time even stronger and more prosperous than we were before. <p>Thanks for listening.\" "
"5" "\"Thank you, please have a seat. A short time ago, the United States Senate voted to confirm Timothy Geithner as our next Secretary of the Treasury. That deserves some applause. [<i>Applause</i>] I want to thank Democratic and Republican Senators for their show of confidence in Tim, and I want to thank Tim and Carole for their willingness to serve their country at a time when that service is desperately needed. <p>Now, I came here tonight because, at this moment of challenge and crisis, Tim's work and the work of the entire Treasury Department must begin at once. We cannot lose a day, because every day the economic picture is darkening, here and across the globe. Just today we learned that seven major corporations will be laying off thousands more workers. This comes on top of the 2.5 million jobs we lost last year. And it will take a Secretary of the Treasury who understands this challenge and all its complexities to help lead us forward. <p>When Alexander Hamilton was sworn in as our first Treasury Secretary, his task was to weave together the disparate debts and economies of various States into one American system of credit and capital markets. More than two centuries later, that system is now in serious jeopardy. It has been badly weakened by an era of irresponsibility, a series of imprudent and dangerous decisions on Wall Street, and an unrelenting quest for profit with too little regard for risk, too little regulatory scrutiny, and too little accountability. The result's been a devastating loss of trust and confidence in our economy, our financial markets, and our Government. And that era must end right now, and I believe it can. <p>The very fact that this crisis is largely of our own making means that it is not beyond our ability to solve. Our problems are rooted in past mistakes, not our capacity for future greatness. It will take time, perhaps many years, but we can rebuild that lost trust and confidence. We can restore opportunity and prosperity. And I'm confident that Tim, along with Larry Summers and Peter Orszag and the rest of our economic team, can help us get there. <p>In the coming weeks and months, we will work together to stabilize our financial system and restart the flow of credit that families and businesses depend on to get a loan, make a payroll, or buy a home. But we'll do it in a way that protects the American taxpayer and includes the highest level of transparency and oversight so that the American people can hold us accountable for results. <p>Together, with both parties in Congress, we will launch a recovery and reinvestment plan that saves or creates more than 3 million jobs while investing in priorities like health care, education, and energy that will make us strong in the future. And I will be working with the entire economic team and Tim to reform and modernize our outdated financial regulations so that a crisis like this cannot happen again. We'll put in place new commonsense rules of the road, and we will be vigilant in ensuring they are not bent or broken any longer. <p>So congratulations, Tim. You've got your work cut out for you, as I think everybody knows, but you also have my full confidence, my deepest trust, my unyielding belief that we can rise to achieve what is required of us at this moment. Our work will not be easy, and it will not be quick, but we will embrace it so that we can carry on the legacy of boundless opportunity and unmatched prosperity that has defined this Nation since our earlier days. <p>And before I step aside from the podium, to all the wonderful staff at Treasury, who have been laboring long and hard over the last several months and years--but particularly the last several months--I want to thank you for your dedication and your service. You've been doing yeoman's work at a time when the country needs it, and I hope with Tim at the helm, that that work will result in jobs and businesses reopening and the kinds of economic opportunity that the American people deserve. <p>So with that, let's get Tim sworn in.\" "
"6" "\"Good morning. Before I begin today's announcement, I want to say a few words about the deepening economic crisis that we've inherited and the need for urgent action. <p>Over the last few days, we've learned that Microsoft, Intel, United Airlines, Home Depot, Sprint Nextel, and Caterpillar are each cutting thousands of jobs. These are not just numbers on a page. As with the millions of jobs lost in 2008, these are working men and women whose families have been disrupted and whose dreams have been put on hold. <p>We owe it to each of them and to every single American to act with a sense of urgency and common purpose. We can't afford distractions, and we cannot afford delays, and that is why I look forward to signing an American recovery and reinvestment plan that will put millions of Americans to work and lay the foundation for stable growth that our economy needs and that our people demand. These are extraordinary times, and it calls for swift and extraordinary action. <p>At a time of such great challenge for America, no single issue is as fundamental to our future as energy. America's dependence on oil is one of the most serious threats that our Nation has faced. It bankrolls dictators, pays for nuclear proliferation, and funds both sides of our struggle against terrorism. It puts the American people at the mercy of shifting gas prices, stifles innovation, and sets back our ability to compete. <p>These urgent dangers to our national and economic security are compounded by the long-term threat of climate change, which if left unchecked could result in violent conflict, terrible storms, shrinking coastlines, and irreversible catastrophe. These are the facts, and they are well known to the American people; after all, there is nothing new about these warnings. Presidents have been sounding the alarm about energy dependence for decades. President Nixon promised to make our energy--our Nation energy independent by the end of the 1970s. When he spoke, we imported about a third of our oil; we now import more than half. <p>Year after year, decade after decade, we've chosen delay over decisive action. Rigid ideology has overruled sound science; special interests have overshadowed common sense; rhetoric has not led to the hard work needed to achieve results. And our leaders raise their voices each time there's a spike in gas prices only to grow quiet when the price falls at the pump. <p>Now America has arrived at a crossroads. Embedded in American soil and the wind and the sun, we have the resources to change. Our scientists, businesses, and workers have the capacity to move us forward. It falls on us to choose whether to risk the peril that comes with our current course or to seize the promise of energy independence. And for the sake of our security, our economy, and our planet, we must have the courage and commitment to change. <p>It will be the policy of my administration to reverse our dependence on foreign oil, while building a new energy economy that will create millions of jobs. We hold no illusion about the task that lies ahead. I cannot promise a quick fix; no single technology or set of regulations will get the job done. But we will commit ourselves to steady, focused, pragmatic pursuit of an America that is freed from our energy dependence and empowered by a new energy economy that puts millions of our citizens to work. <p>Today I'm announcing the first steps on our journey toward energy independence, as we develop new energy, set new fuel efficiency standards, and address greenhouse gas emissions. Each step begins to move us in a new direction, while giving us the tools that we need to change. <p>First, we must take bold action to create a new American energy economy that creates millions of jobs for our people. The American recovery and reinvestment plan before Congress places a down payment on this economy. It will put 460,000 Americans to work with clean energy investments and double the capacity to generate alternative energy over the next 3 years. It will lay down 3,000 miles of transmission lines to deliver this energy to every corner of our country. It will save taxpayers $2 billion a year by making 75 percent of Federal buildings more efficient. And it will save working families hundreds of dollars on their energy bills by weatherizing 2 million homes. <p>This is the boost that our economy needs, and the new beginning that our future demands. By passing the bill, Congress can act where Washington has failed to act over and over again for 30 years. We need more than the same old empty promises. We need to show that this time it will be different. This is the time that Americans must come together on behalf of our common prosperity and security. <p>Second, we must ensure that the fuel-efficient cars of tomorrow are built right here in the United States of America. Increasing fuel efficiency in our cars and trucks is one of the most important steps that we can take to break our cycle of dependence on foreign oil. It will also help spark the innovation needed to ensure that our auto industry keeps pace with competitors around the world. <p>We will start by implementing new standards for model year 2011 so that we use less oil and families have access to cleaner, more efficient cars and trucks. This rule will be a down payment on a broader and sustained effort to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. Congress has passed legislation to increase standards to at least 35 miles per gallon by 2020. That 40 percent increase in fuel efficiency for our cars and trucks could save over 2 million barrels of oil every day, nearly the entire amount of oil that we import from the Persian Gulf. <p>Going forward, my administration will work on a bipartisan basis in Washington and with industry partners across the country to forge a comprehensive approach that makes our economy stronger and our Nation more secure. <p>Third, the Federal Government must work with, not against, States to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. California has shown bold and bipartisan leadership through its effort to forge 21st century standards, and over a dozen States have followed its lead. But instead of serving as a partner, Washington stood in their way. This refusal to lead risks the creation of a confusing and patchwork set of standards that hurts the environment and the auto industry. <p>The days of Washington dragging its heels are over. My administration will not deny facts; we will be guided by them. We cannot afford to pass the buck or push the burden onto the States. And that's why I'm directing the Environmental Protection Agency to immediately review the denial of the California waiver request and determine the best way forward. This will help us create incentives to develop new energy that will make us less dependent on the oil that endangers our security, our economy, and our planet. <p>As we move forward, we will fully take into account the unique challenges facing the American auto industry and the taxpayer dollars that now support it. And let me be clear: Our goal is not to further burden an already struggling industry; it is to help America's automakers prepare for the future. This commitment must extend beyond the short-term assistance for businesses and workers. We must help them thrive by building the cars of tomorrow and galvanizing a dynamic and viable industry for decades to come. <p>Finally, we will make it clear to the world that America is ready to lead. To protect our climate and our collective security, we must call together a truly global coalition. I've made it clear that we will act, but so too must the world. That's how we will deny leverage to dictators and dollars to terrorists. And that's how we will ensure that nations like China and India are doing their part, just as we are now willing to do ours. <p>It is time for America to lead, because this moment of peril must be turned into one of progress. If we take action, we can create new industries and revive old ones; we can open new factories and power new farms; we can lower costs and revive our economy. We can do that, and we must do that. There's much work to be done; there is much further for us to go. <p>But I want to be clear from the beginning of this administration that we have made our choice: America will not be held hostage to dwindling resources, hostile regimes, and a warming planet. We will not be put off from action because action is hard. Now is the time to make the tough choices. Now is the time to meet the challenge at this crossroad of history by choosing a future that is safer for our country, prosperous for our planet, and sustainable. <p>Those are my priorities, and they're reflected in the Executive orders that I'm about to sign. Thank you so much for being here.\" "
"7" "\"So I'm pleased to have a chance to confer with Senator Mitchell, as well as Secretary Clinton, on this initiative around the Arab-Israeli peace process. And we're fortunate to have such a talented and dedicated public servant who is willing to take on what I think everybody understands is going to be a very tough job. <p>The cause of peace in the Middle East is important to the United States and our national interests; it's important to me personally; it is important to Arabs and Jews; it is important to Christians and Muslims and Jews all around the world. And the charge that Senator Mitchell has is to engage vigorously and consistently in order for us to achieve genuine progress. <p>And when I say \\"progress\\"--not just photo ops, but progress that is concretely felt by people on the ground, so that people feel more secure in their lives, so that they feel that the hopes and dreams and aspirations of their children can be met. That is going to be our task. It is not something that we're going to be able to do overnight, but I'm absolutely confident that if the United States is engaged in a consistent way and an early--in early fashion, that we can make genuine progress. <p>Now, understand that Senator Mitchell is going to be fully empowered by me and fully empowered by Secretary Clinton. So when he speaks, he will be speaking for us. And I'm hopeful that during this initial trip--one of the earliest initiatives that we have taken diplomatically--that not only is he able to communicate effectively how urgent we consider the issue, but that we're also going to be able to listen and to learn and to find out what various players in the region are thinking. <p>And more immediately, we hope that Senator Mitchell will be able to give us some ideas in terms of how we can solidify the cease-fire, ensure Israel's security, also ensure that Palestinians in Gaza are able to get the basic necessities they need and that they can see a pathway towards long-term development that will be so critical in order for us to achieve a lasting peace. <p>So I'm very grateful for Senator Mitchell for doing this. I'm grateful to Secretary Clinton for her leadership in making sure this happened early. And what we're now going to do is to discuss some of the details of the trip. So unfortunately, I'm going to be kicking you out. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>All right, thank you, guys.\" "
"8" "\"Hello, everybody. We had a very constructive meeting with the House Members, Members of the Republican caucus. I'm a little bit late for my Senate colleagues--former Senate colleagues. <p>And the main message I have is that the statistics every day underscore the urgency of the economic situation. The American people expect action. They want us to put together a recovery package that puts people back to work, that creates investments that assure our long-term energy independence, an effective health care system, an education system that works; they want our infrastructure rebuilt, and they want it done wisely, so that we're not wasting taxpayer money. <p>As I explained to the Republican House caucus, and I'll explain to my former Senate colleagues, the recovery package that we've proposed and is moving its way through Congress is just one leg in a multilegged stool. We're still going to have to have much better financial regulation, we've got to get credit flowing again, we're going to have to deal with the troubled assets that many banks are still carrying and that make the--that have locked up the credit system. We're going to have to coordinate with other countries, because we now have a global problem. <p>I am absolutely confident that we can deal with these issues, but the key right now is to make sure that we keep politics to a minimum. There are some legitimate philosophical differences with parts of my plan that the Republicans have, and I respect that. In some cases they may just not be as familiar with what's in the package as I would like. I don't expect a hundred percent agreement from my Republican colleagues, but I do hope that we can all put politics aside and do the American people's business right now. All right.\" "
"9" "\"Well, sorry we're running a little bit late. I want to, first of all, thank all the men and women in uniform who are represented here. They are the best that this country has to offer. And the first thing that I said to the Joint Chiefs in this meeting was how grateful we are for their service. The sacrifices that they and their families make are what are responsible for our freedoms that sometimes we take for granted. <p>And as Commander in Chief, one of my principal goals during my Presidency is going to be to make sure that they have the resources and the support that they need to carry out the critical missions that keep our Nation safe each and every day. <p>I had a wonderful discussion with the Joint Chiefs--we kind of lost track of time--about a range of issues facing our military as well as the threats that face this Nation, both short term and long term. We had discussions about Iraq as well as Afghanistan. We talked about some of the broader global risks that may arise and the kind of planning and coordination that's going to be required between our military and our civilian forces in order to accomplish our long-term national security objectives. <p>We also talked about making sure that the health of our force is always in our sights. And I know that all the Chiefs that are represented here, as well as Secretary Gates, are constantly thinking about what we need to do to make sure that people who are in uniform for the United States are getting the kinds of support that they need, and that their families are getting the support that they need. And that's something that I'm absolutely committed to, and I know that Vice President Biden is as well. <p>We're going to have some difficult decisions that we're going to have to make surrounding Iraq and Afghanistan, most immediately. Obviously, our efforts to continue to go after extremist organizations that would do harm to the homeland is uppermost on our minds. I have every confidence that our military is going to do their job, and I intend to make sure that the civilian side of the ledger does its job to support what they are doing. <p>We have, for a long time, put enormous pressure on our military to carry out a whole set of missions, sometimes not with the sort of strategic support and the use of all aspects of American power to make sure that they're not carrying the full load. And that's something that I spoke with the Chiefs about and that I intend to change as President of the United States. <p>So again, my first message was to say thank you. And in addition, it's to say that you, all of you who are serving in the United States Armed Forces, are going to have my full support, and one of my duties as President is going to be to make sure that you have what you need to accomplish your missions, and we are grateful to you. <p>So all right, thank you, guys. I'm going to shake some more hands now.\" "
"10" "\"Thank you. Well, I want to thank Sam and David for their outstanding words. I want to thank all of you for being here today. <p>A few moments ago, I met with some of the leading business executives in the country. And it was a sober meeting, because these companies and the workers they employ are going through times more trying than any that we've seen in a long, long while. Just the other day, seven of our largest corporations announced they were making major job cuts. Some of the business leaders in this room have had to do the same. And yet even as we discussed the seriousness of this challenge, we left our meeting confident that we can turn our economy around. <p>But each of us, as Dave indicated, are going to have to do our share. Part of what led our economy to this perilous moment was a sense of irresponsibility that prevailed in Wall Street and in Washington. And that's why I called for a new era of responsibility in my Inaugural Address last week, an era where each of us chips in so that we can climb our way out of this crisis: executives and factory floor workers, educators and engineers, health care professionals and elected officials. <p>As we discussed in our meeting a few minutes ago, corporate America will have to accept its own responsibilities to its workers and the American public. But these executives also understand that without wise leadership in Washington, even the best-run businesses can't do as well as they might. They understand that what makes an idea sound is not whether it's Democrat or Republican, but whether it makes good economic sense for their workers and companies. And they understand that when it comes to rebuilding our economy, we don't have a moment to spare. <p>The businesses that are shedding jobs to stay afloat, they can't afford inaction or delay. The workers who are returning home to tell their husbands and wives and children that they no longer have a job and all those who live in fear that their job will be next on the cutting blocks, they need help now. They are looking to Washington for action, bold and swift. And that is why I hope to sign an American recovery and reinvestment plan into law in the next few weeks. <p>Now, most of the money that we're investing as part of this plan will get out the door immediately and go directly to job creation, generating or saving 3 to 4 million new jobs. And the vast majority of these jobs will be created in the private sector, because, as these CEOs well know, business, not government, is the engine of growth in this country. <p>But even as this plan puts Americans back to work, it will also make the critical investments in alternative energy, in safer roads, better health care, and modern schools that will lay the foundation for long-term growth and prosperity. And it will invest in broadband and emerging technologies, like the ones imagined and introduced to the world by people like Sam and so many of the CEOs here today, because that's how America will retain and regain its competitive edge in the 21st century. <p>I know that there are some who are skeptical of the size and scale of this recovery plan. And I understand that skepticism, given some of the things that have happened in this town in the past. That's why this recovery plan will include unprecedented measures that will allow the American people to hold my administration accountable. Instead of just throwing money at our problems, we'll try something new in Washington. We will invest in what works. Instead of politicians doling out money behind a veil of secrecy, decisions about where we invest will be made public on the Internet and will be informed by independent experts whenever possible. <p>We will launch a sweeping effort to root out waste, inefficiency, and unnecessary spending in our Government, and every American will be able to see how and where we spend taxpayer dollars by going to a new web site called recovery.gov, because I firmly believe what Justice Louis Brandeis once said, that \\"sunlight is the best disinfectant,\\" and I know that restoring transparency is not only the surest way to achieve results but also to earn back the trust in government without which we cannot deliver the changes the American people sent us here to make. <p>In the end, the answer to our economic troubles rests less in my hands, or in the hands of our legislators, than it does with America's workers and the businesses that employ them. They are the ones whose efforts and ideas will determine our economic destiny, just as they always have. For in the end, it's businesses, large and small, that generate the jobs, provide the salaries, and serve as the foundation on which the American people's lives and dreams depend. All we can do, those of us here in Washington, is help create a favorable climate in which workers can prosper, businesses can thrive, and our economy can grow. And that is exactly what the recovery plan I've proposed is intended to do. And that's exactly what I intend to achieve soon. <p>Thank you very much for being here.\" "
"11" "\"All right, everybody please have a seat. Well, this is a wonderful day. First of all, it is fitting that the very first bill that I sign--the Lilly Ledbetter fair pay restoration act--that it is upholding one of this Nation's founding principles, that we are all created equal and each deserve a chance to pursue our own version of happiness. <p>It's also fitting that we're joined today by the woman after whom this bill is named; someone who Michelle and I have had the privilege to get to know ourselves. And it is fitting that we are joined this morning by the first woman Speaker of the House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi. It's appropriate that this is the first bill we do together. We could not have done it without her. Madam Speaker, thank you for your extraordinary work and to all the sponsors and Members of Congress and leadership who helped to make this day possible. <p>Lilly Ledbetter did not set out to be a trailblazer or a household name. She was just a good, hard worker who did her job, and she did it well, for nearly two decades before discovering that for years she was paid less than her male colleagues for doing the very same work. Over the course of her career, she lost more than $200,000 in salary and even more in pension and Social Security benefits, losses that she still feels today. <p>Now, Lilly could have accepted her lot and moved on. She could have decided that it wasn't worth the hassle and the harassment that would inevitably come with speaking up for what she deserved. But instead, she decided that there was a principle at stake, something worth fighting for. So she set out on a journey that would take more than 10 years, take her all the way to the Supreme Court of the United States, and lead to this day and this bill which will help others get the justice that she was denied. <p>Because, while this bill bears her name, Lilly knows that this story isn't just about her. It's the story of women across this country still earning just 78 cents for every dollar men earn--women of color even less--which means that today, in the year 2009, countless women are still losing thousands of dollars in salary, income, and retirement savings over the course of a lifetime. <p>Equal pay is by no means just a women's issue; it's a family issue. It's about parents who find themselves with less money for tuition and childcare; couples who wind up with less to retire on; households where one breadwinner is paid less than she deserves. That's the difference between affording the mortgage or not; between keeping the heat on or paying the doctor bills, or not. And in this economy, when so many folks are already working harder for less and struggling to get by, the last thing they can afford is losing part of each month's paycheck to simple and plain discrimination. <p>So signing this bill today is to send a clear message that making our economy work means making sure it works for everybody. That there are no second-class citizens in our workplaces; and that it's not just unfair and illegal, it's bad for business to pay somebody less because of their gender or their age or their race or their ethnicity, religion or disability; and that justice isn't about some abstract legal theory or footnote in a casebook. It's about how our laws affect the daily lives and the daily realities of people; their ability to make a living and care for their families and achieve their goals. <p>Ultimately, equal pay isn't just an economic issue for millions of Americans and their families; it's a question of who we are and whether we're truly living up to our fundamental ideals; whether we'll do our part, as generations before us, to ensure those words put on paper some 200 years ago really mean something, to breathe new life into them with a more enlightened understanding that is appropriate for our time. <p>That is what Lilly Ledbetter challenged us to do. And today I sign this bill not just in her honor, but in the honor of those who came before. Women like my grandmother, who worked in a bank all her life, and even after she hit that glass ceiling, kept getting up and giving her best every day, without complaint, because she wanted something better for me and my sister. <p>And I sign this bill for my daughters and all those who will come after us, because I want them to grow up in a nation that values their contributions, where there are no limits to their dreams, and they have opportunities their mothers and grandmothers never could have imagined. <p>In the end, that's why Lilly stayed the course. She knew it was too late for her; that this bill wouldn't undo the years of injustice she faced or restore the earnings she was denied. But this grandmother from Alabama kept on fighting, because she was thinking about the next generation. It's what we've always done in America, set our sights high for ourselves, but even higher for our children and our grandchildren. <p>And now it's up to us to continue this work. This bill is an important step, a simple fix to ensure fundamental fairness for American workers, and I want to thank this remarkable and bipartisan group of legislators who worked so hard to get it passed. And I want to thank all the advocates who are in the audience who worked so hard to get it passed. This is only the beginning. I know that if we stay focused, as Lilly did, and keep standing for what's right, as Lilly did, we will close that pay gap, and we will make sure that our daughters have the same rights, the same chances, and the same freedoms to pursue their dreams as our sons. <p>So thank you, Lilly Ledbetter.\" "
"12" "\"Thank you for joining us today. It is a privilege to be among this diverse group representing labor unions and non-for-profit organizations and advocates for our business community. And I am pleased to be here with our outstanding Vice President, Joe Biden. I see some of my colleagues--got some Senators here; we got a Governor, at least one of them I see over here; Members of Congress; and a lot of good friends and Cabinet members. So this is an outstanding gathering. <p>Today we learned that our economy shrank in the last 3 months of 2008 by 3.8 percent. That's the worst contraction in close to three decades. This isn't just an economic concept, this is a continuing disaster for America's working families. As worrying as these numbers are, it's what they mean for the American people that really matters and that's so alarming: families making fewer purchases; businesses making fewer investments; employers sustaining fewer jobs. <p>The recession is deepening and the urgency of our economic crisis is growing. Yesterday, we reached a new threshold: the highest number of Americans receiving unemployment benefits on record. Every day it seems there's another round of layoffs, another round of jobs lost, and families' lives turned upside down. And we lost 2.6 million jobs last year, and another 2.8 million people who need and want full-time work had to settle for part-time employment. So this is a difficult moment. <p>But I believe if we act boldly and swiftly it can be an American moment, when we work through our differences together and overcome our divisions to face this crisis. While our GDP may have grown smaller, it's undiminished when it comes to our innovative spirit, our work ethic, our values, and our resolve and resilience as Americans. <p>For 2 years I traveled across this country. I met thousands of people, hard-working, middle-class Americans who shared with me their hopes and their hardships. These are the men and the women who form the backbone of our economy, the most productive workers in the world. They do their jobs. They build the products and provide the services that drive America's prosperity. <p>And these are the folks who approached me on the campaign trail, in union halls, in church basements, and coffee shops and VFW halls and shop floors, and they told me about jobs lost and homes foreclosed, hours cut and benefits slashed, the costs of life slowly slipping away and chipping away at the hopes of affording college or a new home or retirement. It's like the American Dream in reverse. These are the families who have, by no fault of their own, been hit hardest as the economy has worsened. <p>They need action now. They need us to pass the American recovery and reinvestment plan, a plan that will save or create more than 3 million jobs over the next few years and make investments that will serve our economy for years to come. We intend to double our capacity to generate renewable energy while redoubling our efforts to use energy more efficiently. We will rebuild crumbling roads and retrofit aging transit systems and renovate 10,000 schools for our children, and we'll bring health care into the 21st century by computerizing medical records, counting--saving countless lives and billions of dollars. <p>I'm pleased that the House has acted with the urgency necessary in passing this plan. I hope we can strengthen it further in the Senate. What we can't do is drag our feet or delay much longer. The American people expect us to act, and that's exactly what I intend to do as President of the United States. <p>But passing my plan is not the end, it's just the beginning of what we have to do. We know we need to create jobs, but not just any jobs. We need to create jobs that sustain families and sustain dreams, jobs in new and growing industries, jobs that don't feel like a dead end but a way forward and a way up, jobs that will foster a vibrant and growing middle class, because the strength of our economy can be measured directly by the strength of our middle class. And that's why I've created the Task Force on Middle Class Working Families, and why I've asked my Vice President, Joe Biden, to lead it. <p>There's no one who brings to bear the same combination of personal experience and substantive expertise. Joe has come a long way and has achieved a great deal, but he has never forgotten his roots as a working-class kid from Scranton, Pennsylvania. He has lived the American Dream, and lived and worked to make that dream a reality for others. <p>This task force will bring together my economic advisers and members of my Cabinet to focus on policies that will really benefit the middle class, policies to create jobs that pay well and provide a chance to save, to create jobs in growing fields and train workers to fill them, to ensure that workplaces are safe and fair as well as flexible for employees juggling the demands of work and family. <p>And I think I should note that when I talk about the middle class, I'm talking about folks who are currently on the middle class, but also people who aspire to be in the middle class. We're not forgetting the poor. They are going to be front and center, because they too share our American Dream. And we're going to make sure that they can get a piece of that American Dream if they're willing to work for it. <p>I also believe that we have to reverse many of the policies towards organized labor that we've seen these last 8 years, policies with which I've sharply disagreed. I do not view the labor movement as part of the problem, to me it's part of the solution. We need to level the playing field for workers and the unions that represent their interests, because we know that you cannot have a strong middle class without a strong labor movement. We know that strong, vibrant, growing unions can exist side by side with strong, vibrant, and growing businesses. This isn't a either/or proposition between the interests of workers and the interests of shareholders, that's the old argument. The new argument is that the American economy is not and has never been a zero-sum game. When workers are prospering, they buy products that make businesses prosper. We can be competitive and lean and mean and still create a situation where workers are thriving in this country. <p>So I'm going to be signing three Executive orders designed to ensure that Federal contracts serve taxpayers efficiently and effectively. One of these orders is going to prevent taxpayer dollars from going to reimburse Federal contractors who spend money trying to influence the formation of unions. We will also require that Federal contractors inform their employees of their rights under the National Labor Relations Act. Federal labor laws encourage collective bargaining, and employees should know their rights to avoid disruption of Federal contracts. <p>And I'm issuing an order so that qualified employees will be able to keep their jobs even when a contract changes hands. We shouldn't deprive the Government of these workers who have so much experience in making government work. <p>We need to keep our energy focused and our eyes fixed on the real measure of our prosperity, the success of folks that Joe and I have met across this country who are working hard each and every day. I'm eager to see this task force in action. I'm eager to discuss its findings with Joe Biden. And working with the people in this room, I intend to get this economy on track, to create the jobs of the future, and to make sure that the American people can achieve their dreams, not just for themselves, but for their children. <p>So with that, let me introduce our Chair of our middle class task force, my Vice President and the pride of Delaware--[<i>laughter</i>]--Joe Biden. <p>[<i>At this point, Vice President Joe Biden made brief remarks, and then the President signed the Executive orders and memorandum.</i>] <p>I'm getting good at this. [<i>Laughter</i>]\" "
"13" "\"This morning I'd like to talk about some good news and some bad news as we confront our economic crisis. <p>The bad news is well known to Americans across our country as we continue to struggle through unprecedented economic turmoil. Yesterday we learned that our economy shrank by nearly 4 percent from October through December. That decline was the largest in over a quarter century, and it underscores the seriousness of the economic crisis that my administration found when we took office. <p>Already the slowdown has cost us tens of thousands of jobs in January alone. And the picture is likely to get worse before it gets better. <p>Make no mistake, these are not just numbers. Behind every statistic there's a story. Many Americans have seen their lives turned upside down. Families have been forced to make painful choices. Parents are struggling to pay the bills. Patients can't afford care. Students can't keep pace with tuition. And workers don't know whether their retirement will be dignified and secure. <p>The good news is that we are moving forward with a sense of urgency equal to the challenge. This week, the House passed the American recovery and reinvestment plan, which will save or create more than 3 million jobs over the next few years. It puts a tax cut into the pockets of working families and places a downpayment on America's future by investing in energy independence and education, affordable health care, and American infrastructure. <p>Now this recovery plan moves to the Senate. I will continue working with both parties so that the strongest possible bill gets to my desk. With the stakes so high we simply cannot afford the same old gridlock and partisan posturing in Washington. It's time to move in a new direction. <p>Americans know that our economic recovery will take years, not months. But they will have little patience if we allow politics to get in the way of action, and our economy continues to slide. That's why I am calling on the Senate to pass this plan, so that we can put people back to work and begin the long, hard work of lifting our economy out of this crisis. No one bill, no matter how comprehensive, can cure what ails our economy. So just as we jump-start job creation, we must also ensure that markets are stable, credit is flowing, and families can stay in their homes. <p>Last year, Congress passed a plan to rescue the financial system. While the package helped avoid a financial collapse, many are frustrated by the results, and rightfully so. Too often taxpayer dollars have been spent without transparency or accountability. Banks have been extended a hand, but homeowners, students, and small businesses that need loans have been left to fend on their own. <p>And adding to this outrage, we learned this week that even as they petitioned for taxpayer assistance, Wall Street firms shamefully paid out nearly $20 billion in bonuses for 2008. While I'm committed to doing what it takes to maintain the flow of credit, the American people will not excuse or tolerate such arrogance and greed. The road to recovery demands that we all act responsibly, from Main Street to Washington to Wall Street. <p>Soon my Treasury Secretary, Tim Geithner, will announce a new strategy for reviving our financial system that gets credit flowing to businesses and families. We'll help lower mortgage costs and extend loans to small businesses so they can create jobs. We'll ensure that CEOs are not draining funds that should be advancing our recovery. And we will insist on unprecedented transparency, rigorous oversight, and clear accountability, so taxpayers know how their money is being spent and whether it is achieving results. <p>Rarely in history has our country faced economic problems as devastating as this crisis. But the strength of the American people compels us to come together. The road ahead will be long, but I promise you that every day that I go to work in the Oval Office, I carry with me your stories, and my administration is dedicated to alleviating your struggles and advancing your dreams. You are calling for action. Now is the time for those of us in Washington to live up to our responsibilities.\" "
"14" "\"<i>The President.</i> Well, listen, you guys, you've been terrific. Thank you so much for your hospitality---- <p><i>The First Lady</i>. ----your good questions. <p><i>The President.</i> ----your excellent questions. <p><i>The First Lady</i>. ----your outstanding listening skills. <p><i>The President.</i> You're excellent listeners. And the reason we came to visit: A, we wanted to get out of the White House; B, we wanted to see you guys; but C, the other thing we wanted to tell everybody is that this kind of innovative school, the outstanding work that's being done here by the entire staff and the parents who are so active and involved, is an example of how all our schools should be. <p>And what I've asked Arne Duncan to do is to make sure that he works as hard as he can over the next several years to make sure that we're reforming our schools; that we're rewarding innovation the way that it's taking place here; that we're encouraging parents to be involved; that we're raising standards for all children so that everybody can learn, especially things like math and science that are going to be so important for the jobs of the future. <p>And so we're very proud of what's been accomplished at this school, and we want to make sure that we're duplicating that success all across the country. So nothing is going to be more important than this. And the recovery and reinvestment act that we've put forward will provide billions of dollars to build schools and help with school construction. It will provide money to train teachers, especially in subjects like math and science that are so critical. And it will also give Secretary Duncan the resources he needs to reward excellent, innovative schools. And so we think it's really important for the country that we get that bill passed. <p>But thank you so much, everybody. Appreciate you. <p><i>The First Lady</i>. Thank you, guys. This was fun.\" "
"15" "\"Thank you, Tim, for your hard work on this issue and on the economic recovery. <p>The economic crisis we face is unlike any we've seen in our lifetime. It's a crisis of falling confidence and rising debt, of widely distributed risk and narrowly concentrated reward, a crisis written in the fine print of subprime mortgages, on the ledger lines of once mighty financial institutions, and on the pink slips that have upended the lives of so many people across this country and cost the economy 2.6 million jobs last year alone. <p>We know that even if we do everything that we should, this crisis was years in the making, and it will take more than weeks or months to turn things around. <p>But make no mistake: A failure to act, and act now, will turn crisis into a catastrophe and guarantee a longer recession, a less robust recovery, and a more uncertain future. Millions more jobs will be lost. More businesses will be shuttered. More dreams will be deferred. <p>And that's why I feel such a sense of urgency about the economic recovery and reinvestment plan that is before Congress today. With it, we can save or create more than 3 million jobs, doing things that will strengthen our country for years to come. It's not merely a prescription for short-term spending, it's a strategy for long-term economic growth in areas like renewable energy and health care and education. <p>Now, in the past few days, I've heard criticisms that this plan is somehow wanting, and these criticisms echo the very same failed economic theories that led us into this crisis in the first place: the notion that tax cuts alone will solve all our problems; that we can ignore fundamental challenges like energy independence and the high cost of health care; that we can somehow deal with this in a piecemeal fashion and still expect our economy and our country to thrive. <p>I reject those theories, and so did the American people when they went to the polls in November and voted resoundingly for change. So I urge Members of Congress to act without delay. No plan is perfect, and we should work to make it stronger. No one is more committed to making it stronger than me. But let's not make the perfect the enemy of the essential. Let's show people all over the country who are looking for leadership in this difficult time that we are equal to the task. <p>At the same time, we know that this recovery and reinvestment plan is only the first part of what we need to do to restore prosperity and secure our future. We also need a strong and viable financial system to keep credit flowing to businesses and families alike. And my administration will do whatever it takes to restore our financial system. Our recovery depends on it. And so in the next week, Secretary Geithner will release a new strategy to get credit moving again, a strategy that will reflect some of the lessons of past mistakes while laying the foundation of the future. <p>But in order to restore trust in our financial system, we're going to have to do more than just put forward our plans. In order to restore trust, we've got to make certain that taxpayer funds are not subsidizing excessive compensation packages on Wall Street. <p>We all need to take responsibility. And this includes executives at major financial firms who turned to the American people, hat in hand, when they were in trouble, even as they paid themselves customary, lavish bonuses. As I said last week, this is the height of irresponsibility; it's shameful. And that's exactly the kind of disregard of the costs and consequences of their actions that brought about this crisis: a culture of narrow self-interest and short-term gain at the expense of everything else. <p>This is America. We don't disparage wealth. We don't begrudge anybody for achieving success. And we certainly believe that success should be rewarded. But what gets people upset, and rightfully so, are executives being rewarded for failure, especially when those rewards are subsidized by U.S. taxpayers, many of whom are having a tough time themselves. <p>For top executives to award themselves these kinds of compensation packages in the midst of this economic crisis isn't just bad taste, it's bad strategy, and I will not tolerate it as President. We're going to be demanding some restraint in exchange for Federal aid, so that when firms seek new Federal dollars, we won't find them up to the same old tricks. <p>As part of the reforms we're announcing today, top executives at firms receiving extraordinary help from U.S. taxpayers will have their compensation capped at $500,000, a fraction of the salaries that have been reported recently. And if these executives receive any additional compensation, it will come in the form of stock that can't be paid up until taxpayers are paid back for their assistance. <p>Companies receiving Federal aid are going to have to disclose publicly all the perks and luxuries bestowed upon senior executives and provide an explanation to the taxpayers and to shareholders as to why these expenses are justified. And we're putting a stop to these kinds of massive severance packages we've all read about with disgust; we're taking the air out of golden parachutes. <p>We're asking these firms to take responsibility, to recognize the nature of this crisis and their role in it. We believe that what we've laid out should be viewed as fair and embraced as basic common sense. <p>And finally, these guidelines we're putting in place are only the beginning of a long-term effort. We're going to examine the ways in which the means and manner of executive compensation have contributed to a reckless culture and a quarter-by-quarter mentality that in turn helped to wreak havoc in our financial system. We're going to be taking a look at broader reforms so that executives are compensated for sound risk management and rewarded for growth measured over years, not just days or weeks. <p>We all have to pull together and take our share of responsibility. That's true here in Washington; that's true on Wall Street. The American people are carrying a huge burden as a result of this economic crisis, bearing the brunt of its effects as well as the cost of extraordinary measures we're taking to address them. The American people expect and demand that we pursue policies that reflect the reality of this crisis and that will prevent these kinds of crises from occurring again in the future. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"16" "\"All right. Please, everybody have a seat. This is good; this is good. Today, with one of the first bills that I sign, reauthorizing the Children's Health Insurance Program, we fulfill one of the highest responsibilities that we have: to ensure the health and well-being of our Nation's children. <p>It<i>'</i>s a responsibility that<i>'</i>s only grown more urgent as our economic crisis deepens, as health care costs have exploded and millions of working families are unable to afford health insurance. Today in America, 8 million children are still uninsured, more than 45 million Americans altogether. <p>And it<i>'</i>s hard to overstate the toll this takes on families: the sleepless nights worrying about somebody getting hurt, or praying that a sick child gets better on her own; the decisions that no parent should ever have to make: how long to put off that doctor<i>'</i>s appointment, whether to fill that prescription, whether to let a child play outside, knowing that all it takes is one accident, one injury, to send your family into financial ruin. <p>The families joining us today know these realities firsthand. When Gregory Secrest from Martinsville, Virginia, lost his job back in August, his kids lost their health care. When he broke the news to his family, his 9-year-old son--where are you?--that<i>'</i>s you? I thought so--[<i>laughter</i>]--handed over his piggy bank with $4 in it and told his father, \\"Daddy, if you need it, you take it.\\" <p>Now, this is not who we are. We<i>'</i>re not a nation that leaves struggling families to fend for themselves, especially when they<i>'</i>ve done everything right. No child in America should be receiving his or her primary care in the emergency room in the middle of the night. No child should be falling behind at school because he can<i>'</i>t hear the teacher or see the blackboard. I refuse to accept that millions of our children fail to reach their full potential because we fail to meet their basic needs. In a decent society, there are certain obligations that are not subject to tradeoffs or negotiations, and health care for our children is one of those obligations. <p>That is why we have passed this legislation. These legislators have passed this legislation on a bipartisan basis to continue coverage for 7 million children, cover an additional 4 million children in need, and finally lift the ban on States providing insurance to legal immigrant children if they choose to do so. <p>Since it was created more than 10 years ago, the Children<i>'</i>s Health Insurance Program has been a lifeline for millions of children whose parents work full time and don<i>'</i>t qualify for Medicaid, but through no fault of their own, don<i>'</i>t have and can<i>'</i>t afford private insurance. For millions of children who fall into that gap, CHIP has provided care when they<i>'</i>re sick and preventive services to help them stay well. This legislation will allow us to continue and build on these successes. <p>But, as I think everybody here will agree, this is only the first step. The way I see it, providing coverage to 11 million children through CHIP is a downpayment on my commitment to cover every single American. And it is just one component of a much broader effort to finally bring our health care system into the 21st century. And that<i>'</i>s why the economic recovery and reinvestment plan that<i>'</i>s now before Congress is so important. <p>Now, think about this, if Congress passes this recovery plan, in just 1 month, we will have done more to modernize our health care system than we<i>'</i>ve done in the past decade. <p>We<i>'</i>ll be on our way to computerizing all of America<i>'</i>s medical records, which won<i>'</i>t just--[<i>applause</i>]--it won<i>'</i>t just eliminate inefficiencies, won<i>'</i>t just save billions of dollars and create tens of thousands of jobs, but it will save lives by reducing deadly medical errors. We<i>'</i>ll have made the single largest investment in prevention and wellness in history, tacking problems like smoking and obesity and helping people live longer, healthier lives. And we<i>'</i>ll have extended health insurance for the unemployed, so that workers who lose their jobs don<i>'</i>t lose their health care too. <p>Now let me say this. In the past few days, I<i>'</i>ve heard criticisms of this plan that, frankly, echo the very same failed theories that helped lead us into this crisis in the first place: The notion that tax cuts alone will solve all our problems; that we can address this enormous crisis with half-steps and piecemeal measures and tinkering around the edges; that we can ignore fundamental challenges like the high cost of health care and still expect our economy and our country to thrive. <p>I reject these theories, and by the way, so did the American people when they went to the polls in November and voted resoundingly for change. So I urge Members of Congress to act without delay. No plan is perfect, and all of us together, Democrats and Republicans, should work to make it stronger. But let<i>'</i>s not make the perfect the enemy of the essential. Let<i>'</i>s show people all over our country who are looking for leadership, who are desperate for leadership right now, that in difficult times we<i>'</i>re equal to the task. Let<i>'</i>s give America<i>'</i>s families the support they need to weather this crisis. <p>In the end, that<i>'</i>s all that people like the Secrests are looking for: the chance to work hard and to have that hard work translate into a good life for their children. Now I<i>'</i>m pleased to report that the Secrest story had a happy ending. It turned out that Gregory<i>'</i>s two sons were eligible for SCHIP, and they are now fully covered, much to his relief and his wife<i>'</i>s relief. I think Gregory put it best when he said: \\"Kids look at us and think that we will take of them.\\" That<i>'</i>s--every parent here has the experience. You look at your children and you know that they<i>'</i>re looking back at you and they<i>'</i>re saying, \\"You<i>'</i>re going to take care of me, aren<i>'</i>t you?\\" That<i>'</i>s our job: to keep them healthy and to keep them safe and to let them dream as big as their dreams will take them. <p>And that<i>'</i>s what I think about when I tuck my own girls into bed each night. And that<i>'</i>s what I want for every child, every family in this Nation. That<i>'</i>s why it<i>'</i>s so important that Congress passes our recovery plan so we can get to work rebuilding America<i>'</i>s health care system. <p>It won<i>'</i>t be easy; it won<i>'</i>t happen all at once. But this bill that I<i>'</i>m about to sign, that wasn<i>'</i>t easy, either. It didn<i>'</i>t happen all at once, either. And yet, here it is, waiting for me to sign. The bill I sign today is a critical first step. So I want to thank all of the State and local officials, all the advocates and ordinary Americans across this great country who fought so hard to get it passed. I want to personally thank every single Member of Congress who is here, a bipartisan group who worked tirelessly for so long that we could see this day. And I want you all to know that I am confident that if we work together, if we come together, we can finally achieve what generations of Americans have fought for and fulfill the promise of health care in our time. <p>So thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"17" "\"Thank you so much. Well, it is a thrill to be here. Thank you, Secretary Chu, for bringing your experience and expertise to this new role. And thanks to all of you who have done so much on behalf of the country each and every day here at the Department. You know, your mission is so important, and it's only going to grow as we transform the ways we produce energy and use energy, for the sake of our environment, for the sake of our security, and for the sake of our economy. <p>As we are meeting, in the Halls of Congress just down the street from here, there's a debate going on about the plan I've proposed, the American recovery and reinvestment plan. <p>This isn't some abstract debate. Last week, we learned that many of America's largest corporations are planning to lay off tens of thousands of workers. Today we learned that last week, the number of new unemployment claims jumped 600--jumped to 626,000. Tomorrow we're expecting another dismal jobs report on top of the 2.6 million jobs that we lost last year. We've lost half a million jobs each month for the last 2 months. <p>Now, I believe that legislation of such magnitude as has been proposed deserves the scrutiny that it has received over the last month. I think that's a good thing; that's the way democracy is supposed to work. But these numbers that we're seeing are sending an unmistakable message, and so are the American people. The time for talk is over. The time for action is now, because we know that if we do not act, a bad situation will become dramatically worse. Crisis could turn into catastrophe for families and businesses across the country. <p>And I refuse to let that happen. We can't delay and we can't go back to the same worn-out ideas that led us here in the first place. In the last few days, we've seen proposals arise from some in Congress that you may not have read but you'd be very familiar with because you've been hearing them for the last 10 years, maybe longer. They're rooted in the idea that tax cuts alone can solve all our problems; that government doesn't have a role to play; that half-measures and tinkering are somehow enough; that we can afford to ignore our most fundamental economic challenges: the crushing cost of health care, the inadequate state of so many of our schools, our dangerous dependence on foreign oil. <p>So let me be clear: Those ideas have been tested, and they have failed. They've taken us from surpluses to an annual deficit of over a trillion dollars, and they've brought our economy to a halt. And that's precisely what the election we just had was all about. The American people have rendered their judgment. And now is the time to move forward not back. Now is the time for action. <p>Just as past generations of Americans have done in trying times, we can and we must turn this moment of challenge into one of opportunity. The plan I've proposed has at its core a simple idea: Let's put Americans to work doing the work that America needs to be done. <p>This plan will save or create over 3 million jobs, almost all of them in the private sector. This plan will put people to work rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges, our dangerously deficient dams and levees. This plan will put people to work modernizing our health care system, not only saving us billions of dollars, but countless lives. This plan will put people to work renovating more than 10,000 schools, giving millions of children the chance to learn in 21st century classrooms, libraries, and labs. And to all the scientists in the room today, you know what that means for America's future. This plan will provide sensible tax relief for the struggling middle class, unemployment insurance and continuing health care coverage for those who've lost their jobs, and it will help prevent our States and local communities from laying off firefighters and teachers and police. And finally, this plan will begin to end the tyranny of oil in our time. <p>After decades of dragging our feet, this plan will finally spark the creation of a clean energy industry that will create hundreds of thousands of jobs over the next few years--manufacturing wind turbines and solar cells, for example--millions more after that. These jobs and these investments will double our capacity to generate renewable energy over the next few years. <p>We'll fund a better, smarter electricity grid and train workers to build it, a grid that will help us ship wind and solar power from one end of this country to another. Think about it. The grid that powers the tools of modern life--computers, appliances, even BlackBerrys--[<i>laughter</i>]--looks largely the same as it did half a century ago. Just these first steps towards modernizing the way we distribute electricity could reduce consumption by 2 to 4 percent. <p>We'll also lead a revolution in energy efficiency, modernizing more than 75 percent of Federal buildings and improving the efficiency of more than 2 million American homes. This will not only create jobs, it will cut the Federal energy bill by a third and save taxpayers $2 billion each year and save Americans billions of dollars more on their utility bills. <p>In fact, as part of this effort, today I've signed a Presidential memorandum requesting that the Department of Energy set new efficiency standards for common household appliances. This will save consumers money, this will spur innovation, and this will conserve tremendous amounts of energy. We'll save through these simple steps over the next 30 years the amount of energy produced over a 2-year period by all the coal-fired power plants in America. <p>And through investments in our mass transit system to boost capacity, in our roads to reduce congestion, and in technologies that will accelerate the development of innovations like plug-in hybrid vehicles, we'll be making a significant down payment on a cleaner and more energy independent future. <p>Now, I read the other day that critics of this plan ridiculed our notion that we should use part of the money to modernize the entire fleet of Federal vehicles to take advantage of state-of-the-art fuel efficiency. This is what they called pork. You know the truth: It will not only save the Government significant money over time, it will not only create manufacturing jobs for folks who are making these cars, it will set a standard for private industry to match. And so when you hear these attacks deriding something of such obvious importance as this, you have to ask yourself, are these folks serious? Is it any wonder that we haven't had a real energy policy in this country? <p>For the last few years, I've talked about these issues with Americans from one end of this country to another. And Washington may not be ready to get serious about energy independence, but I am. And so are you, and so are the American people. <p>Inaction is not an option that is acceptable to me, and it's certainly not acceptable to the American people, not on energy, not on the economy, not at this critical moment. <p>So I am calling on all the Members of Congress, Democrats and Republicans, House and Senate, to rise to this moment. No plan is perfect. There have been constructive changes made to this one over the last several weeks. I would love to see additional improvements today. But the scale and the scope of this plan is the right one. Our approach to energy is the right one. It's what America needs right now, and we need to move forward today. We can't keep on having the same old arguments over and over again that lead us to the exact same spot where we are wasting previous energy, we're not creating jobs, we're failing to compete in the global economy, and we end up bickering at a time when the economy urgently needs action. <p>I thank all of you for being here, and I'm eager to work with Secretary Chu and all of you as we stand up to meet the challenges of this new century. That's what the American people are looking for. That's what I expect out of Congress. That's what I believe we can deliver to our children and our grandchildren in their future. <p>Thank you so much, everybody. I appreciate it. Thank you.\" "
"18" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you, Democrats. Thank you. Please, everybody have a seat, everybody have a seat. It is great to be here with so many friends. Thank you for giving me a reason to use Air Force One. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's pretty nice. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I'm glad to see the House Democratic Caucus is getting by just fine without my Chief of Staff. [<i>Laughter</i>] I don't know how many of you were at the Alfalfa dinner, but I pointed out, you know, this whole myth of Rahm being this tough guy, mean, is just not true. At least once a week he spends time teaching profanity to underprivileged children. [<i>Laughter</i>] So he's got a soft spot. <p>I want to thank John Larson for inviting me here tonight. This is John's first conference as chairman of the Democratic caucus, so we're both new at this. John, congratulations. <p>I want to acknowledge the great Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi. She is a rock who has proven to be an extraordinary leader for the American people. And I want to thank Nancy and Steny Hoyer and Jim Clyburn and the entire caucus--Xavier Becerra, all the leadership working so hard, all the chairmen like David Obey, who've worked so hard in passing an economic recovery plan that is so desperately needed for our country. <p>All of you acted with a discipline that matches the urgency and the gravity of the crisis that we face, because you know what's at stake. Every weekend, you go home to your districts and you see factories that are closing and small businesses shutting their doors. You hear from families losing their homes, students that can't pay their tuition, seniors who are worrying about whether they can retire with dignity or see their kids and grandkids lead a better life. <p>So you went to work, and you did your job. For that, you have my appreciation and admiration. And more importantly, you've got the American people's thanks, because they know it is time to get something done here in Washington. <p>As we meet here tonight, we know that there's more work to be done. The Senate is still acting. And after it has its final vote, we still need to resolve differences between the House and Senate bills. So we're going to still have to work, and I am going to urge you to complete that work without delay. And I know that Nancy and Steny, all the rest of the leadership is committed to making that happen. <p>Now, I just want to say this: I value the constructive criticism and the healthy debate that's taken place around this package, because that's the essence, the foundation of American democracy. That's how the Founders set it up. They set it up to make big change hard. It wasn't supposed to be easy. That's part of the reason why we've got such a stable Government--is because no one party, no one individual, can simply dictate the terms of the debate. I don't think any of us have cornered the market on wisdom, or that--do I believe that good ideas are the province of any party. The American people know that our challenges are great. They're not expecting Democratic solutions or Republican solutions; they want American solutions. And I've said that same thing to the public, and I've said that, in a gesture of friendship and good will, to those who have disagreed with me on aspects of this plan. <p>But what I have also said is, don't come to the table with the same tired arguments and worn ideas that helped to create this crisis. You know, all of us here are imperfect. And everything we do and everything I do is subject to improvement. My Michelle reminds me every day how imperfect I am. [<i>Laughter</i>] So I welcome this debate. But come on, we are not going to get relief by turning back to the very same policies that for the last 8 years doubled the national debt and threw our economy into a tailspin. <p>We can't embrace the losing formula that says only tax cuts will work for every problem we face, that ignores critical challenges like our addiction to foreign oil, or the soaring cost of health care, or falling schools and crumbling bridges and roads and levees. I don't care whether you're driving a hybrid or an SUV, if you're headed for a cliff, you've got to change direction. That's what the American people called for in November, and that's what we intend to deliver. <p>So the American people are watching. They did not send us here to get bogged down with the same old delay, the same old distractions, the same talking points, the same cable chatter. You know, I mean, aren't you all tired of that stuff? <p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes! Let's go to work. <p><i>The President.</i> They did not vote for the false theories of the past, and they didn't vote for phony arguments and petty politics. They didn't vote for the status quo; they sent us here to bring change. We owe it to them to deliver. This is the moment for leadership that matches the great test of our times, and I know you want to work with me to get there. <p>Now, if we do not move swiftly to sign the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act into law, an economy that is already in crisis will be faced with catastrophe. This is not my assessment. This is not Nancy Pelosi's assessment. This is the assessment of the best economists in the country. This is the assessment of some of the former advisers of some of the same folks who are making these criticisms right now. <p>Millions more Americans will lose their jobs. Homes will be lost. Families will go without health care. Our crippling dependence on foreign oil will continue. That is the price of inaction. <p>This isn't some abstract debate. Last week, we learned that many of America's largest corporations already laid off thousands and are planning to lay off tens of thousands of more workers. Today we learned that in the previous week, the number of new unemployment claims jumped to 626,000. Tomorrow we're expecting another dismal jobs report, on top of the half a million jobs that were lost last month, on top of the half a million jobs that were lost the month before that, on top of the 2.6 million jobs that were lost last year. <p>For you, these aren't just statistics. This is not a game; this is not a contest for who is in power and who's up and who's down. These are your constituents. These are families you know and you care about. I believe that it is important for us to set aside some of the gamesmanship in this town and get something done. <p>Now, I believe--[<i>applause</i>]--I just want to repeat, because I don't want any confusion here--I believe that legislation of this enormous magnitude, that by necessity we are moving quickly; we're not moving quickly, because we're trying to jamb something down people's throats. We're moving quickly because we're told that if we don't move quickly, that the economy is going keep on getting worse, and we'll have another 2 or 3 or 4 million jobs lost this year. <p>I'd love to be leisurely about this. My staff is worn out, working around the clock. So is David Obey's staff. So is Nancy Pelosi's staff. We're not doing this because we think this is a lark. We're doing this because people are counting on us. So legislation of this magnitude deserves the scrutiny that it's received, and all of you will get another chance to vote for this bill in the days to come. But I urge all of us not to make the perfect the enemy of the absolutely necessary. <p>Understand the scale and the scope of this plan is right. And when you start hearing arguments on the cable chatter, just understand a couple of things. Number one, when they say, \\"Well, why are we spending 800 billion? We've got this huge deficit?\\" First of all, I found this deficit when I showed up. Number one, I found this national debt doubled, wrapped in a big bow waiting for me as I stepped into the Oval Office. <p>Number two, it is expected that we are going to lose about a trillion dollars worth of demand this year, a trillion dollars of demand next year because of the contraction in the economy. So the reason that this has to be big is to try to fill some of that lost demand. And as it is, there are many who think that we should be doing even more. So we are taking prudent steps. <p>But you talk to Ted Strickland and what's happening in Ohio, and you ask him whether they need some relief in terms of the unemployment insurance rates that are going sky-high, and him having to pick up all kinds of folks who are suddenly seeking food stamps who had been working all their lives, and he'll tell you that this not something that we're just doing to grow Government. We're doing this because this is what the best minds tell us needs to be done. That's point number one. <p>Point number two: When they start talking about, well, we need more tax cuts, we started this package with a healthy amount of tax cuts in the mix, recognizing that some tax cuts can be very beneficial, particularly if they're going to middle class and working families that will spend that money. That's not me talking; that's the economists talking, who insisted that they're most likely to spend and get that money into circulation and stimulate the economy. <p>Now, in fact, when we announced the bill, you remember--this is only about, what, 2 weeks ago, when we announced the framework? And we were complimented by Republicans, saying, \\"Boy, this is a balanced package; we're pleasantly surprised.\\" And suddenly, what was a balanced package needs to be put out of balance. Don't buy those arguments. <p>Then there's the argument, \\"Well, this is full of pet projects.\\" When was the last time that we saw a bill of this magnitude move out with no earmarks in it? Not one. And when they--when you start asking, \\"Well, what is it exactly that is such a problem that you're seeing? Where's all this waste and spending?\\" Well, you know, you want to replace the Federal fleet with hybrid cars. Well, why wouldn't we want to do that? [<i>Laughter</i>] That creates jobs for people who make those cars. It saves the Federal Government energy. It saves the taxpayers energy. <p>So then I--then you get the argument, \\"Well, this is not a stimulus bill, this is a spending bill.\\" What do you think a stimulus is? [<i>Laughter</i>] That's the whole point. No, seriously. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's the point. <p>So, I mean, I get carried away. [<i>Laughter</i>] We've got to leave some time for questions and answers. Here's the point I'm making: This package is not going to be absolutely perfect, and you can nit and you can pick, and that's the game we all play here. We know how to play that game. What I'm saying is, now we can't afford to play that game. We've got to pull together. <p>There are going to be some things that don't get included that each of us would like to see included. All of us are going to have to make some sacrifices. And we have to accommodate the interests of a range of people. And the House is going to have to work with the Senate. But let's think big right now. Let's not think small. Let's not think narrowly. <p>Just as past generations of Americans have done in trying times, we can and must turn this moment of challenge into one of opportunity. The plan that you've passed has at its core a simple idea: Let's put Americans to work doing the work that America needs done. <p>So this plan will save or create over 3 million jobs, almost all of them in the private sector. This plan will put people to work rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges, our dangerously deficient dams and levees. This plan will put people to work modernizing our health care system. That doesn't just save us billions of dollars; it saves countless lives, because we'll reduce medical errors. This plan will put people to work renovating more than 10,000 schools, giving millions of children the chance to learn in 21st century classrooms and libraries and labs, creating new scientists for a new future. <p>This plan will provide sensible tax relief for the struggling middle class and unemployment insurance and continued health care coverage for those who've lost their jobs. And it will help prevent our States and local communities--it will help Governor Ritter and Governor Strickland not have to lay off firefighters and teachers and police. Because when they get laid off, not only do we lose services, but maybe they can't make payments on their home. Maybe they get foreclosed on, and the economy goes down further. <p>And finally, this plan will begin to end the tyranny of oil in our time: doubles our capacity to generate alternative sources of energy, like wind and solar and biofuels. And it does it in 3 years, saves taxpayers billions of dollars, makes Federal buildings more efficient, saves the average working family hundreds of dollars on their energy bills. After decades of empty rhetoric, that's the downpayment that we need on energy independence. <p>Now, there's a lot about running for President that is tough. Especially, I don't miss sleeping in motels and hotels, and I don't miss not being with my kids as much as I'd like. But the best thing about being a candidate--and all of you know this because those Members of Congress who are here, you've run, you know what it's like--you get to see the country. You get to know the character of the American people. Over the last 2 years, I visited almost all 50 States. I've got to admit, the one I missed was Alaska. [<i>Laughter</i>] We're going to get there. I've been in so many of your districts. I've passed through towns and cities farms and factories. And I know what you know: People are hurting. I've looked in their eyes. I've heard their stories. I've sensed their deep frustration. <p>And they're just hoping that we're working for them. They're so strong, and they're so decent, the American people, and those struggles haven't diminished that strength and that decency. And we hold in our hands the capacity to do great things on their behalf. But we're going to have to do it by not thinking about ourselves, not thinking about how does this position me, how am I looking. And we're going to have to just think about how are we delivering for them. <p>It starts with this economic recovery plan. And soon, we'll take on the big issues like addressing the foreclosure problem by passing a budget, tackling our fiscal problems, fixing our financial regulation, securing our country. And we won't approach these challenges just as Democrats, because we remember the look in the eyes of our constituents. We know even though they've been cynical, that they're thinking, maybe this time is going to be different. They know we've got to overcome all these problems as Americans. And that's why we have to work in a serious, substantive, and civil way, and we will keep working to build bipartisan support for action. <p>And I promise you that my door is always open, and my administration will consult closely with each and every one of you, the people's representatives, as we take on these pressing priorities. <p>And already, you've made a difference. Nancy mentioned--I'm so proud of that day that we signed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act--to see Lilly Ledbetter on the stage, representing the American people, representing all the women out there who want their daughters to have the same opportunities as our sons. And then we signed children's health insurance to provide coverage for 11 million and make a downpayment on comprehensive health care reform. <p>And it wasn't easy. You worked hard to make it happen, which means we can work hard to make sure that we've got jobs all across America and energy independence all across America. And we will not stop until we deliver for our constituents. <p>That's what the Democratic Party is all about. That's what this caucus is all about. That's what my Presidency is all about. <p>Thank you, guys. I love you. Thank you.\" "
"19" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. Please have a seat. Good morning, everybody. <p><i>Audience members. </i>Good morning. <p><i>The President.</i> I have just had the opportunity to welcome the members of my Economic Recovery Advisory Board. And I'm grateful that I will have the counsel of these extraordinarily talented and experienced men and women in the challenging months to come. <p>If there's anyone, anywhere, who doubts the need for wise counsel and bold and immediate action, just consider the very troubling news we received just this morning. Last month, another 600,000 Americans lost their jobs. That is the single worst month of job loss in 35 years. The Department of Labor also adjusted their job loss numbers for 2008 upwards and now report that we've lost 3.6 million jobs since this recession began. <p>That's 3.6 million Americans who wake up every day wondering how they are going to pay their bills, stay in their homes, and provide for their children. That's 3.6 million Americans who need our help. <p>I'm sure that at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, Members of the Senate are reading these same numbers this morning. And I hope they share my sense of urgency and draw the same, unmistakable conclusion: The situation could not be more serious. These numbers demand action. It is inexcusable and irresponsible for any of us to get bogged down in distraction, delay, or politics as usual, while millions of Americans are being put out of work. <p>Now is the time for Congress to act. It's time to pass an economic recovery and reinvestment plan to get our economy moving. <p>This is not some abstract debate. It is an urgent and growing crisis that can only be fully understood through the unseen stories that lie underneath each and every one of those 600,000 jobs that were lost this month. Somewhere in America, a small business has shut its doors; somewhere in America, a family has said goodbye to their home; somewhere in America, a young parent has lost their livelihood, and they don't know what's going to take its place. <p>These Americans are counting on us, all of us in Washington. We have to remember that we're here to work for them. And if we drag our feet and fail to act, this crisis could turn into a catastrophe. We'll continue to get devastating job reports like today's, month after month, year after year. It's very important to understand that, although we had a terrible year with respect to jobs last year, the problem is accelerating not decelerating. It's getting worse not getting better. Almost half of the jobs that were lost have been lost just in the last couple of months. <p>These aren't my assessments; these are the assessments of independent economists. If we don't do anything, millions more jobs will be lost. More families will lose their homes. More Americans will go without health care. We'll continue to send our children to crumbling schools and be crippled by our dependence on foreign oil. That's the result of inaction. And it's not acceptable to the American people. <p>They did not choose more of the same in November. They did not send us to Washington to get stuck in partisan posturing, to try to score political points. They did not send us here to turn back to the same tried-and-failed approaches that were rejected, because we saw the results. They sent us here to make change, with the expectation that we would act. <p>Now, I have repeatedly acknowledged that, given the magnitude and the difficulties of the problem we're facing, there are no silver bullets, and there are no easy answers. The bill that's emerged from Congress is not perfect, but a bill is absolutely necessary. We can continue to improve and refine both the House and Senate versions of these bills. There may be provisions in there that need to be left out; there may be some provisions that need to be added. But broadly speaking, the package is the right size, it is the right scope, and it has the right priorities to create 3 to 4 million jobs and to do it in a way that lays the groundwork for long-term growth, by fixing our schools, modernizing our health care to lower costs, repair our roads and bridges and levees and other vital infrastructure, move us towards energy independence. That is what America needs. It will take months, even years, to renew our economy, but every day that Washington fails to act, that recovery is delayed. <p>Now, we also know that no single act can meet the challenges of this moment. This process is just the beginning of a long journey back to progress and growth and prosperity. Given the scope of this crisis, we'll need all hands on deck to figure out how we are going to move forward. And I'm pleased to have an extraordinary team of folks in my administration: Tim Geithner at Treasury, Larry Summers, Christina Romer, Peter Orszag. They're all here in the White House. I also want to be sure that we're tapping a broad and diverse range of opinion from across the country, because a historic crisis demands a historic response. And that's why we took the unique step of creating the new institution whose members have gathered here today. <p>Put simply, I created this board to enlist voices to come from beyond the Washington echo chamber, to ensure that no stone is unturned as we work to put people back to work and get our economy moving. <p>Within this group, you've got leaders of manufacturing and leaders of finance. You've got labor, and you've got management. You've got people who work in small businesses and people who work in large businesses. You've got some economists and some folks who think they're economists. [<i>Laughter</i>] By the way, these days everybody thinks they're an economist. [<i>Laughter</i>] We will meet regularly so that I can hear different ideas and sharpen my own and seek counsel that is candid and informed by the wider world. <p>The board is headed by Paul Volcker--not only because he's the tallest among us--[<i>laughter</i>]--but because, by any measure, he is one of the world's foremost experts on the economy, one of the most experienced and insightful economic minds that we have. He's advised me for many months. He has helped steer the American economy through many twists and turns. Probably, prior to this one, the worst economic crisis we had back in the early eighties, it was Paul Volcker who helped restore confidence and pull us out of that extraordinarily difficult time. <p>So I'm glad that Paul has decided to continue his public service at this critical moment. Assisting Paul and the rest of the board will be Austan Goolsbee, who's been one of my closest economic advisers, one of the finest young economists that we have in the country. And he's going to ensure that we are making the best possible use of this unique resource. <p>I'm not interested in groupthink, which is why the board reflects a broad cross-section of experience and expertise and ideology. We've recruited Republicans and Democrats, people who come out of the Government as well as the private sector. Not everyone is going to agree with each other, and not all of them are going to agree with me. And that's precisely the point, because we want to ensure that our policies have the benefit of independent thought and vigorous debate. <p>And we're also going to count on these men and women to serve as additional eyes and ears for me as we work to reverse this downturn. Many of them have ground-level views of the changes that are taking place, as they work across different sectors of the economy and different regions of the country, and they can help us see the trends that are not fully formed, the trouble that may be on the horizon, and the opportunities that have yet to be seized. I look forward to relying on their input and recommendations on specific questions as we jump-start job creation and pursue strong and stable economic growth. <p>This new institution should send a signal of how seriously I take the responsibility of building an economic recovery that is broad and enduring. These are extraordinary times. And for far too many Americans, the future is filled with unanswered questions: Can I get a job? Will my family be able to stay in their home? Will I be able to retire with dignity and see my children lead a better life? And these are the questions that we will answer affirmatively during the course of this administration. <p>We are going to create the jobs that our people need and the future that this great Nation deserves. Those are the challenges that I've put before my economic team, and these distinguished advisers will be tackling those same issues in the months and years to come. <p>So I'm grateful to them. And before I officially sign this Executive order, I would like Paul just to say a quick word.\" "
"20" "\"Yesterday began with some devastating news with regard to our economic crisis. But I'm pleased to say it ended on a more positive note. <p>In the morning, we received yet another round of alarming employment figures, the worst in more than 30 years. Another 600,000 jobs were lost in January. We've now lost more than 3.6 million jobs since this recession began. <p>But by the evening, Democrats and Republicans came together in the Senate and responded appropriately to the urgency this moment demands. <p>In the midst of our greatest economic crisis since the Great Depression, the American people were hoping that Congress would begin to confront the great challenges we face. That was, after all, what last November's election was all about. <p>Legislation of such magnitude deserves the scrutiny that it's received over the last month, and it will receive more in the days to come. But we can't afford to make perfect the enemy of the absolutely necessary. The scale and scope of this plan is right. And the time for action is now, because if we don't move swiftly to put this plan in motion, our economic crisis could become a national catastrophe. Millions of Americans will lose their jobs, their homes, and their health care. Millions more will have to put their dreams on hold. <p>Let's be clear: We can't expect relief from the tired old theories that, in eight short years, doubled the national debt, threw our economy into a tailspin, and led us into this mess in the first place. We can't rely on a losing formula that offers only tax cuts as the answer to all our problems while ignoring our fundamental economic challenges: the crushing cost of health care or the inadequate state of so many schools; our addiction to foreign oil or our crumbling roads, bridges, and levees. <p>The American people know that our challenges are great. They don't expect Democratic solutions or Republican solutions; they expect American solutions. <p>From the beginning, this recovery plan has had at its core a simple idea: Let's put Americans to work doing the work America needs done. It will save or create more than 3 million jobs over the next 2 years, all across the country--16,000 in Maine, nearly 80,000 in Indiana, almost all of them in the private sector, and all of them jobs that help us recover today and prosper tomorrow. <p>Jobs that upgrade classrooms and laboratories in 10,000 schools nationwide--at least 485 in Florida alone--and train an army of teachers in math and science. Jobs that modernize our health care system, not only saving us billions of dollars, but countless lives. Jobs that construct a smart electric grid, connect every corner of the country to the information superhighway, double our capacity to generate renewable energy, and grow the economy of tomorrow. Jobs that rebuild our crumbling roads, bridges and levees and dams, so that the tragedies of New Orleans and Minneapolis never happen again. <p>It includes immediate tax relief for our struggling middle class in places like Ohio, where 4.5 million workers will receive a tax cut of up to $1,000. It protects health insurance and provides unemployment insurance for those who've lost their jobs. And it helps our States and communities avoid painful tax hikes or layoffs for our teachers, nurses, and first responders. <p>That's what is at stake with this plan: putting Americans back to work, creating transformative economic change, and making a down payment on the American Dream that serves our children and our children's children for generations to come. <p>Americans across this country are struggling, and they are watching to see if we're equal to the task before us. Let's show them that we are. And let's do whatever it takes to keep the promise of America alive in our time. <p>Thank you.\" "
"21" "\"Thank you everybody. I am extraordinarily pleased to be here with Virginia's Governor, an exceptional leader and a great friend of mine, Tim Kaine. <p>Not far from where we're standing, back in Washington, we continue to have a debate about our economic plan, a plan to create or save more than 3 million jobs in the next few years. And I welcome that conversation. But I am here today because you don't need to travel very far from that debate to see why enacting this plan is both urgent and essential to our recovery, to see that the time for talk has passed and that now is the time to take bold and swift action. <p>We've passed a version of the American recovery and reinvestment plan through the House. Yesterday we passed a version through the Senate. Now we've got to get a final version to my desk so that I can sign it and so that here in Virginia and across the country the people can use it. <p>In Virginia, the unemployment rate has surged to its highest level in more than a decade, and it might have been a lot worse were it not for the leadership of Governor Tim Kaine and former Governor, now Senator, Mark Warner. Unemployment claims have doubled in recent months compared to last year. Nationwide, we've lost 3.6 million jobs since this recession began, nearly 600,000 this past month alone. <p>These are the people I talked to in Elkhart, Indiana, on Monday, which has lost jobs faster than anyplace else in America, with an unemployment rate of over 15 percent. They're the people I met yesterday in Fort Myers, Florida, which has been among the places hardest hit by the foreclosure crisis. These are the folks looking for work, and these are the folks who want to work. <p>At the same time, look around us. Look at this construction site right where we're standing. We're surrounded by unmet needs and unfinished business in our schools, in our roads, in the systems we employ to treat the sick, in the energy we use to power our homes. And that's the core of my plan: putting people to work doing the work that America needs done. <p>We're here today because there's a lot of work that needs to be done on our Nation's congested roads and highways, crumbling bridges and levees, and crowded trains and transit systems. Because we know that with investment, we can create transportation and communications systems ready for the demands of the 21st century, and because we also know what happens when we fail to make those investments. <p>We've seen the consequences of a bridge collapse in Minneapolis. We've seen the consequences of levees failing in New Orleans. We see the consequences every day in ways that may be less drastic, but are, nonetheless, burdens on local communities and economies: time with family lost because of longer daily commutes, growth held back by streets that can't handle new business, money wasted on fuel that's burned in worsening traffic. These are problems that the people of northern Virginia understand acutely. <p>Governor Kaine understands it acutely. And your Governor has worked valiantly to relieve these transportation pressures while, at the same time, facing enormous budget pressures. What's worse, now States are facing acute new responsibilities during this recession. Local governments are seeing more people filing unemployment claims, signing up for Medicaid, requesting government services. And all the while, people are spending less, earning less, and paying less in taxes. <p>So across the country, States need help. And with my plan, help is what they will get. My plan contains the largest investment increase in our Nation's infrastructure since President Eisenhower created the national highway system half a century ago. We'll invest more than $100 billion and create nearly 400,000 jobs rebuilding our roads, our railways, our dangerously deficient dams, bridges, and levees. <p>Here in Virginia, my plan will create or save almost 100,000 jobs doing work at sites just like this one. Where we're standing, that could mean hundreds of construction jobs. And the benefits of jobs we create directly will multiply across the economy. <p>For example, this kind of infrastructure project requires heavy equipment. Caterpillar, which manufactures the machines used in this project, has announced some 20,000 layoffs in the last few weeks. And today the chairman and CEO of Caterpillar said that if the American recovery and reinvestment plan passes, his company would be able to rehire some of those employees. <p>Tomorrow I'm going to East Peoria, Illinois, to visit a Caterpillar manufacturing plant to talk to these workers, because what's at stake here are not abstract numbers or abstract concepts. We're talking about real families that we can help and real jobs that we can save. <p>My plan will also give tax cuts to 3 million Virginia workers and their families. And we'll provide an additional $100 per month in unemployment benefits to nearly a quarter-million workers in Virginia who've lost their jobs and extend benefits to 46,000 more workers who aren't currently eligible. <p>So we're at the doorstep of getting this plan through the Congress, but the work is not over. When we do, the challenge will shift to administering successfully this endeavor of enormous scope and scale. <p>Now, there are those who've expressed the opinion that we won't be able to do it, who say that this plan is too big to be implemented effectively and efficiently. And the fact is, there's a certain amount of skepticism, much of it justified, by what we're accustomed to seeing in Washington. So I understand these concerns, but I'm confident that we can do things differently and better. <p>As President, I expect to be judged--and should be judged--by the results of this program. That's why I refused to allow even a single dollar in this legislation to be spent on earmarks. And that's why we're going to put information about every dollar that's spent, including the money spent on projects like this one, on a new web site called recovery.gov, so that the American people can see where their money is going. And that's why I will appoint an oversight board that will be charged with monitoring my plans as part of an unprecedented effort to root out waste and inefficiency. And this board will be advised by experts--not just government experts, not just politicians, but citizens with years of expertise in management, economics, and accounting. <p>We're going to do more than has ever been done before to make certain that every tax dollar is spent wisely and on its intended purpose. So we're going to hold the Federal Government to new standards of accountability. And just as we demand new accountability for ourselves, we're going to demand this kind of accountability from the States and cities as well. And I know Tim Kaine and other Governors and mayors around the country would expect nothing less. <p>So much depends on what we do at this moment. It's not just about the future of my administration, it's about the future of our families and communities, our economy and our country. We are going to do this carefully and transparently and effectively as possible because so much is on the line. And that's what we've already begun to do, drafting this plan with a level of openness for which the American people have asked and which this situation demands. <p>So I, once again, thank Governor Kaine for welcoming me to the Commonwealth of Virginia once again. I want to thank him for his support of this plan that's so urgent for the people he represents and for the people that I've met throughout this great State and throughout the country. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"22" "\"Thank you. Please, everybody have a seat. I will be brief, though, I promise. <p>What a spectacular evening. Michelle and I are so pleased to be here to rededicate this hallowed space. We know that Ford's Theatre will remain a place where Lincoln's legacy thrives, where his love of the humanities and belief in the power of education have a home, and where his generosity of spirit are reflected in all the work that takes place. <p>This has been an extraordinarily fitting tribute to Abraham Lincoln that we've seen and heard from some of our most celebrated icons of stage and of screen, because Lincoln himself was a great admirer of the arts. It's said he could even quote portions of \\"Hamlet\\" and \\"Macbeth\\" by heart, as we've seen here this evening. And so I somehow think this event captured an essential part of the man whose life we celebrate tonight. <p>Now, as commemorations take place across this country on the bicentennial of our 16th President's birth, there will be reflections on all he was and all he did for this Nation that he served. But while there are any number of moments that reveal the exceptional nature of this singular figure, there is one in particular that I want to share with you. <p>Not far from here stands our Nation's Capitol, a landmark familiar to us all, but one that looked very different in Lincoln's time. For it remained unfinished until the end of the war. The laborers who built the dome came to work wondering whether each day would be their last, whether the metal they were using for its frame would be requisitioned for the war and melted down into bullets. But each day went by without any orders to halt construction, so they kept on working, and they kept on building. <p>When President Lincoln was finally told of all the metal being used at the Capitol, his response was short and clear: \\"That is as it should be.\\" The American people needed to be reminded, he believed, that even in a time of war, the work would go on; that even when the Nation itself was in doubt, the future was being secured; and that on that distant day when the guns fell silent, a national capitol would stand, with a statue of Freedom at its peak, as a symbol of unity in the land still mending its divisions. <p>It is this sense of unity that is so much a part of Lincoln's legacy. For despite all that divided us--North and South, black and white--he had an unyielding belief that we were, at heart, one nation and one people. And because of Abraham Lincoln and all who've carried on his work in the generations since, that is what we remain today. And it is for that reason that we are able to gather here this evening. <p>Thank you, all of you, for a spectacular evening. Thank you for those who helped to rededicate this theatre. Thank you for those who are serving this Nation. I'm very grateful to all of you. Good night.\" "
"23" "\"Thank you. Thank you. Please be seated. Thank you very much. Madam Speaker, Leader Reid, Members of Congress, dear friends, former colleagues, it is a great honor to be here, a place where Lincoln served, was inaugurated, and where the Nation he saved bid him a last farewell. As we mark the bicentennial of our 16th President's birth, I cannot claim to know as much about his life and works as many who are also speaking today, but I can say that I feel a special gratitude to this singular figure who in so many ways made my own story possible and in so many ways made America's story possible. <p>It is fitting that we are holding this celebration here at the Capitol, for the life of this building is bound ever so closely to the times of this immortal President. Built by artisans and craftsmen, but also immigrants and slaves, it was here, in the rotunda, that Union soldiers received help from a makeshift hospital; it was downstairs, in the basement, that they were baked bread to give them strength; and it was in the Senate and House chambers where they slept at night and spent some of their days. <p>What those soldiers saw when they looked on this building was a very different sight than the one we see today, for it remained unfinished until the end of the war. The laborers who built the dome came to work wondering each day whether that would be their last, whether the metal they were using for its frame would be requisitioned for the war and melted down into bullets. But each day went by without any orders to halt construction, and so they kept on working and kept on building. <p>When President Lincoln was finally told of all the metal being used here, his response was short and clear: \\"That is as it should be.\\" The American people needed to be reminded, he believed, that even in a time of war, the work would go on, the people's business would continue; that even when the Nation itself was in doubt, its future was being secured; and that on that distant day, when the guns fell silent, a national capitol would stand, with a statue of Freedom at its peak, as a symbol of unity in a land still mending its divisions. <p>It is this sense of unity, this ability to plan for a shared future, even at a moment where our Nation was torn apart, that I reflect on today. And while there are any number of moments that reveal that particular side of this extraordinary man, Abraham Lincoln--that particular aspect of his leadership--there's one that I'd like to share with you today. <p>In the war's final weeks, aboard Grant's flagship, the River Queen, President Lincoln was asked what was to be done with the rebel armies once General Lee surrendered. With victory at hand, Lincoln could have sought revenge. He could have forced the South to pay a steep price for their rebellion. But despite all the bloodshed and all the misery that each side had exacted upon the other, and despite his absolute certainty in the rightness of the cause of ending slavery, no Confederate soldier was to be punished, Lincoln ordered. They were to be treated, as he put it, \\"liberally all round.\\" What Lincoln wanted was for Confederate troops to go back home and return to work on their farms and in their shops. He was even willing, he said, to \\"let them have their horses to plow and . . . their guns to shoot crows with.\\" <p>That was the only way, Lincoln knew, to repair the rifts that had torn this country apart. It was the only way to begin the healing that our Nation so desperately needed. What Lincoln never forgot, not even in the midst of civil war, was that despite all that divides us--North and South, black and white--we were, at heart, one nation and one people, sharing a bond as Americans that could bend but would not break. <p>And so even as we meet here today, in a moment when we are far less divided than in Lincoln's day, but when we are once again debating the critical issues of our time--and debating them sometimes fiercely--let us remember that we are doing so as servants of the same flag, as representatives of the same people, and as stakeholders in a common future. That is the most fitting tribute we can pay, the most lasting monument we can build, to that most remarkable of men, Abraham Lincoln. Thank you.\" "
"24" "\"Thank you, everybody. It's good to be back home. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Please, everybody have a seat. Have a seat. <p>Well, first of all, let me thank Dan Armstrong for his wonderful introduction and participation in this event. And we are going to be thinking about you and your family each and every day in the coming months. I want to thank Peoria's own Ray LaHood, who is doing outstanding work as my Transportation Secretary. Ray comes from a long line of Republicans I love, starting with Bob Michel and--you know, they're just--I think there's a common-sense, Midwestern, can-do, bipartisan attitude that Ray represents, and I am so pleased that he's in my Cabinet. <p>Now, his successor, Congressman Schock, where is he? He's back here; he's right here--stand up, Aaron. This is a--Aaron's still trying to make up his mind about our recovery package, so he has the chance to be in the mold of Bob Michel and Ray LaHood. And so we know that all of you are going to talk to him after our event, because he's a very talented young man. I've got great confidence in him to do the right thing for the people of Peoria. <p>I also want to thank Jim Owens, who I've gotten to know and is one of the top CEOs that we have in the country and he--[<i>applause</i>]. You know, Jim is obviously confronted with some tough choices, like every CEO is right now, but what I'm absolutely confident in is he's thinking about the company's long-term growth, and he cares about his workers. He cares about the long term and not just the short term, and I appreciate him agreeing to serve as one of our economic advisers during this process. And I think this company is going to be in good hands with him at the helm. So thank you very much, Jim, for being a part of this event today. <p>Well, you notice I've been traveling a little bit. I had to come to Peoria. You have to see how things are playing in Peoria. We come together today, as Jim said, at a difficult moment for our country. <p>You know what, I know I'm already in my speech, but there's one other thing I forgot to do. There's a guy here who I served with in the state senate. He's just a good buddy of mine; I love him to death. Give George Shadid a big round of applause. I just spotted him. [<i>Applause</i>] Stand up, George. I like his wife more, but George is okay. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We come together today at a difficult moment for our country and for this great American company. In recent weeks, there's been a lot of talk in Washington about how to address our economic crisis, with a lot of back and forth about dollars and numbers. But here's the thing: When we say we've lost 3.6 million jobs since this recession began--nearly 600,000 last month alone--when we talk about the 22,000 layoffs announced here at Caterpillar, a company that has sustained this community for more than 80 years and that had one of its banner years just last year, then you know this isn't about figures on a balance sheet; it's about families that many of you probably know. It's about folks like Dan all across this State and all across this country, folks who are losing their jobs and their health care and their homes that were their foothold on the American Dream. <p>And it's about the ripple effects across this community, from restaurants with fewer customers because folks can't afford to eat out anymore, to shops that can't sell their goods because people can't afford to buy them, to the companies that do business with Caterpillar but now find themselves cutting back because Caterpillar is cutting back. <p>So what's happening at this company tells us a larger story about what's happening with our Nation's economy, because, in many ways, you can measure America's bottom line by looking at Caterpillar's bottom line. <p>Caterpillar builds the equipment that moves the earth. Your machines plow the farms that feed our families, build the towers that shape our skylines, lay the roads that connect our communities, power the trucks that deliver our goods, and more. <p>So those 22,000 layoffs aren't just a crisis for those families or for the communities like Peoria and Decatur and Aurora, they are an urgent warning sign for America, because when a company as good and successful and efficient and lean and mean as Caterpillar is cutting back production and shedding jobs, that means we're not building up this country. It means we're not building new homes and offices or rebuilding crumbling schools and failing infrastructure. <p>In short, it means we're standing still. And in this new global economy, standing still is the surest way to end up falling behind. Standing still is not an option. It's not who we are; it's not who we have to be. Right now, we have a once-in-a-generation chance to act boldly, to turn adversity into opportunity and use this crisis as a chance to transform our economy for the 21st century. <p>That is the driving purpose of the recovery and reinvestment plan that I've put before Congress. It's a plan that will save or create more than 3.5 million jobs over the next 2 years, that will ignite spending by businesses and consumers and make the investments necessary for lasting economic growth and prosperity. <p>Now, these past few weeks, we've had a spirited debate in Washington about this plan. And not everybody shares the same view about how we should move forward. At times, our discussions have been contentious. But that's a good thing. Diverse viewpoints are the lifeblood of our democracy; debating them is how we learn from each other's perspective, we temper each other's excesses, we make better decisions. <p>But the debate is now coming to an end. The bill has passed the House, and it's passed the Senate. It's been reconciled, and now it's going back to those two chambers so it can get on my desk. It is time for Congress to act, and I hope they act in a bipartisan fashion. But no matter how they act, when they do, when they finally pass our plan, I believe it will be a major step forward on our path to economic recovery. <p>And I'm not the only one who thinks so. Yesterday Jim, the head of Caterpillar, said that if Congress passes our plan, this company will be able to rehire some of the folks who were just laid off. And that's a story I'm confident will be repeated at companies across the country, companies that are currently struggling to borrow money selling their products, struggling to make payroll, but could find themselves in a different position when we start implementing the plan. Rather than downsizing, they may be able to start growing again. Rather than cutting jobs, they may be able to create them again. <p>That's the goal at the heart of this plan: to create jobs. And not just any jobs, not just make-work jobs, but putting people to work doing the work that America needs done: repairing our infrastructure, modernizing our schools and our hospitals, promoting the clean alternative energy sources that will finally help us declare independence from foreign oil. <p>So once Congress passes this plan, and I sign it into law, a new wave of innovation, activity, and construction will be unleashed all across America. We'll put people to work building wind turbines and solar panels and fuel-efficient cars. We'll upgrade our schools, creating 21st century classrooms and libraries and labs for millions of children across America. We'll computerize our health care system to save billions of dollars and countless lives; lay down broadband Internet lines to connect rural schools and small businesses so they can compete with their counterparts anywhere in the world; rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges; repairing our dangerous dams and levees so we don't face another Katrina. <p>Think about all the work out there to be done, and Caterpillar will be selling the equipment that does the work. And in addition to saving and creating jobs, we'll also ensure that folks in places like Peoria who've lost their jobs through no fault of their own can receive greater unemployment benefits and continue their health care coverage. <p>Here in Illinois, that will mean an additional $100 per month to more than 820,000 workers who've lost their jobs. It means extended unemployment benefits for another 145,000 folks who've been laid off, are out there busy looking for work, but haven't found a job yet. It's not just our moral responsibility to help them, it also makes good economic sense. If you don't have money, you can't spend it. And if people aren't spending, our economy will continue to decline. <p>And for that same reason, the plan will provide badly needed middle class tax relief, putting money back into the pockets of just about everybody here, nearly 4.9 million workers and their families here in Illinois, so you can pay your bills and meet your families' needs during a downturn. <p>In the end, that's what the recovery plan is about. It's about giving people a way to make a living, support their families, and live out their dreams. <p>Americans aren't looking for a handout. They just want to work. They're meeting their responsibilities. You're meeting your responsibilities. But when you start seeing an economic crisis of this magnitude, everybody's got to chip in; everybody's got to pull together. Politics has to stop, and we've got to get the job done. <p>Passing this plan is an important step, but it's just one step. It's only the beginning of what we're going to have to do to turn around our economy. So to truly address this crisis, we're also going to need to address the home mortgage crisis. We're going to have to get credit flowing again. We need to reform our financial markets, both to restore trust and ensure that a crisis like this can never happen again. And whether it's rebuilding our schools or reforming our health care system or investing in clean energy, much work remains to lay the foundation for long-term economic growth and fiscal responsibility. <p>We've got to spend some money now to pull us out of this recession. But as soon as we're out of this recession, we've got to get serious about starting to live within our means, instead of leaving debt for our children and our grandchildren and our great-grandchildren. That's not the responsible way. That's not how folks here in Peoria operate in their own lives, and they should expect the Government is equally responsible. So the road ahead is not an easy one. Some of our plans might not always work out exactly the way we'd like. Our recovery will likely be measured in terms of years and not months. <p>But to anyone who might feel doubtful or discouraged, I urge you to think about the history of this company. As some of you know, about 60 years ago, shortly after the end of World War II, Caterpillar decided to build its new offices somewhere other than East Peoria. But the people of this city had other ideas. They were hard at work rebuilding and modernizing, and they were determined to make East Peoria an ideal home for companies like Caterpillar. But Caterpillar's leaders were impressed, and ultimately, they changed their minds. They decided to go ahead and build offices right here in East Peoria to be, as a former chairman of the company put it, \\"no less willing to get in step with the march of progress.\\" <p>Throughout the 20th century, this company has helped lead that march. From working far beyond capacity during World War II--even with 6,000 workers on military leave--to surviving the recession in the 1980s and emerging stronger and more competitive, to seizing the promise of today's green economy by leading the way with clean diesel engines, Caterpillar has shaped the American landscape, shown the world what a great American company looks like. <p>I know the past few months have been hard for this company. But they--I also know that they've been among the worst in a generation. But here's what else I know: Here in America, even in our darkest moments, we've held fast to a vision of a better future, and we've been willing to work for it and struggle for it and sacrifice for it. <p>That's how it's going to be again. I have the fullest confidence that if we think boldly and we act quickly and fully devote ourselves to the work at hand, then out of this ordeal will come a better day and a brighter future for our children and our grandchildren. That's the history of this company. That's the history of this city. That's the history of this State. And that's the history that we're going to make, you and me together. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. Thank you.\" "
"25" "\"Thank you very much. Well, it is wonderful to be back in Springfield, and I see so many familiar faces--to Mr. Hart; to Marilyn; to my Secretary of Transportation, Ray LaHood; to two of the finest Governors that we've had in the past, Jim Thompson and Jim Edgar; to Lura Lynn Ryan and to our new Governor, who's going to be doing outstanding work for us in the future, Pat Quinn; to Reverend McCants and to my dear friend Loretta Durbin. <p>I do feel guilty because Dick was the one who brought this event to my attention. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm here, and he's there. [<i>Laughter</i>] But part of the reason that Dick Durbin has been such a great friend, not just to me, but to the people of Illinois, is because his work always comes first. And he has been unbelievable in providing leadership in the Senate through thick and through thin. And I'm very, very grateful to him. He is one of my greatest friends, and I would not be standing here if it were not for Dick Durbin. So please give Dick Durbin a big round of applause. <p>So it is wonderful to be back in Springfield, the city where I got my start in elective office, where I served for nearly a decade. I see some of my colleagues, your attorney general, Lisa Madigan, in the house. And you've got some constitutional officers there. I think that's Alexi, your treasurer, who's going to be playing basketball with me at some point; Dan Hynes, comptroller, and just an incredible supporter during this past race; and your new senate president, John Cullerton, one of the sharpest legislators that we've ever had. Is the speaker around? He's over there? Mr. Speaker, it's good to see you. Thank you. <p>So I've got a lot of friends here. I've got to stop there, otherwise I'm going to be using up all my time. <p>I served here for nearly a decade and, as has already been mentioned, this is where I launched my candidacy for President 2 years ago this week, on the steps of the Old State Capitol where Abraham Lincoln served and prepared for the Presidency. <p>It was here, nearly 150 years ago, that the man whose life we are celebrating today, who you've been celebrating all week, bid farewell to this city that he had come to call his own. And as has already been mentioned, on a platform at a train station not far from where we're gathered, Lincoln turned to the crowd that had come to see him off and said, \\"To this place, and the kindness of these people, I owe everything.\\" And being here tonight, surrounded by all of you, I share his sentiment. But looking out at this room full of so many who did so much for me, I'm also reminded of what Lincoln once said to a favor seeker who claimed it was his efforts that made the difference in the election. [<i>Laughter</i>] And Lincoln asked him, \\"So you think you made me President?\\" \\"Yes,\\" the man replied, \\"under Providence, I think I did.\\" \\"Well,\\" said Lincoln, \\"it's a pretty mess you've got me into.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"But I forgive you.\\" <p>So whoever of you think you are responsible for this, we're taking names. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It's a humbling task, marking the bicentennial of our 16th President's birth, humbling for me in particular because it's fair to say that the Presidency of this singular figure who we celebrate in so many ways made my own story possible. <p>Here in Springfield, it's easier, though, to reflect on Lincoln the man rather than the marble giant, before Gettysburg, before Antietam, before Fredericksburg and Bull Run, before emancipation was proclaimed and the captives were set free. In 1854, Lincoln was simply a Springfield lawyer who'd served just a single term in Congress. Possibly in his law office, his feet on a cluttered desk, his sons playing around him, his clothes a bit too small to fit his uncommon frame, maybe wondering if somebody might call him up and ask him to be Commerce Secretary--[<i>laughter</i>]--he put some thoughts on paper, and for what purpose we do not know: \\"The legitimate object of government,\\" he wrote, \\"is to do for the people what needs to be done, but which they cannot, by individual effort, do at all, or do so well, by themselves.\\" <p>To do for the people what needs to be done but which they cannot do on their own. It's a simple statement, but it answers a central question of Abraham Lincoln's life. Why did he land on the side of union? What was it that made him so unrelenting in pursuit of victory that he was willing to test the Constitution he ultimately preserved? What was it that led this man to give his last full measure of devotion so that our Nation might endure? <p>And these are not easy questions to answer, and I cannot know if I'm right. But I suspect that his devotion to the idea of union came not from a belief that government always had the answer. It came not from a failure to understand our individual rights and responsibilities. This rugged rail-splitter, born in a log cabin of pioneer stock--who cleared a path through the woods as a boy, who lost a mother and a sister to the rigors of frontier life, who taught himself all that he knew, and everything that he had was because of his hard work--this man, our first Republican President, knew better than anybody what it meant to pull yourself up by your bootstraps. He understood that strain of personal liberty and self-reliance, that fierce independence at the heart of the American experience. <p>But he also understood something else. He recognized that while each of us must do our part--work as hard as we can, be as responsible as we can--although we are responsible for our own fates, in the end, there are certain things we cannot do on our own. There are certain things we can only do together. There are certain things only a union can do. <p>Only a union could harness the courage of our pioneers to settle the American West, which is why Lincoln passed a Homestead Act giving a tract of land to anyone seeking a stake in our growing economy. <p>Only a union could foster the ingenuity of our framers--the ingenuity of our farmers, which is why he set up land-grant colleges that taught them how to make the most of their land while giving their children an education that let them dream the American Dream. <p>Only a union could speed our expansion and connect our coasts with a transcontinental railroad, and so, even in the midst of civil war, Lincoln built one. He fueled new enterprises with a national currency and spurred innovation and ignited America's imagination with a national academy of sciences, believing we must, as he put it, add \\"the fuel of interest to the fire of genius in the discovery . . . of new and useful things.\\" And on this day that is also the bicentennial of Charles Darwin's birth, it's worth a moment to pause and renew that commitment to science and innovation and discovery that Lincoln understood so well. <p>Only a union could serve the hopes of every citizen to knock down the barriers to opportunity and give each and every person the chance to pursue the American Dream. Lincoln understood what Washington understood when he led farmers and craftsmen and shopkeepers to rise up against an empire; what Roosevelt understood when he lifted us from depression, built an arsenal of democracy, created the largest middle class in history with the GI bill. It's what Kennedy understood when he sent us to the Moon. <p>All these Presidents recognized that America is, and always has been, more than a band of 13 colonies or 50 states, more than a bunch of Yankees and Confederates, more than a collection of red States and blue States; but we are the United States. There isn't any dream beyond our reach--[<i>applause</i>]. There is no dream beyond our reach, any obstacle that can stand in our way when we recognize that our individual liberty is served, not negated, by a recognition of the common good. That is the spirit we are called to show once more. <p>The challenges we face are very different now: two wars; an economic crisis unlike any we've seen in our lifetime. Jobs have been lost; pensions are gone. Families' dreams have been endangered. Health care costs are exploding. Schools are falling short. We have an energy crisis that's hampering our economy and threatening our planet and enriching our adversaries. <p>And yet, while our challenges may be new, they did not come about overnight. Ultimately, they result from a failure to meet the test that Lincoln set. I understand there have been times in our history when our government has misjudged what we can do by individual effort alone, and what we can only do together; when we didn't draw the line as effectively as we should have; when government has done things that people can and should do for themselves. <p>Our welfare system, before reform, too often dampened individual initiative, discouraging people from taking responsibility for their own upward mobility. In education, sometimes we've lost sight of the role of parents, rather than government, in cultivating a thirst for knowledge and instilling those qualities of good character, hard work, and discipline and integrity that are so important to educational achievement and professional success. <p>But in recent years, we've seen the pendulum swing too far in the opposite direction. What's dominated is a philosophy that says every problem can be solved if only government would step out of the way. That if government were just dismantled and divvied up into tax breaks, that it would somehow benefit us all. Such knee-jerk disdain for government--this constant rejection of any common endeavor--cannot rebuild our levees or our roads or our bridges. It can't refurbish our schools or modernize our health care system. It can't lead to the next medical discovery or yield the research and technology that will spark a clean energy economy. <p>Only a nation can do those things. Only by coming together, all of us, in union, and expressing that sense of shared sacrifice and responsibility--for ourselves, yes, but also for one another--can we do the work that must be done in this country. That is part of the definition of being American. <p>It's only by rebuilding our economy and fostering the conditions of growth that willing workers can find a job and companies can find capital and the entrepreneurial spirit that is the key to our competitiveness can flourish. It's only by unleashing the potential of alternative fuels that will lower our energy bills and raise our industries' sights, make our Nation safer and our planet cleaner. It's only by remaking our schools for the 21st century that our children will get those good jobs so they can make of their lives what they will. It's only by coming together to do what people need done that we will, in Lincoln's words, \\"lift artificial weights from all shoulders [and give] an unfettered start, and a fair chance, in the race of life.\\" That's all people are looking for, fair chance in the race of life. <p>That's what's required of us now and in the years ahead. We will be remembered for what we choose to make of this moment. And when posterity looks back on our time, as we are looking back on Lincoln's, I don't want it said that we saw an economic crisis but did not stem it; that we saw our schools decline and our bridges crumble but we did not rebuild them; that the world changed in the 21st century but America did not lead it; that we were consumed with small things, petty things when we were called to do great things. Instead, let them say that this generation--our generation--of Americans rose to the moment and gave America a new birth of freedom and opportunity in our time. <p>These are trying days and they will grow tougher in the months to come. And there will be moments when our doubts rise and our hopes recede. But let's always remember that we as a people have been here before. There were times when our revolution itself seemed altogether improbable, when the Union was all but lost, when fascism seemed set to prevail around the world. And yet, what earlier generations discovered--and what we must rediscover right now--is that it is precisely when we are in the deepest valley, when the climb is steepest, that Americans relearn how to take the mountaintop together, as one nation, as one people. As one nation, as one people: That's how we will beat back our present dangers. That is how we will surpass what trials may come. That's how we will do what Lincoln called on us all to do and \\"nobly save . . . the last best hope on Earth.\\" That's what this is, the last best hope on Earth. Lincoln has passed that legacy onto us. It is now our responsibility to pass it on to the next generation. <p>Thank you, God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"26" "\"Thank you. Please have a seat. Thank you. Well, thank you all for being here. <p>Before I begin, I want to say a brief word about the terrible tragedy that took place outside of Buffalo last night. Our thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends who lost loved ones, and as always, our thanks go out to the brave first-responders who arrived immediately to try and save lives and who are still on the scene keeping people safe. <p>Tragic events such as these remind us of the fragility of life and the value of every single day. One person who understood that well was Beverly Eckert, who was on that flight and who I met with just a few days ago. You see, Beverly lost her husband on 9/11 and became a tireless advocate for those families, whose lives were forever changed on that September day. And in keeping with that passionate commitment, she was on her way to Buffalo to mark what would have been her husband's birthday and launch a scholarship in his memory. So she was an inspiration to me and to so many others, and I pray that her family finds peace and comfort in the hard days ahead. <p>Welcome to the White House. Every President since Franklin Delano Roosevelt has sought the advice of the Business Council. Every President since Lyndon Johnson has sought your audience. And while this is a partnership that is important during periods of relative peace and prosperity, it is a essential partnership during tough economic times. <p>I don't need to tell you that we are in tough economic times. The challenges we face today we have not seen in a very long time. Each of you and every American sees them in very specific ways. We've lost 3.6 million jobs since this recession began, nearly 600,000 just last month. Many of your businesses are under tremendous pressure, with revenues falling and credit drying up. You're feeling directly or indirectly the reverberations of a financial crisis, which has upended the economy. <p>But I'm not here to repeat a litany of our challenges. We know what they are, we know they are vast, and we know that they are varied. Instead, I'm here to enlist your help, because we have a once-in-a-generation chance to act boldly and turn adversity into opportunity and to use this crisis as a chance to transform our economy for the 21st century. <p>That's the driving purpose of the recovery and reinvestment plan that I've put before Congress. It's a plan that will ignite spending by businesses and consumers, make the investments necessary for lasting economic growth and prosperity, and save or create more than 3.5 million jobs over the next 2 years. Ninety percent of those jobs are in the private sector. <p>And we've had a spirited debate about this plan over the last few weeks. Not everybody has shared the same view of how we should move forward, and at times, our discussions have been contentious. But that's a good thing, from my perspective. Diverse viewpoints are the lifeblood of a democracy, and debating these viewpoints is how we learn from each other's perspective and refine our approaches. <p>But as we meet, Congress is now poised to act. It's passed the House; it's passed the Senate. We expect a vote on the final version today. And one of the reasons we've come so far is because so many of you have recognized the urgency and necessity of taking action. This plan has won the support of groups such as the Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers, but also the AFL-CIO. <p>And the goal at the heart of this plan is to create jobs, not just any jobs, but jobs doing the work America needs done: repairing our infrastructure, modernizing our schools and our hospitals, promoting the clean, alternative energy sources that will help us finally declare our independence from foreign oil. It's a plan that will put people to work building wind turbines and solar panels and fuel-efficient cars. <p>We'll upgrade our schools, creating 21st-century classrooms and libraries and labs for millions of children across America. We'll computerize our health care system, at last, to save billions of dollars and countless lives as we reduce medical errors. We'll lay down broadband Internet lines to connect rural schools and small businesses, so they can compete with their counterparts anywhere in the world. And we will rebuild our crumbling roads and bridges and repair our dangerously deficient dams and levees, so we don't face another Katrina. <p>In addition to saving and creating jobs, we'll also ensure that folks who've lost jobs through no fault of their own can receive greater unemployment benefits and continue their health care coverage. It'll provide badly needed middle class tax relief, putting money in the pockets of workers and their families at a time when many of them are experiencing greater distress. It'll also provide sensible tax relief to businesses that are trying to make payroll and create jobs. And our focus is not only on large businesses, but also small businesses that are probably feeling the credit crunch most acutely. <p>Now, passing this plan is a critical step, but as important as it is, it's only the beginning of what I think all of you understand is going to be a long and difficult process of turning our economy around. To truly address this crisis, we will also need to address the crisis in our financial sector to get credit flowing again to families and businesses. And we need to confront the crisis in the housing sector that's been one of the sources of our economic challenges. I'll be discussing that extensively soon. We're going to need comprehensive financial reform in the way government relates to the financial markets in order to deal with the complex challenges of the 21st century, both as a way to restore trust and also ensure that a crisis like this can never happen again. <p>And finally, we have to approach our budget in a responsible way. It's my strong belief that we're going to have to invest in the short term to get our economy moving again, and that we would be foolish to ignore our current perils. But I also think that it's important for us to think in the midterm and long term. And over that midterm and long term, we're going to have to have fiscal discipline. We are not going to be able to perpetually finance the levels of debt that the Federal Government are incurring and carrying. <p>And that means investing in priorities like energy and health care and education that will grow our economy again. But it also means eliminating those programs that are wasteful and duplicative and that we simply cannot afford. We have to once again live within our means. We're going to have to make some tough decisions that many of you are already making in your companies but the Federal Government has not made with respect to our operations. <p>It will take all of these steps to not only lead to an economic recovery, but to lead to a long-term path to economic prosperity. And this work will not be easy. Our recovery will likely be measured in years and not months. All of us--government, business, labor, and citizens--will have responsibilities to meet. And I will be looking to all of you for your ideas and innovations, for your help not only crafting the policies of the 21st century, but crafting a Government for the 21st century that can be a partner with you. Your best practices should be our best practices. <p>And as we consider the work ahead, we'd all be well served to reflect on the significance of the partnership that we see here today: how it was forged and why it's been so fruitful. <p>Now, back in the spring of 1933, in the early days of a new administration, President Roosevelt's Commerce Secretary gathered in Washington the leaders of some of the Nation's largest corporations, many of which continue to be represented in this room. These executives, hailing from General Electric and General Motors and AT&amp;T and DuPont and others, formed an advisory panel to assist in the crafting of New Deal policies that in the coming years would transform the American economy amidst brutal and unyielding Depression. And the work of these volunteers would inform the inception and implementation of the Securities and Exchange Act, the Banking Act, the Social Security Act, and other policies that have served us ever since. <p>That's how the Business Council was born. It was at a moment when economic turmoil threatened the foundations on which our society was painstakingly built, at a moment when other nations were giving up, as President Roosevelt said, \\"[selling] their heritage of freedom for the illusion of a living.\\" <p>That's not what we did. We adapted. We changed. We boldly defended our system of free enterprise even as we enacted policies to transform the ways that it would function. We did not give in to ideologies that dismissed or derided the role of government, nor those that denied the role of the marketplace. <p>And so even as our President was leading unprecedented public interventions into the private sector, he did so in concert with the private sector's leaders. Even as Government built new regulatory structures and weaved a social safety net, these efforts were designed not to confine private industry, but to allow it once again to succeed while ensuring that success was broadly shared. <p>And President Roosevelt understood the new role of Government in this new world, that while extraordinary actions on its part might be the source of recovery, no action on the part of Government, no matter how extraordinary, would alone be a source of our prosperity. <p>Now, conversely, these corporate citizens understood their new role as well: that we all had responsibilities to fulfill; that our survival depended on how well we worked together; that in a more interdependent economy, our fates--and were--were and are more interconnected. <p>Our growth, our success as a nation, depended on what we did together. And so the Government could lay the groundwork for an economy in which innovation is prized and hard work rewarded, in which rules are clear and clearly enforced. And the rest would be up to people like you and the people who work for you to create the incredible products and services that today we enjoy. <p>That's how we've led the global economy. That's how we've ushered in massive gains in wealth not just for the few, but for the many. That is how we've been--and will continue to be--a nation that draws on the talents of all our people, a place where generation after generation of bold thinkers and bright minds, innovators and inventors, have taken the chance to invest in an idea, to build a new product, to test a new theory, to do their small part to change our world. That's what's attracted some of the best talent around the world to our shores. That's our promise, and that's the promise that must always be at the heart of our partnership. <p>So I hope this is the beginning of many conversations. Many of you I know. Many of you I've had long conversations with in the past. My door will always be open to you. And I'm absolutely confident that if we're smart and if we are bold, if we work together, if we're willing to cast aside some of the theories that have already failed us and we remain open to new approaches and new ideas, and we think about the problems of our economy the way you think about your businesses--in practical, hard-headed, clear-eyed terms unclouded by dogmas--then I'm absolutely confident that we can lead our Nation through this transformative moment and come out stronger and more prosperous than ever before. <p>I thank you for your leadership. I thank you for being here. And I look forward to having a series of conversations with all of you in the near future. Thank you very much.\" "
"27" "\"This week, I spent some time with Americans across the country who are hurting because of this economic crisis: people closing the businesses they scrimped and saved to start; families losing the homes that were their stake in the American Dream; folks who've given up trying to get ahead and given in to the stark reality of just trying to get by. They've been looking to those they sent to Washington for some hope at a time when they need it most. <p>This morning I'm pleased to say that after a lively debate full of healthy differences of opinion, we've delivered real and tangible progress for the American people. <p>Congress has passed my economic recovery plan, an ambitious plan at a time we badly need it. It will save or create more than 3.5 million jobs over the next 2 years, ignite spending by business and consumers alike, and lay a new foundation for our lasting economic growth and prosperity. <p>This is a major milestone on our road to recovery, and I want to thank the Members of Congress who came together in common purpose to make it happen. Because they did, I will sign this legislation into law shortly, and we'll begin making the immediate investments necessary to put people back to work doing the work America needs done: the work of modernizing our health care system, saving billions of dollars and countless lives, and upgrading classrooms, libraries, and labs in our children's schools across America; the work of building wind turbines and solar panels and the smart grid necessary to transport the clean energy they create and laying broadband Internet lines to connect rural homes, schools, and businesses to the information superhighway; the work of repairing our crumbling roads and bridges, and our dangerously deficient dams and levees. And we'll help folks who've lost their jobs through no fault of their own by providing the unemployment benefits they need and protecting the health care they count on. <p>Now, some fear we won't be able to effectively implement a plan of this size and scope, and I understand their skepticism. Washington hasn't set a very good example in recent years. And with so much on the line, it's time to begin doing things differently. <p>That's why our goal must be to spend these precious dollars with unprecedented accountability, responsibility, and transparency. I've tasked my Cabinet and staff to set up the kind of management, oversight, and disclosure that will help ensure that, and I will challenge State and local governments to do the same. <p>Once the plan is put into action, a new web site, recovery.gov, will allow any American to watch where the money goes and weigh in with comments and questions. And I encourage every American to do so. Ultimately, this is your money, and you deserve to know where it's going and how it's spent. <p>This historic step won't be the end of what we do to turn our economy around, but rather the beginning. The problems that led us into this crisis are deep and widespread, and our response must be equal to the task. <p>For our plan to succeed, we must stabilize, repair, and reform our banking system, and get credit flowing again to families and businesses. We must write and enforce new rules of the road, to stop unscrupulous speculators from undermining our economy ever again. We must stem the spread of foreclosures and do everything we can to help responsible homeowners stay in their homes. <p>And in the weeks ahead, I will submit a proposal for the Federal budget that will begin to restore the discipline these challenging times demand. Our debt has doubled over the past 8 years, and we've inherited a trillion dollar deficit, which we must add to in the short term in order to jump-start our sick economy. But our long-term economic growth demands that we tame our burgeoning Federal deficit; that we invest in the things we need and dispense with the things we don't. This is a challenging agenda, but one we can and will achieve. <p>This morning I'm reminded of words President Kennedy spoke in another time of uncertainty: \\"Do not pray for easy lives. Pray to be stronger men. Do not pray for tasks equal to your powers. Pray for powers equal to your tasks.\\" <p>America, we will prove equal to this task. It will take time, and it will take effort, but working together, we will turn this crisis into opportunity and emerge from our painful present into a brighter future. After a week spent with the fundamentally decent men and women of this Nation, I have never been more certain of that. <p>Thank you.\" "
"28" "\"Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. You guys can sit down too. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Let me begin by saying thank you to a few people: First of all, your outstanding Governor, Bill Ritter, please give Bill a big round of applause; Lieutenant Governor Barbara O'Brien; Secretary of State Bernie Buescher; your outstanding mayor, John Hickenlooper; your new Senator, Michael Bennet; your old Senator, now my Secretary of the Interior, Ken Salazar. Mark Udall is not here, but give him a round of applause anyway. <p>One of the outstanding leaders who helped shepherd this process through in record time--please give Max Baucus of Montana a big round of applause. Thank you, Max. To Secretary Federico Pena, one of my national cochairs--I would not be here if it were not for Federico. Thank you. To Representative Diana DeGette, who is a--we are in her district, so thank you so much; Representative Betsy Markey; Representative Jared Polis; Representative Ed Perlmutter; to all the other elected officials and outstanding leaders who are here; and to the whole Namaste family and Mr. Jones for outstanding work, congratulations. Give them a big round of applause. And to the best Vice President that we've had in a long time, Joe Biden. <p>It is great to be back in Denver. I was here last summer--we had a good time--[<i>laughter</i>]--to accept the nomination of my party and to make a promise to people of all parties that I would do all that I could to give every American the chance to make of their lives what they will; to see their children climb higher than they did. And I'm back today to say that we have begun the difficult work of keeping that promise. We have begun the essential work of keeping the American Dream alive in our time. And that's why we're here today. <p>Now, I don't want to pretend that today marks the end of our economic problems, nor does it constitute all of what we're going to have to do to turn our economy around. But today does mark the beginning of the end: the beginning of what we need to do to create jobs for Americans scrambling in the wake of layoffs; the beginning of what we need to do to provide relief for families worried that they won't be able to pay next month's bills; the beginning of the first steps to set our economy on a firmer foundation, paving the way to long-term growth and prosperity. <p>The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that I will sign today, a plan that meets the principles I laid out in January, is the most sweeping economic recovery package in our history. It's the product of broad consultation and the recipient of broad support, from business leaders, unions, public interest groups, from the Chamber of Commerce, and the National Association of Manufacturers, as well as the AFL-CIO; from Democrats and Republicans, mayors as well as Governors. It's a rare thing in Washington for people with such diverse and different viewpoints to come together and support the same bill. And on behalf of our Nation, I want to thank all of them for it, including your two outstanding Senators, Michael Bennet and Mark Udall, as well as all the members of your congressional delegation. They did an outstanding job, and they deserve a big round of applause. <p>I also want to thank Joe Biden for working behind the scenes from the very start to make this recovery act possible. I want to thank Speaker Pelosi and Harry Reid for acting so quickly and for proving that Congress could step up to this challenge. <p>I have special thanks to Max Baucus, who's the Chairman of the Finance Committee. Without Max, none of this would have happened. He had to work overtime, and push his committee to work overtime. And I want to thank all the committee chairs and Members of Congress for coming up with a plan that is both bold and balanced enough to meet the demands of this moment. The American people were looking to them for leadership, and that's what they provided. <p>Now, what makes this recovery plan so important is not just that it will create or save 3 1/2 million jobs over the next 2 years, including 60,000-plus here in Colorado. It's that we're putting Americans to work doing the work that America needs done--[<i>applause</i>]--in critical areas that have been neglected for too long; work that will bring real and lasting change for generations to come. <p>Because we know we can't build our economic future on the transportation and information networks of the past, we are remaking the American landscape with the largest new investment in our Nation's infrastructure since Eisenhower built an Interstate Highway System in the 1950s. Because of this investment, nearly 400,000 men and women will go to work rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges, repairing our faulty dams and levees, bringing critical broadband connections to businesses and homes in nearly every community in America, upgrading mass transit, building high-speed rail lines that will improve travel and commerce throughout our Nation. <p>Because we know America can't outcompete the world tomorrow if our children are being out-educated today, we're making the largest investment in education in our Nation's history. It's an investment that will create jobs building 21st century classrooms and libraries and labs for millions of children across America. It will provide funds to train a new generation of math and science teachers, while giving aid to States and school districts to stop teachers from being laid off and education programs from being cut. <p>In a place like New York City, 14,000 teachers who were set to be let go may now be able to continue pursuing their critical mission. It's an investment that will create a new $2,500 annual tax credit to put the dream of a college degree within reach for middle class families and make college affordable for 7 million students, helping more of our sons and daughters aim higher, reach further, fulfill their God-given potential. <p>Because we know that spiraling health care costs are crushing families and businesses alike, we're taking the most meaningful steps in years towards modernizing our health care system. It's an investment that will take the long overdue step of computerizing America's medical records to reduce the duplication and waste that costs billions of health care dollars, and medical errors that cost thousands of lives each year. <p>Further, thanks to the actions we've taken, 7 million Americans who lost their health care along the way will continue to get the coverage they need, and roughly 20 million more Americans can breathe a little easier knowing that their health care won't be cut due to a State budget shortfall. And a historic commitment to wellness initiatives will keep millions of Americans from setting foot in the doctor's office in the first place, because these are preventable diseases, and we're going to invest in prevention. <p>So taken together with the enactment earlier this month of a long-delayed law to extend health care to millions more children of working families, we have done more in 30 days to advance the cause of health care reform than this country has done in an entire decade. And that's something we should be proud of. <p>Because we know we can't power America's future on energy that's controlled by foreign dictators, we are taking big steps down the road to energy independence, laying the groundwork for new green energy economies that can create countless well-paying jobs. It's an investment that will double the amount of renewable energy produced over the next 3 years. Think about that: double the amount of renewable energy in 3 years; provide tax credits and loan guarantees to companies like Namaste, a company that will be expanding, instead of laying people off, as a result of the plan that I'm about to sign. <p>And in the process, we will transform the way we use energy. Today, the electricity we use is carried along a grid of lines and wires that date back to Thomas Edison, a grid that can't support the demands of this economy. This means we're using 19th and 20th century technologies to battle 21st century problems like climate change and energy security. It also means that places like North Dakota can--that can produce a lot of wind energy can't deliver it to communities that want it, leading to a gap between how much clean energy we are using and how much we could be using. <p>The investment we're making today will create a newer, smarter electric grid that will allow for broader use of alternative energy. We will build on the work that's being done in places like Boulder, a community that's on its--that's on pace to be the world's first smart grid city. This investment will place smart meters in homes to make our energy bills lower, make outages less likely, and make it easier to use clean energy. It's an investment that will save taxpayers over $1 billion by slashing energy costs in our Federal buildings by 25 percent; save working families hundreds of dollars a year on their energy bills by weatherizing over 1 million homes. And it's an investment that takes the important first step towards a national transmission superhighway that will connect our cities to the windy plains of the Dakotas and the sunny deserts of the Southwest. <p>Even beyond energy, from the National Institutes of Health to the National Science Foundation, this recovery act represents the biggest increase in basic research funding in the long history of America's noble endeavor to better understand our world. And just as President Kennedy sparked an explosion of innovation when he set America's sights on the Moon, I hope this investment will ignite our imagination once more, spurring new discoveries and breakthroughs in science, in medicine, in energy, to make our economy stronger and our Nation more secure and our planet safer for our children. <p>Now, while this package is composed mostly of critical investments, it also includes aid to State and local governments to prevent layoffs of firefighters or police recruits in--[<i>applause</i>]--recruits like the ones in Columbus, Ohio, who were told that instead of being sworn in as officers, they were about to be let go. It includes help for those hardest hit by our economic crisis like the nearly 18 million Americans who will get larger unemployment checks in the mail. About a third of this package comes in the forms of tax cuts--by the way, the most progressive in our history, not only spurring job creation, but putting money in the pockets of 95 percent of hardworking families in America. So unlike the tax cuts that we've seen in recent years, the vast majority of these tax benefits will go not to the wealthiest Americans, but to the middle class, with those workers who make the least benefiting the most. <p>And it's a plan that rewards responsibility, lifting 2 million Americans from poverty by ensuring that anyone who works hard does not have to raise a child below the poverty line. So as a whole, this plan will help poor and working Americans pull themselves into the middle class in a way we haven't seen in nearly 50 years. <p>What I'm signing, then, is a balanced plan with a mix of tax cuts and investments. It's a plan that's been put together without earmarks or the usual pork barrel spending. It's a plan that will be implemented with an unprecedented level of transparency and accountability. <p>With a recovery package of this size comes a responsibility to assure every taxpayer that we are being careful with the money they work so hard to earn. And that's why I'm assigning a team of managers to ensure that the precious dollars we've invested are being spent wisely and well. We will--[<i>applause</i>]. Governor Ritter, Mayor Hickenlooper, we're going to hold Governors and local officials who receive the money to the same high standard. And we expect you, the American people, to hold us accountable for the results. And that's why we've created recovery.gov, a web site so that every American can go online and see how this money is being spent and what kind of jobs is being created, where those jobs are being created. We want transparency and accountability throughout this process. <p>Now, as important as the step we take today is, this legislation represents only the first part of the broad strategy we need to address our economic crisis. In the coming days and weeks, I'll be launching other aspects of the plan. We will need to stabilize, repair, and reform our banking system, and get credit flowing again to families and businesses. We will need to end the culture where we ignore problems until they become full-blown crises instead of recognizing that the only way to build a thriving economy is to set and enforce firm rules of the road. <p>We must stem the spread of foreclosures and falling home values for all Americans and do everything we can to help responsible homeowners stay in their homes, something I'll talk more about tomorrow. And we will need to do everything in the short term to get our economy moving again, while at the same time recognizing that we have inherited a trillion-dollar deficit, and we need to begin restoring fiscal discipline and taming our exploding deficits over the long term. <p>None of this will be easy. The road to recovery will not be straight. We will make progress and there may be some slippage along the way. It will demand courage and discipline. It will demand a new sense of responsibility that's been missing from Wall Street all the way to Washington. There will be hazards and reverses. But I have every confidence that if we are willing to continue doing the critical work that must be done--by each of us, by all of us--then we will leave this struggling economy behind us, and come out on the other side, more prosperous as a people. <p>For our American story is not--and never has been--about things coming easy. It's about rising to the moment when the moment is hard, and converting crisis into opportunity, and seeing to it that we emerge from whatever trials we face stronger than we were before. It's about rejecting the notion that our fate is somehow written for us, and instead laying claim to a destiny of our own making. That's what earlier generations of Americans have done, that's what we owe our children, that's what we are doing today. <p>Thank you, Colorado. Let's get to work. Thank you.\" "
"29" "\"Thank you very much. Please, everybody have a seat. Thank you. Well, it is good to be back in Arizona. Thank you. Are you excited? Thank you, thank you. And thank you for arranging for such a beautiful day. I want to stick around, but I got to go back to work. But it is wonderful to be here. And to all of you, I know that attending these kinds of events, oftentimes you have to wait in line, and there's all kinds of stuff going on, but I appreciate you being here very much. And to all the officials here at the school, the principal and the student body, everybody who helped make this possible, thank you so much to all of you. <p>I'm here today to talk about a crisis unlike we've ever known, but one that you know very well here in Mesa and throughout the valley. In Phoenix and its surrounding suburbs, the American Dream is being tested by a home mortgage crisis that not only threatens the stability of our economy, but also the stability of families and neighborhoods. It's a crisis that strikes at the heart of the middle class: the homes in which we invest our savings and build our lives, raise our families and plant roots in our communities. <p>So many Americans have shared with me their personal experiences of this crisis. Many have written letters or emails or shared their stories with me at rallies and along rope lines. Their hardship and heartbreak are a reminder that while this crisis is vast, it begins just one house and one family at a time. <p>It begins with a young family--maybe in Mesa or Glendale or Tempe--or just as likely in a suburban area of Las Vegas or Cleveland or Miami. They save up, they search, they choose a home that feels like the perfect place to start a life. They secure a fixed-rate mortgage at a reasonable rate, and they make a downpayment, and they make their mortgage payments each month. They are as responsible as anyone could ask them to be. <p>But then they learn that acting responsibly often isn't enough to escape this crisis. Perhaps somebody loses a job in the latest round of layoffs, one of more than 3.5 million jobs lost since this recession began. Or maybe a child gets sick, or a spouse has his or her hours cut. <p>In the past, if you found yourself in a situation like this, you could have sold your home and bought a smaller one with more affordable payments, or you could have refinanced your home at a lower rate. But today, home values have fallen so sharply that even if you make a large downpayment, the current value of your mortgage may still be higher than the current value of your house. So no bank will return your calls, and no sale will return your investment. <p>You can't afford to leave; you can't afford to stay. So you start cutting back on luxuries. Then you start cutting back on necessities. You spend down your savings to keep up with your payments. Then you open the retirement fund. Then you use the credit cards. And when you've gone through everything you have and done everything you can, you have no choice but to default on your loan. And so your home joins the nearly 6 million others in foreclosure or at risk of foreclosure across the country, including roughly 150,000 right here in Arizona. <p>But the foreclosures which are uprooting families and upending lives across America are only part of the housing crisis. For while there are millions of families who face foreclosure, there are millions more who are in no danger of losing their homes, but who have still seen their dreams endangered. They're the families who see the \\"For Sale\\" signs lining the streets, who see neighbors leave, and homes standing vacant, and lawns slowly turning brown. They see their own homes, their single largest asset, plummeting in value. One study in Chicago found that a foreclosed home reduces the price of nearby homes by as much as 9 percent. Home prices in cities across the country have fallen by more than 25 percent since 2006. And in Phoenix, they've fallen by 43 percent. <p>And even if your neighborhood hasn't been hit by foreclosures, you're likely feeling the effects of this crisis in other ways. Companies in your community that depend on the housing market--construction companies and home furnishing stores and painters and landscapers--they're all cutting back and laying people off. The number of residential construction jobs has fallen by more than a quarter million since mid-2006. As businesses lose revenue and people lose income, the tax base shrinks, which means less money for schools and police and fire departments. And on top of this, the costs to local government associated with a single foreclosure can be as high as $20,000. <p>So the effects of this crisis have also reverberated across the financial markets. When the housing markets collapsed, so did the availability of credit on which our economy depends. And as that credit has dried up, it's been harder for families to find affordable loans to purchase a car or pay tuition, and harder for businesses to secure the capital they need to expand and create jobs. <p>In the end, all of us are paying a price for this home mortgage crisis. And all of us will pay an even steeper price if we allow this crisis to continue to deepen, a crisis which is unraveling home ownership, the middle class, and the American Dream itself. But if we act boldly and swiftly to arrest this downward spiral, then every American will benefit. And that's what I want to talk about today. <p>The plan I'm announcing focuses on rescuing families who have played by the rules and acted responsibly, by refinancing loans for millions of families in traditional mortgages who are underwater or close to it, by modifying loans for families stuck in subprime mortgages they can't afford as a result of skyrocketing interest rates or personal misfortune, and by taking broader steps to keep mortgage rates low so that families can secure loans with affordable monthly payments. <p>At the same time, this plan must be viewed in a larger context. A lost home often begins with a lost job. Many businesses have laid off workers for a lack of revenue and available capital. Credit has become scarce as markets have been overwhelmed by the collapse of securities backed by failing mortgages. In the end, the home mortgage crisis, the financial crisis, and this broader economic crisis are all interconnected, and we can't successfully address any one of them without addressing them all. <p>So yesterday in Denver, I signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which will create or save--[<i>applause</i>]. The act will create or save 3 million jobs over the next 2 years, including 70,000 right here in Arizona, right here doing the work America needs done. And we're also going to work to stabilize, repair, and reform our financial system to get credit flowing again to families and businesses. <p>And we will pursue the housing plan I'm outlining today. And through this plan, we will help between 7 and 9 million families restructure or refinance their mortgages so they can afford--avoid foreclosure. And we're not just helping homeowners at risk of falling over the edge, we're preventing their neighbors from being pulled over that edge too, as defaults and foreclosures contribute to sinking home values, and failing local businesses, and lost jobs. <p>But I want to be very clear about what this plan will not do: it will not rescue the unscrupulous or irresponsible by throwing good taxpayer money after bad loans; it will not help speculators who took risky bets on a rising market and bought homes not to live in but to sell; it will not help dishonest lenders who acted irresponsibly, distorting the facts and dismissing the fine print at the expense of buyers who didn't know better; and it will not reward folks who bought homes they knew from the beginning they would never be able to afford. So I just want to make this clear: This plan will not save every home. <p>But it will give millions of families resigned to financial ruin a chance to rebuild. It will prevent the worst consequences of this crisis from wreaking even greater havoc on the economy. And by bringing down the foreclosure rate, it will help to shore up housing prices for everybody. According to estimates by the Treasury Department, this plan could stop the slide in home prices due to neighboring foreclosures by up to $6,000 per home. <p>So here's how my plan works: First, we will make it possible for an estimated 4 to 5 million currently ineligible homeowners who receive their mortgages through Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac to refinance their mortgages at a lower rate. <p>Today, as a result of declining home values, millions of families are what's called \\"underwater,\\" which simply means that they owe more on their mortgages than their homes are currently worth. These families are unable to sell their homes, but they're also unable to refinance them. So in the event of a job loss or another emergency, their options are limited. <p>Also right now, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the institutions that guarantee home loans for millions of middle class families, are generally not permitted to guarantee refinancing for mortgages valued at more than 80 percent of the home's worth. So families who are underwater or close to being underwater can't turn to these lending institutions for help. <p>My plan changes that by removing this restriction on Fannie and Freddie so that they can refinance mortgages they already own or guarantee. <p>And what this will do is it will allow millions of families stuck with loans at a higher rate to refinance. And the estimated cost to taxpayers would be roughly zero. While Fannie and Freddie would receive less money in payments, this would be balanced out by a reduction in defaults and foreclosures. <p>I also want to point out that millions of other households could benefit from historically low interest rates if they refinance, though many don't know that this opportunity is available to them--meaning some of you--an opportunity that could save your families hundreds of dollars each month. And the efforts we are taking to stabilize mortgage markets will help you borrowers secure more affordable terms too. <p>A second thing we're going to do under this plan is we will create new incentives so that lenders work with borrowers to modify the terms of subprime loans at risk of default and foreclosure. <p>Subprime loans, loans with high rates and complex terms that often conceal their costs, make up only 12 percent of all mortgages but account for roughly half of all foreclosures. Right now, when families with these mortgages seek to modify a loan to avoid this fate, they often find themselves navigating a maze of rules and regulations, but they're rarely finding answers. Some subprime lenders are willing to renegotiate, but many aren't. And your ability to restructure your loan depends on where you live, the company that owns or manages your loan, or even the agent who happens to answer the phone on the day that you call. <p>So here's what my plan does: establishes clear guidelines for the entire mortgage industry that will encourage lenders to modify mortgages on primary residences. Any institution that wishes to receive financial assistance from the Government, from taxpayers, and to modify home mortgages, will have to do so according to these guidelines, which will be in place 2 weeks from today. <p>Here's what this means: If lenders and homebuyers work together, and the lender agrees to offer rates that the borrower can afford, then we'll make up part of the gap between what the old payments were and what the new payments will be. Under this plan, lenders who participate will be required to reduce those payments to no more than 31 percent of a borrower's income. And this will enable as many as 3 to 4 million homeowners to modify the terms of their mortgages to avoid foreclosure. <p>So this part of the plan will require both buyers and lenders to step up and do their part, to take on some responsibility. Lenders will need to lower interest rates and share in the costs of reducing monthly payments in order to prevent another wave of foreclosures. Borrowers will be required to make payments on time in return for this opportunity to reduce those payments. <p>And I also want to be clear that there will be a cost associated with this plan. But by making these investments in foreclosure prevention today, we will save ourselves the costs of foreclosure tomorrow, costs that are borne not just by families with troubled loans, but by their neighbors and communities and by our economy as a whole. Given the magnitude of these crises, it is a price well worth paying. <p>There's a third part of the plan: We will take major steps to keep mortgage rates low for millions of middle class families looking to secure new mortgages. <p>Today, most new home loans are backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which guarantee loans and set standards to keep mortgage rates low and to keep mortgage financing available and predictable for middle class families. Now, this function is profoundly important, especially now as we grapple with a crisis that would only worsen if we were to allow further disruptions in our mortgage markets. <p>Therefore, using the funds already approved by Congress for this purpose, the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve will continue to purchase Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac mortgage-backed securities so that there is stability and liquidity in the marketplace. Through its existing authority, Treasury will provide up to $200 billion in capital to ensure that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac can continue to stabilize markets and hold mortgage rates down. <p>And we're also going to work with Fannie and Freddie on other strategies to bolster the mortgage markets, like working with State housing financing agencies to increase their liquidity. And as we seek to ensure that these institutions continue to perform what is a vital function on behalf of middle class families, we also need to maintain transparency and strong oversight so that they do so in responsible and effective ways. <p>Fourth, we will pursue a wide range of reforms designed to help families stay in their homes and avoid foreclosures. <p>And my administration will continue to support reforming our bankruptcy rules so that we allow judges to reduce home mortgages on primary residences to their fair market value, as long as borrowers pay their debts under court-ordered plans. I just want everybody to understand, that's the rule for investors who own two, three, and four homes. So it should be the rule for folks who just own one home as an alternative to foreclosure. <p>In addition, as part of the recovery plan I signed into law yesterday, we are going to award $2 billion in competitive grants to communities that are bringing together stakeholders and testing new and innovative ways to limit the effects of foreclosures. Communities have shown a lot of initiative, taking responsibility for this crisis when many others have not. And supporting these neighborhood efforts is exactly what we should be doing. <p>So taken together, the provisions of this plan will help us end this crisis and preserve for millions of families their stake in the American Dream. But we also have to acknowledge the limits of this plan. <p>Our housing crisis was born of eroding home values, but it was also an erosion of our common values, and in some case, common sense. It was brought about by big banks that traded in risky mortgages in return for profits that were literally too good to be true, by lenders who knowingly took advantage of homebuyers, by homebuyers who knowingly borrowed too much from lenders, by speculators who gambled on ever-rising prices, and by leaders in our Nation's capital who failed to act amidst a deepening crisis. <p>So solving this crisis will require more than resources; it will require all of us to step back and take responsibility. Government has to take responsibility for setting rules of the road that are fair and fairly enforced. Banks and lenders must be held accountable for ending the practices that got us into this crisis in the first place. And each of us as individuals have to take responsibility for their own actions. That means all of us have to learn to live within our means again and not assume that housing prices are going to go up 20, 30, 40 percent every year. <p>Now, those core values of common sense and responsibility, those are the values that have defined this Nation. Those are the values that have given substance to our faith in the American Dream. And those are the values we have to restore now at this defining moment. <p>It will not be easy. But if we move forward with purpose and resolve, with a deepened appreciation of how fundamental the American Dream is and how fragile it can be when we fail to live up to our collective responsibilities, if we go back to our roots, our core values, I am absolutely confident we will overcome this crisis and once again secure that dream not just for ourselves, but for generations to come. <p>Thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"30" "\"Thank you everybody. Thank you. Please have a seat. Thank you so much. Whenever I have the opportunity to meet with mayors, I think about how I got my start doing what you do each day: working with folks at the local level and doing our best to make a real impact on the lives of ordinary Americans. And that's just another reason why I'm so happy to welcome all of you here today. <p>I want to offer--take a little personal prerogative here and welcome my own hometown mayor, my friend Rich Daley. His steady leadership has proven again and again that the American city can be a place of boundless opportunity and a source of solutions to our public problems; he has made a deep and lasting difference in the quality of life for millions of Chicagoans. I'm surprised he's still talking to me because I stole Arne Duncan from him--[<i>laughter</i>]--but I am confident that he will continue to make great strides. <p>I see friends from all over the place; some old friends--well, not old in years, but people who I've known a long time. My other hometown mayor, Mufi, it's great to see you all the way from Honolulu. I've got Mayor Riley and others who are in attendance; Shirley Franklin, doing great work; and Mayor Villaraigosa and Mayor Dellums from--we've got the California contingent. So I'm grateful to all of you. <p>And I think all of you understand that we meet at such an urgent time. Last night, I signed an Executive order establishing the White House Office of Urban Affairs. And I've chosen Adolfo Carrion to be its first director. Adolfo wrote a real success story in the Bronx as borough president, and now he's going to be working with all of you to write our next success stories in cities across the country. <p>He's going to be responsible for coordinating all Federal urban programs, and I've asked him to set up an advisory council with mayors and other urban leaders so that we can develop a new metropolitan strategy based on the lessons that you've learned. Now, rebuilding our economies and renewing our cities is going to require a true partnership between mayors and the White House, and that partnership has to begin right now. <p>Those of you who have traveled great distances to be here come from different parties and philosophies. You govern very different cities; they're made up of different citizenries with different demographic makeups. But today, in the face of our common challenges, you're all hearing the same stories. I know because I'm getting letters from constituents all across the country, in many of your cities. <p>But you're on the frontlines in our communities. You know what happens when folks get laid off or they lose their homes or their health care, and they turn to the mayor's office for help. And just as your services stretch, your classrooms get crowded, and your streets grow less safe, your budgets shrink. You can't deficit spend, so you face impossible choices: raising taxes, cutting essential services, laying off teachers, firefighters, police officers. <p>And that's why the recovery plan we put into action this week is so important. It's a plan that will save or create 3.5 million jobs over the next 2 years, will help those hardest hit by our economic crisis. It will aid State and local governments in hopes you can avoid those excruciating choices. <p>It provides greater unemployment insurance for nearly 18 million Americans and protects health care for 7 million who lost their health care along with their jobs. It includes the most progressive tax cuts in our history, spurring job creation and putting money into the pockets of 95 percent of all hard-working families. It invests in what works for our cities by funding programs like the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant and the COPS program, which boost public safety and bring down crime. It rewards responsibility, making sure that if you work hard, you won't have to raise a child below the poverty line. <p>But what makes this recovery plan so important isn't just the jobs it will create or the immediate help it provides; it's that we are putting Americans to work doing the work America needs done in critical areas that have been neglected for too long. So this plan does more to lay a new foundation for our cities' growth and opportunity than anything Washington has done in generations, and it will bring real and lasting change for generations to come. <p>Because we know we can't build our economic future on the transportation and information networks of the past, we're remaking our cities with the largest new investment in our Nation's infrastructure since Eisenhower built an Interstate Highway System in the 1950s. Ray LaHood is going to be busy because we're putting 400,000 men and women to work rebuilding our crumbling roads and our bridges, repairing our faulty dams and levees, replacing our aging water and sewer pipes, and rolling out broadband lines to nearly every community in America. We are going to unleash the potential of all our regions by connecting them with world-class transit systems and high-speed rail, making our metropolitan areas more livable and sustainable in the process. <p>Because we know education is the single best bet we can make to change the odds of our children and our cities, we are making the largest investment in education in our Nation's history. It will prevent harmful education cuts and save jobs of tens of thousands of teachers, 14,000 just in New York City. And it will make a historic investment in early childhood education and upgrade classrooms and libraries and labs across America so that millions of our children are prepared to compete in the 21st century. <p>Because we know that spiraling health care costs are crushing families and businesses alike and straining budgets across government, we're taking the most meaningful steps in years to modernize our health care system. We're going to computerize America's medical records while maintaining rigorous privacy standards, saving billions of dollars and countless lives. We'll focus on prevention, keeping millions of Americans from having to set into the doctor's office in the first place. Taken together with the earlier enactment this month of long-delayed laws to extend health care to millions of--more children of working families, we've done more in 30 days to advance the cause of health care reform than this country has done in a decade. <p>And because we know we can't power America's future on energy that's controlled by foreign dictators, we're making an investment that within 3 years will double the renewable energy output it's taken us 35 years to reach. We'll provide tax credits and loan guarantees to companies that create this energy, allowing them to expand rather than lay people off. We'll fund the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant you conceived, saving our cities and our consumers money. We'll build a bigger, better, smarter electricity grid that delivers clean energy from communities that produce it to the cities that need it. <p>So these are the steps we're taking to help you turn this crisis into opportunity and bring our cities into the future. Now, Washington can't solve all the problems facing our cities, and I know you don't expect us to. Instead of waiting for Washington, many of you have already made our cities laboratories of change, coming up with innovative new ways to solve the problems of our time. <p>And one of the great pleasures of running for President was having a chance to see great work on renewable energy in Des Moines or, you know, seeing what kinds of wonderful companies are being created in Seattle, and hearing about some of the urban planning strategies that are taking place in Charleston. So all of you have already taken the ball and run with it, even when you weren't getting help from here. But it won't be bad to get some help because--[<i>applause</i>]. <p>You know, instead of debating the existence of climate change, mayors like Greg Nickels in Seattle are leading efforts to make cities greener and more efficient. Instead of just talking about health care, mayors like Gavin Newsom in San Francisco have been ensuring that those in need receive it. Instead of wringing your hands over poverty, you've got Antonio in Los Angeles making relentless efforts to alleviate it. <p>You shouldn't have to succeed, though, despite Washington; you should be succeeding with a hand from Washington, and that's what you're going to get now. <p>Now, what is required in return, what I will need from all of you, is unprecedented responsibility and accountability on all of our parts. The American people are watching. They need this plan to work. They expect to see the money that they've earned, that they've worked so hard to earn, spent in its intended purposes without waste, without inefficiency, without fraud. <p>And that's why I'm assigning a team of managers to ensure that every dollar is spent wisely. And that's why we've created recovery.gov, so that every American can go online to see how their money is spent and hold their Federal, State, and local officials to the highest standards they expect. <p>So I want to be clear about this: We cannot tolerate business as usual, not in Washington, not in our State capitals, not in America's cities and towns. We will use the new tools that the recovery act gives us to watch the taxpayers' money with more rigor and transparency than ever. If a Federal agency proposes a project that will waste that money, I will not hesitate to call them out on it and put a stop to it. <p>And I want everybody here to be on notice that if a local government does the same, I will call them out on it and use the full power of my office and our administration to stop it. We have asked for the unprecedented trust of the American people to deal boldly with the greatest economic crisis we've seen in decades and the privilege of investing unprecedented amounts of their hard-earned money to address this crisis. And with that comes unprecedented obligations to spend that money wisely, free from politics and free from personal agendas. <p>On this I will not compromise or tolerate any shortcuts. The American people are looking to us, each of you, as well as myself and Joe and others in our administration, for leadership, and it's up to us to reward their faith. <p>Now, this plan doesn't mark the end of what we'll do together; it marks the beginning. My administration has outlined plans to stabilize, repair, and reform our banking system, to get credit flowing to families and businesses, to stem the spread of foreclosures and keep families in their homes. Together we will tackle the urban challenges of our time and foster diverse, creative, and imaginative economies that bring opportunity to every corner of our cities. <p>We'll do all this because despite the different backgrounds of the mayors in this room, we all share the same vision for our cities: vibrant places that provide our children with every chance to learn and to grow; that allow our businesses and workers the best opportunity to innovate and succeed; that let our older Americans live out their best years in the midst of all that metropolitan life can offer. <p>I know this change is possible. I know because I saw it in--all those years ago in neighborhoods on the south side of Chicago, where ordinary Americans came together and worked alongside the mayor's office to forge a better future. I know because I've seen it in cities across this country, where many of you that I had a chance to meet with, I saw how you focused on fresh ideas over stale ideology and you moved your cities forward. And I know it because I see it in the faces of Americans everywhere who are ready to roll up their sleeves and join in the work of remaking this Nation. <p>So now it falls to us to seize the possibilities of this moment and convert peril into promise, see to it that our cities and our people emerge from this moment stronger than they were before. Starting today, that's what you and I are going to do together. And I'm absolutely confident that our people will benefit and people will look back and say that this was a turning point; this was a moment where, in the midst of great crisis, leadership was shown, and we created a new platform for success for all Americans in the future. <p>Thank you so much, everybody. Appreciate it.\" "
"31" "\"Earlier this week, I signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the most sweeping economic recovery plan in history. Because of this plan, 3 million Americans will now go to work doing the work that America needs done. <p>I am grateful to Congress, Governors, and mayors across the country and to all of you whose support made this critical step possible. <p>Because of what we did together, there will now be shovels in the ground, cranes in the air, and workers rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges and repairing our faulty levees and dams. Because of what we did, companies large and small that produce renewable energy can now apply for loan guarantees and tax credits and find ways to grow, instead of laying people off, and families can lower their energy bills by weatherizing their homes. <p>Because of what we did, our children can now graduate from 21st century schools, and millions more can do what was unaffordable just last week and get their college degree. Because of what we did, lives will be saved and health costs will be cut with new computerized medical records. Because of what we did, there will now be police on the beat, firefighters on the job, and teachers preparing lesson plans who thought they would not be able to continue pursuing their critical missions. And ensure that all of this is done with an unprecedented level of transparency and accountability, I have assigned a team of managers to make sure that precious tax dollars are invested wisely and well. <p>Because of what we did, 95 percent of all working families will get a tax cut, in keeping with a promise I made on the campaign. And I'm pleased to announce that this morning the Treasury Department began directing employers to reduce the amount of taxes withheld from paychecks, meaning that by April 1st, a typical family will begin taking home at least $65 more every month. Never before in our history has a tax cut taken effect faster or gone to so many hard-working Americans. <p>But as important as it was that I was able to sign this plan into law, it is only a first step on the road to economic recovery. And we can't fail to complete the journey. That will require stemming the spread of foreclosures and falling home values and doing all we can to help responsible homeowners stay in their homes, which is exactly what the housing plan I announced last week will help us do. <p>It will require stabilizing and repairing our banking system and getting credit flowing again to families and businesses. It will require reforming the broken regulatory system that made this crisis possible and recognizing that it's only by setting and enforcing 21st century rules of the road that we can build a thriving economy. <p>And it will require doing all we can to get exploding deficits under control as our economy begins to recover. That work begins on Monday, when I will convene a fiscal summit of independent experts and unions, advocacy groups and Members of Congress to discuss how we can cut the trillion dollar deficit that we've inherited. On Tuesday, I will speak to the Nation about our urgent national priorities, and on Thursday, I'll release a budget that's sober in its assessments, honest in its accounting, and lays out in detail my strategy for investing in what we need, cutting what we don't, and restoring fiscal discipline. <p>No single piece of this broad economic recovery can, by itself, meet the demands that have been placed on us. We can't help people find work or pay their bills unless we unlock credit for families and businesses. We can't solve our housing crisis unless we help people find work so that they can make payments on their homes. We can't produce shared prosperity without firm rules of the road, and we can't generate sustained growth without getting our deficits under control. In short, we cannot successfully address any of our problems without addressing them all. And that is exactly what the strategy we are pursuing is designed to do. <p>None of this will be easy. The road ahead will be long and full of hazards. But I am confident that we as a people have the strength and wisdom to carry out this strategy and overcome this crisis. And if we do, our economy and our country will be better and stronger for it. <p>Thank you.\" "
"32" "\"Thank you very much. Everybody, please have a seat. <p>First of all, thanks for not breaking anything last night. [<i>Laughter</i>] Thank you also for waiting until I had left before you started the conga line. I don't know whether Rendell was responsible for that or--but I hear it was quite a spectacle. [<i>Laughter</i>] But Michelle and I just had a wonderful time last night, and I hope all of you enjoyed it. And it was a great kick-off of what we hope will be an atmosphere here in the White House that is welcoming and that reminds everybody that this is the people's house. We are just temporary occupants. This is a place that belongs to the American people, and we want to make sure that everybody understands it's open. <p>Almost 3 months ago, we came together in Philadelphia to listen to one another, to share ideas, and to try to push some of our ideological rigidity aside to formulate a recovery plan that would bring some relief to your States and to the American people. <p>And I want to thank so many of you who were active throughout this process to get the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act done. I don't want to single out too many folks, but Governor Rendell, Governor Douglas, worked tirelessly. We had people like Governor Patrick and Governor Schweitzer, Schwarzenegger, Crist, who were out there consistently promoting the plan. And as a consequence, we got this passed through Congress in record time. <p>And because of what we did together, this plan will save or create at least 3.5 million jobs, in every State across the country. It will keep your police officers on the beat, your firefighters on the job, your teachers in the classroom. It will provide expanded unemployment insurance and protect health care for your residents who have been laid off. And beginning April 1st, it will put more money back into the pockets of 95 percent of your working families. <p>So this plan will ensure that you don't have to make cuts to essential services that Americans rely on now more than ever. And to show you that we are serious about putting this recovery plan into action swiftly, I'm announcing today that this Wednesday, our administration will begin distributing more than $15 billion in Federal assistance under the Recovery Act to help you cover the costs of your Medicaid programs, I know, something that is going to be of great relief to many of you. <p>That means that by the time most of you get home, money will be waiting to help 20 million vulnerable Americans in your States keep their health care coverage. Children with asthma will be able to breathe easier, seniors won't need to fear losing their doctors, and pregnant women with limited means won't have to worry about the health of their babies. So let me be clear, though: This is not a blank check. I know you've heard this repeatedly over the last few days, but I want to reiterate it. These funds are intended to go directly towards helping struggling Americans keep their health coverage. We want to make sure that that's what's happening, and we're going to work with you closely to make sure that this money is spent the way it's supposed to. <p>We will get the rest of this plan moving to put Americans to work doing the work America needs done, making an immediate impact while laying the foundation for our lasting growth and prosperity. <p>These are the steps that we're taking to help you turn this crisis into an opportunity and pave the way for future prosperity. But I know that many of you, rather than wait for Washington, have already made that happen in your States. You are innovators, and much of the work that you've done has already made a lasting impact and change in people's lives. Instead of debating the existence of climate change, Governors like the 7 of you of you working together in the Western Climate Initiative, and the 10 of you who are working together on the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative are leading the way in environmental and energy policy. Instead of waiting around for the jobs of the future, Governors like Governor Gregoire and Governor Granholm have sparked the creation of cutting-edge companies and tens of thousands of new green jobs. And instead of passing the buck on accountability and efficiency, Governors like Martin O'Malley and Governor Kaine have revolutionized performance management systems, showing the American people precisely how their governments are working for them. <p>The point that I made yesterday, or last night, is something that I want to reiterate though. You shouldn't be succeeding despite Washington; you should be succeeding with a hand from Washington, and that's what we intend to give you in this administration. In return, we'll expect a lot from you as the hard work of making the recovery plan's promise a reality begins. <p>And that's why I'm announcing today that I'm asking my Vice President, Joe Biden, to oversee our administration's implementation efforts. Beginning this week, Joe will meet regularly with key members of my Cabinet to make sure our efforts are not just swift, but also efficient and effective. Joe is also going to work closely with you, our Nation's Governors, as well as our mayors and everyone else involved in this effort, to keep things on track. And the fact that I'm asking my Vice President to personally lead this effort shows how important it is for our country and our future to get this right, and I thank him for his willingness to take on this critical task. <p>In the coming weeks, we're also going to appoint some of the Nation's best managers and public officials to work with the Vice President on this effort. And I'm pleased to make the first of those announcements today with the appointment of Earl Devaney as the Chair of the Recovery Act Transparency and Accountability Board. Where did Earl go? There he is. Stand up, Earl, so everybody can see you. <p>For nearly a decade as Inspector General at the Interior Department, Earl has doggedly pursued waste, fraud, and mismanagement. He has the reputation of being one of the best IGs that we have in this town. And Joe and I can't think of a more tenacious and efficient guardian of the hard-earned tax dollars the American people have entrusted us to wisely invest. I pointed out just when I saw him, I mean, he looks like an inspector there. [<i>Laughter</i>] He's tough, you know; he barely cracks a smile. Earl is here with us today. I thank him for his willingness to take on this difficult new assignment. <p>And I expect each of you to approach implementation of this recovery plan with the same seriousness of purpose and the same sense of accountability, because the American people are watching. They need this plan to work, and they expect to see their money spent in its intended purpose. <p>And that's why we've created recovery.gov, a web site so that every American can go online to see how their money is spent and hold their Federal, State, and local officials to the high standards that they expect. And I want to applaud Governors Kaine, Patrick, and Strickland for already having created their own recovery implementation web sites to allow for the monitoring and accountability at the local level. I encourage every one of you to follow suit. <p>Let me be clear: We cannot tolerate business as usual, not in Washington, but also not in our State capitals. With Mr. Devaney's leadership, we will use the new tools that the Recovery Act gives us to watch the taxpayers' money with more rigor and transparency than ever. <p>If a Federal agency proposes a project that will waste that money, I will put a stop to it. But I want everybody here to be on notice that if a State government does the same, then I will call them out on it, and use the full power of my office and our administration to stop it. <p>We are addressing the greatest economic crisis we have seen in decades by investing unprecedented amounts of the American people's hard-earned money. And with that comes an unprecedented obligation to do so wisely, free from politics and personal agendas. And on this I will not compromise or tolerate shortcuts. The American people are looking to us for leadership, and it falls on us now to reward their faith and build a better future for our country. And I have every confidence that we can all do this. <p>Let me make one last point and then I'm going to bring Joe up. There has been some healthy debate over the last few weeks, last few days, about this stimulus package, even among the Governors. And I think that's a healthy debate. And that keeps me on my toes; it keeps our administration on our toes. But I just want us to not lose perspective of the fact that most of the things that have been the topic of argument over the last several days amount to a fraction of the overall stimulus package. This sometimes gets lost in the cable chatter. <p>For example, I think there are some very legitimate concerns on the part of some about the sustainability of expanding unemployment insurance. What hasn't been noted is, is that that is $7 billion of a $787 billion program, and it's not even the majority of the expansion of unemployment insurance. So it is possible for those who are concerned about sustaining a change that increases eligibility for part-time workers to still see the benefit of 30 billion-plus that is going even if you don't make the change. <p>So the reason I make that point is, I just want to make sure that we're having an honest debate and presenting to the American people a fulsome accounting of what is going on in this program. You know, when I hear people say, \\"Well, there's a lot of waste in this program,\\" well, from my perspective at least, keeping teachers in the classroom is not wasteful. From my perspective, tax cuts to 95 percent of working families is not wasteful. From my perspective, providing all of you additional resources to rebuild roads and bridges and levees and dams that will enhance the quality of life of your State, but also make it more economically competitive, that's not wasteful. <p>And so if we agree on 90 percent of the stuff, and we're spending all our time on television arguing about 1, 2, 3 percent of the spending in this thing, and somehow it's being characterized in broad brush as wasteful spending, that starts sounding more like politics. And that's what right now we don't have time to do. <p>So I will always be open to honest disagreements, and I think there are some legitimate concerns that can be raised on a whole host of these issues. And you're responsible at the State level, and if the Federal Government gives you something now, and then 2 years later it's gone and people are looking to you and starting to blame you, I don't want to put you in that position. And so you need to think about how this money is going to be spent wisely. <p>What I don't want us to do, though, is to just get caught up in the same old stuff that inhibits us from acting effectively and in concert. There's going to be ample time for campaigns down the road. Right now we've got to make sure that we're standing up for the America people and putting them back to work. <p>All right.\" "
"33" "\"Thank you everybody. Please have a seat. Thank you very much. Thank you to Mark and Bob and to Peter. It is wonderful to see the Speaker here. And we've got our representatives; I don't see Harry here, but we've got Dick Durbin in his stead. Mitch, thank you for being here; John Boehner, to all the congressional leadership, thank you. <p>My administration came into office 1 month ago in the depths of an economic crisis unlike any that we've seen in generations. And we recognized that we needed to act boldly, decisively, and quickly, and that's precisely what we did. <p>Within our first 30 days in office, we passed the most sweeping economic recovery package in history to create or save 3.5 million new jobs, provide relief to struggling families, and lay the foundation for long-term growth and prosperity. And I had an opportunity to talk to the Nation's Governors today, and both Republicans and Democrats have ideas about how they are going to use that money to make sure that people are put back to work and that we can stem some of the job loss that's taking place. <p>I also laid out my housing plan to break the cycle of falling home values and rising foreclosures that's devastated so many communities. And we put forth a financial stability plan to start shoring up our banks so we can free up credit and jump-start lending and restore confidence in our financial system. <p>These are all extraordinary, but necessary, measures to address this economic emergency, and as has already been noted, they will come at a cost. This administration has inherited a $1.3 trillion deficit--the largest in our Nation's history--and our investments to rescue our economy will add to that deficit in the short term. We also have long-term challenges--health care, energy, education, and others--that we can no longer afford to ignore. <p>But I want to be very clear, if the message was not effectively delivered by the three previous speakers: We cannot, and will not, sustain deficits like these without end. Contrary to the prevailing wisdom in Washington these past few years, we cannot simply spend as we please and defer the consequences to the next budget, the next administration, or the next generation. <p>We are paying the price for these deficits right now. In 2008 alone, we paid $250 billion in interest on our debt, 1 in every 10 taxpayer dollars. That is more than three times what we spent on education that year, more than seven times what we spent on VA health care. <p>So if we confront this crisis without also confronting the deficits that helped cause it, we risk sinking into another crisis down the road as our interest payments rise, our obligations come due, confidence in our economy erodes, and our children and our grandchildren are unable to pursue their dreams because they're saddled with our debts. <p>And that's why today I'm pledging to cut the deficit we inherited by half by the end of my first term in office. Now, this will not be easy. It will require us to make difficult decisions and face challenges we've long neglected. But I refuse to leave our children with a debt that they cannot repay, and that means taking responsibility right now, in this administration, for getting our spending under control. <p>We'll start by being honest with ourselves about the magnitude of our deficits. For too long, our budget process in Washington has been an exercise in deception, a series of accounting tricks to hide the extent of our spending and the shortfalls in our revenue and hope that the American people won't notice: budgeting certain expenditures for just 1 year, when we know we'll incur them every year for 5 or 10; budgeting zero dollars for the Iraq war--zero--for future years, even when we knew the war would continue; budgeting no money for natural disasters, as if we would ever go 12 months without a single flood, fire, hurricane, or earthquake. <p>We do ourselves no favors by hiding the truth about what we spend. In order to address our fiscal crisis, we're going to have to be candid about its scope. And that's why the budget I will introduce later this week will look ahead 10 years and will include a full and honest accounting of the money we plan to spend and the deficits we will likely incur. <p>To start reducing these deficits, I've committed to going through our budget line by line to root out waste and inefficiency, a process that Peter and our administration, our team, has already begun. And I'll soon be instructing each member of my Cabinet to go through every item in their budgets as well. And already we've seen how much money we can save, just in the last 30 days. <p>Take one example: The Department of Agriculture has moved some of its training programs online, saving an estimated $1.3 million a year. They're modernizing their financial management system, saving an estimated $17.5 million. They're saving tens of thousands of dollars by cutting back on conferences and travel and other small expenses that add up over time. <p>So we will replicate these efforts throughout the Federal Government, eliminating programs that don't work to make room for ones that do and making the ones that we keep work better. We'll end the payments to agribusiness that don't need them and eliminate the no-bid contracts that have wasted billions in Iraq. We'll end the tax breaks for companies shipping jobs overseas, and we'll stop the fraud and abuse in our Medicare program. <p>And we will reinstate the pay-as-you-go rule that we followed during the 1990s, the rule that helped us start this new century with a $236 billion surplus. In recent years, we've strayed from this rule, and the results speak for themselves. The pay-go approach is based on a very simple concept: You don't spend what you don't have. So if we want to spend, we'll need to find somewhere else to cut. This is the rule that families across this country follow every single day, and there's no reason why their Government shouldn't do the same. <p>Now, I want to be very clear: While we are making important progress towards fiscal responsibility this year in this budget, this is just the beginning. In the coming years, we'll be forced to make more tough choices and do much more to address our long-term challenges, from the rising cost of health care that Peter described, which is the single most pressing fiscal challenge we face by far, to the long-term solvency of Social Security. <p>In the end, however, if we want to rebuild our economy and restore discipline and honesty to our budget, we will need to change the way we do business here in Washington. We're not going to be able to fall back into the same old habits and make the same inexcusable mistakes: the repeated failure to act as our economy spiraled deeper into crisis; the casual dishonesty of hiding irresponsible spending with clever accounting tricks; the costly overruns, the fraud and abuse, the endless excuses. This is exactly what the American people rejected when they went to the polls. <p>They sent us here to usher in a new era of responsibility in Washington, to start living within our means again and being straight with them about where their tax dollars are going, and empowering them with the information they need to hold all of us, their representatives, accountable. <p>So that's why I have called this summit today and why I have invited leaders from both sides of the aisle, because we all have a role to play in this work. I believe it is time for a frank conversation about the fiscal challenges we face. They're challenges that concern every single one of us, no matter where we are on this political spectrum. <p>So today I want to--I hope that all of you will start talking with each other and exchanging ideas. I want you to question each other, challenge each other, question me and my team, challenge us, and work together not just to identify problems, but to identify solutions. <p>And that's the purpose of the breakout sessions that are starting right now. I know that each of you bring a wealth of experience and expertise on a broad range of topics. I appreciate your willingness to participate in these sessions. I expect that this process will be engaging and productive, and I look forward to hearing the results when you report back later this afternoon. <p>So thank you very much, all of you, for participating.\" "
"34" "\"Madam Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of Congress, the First Lady of the United States--she's around here somewhere: I have come here tonight not only to address the distinguished men and women in this great Chamber, but to speak frankly and directly to the men and women who sent us here. <p>I know that for many Americans watching right now, the state of our economy is a concern that rises above all others, and rightly so. If you haven't been personally affected by this recession, you probably know someone who has: a friend, a neighbor, a member of your family. You don't need to hear another list of statistics to know that our economy is in crisis, because you live it every day. It's the worry you wake up with and the source of sleepless nights. It's the job you thought you'd retire from but now have lost, the business you built your dreams upon that's now hanging by a thread, the college acceptance letter your child had to put back in the envelope. The impact of this recession is real, and it is everywhere. <p>But while our economy may be weakened and our confidence shaken, though we are living through difficult and uncertain times, tonight I want every American to know this: We will rebuild, we will recover, and the United States of America will emerge stronger than before. <p>The weight of this crisis will not determine the destiny of this Nation. The answers to our problems don't lie beyond our reach. They exist in our laboratories and our universities, in our fields and our factories, in the imaginations of our entrepreneurs and the pride of the hardest working people on Earth. Those qualities that have made America the greatest force of progress and prosperity in human history, we still possess in ample measure. What is required now is for this country to pull together, confront boldly the challenges we face, and take responsibility for our future once more. <p>Now, if we're honest with ourselves, we'll admit that for too long, we have not always met these responsibilities as a Government or as a people. I say this not to lay blame or to look backwards, but because it is only by understanding how we arrived at this moment that we'll be able to lift ourselves out of this predicament. <p>The fact is, our economy did not fall into decline overnight, nor did all of our problems begin when the housing market collapsed or the stock market sank. We have known for decades that our survival depends on finding new sources of energy, yet we import more oil today than ever before. The cost of health care eats up more and more of our savings each year, yet we keep delaying reform. Our children will compete for jobs in a global economy that too many of our schools do not prepare them for. And though all these challenges went unsolved, we still managed to spend more money and pile up more debt, both as individuals and through our Government, than ever before. <p>In other words, we have lived through an era where too often short-term gains were prized over long-term prosperity, where we failed to look beyond the next payment, the next quarter, or the next election. A surplus became an excuse to transfer wealth to the wealthy instead of an opportunity to invest in our future. Regulations were gutted for the sake of a quick profit at the expense of a healthy market. People bought homes they knew they couldn't afford from banks and lenders who pushed those bad loans anyway. And all the while, critical debates and difficult decisions were put off for some other time, on some other day. Well, that day of reckoning has arrived, and the time to take charge of our future is here. <p>Now is the time to act boldly and wisely to not only revive this economy, but to build a new foundation for lasting prosperity. Now is the time to jump-start job creation, restart lending, and invest in areas like energy, health care, and education that will grow our economy, even as we make hard choices to bring our deficit down. That is what my economic agenda is designed to do, and that is what I'd like to talk to you about tonight. It's an agenda that begins with jobs. <p>As soon as I took office, I asked this Congress to send me a recovery plan by President's Day that would put people back to work and put money in their pockets, not because I believe in bigger Government--I don't--not because I'm not mindful of the massive debt we've inherited--I am. I called for action because the failure to do so would have cost more jobs and caused more hardship. In fact, a failure to act would have worsened our long-term deficit by assuring weak economic growth for years. And that's why I pushed for quick action. And tonight I am grateful that this Congress delivered and pleased to say that the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is now law. <p>Over the next 2 years, this plan will save or create 3.5 million jobs. More than 90 percent of these jobs will be in the private sector: jobs rebuilding our roads and bridges, constructing wind turbines and solar panels, laying broadband and expanding mass transit. <p>Because of this plan, there are teachers who can now keep their jobs and educate our kids, health care professionals can continue caring for our sick. There are 57 police officers who are still on the streets of Minneapolis tonight because this plan prevented the layoffs their department was about to make. Because of this plan, 95 percent of working households in America will receive a tax cut; a tax cut that you will see in your paychecks beginning on April 1st. Because of this plan, families who are struggling to pay tuition costs will receive a $2,500 tax credit for all 4 years of college, and Americans who have lost their jobs in this recession will be able to receive extended unemployment benefits and continued health care coverage to help them weather this storm. <p>Now, I know there are some in this Chamber and watching at home who are skeptical of whether this plan will work, and I understand that skepticism. Here in Washington, we've all seen how quickly good intentions can turn into broken promises and wasteful spending. And with a plan of this scale comes enormous responsibility to get it right. <p>And that's why I've asked Vice President Biden to lead a tough, unprecedented oversight effort; because nobody messes with Joe. I--am I right? They don't mess with him. I have told each of my Cabinet, as well as mayors and Governors across the country, that they will be held accountable by me and the American people for every dollar they spend. I've appointed a proven and aggressive Inspector General to ferret out any and all cases of waste and fraud. And we have created a new web site called recovery.gov, so that every American can find out how and where their money is being spent. <p>So the recovery plan we passed is the first step in getting our economy back on track. But it is just the first step. Because even if we manage this plan flawlessly, there will be no real recovery unless we clean up the credit crisis that has severely weakened our financial system. <p>I want to speak plainly and candidly about this issue tonight, because every American should know that it directly affects you and your family's well-being. You should also know that the money you've deposited in banks across the country is safe, your insurance is secure, you can rely on the continued operation of our financial system. That's not the source of concern. The concern is that if we do not restart lending in this country, our recovery will be choked off before it even begins. <p>You see, the flow of credit is the lifeblood of our economy. The ability to get a loan is how you finance the purchase of everything from a home to a car to a college education, how stores stock their shelves, farms buy equipment, and businesses make payroll. <p>But credit has stopped flowing the way it should. Too many bad loans from the housing crisis have made their way onto the books of too many banks. And with so much debt and so little confidence, these banks are now fearful of lending out any more money to households, to businesses, or even to each other. And when there is no lending, families can't afford to buy homes or cars, so businesses are forced to make layoffs. Our economy suffers even more, and credit dries up even further. That is why this administration is moving swiftly and aggressively to break this destructive cycle, to restore confidence, and restart lending. And we will do so in several ways. <p>First, we are creating a new lending fund that represents the largest effort ever to help provide auto loans, college loans, and small-business loans to the consumers and entrepreneurs who keep this economy running. <p>Second, we have launched a housing plan that will help responsible families facing the threat of foreclosure lower their monthly payments and refinance their mortgages. It's a plan that won't help speculators or that neighbor down the street who bought a house he could never hope to afford, but it will help millions of Americans who are struggling with declining home values; Americans who will now be able to take advantage of the lower interest rates that this plan has already helped to bring about. In fact, the average family who refinances today can save nearly $2,000 per year on their mortgage. <p>Third, we will act with the full force of the Federal Government to ensure that the major banks that Americans depend on have enough confidence and enough money to lend even in more difficult times. And when we learn that a major bank has serious problems, we will hold accountable those responsible, force the necessary adjustments, provide the support to clean up their balance sheets, and assure the continuity of a strong, viable institution that can serve our people and our economy. <p>Now, I understand that on any given day, Wall Street may be more comforted by an approach that gives bank bailouts with no strings attached and that holds nobody accountable for their reckless decisions. But such an approach won't solve the problem, and our goal is to quicken the day when we restart lending to the American people and American business and end this crisis once and for all. <p>And I intend to hold these banks fully accountable for the assistance they receive, and this time, they will have to clearly demonstrate how taxpayer dollars result in more lending for the American taxpayer. This time, CEOs won't be able to use taxpayer money to pad their paychecks or buy fancy drapes or disappear on a private jet. Those days are over. <p>Still, this plan will require significant resources from the Federal Government--and, yes, probably more than we've already set aside. But while the cost of action will be great, I can assure you that the cost of inaction will be far greater, for it could result in an economy that sputters along for not months or years, but perhaps a decade. That would be worse for our deficit, worse for business, worse for you, and worse for the next generation. And I refuse to let that happen. <p>Now, I understand that when the last administration asked this Congress to provide assistance for struggling banks, Democrats and Republicans alike were infuriated by the mismanagement and the results that followed. So were the American taxpayers; so was I. So I know how unpopular it is to be seen as helping banks right now, especially when everyone is suffering in part from their bad decisions. I promise you, I get it. <p>But I also know that in a time of crisis, we cannot afford to govern out of anger or yield to the politics of the moment. My job--our job is to solve the problem. Our job is to govern with a sense of responsibility. I will not send--I will not spend a single penny for the purpose of rewarding a single Wall Street executive, but I will do whatever it takes to help the small business that can't pay its workers or the family that has saved and still can't get a mortgage. That's what this is about. It's not about helping banks; it's about helping people. [<i>Applause</i>] <p>It's not about helping banks; it's about helping people. Because when credit is available again, that young family can finally buy a new home. And then some company will hire workers to build it. And then those workers will have money to spend. And if they can get a loan too, maybe they'll finally buy that car or open their own business. Investors will return to the market, and American families will see their retirement secured once more. Slowly but surely, confidence will return and our economy will recover. <p>So I ask this Congress to join me in doing whatever proves necessary, because we cannot consign our Nation to an open-ended recession. And to ensure that a crisis of this magnitude never happens again, I ask Congress to move quickly on legislation that will finally reform our outdated regulatory system. It is time to put in place tough, new, commonsense rules of the road so that our financial market rewards drive and innovation, and punishes shortcuts and abuse. <p>The recovery plan and the financial stability plan are the immediate steps we're taking to revive our economy in the short term. But the only way to fully restore America's economic strength is to make the long-term investments that will lead to new jobs, new industries, and a renewed ability to compete with the rest of the world. The only way this century will be another American century is if we confront at last the price of our dependence on oil and the high cost of health care, the schools that aren't preparing our children and the mountain of debt they stand to inherit. That is our responsibility. <p>In the next few days, I will submit a budget to Congress. So often, we've come to view these documents as simply numbers on a page or a laundry list of programs. I see this document differently. I see it as a vision for America, as a blueprint for our future. <p>My budget does not attempt to solve every problem or address every issue. It reflects the stark reality of what we've inherited, a trillion-dollar deficit, a financial crisis, and a costly recession. Given these realities, everyone in this Chamber, Democrats and Republicans, will have to sacrifice some worthy priorities for which there are no dollars. And that includes me. But that does not mean we can afford to ignore our long-term challenges. I reject the view that says our problems will simply take care of themselves, that says Government has no role in laying the foundation for our common prosperity. <p>For history tells a different story. History reminds us that at every moment of economic upheaval and transformation, this Nation has responded with bold action and big ideas. In the midst of Civil War, we laid railroad tracks from one coast to another that spurred commerce and industry. From the turmoil of the Industrial Revolution came a system of public high schools that prepared our citizens for a new age. In the wake of war and depression, the GI bill sent a generation to college and created the largest middle class in history. And a twilight struggle for freedom led to a nation of highways, an American on the Moon, and an explosion of technology that still shapes our world. In each case, Government didn't supplant private enterprise; it catalyzed private enterprise. It created the conditions for thousands of entrepreneurs and new businesses to adapt and to thrive. <p>We are a nation that has seen promise amid peril and claimed opportunity from ordeal. Now we must be that nation again, and that is why, even as it cuts back on programs we don't need, the budget I submit will invest in the three areas that are absolutely critical to our economic future: energy, health care, and education. <p>It begins with energy. We know the country that harnesses the power of clean, renewable energy will lead the 21st century. And yet, it is China that has launched the largest effort in history to make their economy energy efficient. We invented solar technology, but we've fallen behind countries like Germany and Japan in producing it. New plug-in hybrids roll off our assembly lines, but they will run on batteries made in Korea. Well, I do not accept a future where the jobs and industries of tomorrow take root beyond our borders, and I know you don't either. It is time for America to lead again. <p>Thanks to our recovery plan, we will double this Nation's supply of renewable energy in the next 3 years. We've also made the largest investment in basic research funding in American history, an investment that will spur not only new discoveries in energy but breakthroughs in medicine and science and technology. <p>We will soon lay down thousands of miles of power lines that can carry new energy to cities and towns across this country. And we will put Americans to work making our homes and buildings more efficient so that we can save billions of dollars on our energy bills. <p>But to truly transform our economy, to protect our security, and save our planet from the ravages of climate change, we need to ultimately make clean, renewable energy the profitable kind of energy. So I ask this Congress to send me legislation that places a market-based cap on carbon pollution and drives the production of more renewable energy in America. That's what we need. And to support that innovation, we will invest $15 billion a year to develop technologies like wind power and solar power, advanced biofuels, clean coal, and more efficient cars and trucks built right here in America. <p>Speaking of our auto industry, everyone recognizes that years of bad decisionmaking and a global recession have pushed our automakers to the brink. We should not, and will not, protect them from their own bad practices. But we are committed to the goal of a retooled, reimagined auto industry that can compete and win. Millions of jobs depend on it; scores of communities depend on it. And I believe the Nation that invented the automobile cannot walk away from it. <p>Now, none of this will come without cost, nor will it be easy. But this is America. We don't do what's easy. We do what's necessary to move this country forward. <p>And for that same reason, we must also address the crushing cost of health care. This is a cost that now causes a bankruptcy in America every 30 seconds. By the end of the year, it could cause 1.5 million Americans to lose their homes. In the last 8 years, premiums have grown four times faster than wages. And in each of these years, 1 million more Americans have lost their health insurance. It is one of the major reasons why small businesses close their doors and corporations ship jobs overseas. And it's one of the largest and fastest growing parts of our budget. Given these facts, we can no longer afford to put health care reform on hold. We can't afford to do it. It's time. <p>Already, we've done more to advance the cause of health care reform in the last 30 days than we've done in the last decade. When it was days old, this Congress passed a law to provide and protect health insurance for 11 million American children whose parents work full time. Our recovery plan will invest in electronic health records, a new technology that will reduce errors, bring down costs, ensure privacy, and save lives. It will launch a new effort to conquer a disease that has touched the life of nearly every American, including me, by seeking a cure for cancer in our time. And it makes the largest investment ever in preventive care, because that's one of the best ways to keep our people healthy and our costs under control. <p>This budget builds on these reforms. It includes a historic commitment to comprehensive health care reform, a down payment on the principle that we must have quality, affordable health care for every American. It's a commitment that's paid for in part by efficiencies in our system that are long overdue. And it's a step we must take if we hope to bring down our deficit in the years to come. <p>Now, there will be many different opinions and ideas about how to achieve reform, and that's why I'm bringing together businesses and workers, doctors and health care providers, Democrats and Republicans to begin work on this issue next week. <p>I suffer no illusions that this will be an easy process. Once again, it will be hard. But I also know that nearly a century after Teddy Roosevelt first called for reform, the cost of our health care has weighed down our economy and our conscience long enough. So let there be no doubt: Health care reform cannot wait, it must not wait, and it will not wait another year. <p>The third challenge we must address is the urgent need to expand the promise of education in America. In a global economy where the most valuable skill you can sell is your knowledge, a good education is no longer just a pathway to opportunity, it is a prerequisite. Right now, three-quarters of the fastest growing occupations require more than a high school diploma. And yet, just over half of our citizens have that level of education. We have one of the highest high school dropout rates of any industrialized nation, and half of the students who begin college never finish. <p>This is a prescription for economic decline, because we know the countries that out-teach us today will outcompete us tomorrow. That is why it will be the goal of this administration to ensure that every child has access to a complete and competitive education, from the day they are born to the day they begin a career. That is a promise we have to make to the children of America. <p>Already, we've made historic investment in education through the economic recovery plan. We've dramatically expanded early childhood education and will continue to improve its quality, because we know that the most formative learning comes in those first years of life. We've made college affordable for nearly 7 million more students--7 million. And we have provided the resources necessary to prevent painful cuts and teacher layoffs that would set back our children's progress. <p>But we know that our schools don't just need more resources, they need more reform. And that is why this budget creates new teachers--new incentives for teacher performance, pathways for advancement, and rewards for success. We'll invest in innovative programs that are already helping schools meet high standards and close achievement gaps, and we will expand our commitment to charter schools. <p>It is our responsibility as lawmakers and as educators to make this system work. But it is the responsibility of every citizen to participate in it. So tonight I ask every American to commit to at least 1 year or more of higher education or career training. This can be community college or a 4-year school, vocational training or an apprenticeship. But whatever the training may be, every American will need to get more than a high school diploma. <p>And dropping out of high school is no longer an option. It's not just quitting on yourself, it's quitting on your country, and this country needs and values the talents of every American. That's why we will support--we will provide the support necessary for all young Americans to complete college and meet a new goal. By 2020, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. That is a goal we can meet. That's a goal we can meet. <p>Now, I know that the price of tuition is higher than ever, which is why if you are willing to volunteer in your neighborhood or give back to your community or serve your country, we will make sure that you can afford a higher education. And to encourage a renewed spirit of national service for this and future generations, I ask Congress to send me the bipartisan legislation that bears the name of Senator Orrin Hatch, as well as an American who has never stopped asking what he can do for his country, Senator Edward Kennedy. <p>These education policies will open the doors of opportunity for our children, but it is up to us to ensure they walk through them. In the end, there is no program or policy that can substitute for a parent, for a mother or father who will attend those parent-teacher conferences or help with homework or turn off the TV, put away the video games, read to their child. I speak to you not just as a President, but as a father, when I say that responsibility for our children's education must begin at home. That is not a Democratic issue or a Republican issue; that's an American issue. <p>There is, of course, another responsibility we have to our children. And that's the responsibility to ensure that we do not pass on to them a debt they cannot pay. That is critical. [<i>Applause</i>] I agree, absolutely. See, I know we can get some consensus in here. [<i>Laughter</i>] With the deficit we inherited, the cost of the crisis we face, and the long-term challenges we must meet, it has never been more important to ensure that as our economy recovers, we do what it takes to bring this deficit down. That is critical. <p>Now, I'm proud that we passed a recovery plan free of earmarks, and I want to pass a budget next year that ensures that each dollar we spend reflects only our most important national priorities. <p>And yesterday I held a fiscal summit where I pledged to cut the deficit in half by the end of my first term in office. My administration has also begun to go line by line through the Federal budget in order to eliminate wasteful and ineffective programs. As you can imagine, this is a process that will take some time. But we have already identified $2 trillion in savings over the next decade. <p>In this budget, we will end education programs that don't work and end direct payments to large agribusiness that don't need them. We'll eliminate the no-bid contracts that have wasted billions in Iraq and reform our defense budget so that we're not paying for cold war-era weapons systems we don't use. We will root out the waste and fraud and abuse in our Medicare program that doesn't make our seniors any healthier. We will restore a sense of fairness and balance to our Tax Code by finally ending the tax breaks for corporations that ship our jobs overseas. <p>In order to save our children from a future of debt, we will also end the tax breaks for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans. Now, let me be clear--let me be absolutely clear, because I know you'll end up hearing some of the same claims that rolling back these tax breaks means a massive tax increase on the American people: If your family earns less than $250,000 a year, a quarter million dollars a year, you will not see your taxes increased a single dime. I repeat: Not one single dime. In fact--not a dime--in fact, the recovery plan provides a tax cut--that's right, a tax cut--for 95 percent of working families. And by the way, these checks are on the way. <p>Now, to preserve our long-term fiscal health, we must also address the growing costs in Medicare and Social Security. Comprehensive health care reform is the best way to strengthen Medicare for years to come. And we must also begin a conversation on how to do the same for Social Security, while creating tax-free universal savings accounts for all Americans. <p>Finally, because we're also suffering from a deficit of trust, I am committed to restoring a sense of honesty and accountability to our budget. That is why this budget looks ahead 10 years and accounts for spending that was left out under the old rules. And for the first time, that includes the full cost of fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. For 7 years, we have been a nation at war. No longer will we hide its price. <p>Along with our outstanding national security team, I'm now carefully reviewing our policies in both wars, and I will soon announce a way forward in Iraq that leaves Iraq to its people and responsibly ends this war. <p>And with our friends and allies, we will forge a new and comprehensive strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan to defeat Al Qaida and combat extremism, because I will not allow terrorists to plot against the American people from safe havens halfway around the world. We will not allow it. <p>As we meet here tonight, our men and women in uniform stand watch abroad and more are readying to deploy. To each and every one of them and to the families who bear the quiet burden of their absence, Americans are united in sending one message: We honor your service; we are inspired by your sacrifice; and you have our unyielding support. <p>To relieve the strain on our forces, my budget increases the number of our soldiers and marines. And to keep our sacred trust with those who serve, we will raise their pay and give our veterans the expanded health care and benefits that they have earned. <p>To overcome extremism, we must also be vigilant in upholding the values our troops defend, because there is no force in the world more powerful than the example of America. And that is why I have ordered the closing of the detention center at Guantanamo Bay and will seek swift and certain justice for captured terrorists. Because living our values doesn't make us weaker, it makes us safer and it makes us stronger. And that is why I can stand here tonight and say without exception or equivocation that the United States of America does not torture. We can make that commitment here tonight. <p>In words and deeds, we are showing the world that a new era of engagement has begun. For we know that America cannot meet the threats of this century alone, but the world cannot meet them without America. We cannot shun the negotiating table, nor ignore the foes or forces that could do us harm. We are instead called to move forward with the sense of confidence and candor that serious times demand. <p>To seek progress towards a secure and lasting peace between Israel and her neighbors, we have appointed an envoy to sustain our effort. To meet the challenges of the 21st century--from terrorism to nuclear proliferation, from pandemic disease to cyber threats to crushing poverty--we will strengthen old alliances, forge new ones, and use all elements of our national power. <p>And to respond to an economic crisis that is global in scope, we are working with the nations of the G-20 to restore confidence in our financial system, avoid the possibility of escalating protectionism, and spur demand for American goods in markets across the globe. For the world depends on us having a strong economy, just as our economy depends on the strength of the world's. <p>As we stand at this crossroads of history, the eyes of all people in all nations are once again upon us, watching to see what we do with this moment, waiting for us to lead. Those of us gathered here tonight have been called to govern in extraordinary times. It is a tremendous burden, but also a great privilege, one that has been entrusted to few generations of Americans. For in our hands lies the ability to shape our world for good or for ill. <p>I know that it's easy to lose sight of this truth, to become cynical and doubtful, consumed with the petty and the trivial. But in my life, I have also learned that hope is found in unlikely places, that inspiration often comes not from those with the most power or celebrity, but from the dreams and aspirations of ordinary Americans who are anything but ordinary. <p>I think of Leonard Abess, a bank president from Miami who reportedly cashed out of his company, took a $60 million bonus, and gave it out to all 399 people who worked for him, plus another 72 who used to work for him. He didn't tell anyone, but when the local newspaper found out, he simply said, \\"I knew some of these people since I was 7 years old. It didn't feel right getting the money myself.\\" <p>I think about Greensburg, Kansas, a town that was completely destroyed by a tornado, but is being rebuilt by its residents as a global example of how clean energy can power an entire community, how it can bring jobs and businesses to a place where piles of bricks and rubble once lay. \\"The tragedy was terrible,\\" said one of the men who helped them rebuild. \\"But the folks here know that it also provided an incredible opportunity.\\" <p>I think about Ty'Sheoma Bethea, the young girl from that school I visited in Dillon, South Carolina, a place where the ceilings leak, the paint peels off the walls, and they have to stop teaching six times a day because the train barrels by their classroom. She had been told that her school is hopeless, but the other day after class she went to the public library and typed up a letter to the people sitting in this Chamber. She even asked her principal for the money to buy a stamp. The letter asks us for help and says: \\"We are just students trying to become lawyers, doctors, Congressmen like yourself, and one day President, so we can make a change to not just the State of South Carolina, but also the world. We are not quitters.\\" That's what she said: \\"We are not quitters.\\" <p>These words and these stories tell us something about the spirit of the people who sent us here. They tell us that even in the most trying times, amid the most difficult circumstances, there is a generosity, a resilience, a decency, and a determination that perseveres, a willingness to take responsibility for our future and for posterity. Their resolve must be our inspiration. Their concerns must be our cause. And we must show them and all our people that we are equal to the task before us. <p>I know--look, I know that we haven't agreed on every issue thus far. [<i>Laughter</i>] There are surely times in the future where we will part ways. But I also know that every American who is sitting here tonight loves this country and wants it to succeed. I know that. That must be the starting point for every debate we have in the coming months and where we return after those debates are done. That is the foundation on which the American people expect us to build common ground. <p>And if we do, if we come together and lift this Nation from the depths of this crisis, if we put our people back to work and restart the engine of our prosperity, if we confront without fear the challenges of our time and summon that enduring spirit of an America that does not quit, then someday years from now our children can tell their children that this was the time when we performed, in the words that are carved into this very Chamber, \\"something worthy to be remembered.\\" <p>Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"35" "\"Hello, everybody. This afternoon I met with members of my economic team and some key leaders in Congress to discuss the threats to our financial markets in this new century and how we must transform our regulatory system to meet them. <p>In recent months, we've seen turmoil on Wall Street like we haven't seen in decades, as major financial institutions have faltered or been sold off. And we have seen the fallout on Main Street, as the market crisis became a credit crisis, and families struggle to get loans to buy a home or a car, to start a small business or to pay for college. <p>This financial crisis was not inevitable. It happened when Wall Street wrongly presumed the markets would continuously rise, and traded in complex financial products without fully evaluating the risks. Here in Washington, our regulations lagged behind changes in our markets, and too often, regulators failed to use the authority that they had to protect consumers, markets, and the economy. <p>We now know from painful experience that we can no longer sustain 21--21st century markets with 20th century regulations, and that while free markets are the key to our progress, they do not give us free license to take whatever we can get, however we can get it. <p>But let me be clear: The choice we face is not between some oppressive government-run economy or a chaotic and unforgiving capitalism. Rather, strong financial markets require clear rules of the road, not to hinder financial institutions, but to protect consumers and investors, and ultimately to keep those financial institutions strong; not to stifle, but to advance competition, growth, and prosperity. And not just to manage crises, but to prevent crises from happening in the first place, by restoring accountability, transparency, and trust in our financial markets. These must be the goals of a 21st century regulatory framework that we seek to create. <p>Our meeting today was a critical first step in developing that framework. And I'm grateful for the legislative leaders to join me here with Secretary Geithner and Dr. Summers. We had a terrific conversation. I think this is an area where there is a growing consensus and where I think the capacity for people from different political parties and different perspectives to come together and solve problems. <p>I've asked my economic team to develop recommendations for regulatory reform, and then to collaborate with these Members of Congress and others from both sides of the aisle so they can start crafting legislation in the coming weeks and months. <p>We will not always see eye to eye in our work. We may disagree, and disagree strongly, about particular provisions. But there are certain core principles that I believe must shape any proposal for reform, and these are the principles that will guide our work. <p>First, financial institutions that pose serious risks, systemic risks, to our market should be subject to serious oversight by the Government. And here's why: When the Federal Reserve steps in as a lender of last resort, which it's had to do repeatedly since this financial crisis began, it's providing an insurance policy underwritten by the American taxpayer. And taxpayers should be assured that the Fed thoroughly understands the institutions that it is effectively insuring and actively monitoring them to make sure that they're not taking risks that will cost taxpayers in the long term. <p>Second, our regulatory system and each of our major markets must be strong enough to withstand both system-wide stress and the failure of one or more large institutions. And that means modernizing and streamlining our regulatory structure, and monitoring both the scale and scope of risks that institutions can take. <p>Third, to rebuild trust in our markets, we must redouble our efforts to promote openness, transparency, and plain language throughout our financial system. <p>Fourth, we need strong and uniform supervision of financial products marketed to investors and consumers. And we should base this oversight not on abstract models created by the institutions themselves, but on actual data on how actual people make financial decisions. <p>Fifth, we must demand strict accountability, starting at the top. Executives who violate the public trust must be held responsible. <p>Sixth, we must make sure our system of regulations covers appropriate institutions and markets, and is comprehensive and free of gaps, and prevents those being regulated from cherry-picking among competing regulators. <p>Finally, we must recognize that the challenges we face are not just American challenges, they are global challenges. So as we work to set high regulatory standards here in the United States, we have to challenge other countries around the world to do the same. That's how we will stop financial crises from spilling across borders and prevent global crises of the sort that we now face. <p>In the end, the work of constructing a new regulatory framework will not be easy, and reform will not happen overnight. But we must never forget that our market has always been the engine of America's success, rewarding innovators and risk-takers, creating opportunities for generations of Americans and prosperity that is the envy of the world. <p>And I have the utmost confidence that if these outstanding public servants standing beside me are working in concert, if we all do our jobs, if we once again guide the market's invisible hand with a higher principle, our markets will recover. Our economy will once again thrive, and America will once again lead the world in this new century as it did in the last. <p>So thank you very much, everybody. See you.\" "
"36" "\"All right. Before I begin, I have some good news to report. Starting today, the recently unemployed will benefit from a COBRA subsidy that will make health care affordable. At a time when health care is too often too expensive for the unemployed, this critical step will help 7 million Americans who've lost their jobs keep their health care. That's 7 million Americans who will have one less thing to worry about when they go to sleep at night. Equally important, it prevents a further downward spiral in our economy by ensuring that these families don't fall further behind because of mounting health care bills. And it is a direct result of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that I signed into law the other week, a recovery plan that has only just begun to yield benefits for the American people. <p>But while we must add to our deficits in the short term to provide immediate relief to families and get our economy moving, it is only by restoring fiscal discipline over the long run that we can produce sustained growth and shared prosperity. And that is precisely the purpose of the budget I'm submitting to Congress today. <p>In keeping with my commitment to make our Government more open and transparent, this budget is an honest accounting of where we are and where we intend to go. For too long, our budget has not told the whole truth about how precious tax dollars are spent. Large sums have been left off the books, including the true cost of fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. And that kind of dishonest accounting is not how you run your family budgets at home; it's not how your Government should run its budgets either. We need to be honest with ourselves about what costs are being racked up, because that's how we'll come to grips with the hard choices that lie ahead. And there are some hard choices that lie ahead. <p>Just as a family has to make hard choices about where to spend and where to save, so do we as a Government. You know, there are times where you can afford to redecorate your house and there are times where you need to focus on rebuilding its foundation. Today, we have to focus on foundations. Having inherited a trillion-dollar deficit that will take a long time for us to close, we need to focus on what we need to move the economy forward, not on what's nice to have. And that's why, on Monday, I held a fiscal summit to come up with a plan to put us on a more sustainable path. And that is why, as we develop a full budget that will come out this spring, we're going to go through our books page by page, line by line, to eliminate waste and inefficiency. This is a process that will take some time, but in the last 30 days alone, we have already identified $2 trillion in deficit reductions that will help us cut our deficit in half by the end of my first term. <p>For example, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack is saving nearly $20 million with reforms to modernize programs and streamline bureaucracy. Interior Secretary Salazar will save nearly $200 million by stopping wasteful payments to clean up abandoned coal mines that just happen to have already been cleaned up. Education Secretary Duncan is set to save tens of millions dollars more by cutting an ineffective mentoring program for students, a program whose mission is being carried out by 100 other programs in 13 other agencies. <p>We've targeted almost $50 billion in savings by cracking down on overpayments of benefits and tax loopholes; that is money going to businesses and people to which they are simply not entitled. <p>This is just the beginning of the cuts we're going to make. No part of my budget will be free from scrutiny or untouched by reform. We will end no-bid contracts that have wasted billions in Iraq and end tax breaks for corporations that ship jobs overseas. And we'll save billions of dollars by rolling back tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans while giving a middle class tax cut to 95 percent of hard-working families. But we'll also have to do something more. We will, each and every one of us, have to compromise on certain things we care about, but which we simply cannot afford right now. That's a sacrifice we're going to have to make. <p>Now, I know that this will not always sit well with the special interests and their lobbyists here in Washington, who think our budget and tax system is just fine as it is. No wonder; it works for them. I don't think that we can continue on our current course. I work for the American people, and I'm determined to bring the change that the people voted for last November. And that means cutting what we don't need to pay for what we do. <p>Now, what I won't do--as I mentioned at the joint session speech a couple of days ago--what I won't do is sacrifice investments that will make America stronger, more competitive, and more prosperous in the 21st century; investments that have been neglected for too long. These investments must be America's priorities, and that's what they will be when I sign this budget into law. <p>Because our future depends on our ability to break free from oil that's controlled by foreign dictators, we need to make clean, renewable energy the profitable kind of energy. That's why we'll be working with Congress on legislation that places a market-based cap on carbon pollution and drives the production of more renewable energy. <p>And to support this effort, we'll invest $15 billion a year for 10 years to develop technologies like wind power and solar power and to build more efficient cars and trucks right here in America. It's an investment that will put people back to work, make our Nation more secure, and help us meet our obligation as good stewards of the Earth we all inhabit. <p>Because of crushing health care costs and the fact that they drag down our economy, bankrupt our families, and represent the fastest growing part of our budget, we must make it a priority to give every single American quality, affordable health care. That's why this budget builds on what we have already done over the last month to expand coverage for millions more children, to computerize health records to cut waste and reduce medical errors, which save, by the way, not only tax dollars but lives. <p>With this budget, we are making a historic commitment to comprehensive health care reform. It's a step that will not only make families healthier and companies more competitive, but over the long term, it will also help us bring down our deficit. <p>And because countries that out-teach us today will outcompete us tomorrow, we must make excellence the hallmark of an American education. That's why this budget supports the historic investment in education we made as part of the recovery plan by matching new resources with new reform. We want to create incentives for better teacher performance and pathways for advancement. We want to reward success in the classroom. And we'll invest in innovative initiatives that will help schools meet high standards and close achievement gaps, preparing students for the high-paying jobs of tomorrow, but also helping them fulfill their God-given potential. <p>These must be the priorities reflected in our budget. For in the end, a budget is more than simply numbers on a page. It is a measure of how well we are living up to our obligations to ourselves and one another. It is a test for our commitment to making America what it was always meant to be, a place where all things are possible for all people. That is a commitment we are making in this, my first budget, and it is a commitment I will work every day to uphold in the months and years ahead. <p>I want to thank all of you for being here, but I also want to give a special thanks to Peter Orszag, Rob Nabors. They have been working tirelessly in getting this budget prepared, getting it out in a timely fashion. They're going to be doing more work in the weeks to come. And I am absolutely confident that as messy as this process can sometimes be, that we are going to be able to produce a budget that delivers for the American people. <p>All right. Thank you. <p>No questions today. Good to see you though.\" "
"37" "\"<i>The President. </i>Thank you very much. Please be seated. To General Hejlik, for the outstanding work that he is doing, thank you so much. Good morning, marines. <p><i>Audience members. </i>Hooah! <p><i>The President. </i>Good morning, Camp Lejeune. <p><i>Audience members. </i>Hooah! <p><i>The President. </i>Good morning, Jacksonville. Thank you so much for the extraordinarily welcome. Just a few additional people I want to note are here: Governor Bev Perdue of North Carolina--where is Governor Perdue? Stand up, please. We have the new United States Senator from North Carolina, Kay Hagan; members of the North Carolina congressional delegation who are here today, please stand and wave. And thank you, Staff Sergeant Mink, for the outstanding rendition of our national anthem. <p>I also want to acknowledge all of our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, and that includes the Camp Lejeune marines now serving with--or soon joining--the 2d Marine Expeditionary Force in Iraq; those with Special Purpose Marine air force--Air Ground Task Force in Afghanistan; and those among the 8,000 marines who are preparing to deploy to Afghanistan. We have you in our prayers. We pay tribute to your service. We thank you and your families for all that you do for America. And I want you all to know that there is no higher honor or greater responsibility than serving as your Commander in Chief. Thanks to all of you. <p>I also want to take this opportunity to acknowledge Ryan Crocker, who recently completed his service as our Ambassador to Iraq. This is one of the unsung heroes of this multiyear effort. Throughout his career, Ryan has always taken on the toughest assignments. He is an example of the very best that this Nation has to offer, and we owe him a great debt of gratitude. He carried on his work with an extraordinary degree of cooperation with two of our finest generals, General David Petraeus and General Ray Odierno, who will be critical in carrying forward the strategy that I will outline today. <p>Next month will mark the sixth anniversary of the war in Iraq. By any measure, this has already been a long war. For the men and women of America's Armed Forces, and for your families, the war has been one of the most extraordinary chapters of service in the history of our Nation. Many of you have endured tour after tour after tour of duty. You've known the dangers of combat and the lonely distance from loved ones. You have fought against tyranny and disorder. You have bled for your best friends and for unknown Iraqis. And you have borne an enormous burden for your fellow citizens, while extending a precious opportunity to the people of Iraq. Under tough circumstances, the men and women of the United States military have served with honor and succeeded beyond any expectation. <p>Today I've come to speak to you about how the war in Iraq will end. To understand where we need to go in Iraq, it's important for the American people to understand where we now stand. Thanks in great measure to your service and your sacrifice, and your family's sacrifices, the situation in Iraq has improved. Violence has been reduced substantially from the horrific sectarian killing of 2006 and 2007. Al Qaida in Iraq has been dealt a serious blow by our troops and Iraq's security forces and through our partnership with Sunni Arabs. The capacity of Iraq's security forces has improved, and Iraq's leaders have taken steps towards political accommodation. The relative peace and strong participation in January's Provincial elections sent a powerful message to the world about how far Iraqis have come in pursuing their aspirations through a peaceful political process. <p>But let there be no doubt: Iraq is not yet secure, and there will be difficult days ahead. Violence will continue to be a part of life in Iraq. Too many fundamental political questions about Iraq's future remain unresolved. Too many Iraqis are still displaced or destitute. Declining oil revenues will put an added strain on a government that has difficulty delivering basic service. Not all of Iraq's neighbors are contributing to its security. Some are working at times to undermine it. And even as Iraq's Government is on a surer footing, it is not yet a full partner, politically and economically, in the region or with the international community. <p>In short, today there is a renewed cause for hope in Iraq, but that hope is resting on an emerging foundation. On my first full day in office, I directed my national security team to undertake a comprehensive review of our strategy in Iraq to determine the best way to strengthen that foundation, while strengthening American national security. I have listened to my Secretary of Defense, Robert Gates. I have listened to the Joint Chiefs of Staff, led by Admiral Mullen, as well as the commanders on the ground. We have acted with careful consideration of events on the ground, with respect for the security agreements between the United States and Iraq, and with a critical recognition that the long-term solution in Iraq must be political, not military, because the most important decisions that have to be made about Iraq's future must now be made by Iraqis. <p>We've also taken into account the simple reality that America can no longer afford to see Iraq in isolation from other priorities. We face the challenge of refocusing on Afghanistan and Pakistan, of relieving the burden of our military and military families, of rebuilding our struggling economy. These are challenges that we must meet and will meet. <p>Today I can announce that our review is complete, and that the United States will pursue a new strategy to end the war in Iraq through a transition to full Iraqi responsibility. This strategy is grounded in a clear and achievable goal shared by the Iraqi people and the American people: an Iraq that is sovereign, stable, and self-reliant. To achieve that goal, we will work to promote an Iraqi Government that is just, representative, and accountable, and that provides neither support nor safe haven to terrorists. We will help Iraq build new ties of trade and commerce with the world. And we will forge a partnership with the people and Government of Iraq that contributes to the peace and security of the region. <p>But understand this, we--here's what we will not do: We will not let the pursuit of the perfect stand in the way of achievable goals. We cannot rid Iraq of every single individual who opposes America or sympathizes with our adversaries. We cannot police Iraq's streets indefinitely until they are completely safe, nor can we stay until Iraq's union is perfect. We cannot sustain indefinitely a commitment that has put a strain on our military and will cost the American people nearly a trillion dollars. America's men and women in uniform--so many of you--have fought block by block, Province by Province, year after year, to give the Iraqis this chance to choose a better future. Now we must ask the Iraqi people to seize it. <p>The first part of this strategy is therefore the responsible removal of our combat brigades from Iraq. As a candidate for President, I made clear my support for a timeline of 16 months to carry out this drawdown, while pledging to consult closely with our military commanders upon taking office to ensure that we preserve the gains we've made and to protect our troops. These consultations are now complete, and I have chosen a timeline that will remove our combat brigades over the next 18 months. <p>So let me say this as plainly as I can: By August 31, 2010, our combat mission in Iraq will end. As we carry out this drawdown, my highest priority will be the safety and security of our troops and civilians in Iraq. So we will proceed carefully, and I will consult closely with my military commanders on the ground and with the Iraqi Government. There will surely be difficult periods and tactical adjustments. But our enemies should be left with no doubt: This plan gives our military the forces and flexibility they need to support our Iraqi partners and to succeed. <p>After we remove our combat brigades, our mission will change from combat to supporting the Iraqi Government and its security forces as they take the absolute lead in securing their country. As I have long said, we will retain a transitional force to carry out three distinct functions: training, equipping, and advising Iraqi security forces as long as they remain nonsectarian; conducting targeted counterterrorism missions; and protecting our ongoing civilian and military efforts within Iraq. Initially, this force will likely be made up of 35,000 to 50,000 U.S. troops. <p>Through this period of transition, we will carry out further redeployments. And under the status of forces agreement with the Iraqi Government, I intend to remove all U.S. troops from Iraq by the end of 2011. So we will complete this transition to Iraqi responsibility, and we will bring our troops home with the honor that they have earned. <p>As we remove our combat brigades, we will pursue the second part of our strategy: sustained diplomacy on behalf of a more peaceful and prosperous Iraq. The drawdown of our military should send a clear signal that Iraq's future is now its own responsibility. The long-term success of the Iraqi nation will depend on decisions made by Iraq's leaders and the fortitude of the Iraqi people. Iraq is a sovereign country with legitimate institutions; America cannot and should not take their place. However, a strong political, diplomatic, and civilian effort on our part can advance progress and help lay a foundation for lasting peace and security. <p>This effort will be led by our new Ambassador to Iraq, Chris Hill. From his time in the Peace Corps to his work in Kosovo and Korea, Ambassador Hill has been tested, and he has shown the pragmatism and skill that we need right now. And he will be supported by the courageous and capable work of so many American diplomats and aid workers who are now serving in Iraq. <p>Going forward, we can make a difference on several fronts. We will work with the United Nations to support national elections, while helping Iraqis improve local government. We can serve as an honest broker in pursuit of fair and durable agreements on issues that have divided Iraq's leaders. And just as we will support Iraq's security forces, we will help Iraq's institutions strengthen their capacity to protect the rule of law, confront corruption, and deliver basic services. <p>Diplomacy and assistance is also required to help millions of displaced Iraqis. These men, women, and children are living--are a living consequence of this war and a challenge to stability in the region, and they must be a part of Iraq's reconciliation and recovery. America has a strategic interest and a moral responsibility to act. And in the coming months, my administration will provide more assistance and take steps to increase international support for countries already hosting refugees. We'll cooperate with others to resettle Iraqis facing great personal risk. And we will work with the Iraqi Government over time to resettle refugees and displaced Iraqis within Iraq, because there are few more powerful indicators of lasting peace than when displaced citizens return home. <p>Now, before I go any further, I want to take a moment to speak directly to the people of Iraq. You are a great nation, rooted in the cradle of civilization. You are joined together by enduring accomplishments and a history that connects you as surely as the two rivers carved into your land. In years past, you have persevered through tyranny and terror, through personal insecurity and sectarian violence. And instead of giving in to the forces of disunion, you stepped back from a descent into civil war and showed a proud resilience that deserves our respect. <p>Our nations have known difficult times together. But ours is a bond forged by shared bloodshed and countless friendships among our people. We Americans have offered our most precious resource, our young men and women, to work with you to rebuild what was destroyed by despotism, to root out our common enemies, and to seek peace and prosperity for our children and grandchildren, and for yours. <p>There are those who will try to prevent that future for Iraq, who will insist that Iraq's differences cannot be reconciled without more killing. They represent the forces that destroy nations and lead only to despair, and they will test our will in the months and years to come. America too has known these forces. We endured the pain of civil war and bitter divisions of region and race. But hostility and hatred are no match for justice. They offer no pathway to peace, and they must not stand between the people of Iraq and a future of reconciliation and hope. <p>So to the Iraqi people, let me be clear about America's intentions. The United States pursues no claim on your territory or your resources. We respect your sovereignty and the tremendous sacrifices you have made for your country. We seek a full transition to Iraqi responsibility for the security of your country. And going forward, we can build a lasting relationship founded upon mutual interests and mutual respect as Iraq takes its rightful place in the community of nations. <p>That leads me to the third part of our strategy, comprehensive American engagement across the region. The future of Iraq is inseparable from the future of the broader Middle East, so we must work with our friends and partners to establish a new framework that advances Iraq's security and the region's. It's time for Iraq to be a full partner in regional dialog and for Iraq's neighbors to establish productive and normalized relations with Iraq. And going forward, the United States will pursue principled and sustained engagement with all of the nations in the region--all the nations in the region, and that, by the way, will include Iran and Syria. <p>This reflects a fundamental truth: We can no longer deal with regional challenges in isolation. We need a smarter, more sustainable, and comprehensive approach. That is why we are renewing our diplomacy, while relieving the burden on our military. That is why we are refocusing on Al Qaida in Afghanistan and Pakistan, developing a strategy to use all elements of American power to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon, and actively seeking a lasting peace between Israel and the Arab world. And that is why we have named three of America's most accomplished diplomats--George Mitchell, Dennis Ross, and Richard Holbrooke--to support Secretary Hillary Clinton and myself as we carry forward this agenda. <p>Every nation and every group must know--whether you wish America good or ill--that the end of the war in Iraq will enable a new era of American leadership and engagement in the Middle East. This does not lessen our commitment. We are going to be enhancing that commitment to bring about a better day in that region, and that era has just begun. <p>Finally, I want to be very clear about my strategy--that my strategy for ending the war in Iraq does not end with military plans or diplomatic agendas; it endures through our commitment to uphold the sacred trust with every man and woman who has served in Iraq. <p>You make up a fraction of the American population, but in an age when so many people and institutions have acted irresponsibly, so many of you did the opposite, you volunteered to bear the heaviest burden. [<i>Applause</i>] You volunteered to bear the heaviest burden. And for you and your families, the war does not end when you come home. It lives on in the memories of your fellow soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines who gave their lives. It endures in the wound that is slow to heal, the disability that isn't going away, the dream that wakes you up at night, the stiffening in your spine when a car backfires down the street. <p>You and your families have done your duty, now a grateful nation must do ours. That is why, as reflected in my new budget, I am increasing the number of soldiers and marines, so that we lessen the burden on those who are serving. That is why I've committed to expanding our system of veterans health care to serve more patients and to provide better care in more places. We will continue building new wounded warrior facilities across America and invest in new ways of identifying and treating the signature wounds of this war, Posttraumatic Stress Disorder and traumatic brain injury, as well as other combat injuries. <p>We also know that service does not end with the person wearing the uniform. In her visits with military families across the country, my wife Michelle has learned firsthand about the unique burden that your families endure every day. I want you to know this: Military families are a top priority for Michelle and me, and they will be a top priority for my administration. <p>We will raise military pay and continue providing--[<i>applause</i>]--I figured that'd be an applause line, Secretary Gates. [<i>Laughter</i>] We're going to continue providing quality childcare, job training for spouses, and expanded counseling and outreach to families that have known the separation and stress of war. We will also heed the lesson of history--that those who fight in battle can form the backbone of our middle class--by implementing a 21st-century GI bill to help our veterans live out their dreams. <p>As a nation, we've had our share of debates about the war in Iraq. It has at times divided us as a people. To this very day, there are some Americans who want to stay in Iraq longer and some who want to leave faster. But there should be no disagreement on what the men and women of our military have achieved. <p>And so I want to be very clear: We sent our troops to Iraq to do away with Saddam Hussein's regime, and you got the job done. We kept our troops in Iraq to help establish a sovereign government, and you got the job done. And we will leave the Iraqi people with a hard-earned opportunity to live a better life. That is your achievement; that is the prospect that you have made possible. <p>There are many lessons to be learned from what we've experienced. We have learned that America must go to war with clearly defined goals, which is why I've ordered a review of our policy in Afghanistan. We have learned that we must always weigh the costs of action and communicate those costs candidly to the American people, which is why I've put Iraq and Afghanistan into my budget. We have learned that the 21st--in the 21st century, we have to use all elements of American power to achieve our objectives, which is why I'm committed to building our civilian national security capacity so that the burden is not continually pushed onto our military. We have learned that our political leaders must pursue the broad and bipartisan support that our national security policies depend on, which is why I will consult with Congress in carrying out my plans. And we have learned the importance of working closely with friends and allies, which is why we are launching a new era of engagement and diplomacy in the world. <p>The starting point for our policies must always be the safety and security of the American people. I know that you, the men and women of the finest fighting force in the history of the world, can meet any challenge and defeat any foe. And as long as I am your Commander in Chief, I promise you that I will only send you into harm's way when it is absolutely necessary and provide you with the equipment and support you need to get the job done. That is the most important lesson of all, for the consequences of war are dire, the sacrifices immeasurable. You know because you've seen those sacrifices; you've lived them. And we all honor you for them. <p><i>Semper Fidelis</i>--it means always being faithful to the Corps and to country and to the memory of fallen comrades like Corporal Jonathan Yale and Lance Corporal Jordan Haerter. These young men enlisted in a time of war, knowing they would face great danger. They came here, to Camp Lejeune, as they trained for their mission. Last April, they were standing guard in Anbar. In an age when suicide is a weapon, they were suddenly faced with an oncoming truck filled with explosives. These two marines stood their ground; these two marines opened fire; these two marines stopped that truck. When the thousands of pounds of explosives detonated, they had saved 50 fellow marines, they had saved Iraqi police who would have been in the truck's path, but Corporal Yale and Lance Corporal Haerter lost their own lives. Jonathan was 21, and Jordan was 19. <p>In the town where Jordan Haerter was from, a bridge was dedicated in his name. One marine who traveled to the ceremony said: \\"We flew here from all over the country to pay tribute to our friend Jordan, who risked his life to save us. We wouldn't be here without him.\\" <p>America's time in Iraq is filled with stories of men and women like this. Their names are written into the bridges and town squares of this country. They are etched into stone at Arlington and in quiet places of rest across our land. They are spoken in schools and on city blocks. They live on in the memories of those who wear your uniform, in the hearts of those they loved, and in the freedom of the nation they served. <p>Each American who has served in Iraq has their own story. Each of you has your own story. And that story is now a part of the history of the United States of America, a nation that exists only because free men and women have bled for it, from the beaches of Normandy to the deserts of Anbar, from the mountains of Korea to the streets of Kandahar. You teach us that the price of freedom is great. Your sacrifice should challenge all of us--every single American--to ask what we can do to be better citizens. <p>There will be more danger in the months ahead. We will face new tests and unforeseen trials. But thanks to the sacrifices of those who have served, we have forged hard-earned progress, we are leaving Iraq to its people, and we have begun the work of ending this war. <p>Thank you. God bless you, God bless the United States of America. Semper Fi. Hooah!\" "
"38" "\"Two years ago, we set out on a journey to change the way that Washington works. We sought a Government that served not the interests of powerful lobbyists or the wealthiest few, but the middle class Americans I met every day in every community along the campaign trail, responsible men and women who are working harder than ever, worrying about their jobs, and struggling to raise their families. In so many town halls and backyards, they spoke of their hopes for a Government that finally confronts the challenges that their families face every day, a Government that treats their tax dollars as responsibly as they treat their own hard-earned paychecks. <p>That's the change I promised as a candidate for President. It is the change the American people voted for in November. And it is the change represented by the budget I sent to Congress this week. <p>During the campaign, I promised a fair and balanced Tax Code that would cut taxes for 95 percent of working Americans, roll back the tax breaks for those making over $250,000 a year, and end the tax breaks for corporations that ship our jobs overseas. This budget does that. <p>I promised an economy run on clean, renewable energy that will create new American jobs, new American industries, and free us from the dangerous grip of foreign oil. This budget puts us on that path, through a market-based cap on carbon pollution that will make renewable energy the profitable kind of energy, through investments in wind power and solar power, advanced biofuels, clean coal, and more fuel-efficient American cars and American trucks. <p>I promised to bring down the crushing cost of health care, a cost that bankrupts one American every 30 seconds, forces small businesses to close their doors, and saddles our Government with more debt. This budget keeps that promise, with a historic commitment to reform that will lead to lower costs and quality, affordable health care for every American. <p>I promised an education system that will prepare every American to compete, so Americans can win in a global economy. This budget will help us meet that goal, with new incentives for teacher performance and pathways for advancement, new tax credits that will make college more affordable for all who want to go, and new support to ensure that those who do go finish their degree. <p>This budget also reflects the stark reality of what we've inherited, a trillion dollar deficit, a financial crisis, and a costly recession. Given this reality, we'll have to be more vigilant than ever in eliminating the programs we don't need in order to make room for the investments we do need. I promised to do this by going through the Federal budget page by page and line by line. That's a process we have already begun, and I am pleased to say that we've already identified 2 trillion dollars worth of deficit reductions over the next decade. We've also restored a sense of honesty and transparency to our budget, which is why this one accounts for spending that was hidden or left out under the old rules. <p>I realize that passing this budget won't be easy. Because it represents real and dramatic change, it also represents a threat to the status quo in Washington. I know that the insurance industry won't like the idea that they'll have to bid competitively to continue offering Medicare coverage, but that's how we'll help preserve and protect Medicare and lower health care costs for American families. I know that banks and big student lenders won't like the idea that we're ending their huge taxpayer subsidies, but that's how we'll save taxpayers nearly $50 billion and make college more affordable. I know that oil and gas companies won't like us ending nearly $30 billion in tax breaks, but that's how we'll help fund a renewable energy economy that will create new jobs and new industries. In other words, I know these steps won't sit well with the special interests and lobbyists who are invested in the old ways of doing business, and I know they're gearing up for a fight as we speak. My message to them is this: So am I. <p>The system we have now might work for the powerful and well-connected interests that have run Washington for far too long, but I don't. I work for the American people. I didn't come here to do the same thing we've been doing or to take small steps forward, I came to provide the sweeping change that this country demanded when it went to the polls in November. That is the change this budget starts to make, and that is the change I'll be fighting for in the weeks ahead--change that will grow our economy, expand our middle class, and keep the American Dream alive for all those men and women who have believed in this journey from the day it began. <p>Thanks for listening.\" "
"39" "\"Thank you, DOT. Thank you very much. Please have a seat. Thank you. Vice President Biden; Secretary LaHood; our cochairs of the TIGER team, Lana Hurdle and Joel Szabat; thank you all for the extraordinary work that you guys are doing each and every day. <p>I want to begin with some plain talk: The economy's performance in the last quarter of 2008 was the worst in over 25 years. And, frankly, the first quarter of this year holds out little promise for better returns. <p>From Wall Street to Main Street to kitchen tables all across America, our economic challenge is clear. And now it is up to us to meet it. <p>One of the challenges is to jump-start lending, so businesses and families can finance the purchases of everything from inventory and payroll to a home, a car, or a college education. We have to jump-start the credit markets and get private lending going again. No matter how good of a job we do here, that's going to be critical. And that's why the Treasury and the Federal Reserve are launching today the Consumer and Business Lending Initiative, which, when fully implemented, will generate up to a trillion dollars of new lending for the American people. And this will help unlock our frozen credit markets, which is absolutely essential for economic recovery. <p>But we also know that there cannot be a sustained recovery unless and until we put Americans back to work and put money in their pockets. <p>Two weeks ago, I signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the most sweeping economic recovery plan in history. And already, its impact is being felt across this Nation. Hard-working families can now worry a little less about next month's bills because of the tax cut they'll soon find in the mail. Renewable energy companies that were once downsizing are now finding ways to expand. And transportation projects that were once on hold are now starting up again, as part of the largest new investment in America's infrastructure since President Eisenhower built the Interstate Highway System. <p>Of the 3 1/2 million jobs that will be created and saved over the next 2 years as a result of this recovery plan, 400,000 will be jobs rebuilding our crumbling roads, bridges, and schools, repairing our faulty levees and dams, connecting nearly every American to broadband, and upgrading the buses and trains that commuters take every day. Many of these projects will be coordinated by Secretary LaHood and all of you at the Department of Transportation. And I want you to know that the American public is grateful to public servants like you, men and women whose work isn't always recognized, but whose jobs are critical to our Nation's safety, security, and prosperity. You have never been more important than you are right now, and for that we are all grateful. <p>Now, in the coming days and weeks, my administration will be announcing more details about the kinds of transportation projects that will be launched as part of the recovery plan. But today I want to speak about an investment we are making in one part of our infrastructure. Through the Recovery Act, we will be investing $28 billion in our highways, money that every one of our 50 States can start using immediately to put people back to work. It's an investment being made at an unprecedented pace, thanks in large part to Joe Biden, who's leading the effort to get the money out the door quickly. Because of Joe, and because of all the Governors and mayors, county and city officials who are helping implement this plan, I can say that 14 days after I signed our Recovery Act into law, we are seeing shovels hit the ground. <p>As Secretary LaHood noted, the first contract will be awarded to American Infrastructure, a family business in Pennsylvania that will be resurfacing a road in Maryland. More than 100 other people will begin receiving funds today as well. Over the next few weeks, we will launch more than 200 construction projects across this country, fueling growth in an industry that's been hard hit by our economic crisis. <p>Altogether, this investment in highways will create or save 150,000 jobs by the end of next year, most of them in the private sector. And just to give you a sense of perspective, that's more jobs being created or saved in one year than GM, Ford, and Chrysler have lost in manufacturing over the past 3 years combined. The jobs that we're creating are good jobs that pay more than average, jobs grinding asphalt and paving roads, filling potholes, making street signs, repairing stop lights, replacing guard rails. <p>But what makes this investment so important is not simply that we will jump-start job creation or reduce the congestion that costs us nearly $80 billion a year or rebuild the aging roads that cost drivers billions more a year in upkeep. What makes it so important is that by investing in roads that have earned a grade of D-minus by America's leading civil engineers--roads that should have been rebuilt long ago--we can save some 14,000 men and women who lose their lives each year due to bad roads and driving conditions. Like a broken levee or a bridge with a shaky foundation, poor roads are a public hazard, and we have a responsibility to fix them. <p>Now, we have another responsibility. Having inherited a trillion-dollar deficit that we're working to cut in half, we also need to ensure that tax dollars aren't wasted on projects that don't deliver results. And that's why, as part of his duty, Joe will keep an eye on how precious tax dollars are being spent. To you, he's Mr. Vice President, but around the White House we call him the sheriff--[<i>laughter</i>]--because if you're misusing taxpayer money, you'll have to answer to him. <p>And to help him, I've appointed a proven and aggressive Inspector General to root out waste and fraud. And I'm also deputizing every single American to visit a new web site called recovery.gov, so you can see where your tax dollars are going and hold us accountable for results. <p>We're also making it easier for Americans to see what projects are being funded with their money as part of our recovery. So in the weeks to come, the signs denoting these projects are going to bear the new emblem of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. That's it right there. Transportation projects will be stamped with another emblem as well. These emblems are symbols of our commitment to you, the American people--a commitment to investing your tax dollars wisely, to put Americans to work doing the work that needs to be done. So when you see them on projects that your tax dollars made possible, let it be a reminder that our Government--your Government--is doing its part to put the economy back on the road of recovery. <p>And so, in the days and years ahead, as you're driving on new roads or roads that are newly paved, I hope it will give you some measure of satisfaction to know that it was all done by putting your fellow citizens to work. I hope it will give you a sense of pride to know that even as we pursued our economic recovery, we renewed our American landscape. <p>Throughout our history, there have been times when a generation of Americans seized the chance to remake the face of this Nation. It's what we did in the midst of civil war by connecting our coasts with the transcontinental railroad. It's what we did in the midst of depression by putting up a golden bridge in San Francisco, and electrifying rural America, and completing a great dam in the Southwest. It's what we're doing once more, by building a 21st century infrastructure that will make America's economy stronger and America's people safer. <p>That's the reason we're here today. That's the purpose of our recovery plan. That's the cause of my Presidency, and I need it to be your cause as well. Each and every one of you have a role to play. <p>There are those out there who say this can't be done, it can't be done efficiently, it can't be done effectively. We've gone through a lot of years where we were told what government cannot do. Government can't do anything by itself; we've got to have the private sector involved. But there are critical things the Government can do, right here at the Department of Transportation. <p>Each and every one of you have a critical role to play. And if you do your work, if you do your job as well as you can do, if you feel as inspired as I do about the work that lies ahead, I'm absolutely confident that we're going to look back on this time and say to ourselves this was a moment where we really made a difference. What an extraordinary opportunity that is. I hope all of you seize it. <p>Thank you, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"40" "\"Thank you very much. Please have a seat. Thank you, Ken--thank you, Mr. Secretary. It is my honor to join you and the hard-working public servants here at the Department of the Interior as we mark a milestone in the distinguished history of this Department. <p>As Ken mentioned, 160 years ago today, with the tally of a contentious vote, amidst growing tensions between North and South, as our Nation expanded westward, a deeply divided Senate passed the bill that created the Department of the Interior. <p>The Department was born less of a singular purpose than of a multitude of needs; it was founded to serve a growing nation whose roles and responsibilities were growing as well. The Department even earned a nickname, \\"The Department of Everything Else.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Yet, throughout our history, as Interior has performed a set of ever-changing and often unrelated duties, an overarching mission has emerged: to defend the natural bounty of this country and the welfare of its people. As Secretary Salazar has said, you have become the \\"Department of America.\\" <p>For the services you provide touch the lives of all Americans, from the clean water we drink to the clean energy we must generate; from historic monuments and museums that educate and inspire to the vast wilderness that each new generation can discover and explore. You manage 500 million acres of land, or roughly one-fifth of the area of the United States, and 1.7 billion acres offshore. <p>It was under this Department--it was this Department under President Teddy Roosevelt that helped lead an unprecedented effort to protect our natural resources. It was under this Department, under President Franklin Roosevelt, that Secretary Harold Ickes supervised the Civilian Conservation Corps to help us overcome the Great Depression. <p>And your mission is more important than ever before. The Interior Department manages the land on which 30 percent of the Nation's energy is produced. So you have a major role to play, all of you, in our clean energy future. The Nation is depending on you to help us end the tyranny of foreign oil and become energy independent by harnessing the wind and the sun, our water, our soil, and American innovation. <p>That's why I'm proud to join you this afternoon. That's why I am pleased that this Department is in the capable hands of my great friend Ken Salazar. And that is why the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act creates jobs by making historic investments in the Department of the Interior. <p>This plan will provide more than $3 billion to the Department to create jobs doing the work that America needs you to do. It will create jobs increasing our capacity to generate renewable energy on public lands and retrofitting facilities to be far more energy efficient. It will provide for the renovation of laboratories and the replacement of research equipment that in some cases is half a century old. <p>We'll fund the long-delayed work to preserve our natural wonders and historic landmarks, from Yellowstone National Park to the Statue of Liberty. And we will invest in the roads on which 275 million visitors travel to reach these sites across our country. <p>We'll provide clean, reliable drinking water to rural areas, promote water conservation, repair aging water infrastructure. <p>And the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will rebuild and remodel schools on Indian reservations across this country, while providing more than $100 million in loans to spur job creation in the Indian economy. <p>Under the leadership of Secretary Salazar, these investments will be made with unprecedented oversight. In the past, as all of you know, we've seen lapses that have damaged the reputation of this Department, despite the integrity and faithful service of the vast majority of people who work here. In just these first 5 weeks, Secretary Salazar has helped bring about a new era of responsibility and accountability. It is in this spirit that my recovery plan is being implemented. <p>Finally, today I've signed a memorandum that will help restore the scientific process to its rightful place at the heart of the Endangered Species Act, a process undermined by past administrations. The work of scientists and experts in my administration, including right here in the Interior Department, will be respected. For more than three decades, the Endangered Species Act has successfully protected our Nation's most threatened wildlife, and we should be looking for ways to improve it, not weaken it. <p>Throughout our history, there's been a tension between those who've sought to conserve our natural resources for the benefit of future generations, and those who have sought to profit from these resources. But I'm here to tell you this is a false choice. With smart, sustainable policies, we can grow our economy today and preserve the environment for ourselves, our children, and our grandchildren. That is what we must do. <p>For you know, you know that our long-term prosperity depends upon the faithful stewardship of the air we breathe, the water we drink, and the land that we sow. That's a sacred trust, the importance of which cannot be measured merely by the acres we protect, the miles of rivers we preserve, the energy we draw from public lands. <p>It's a child wandering amidst ancient redwoods, a love for science stirred as she looks skyward. It's a young man running his hand along the walls at Ellis Island, where his grandmother once carried her every possession and the hope of a new life. It's a family hiking along canyons carved by ancient floods, or mountains shaped by shifting continents, finding peace in the beauty of the natural world. These are experiences that enrich our lives and remind us of the blessings that we share. <p>And that was certainly the case for me. As many of you know, I spent much of my childhood in Hawaii, a place of extraordinary beauty and--[<i>applause</i>]--we've got a Hawaiian in there--[<i>laughter</i>]--a place of extraordinary beauty, and one that's home to several national parks and historic sites. But before my 11th birthday, my grandmother decided it was time for me to see the mainland. <p>So my grandmother, my mother, my sister and I all flew to Seattle. And we drove down the coast along the coast of California, and then east to the Grand Canyon. We headed across the Great Plains and to the Great Lakes, before heading back West through Yellowstone. <p>That was an experience I will never forget. It's an experience I want for my daughters, and for all of our daughters and sons, to see the incredible beauty of this Nation. It's an experience that's only possible because of the work you do each and every day. <p>So thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you, everybody.\" "
"41" "\"I'm sorry that I'm unable to join you this week, but it was a pleasure to see many of you at the White House recently, and I'm looking forward to having you all back often. I want to start by thanking President Sweeney, Secretary-Treasurer Trumka, and Vice President Holt Baker for their leadership. And I want to thank the Executive Council and all of you for your efforts as well as your advocacy these last several weeks. We have already started to change America on behalf of working people. <p>With your help, we passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan - the most sweeping economic recovery package in our history. I've always said that the gauge of our economic progress is clear: are we creating good jobs? Are we creating the kinds of jobs on which you can raise a family, own a home, afford college, save for retirement? That's why this plan is so important. It will create or save three and a half million jobs over the next two years - and it will do so by putting Americans to work doing the work that America needs done.<p>We'll modernize our health care system, rebuild crumbling roads, bridges, levees and transit systems, double our capacity to generate renewable energy, and build the classrooms that will help our children learn today - and compete tomorrow. And this plan includes the most progressive middle-class tax cuts in history; provides greater unemployment benefits for millions who have lost jobs; relieves overburdened cities and states struggling with budget shortfalls; and respects the work that Americans do right here at home while honoring our international obligations. <p>I've signed legislation helping to guarantee equal pay for equal work and expanding the Children's Health Insurance Program to millions more children. We've reversed the ban on project labor agreements and we've overturned the previous administration's Executive Orders which were designed not only to undermine critical government work - but to undermine organized labor.<p>I'm also pleased to have nominated Hilda Solis, a daughter of union members and a lifelong champion for working families, to be my Secretary of Labor - and that Vice President Joe Biden has agreed to lead my administration's Task Force on Middle Class Working Families. This Task Force will work hand in hand with my cabinet and White House agencies - as well as with all of you - to focus on growing and sustaining the middle class.<p>I want to repeat something that those of you who joined us for the Task Force announcement heard me say: I do not view the labor movement as part of the problem. To me, and to my administration, labor unions are a big part of the solution. We need to level the playing field for workers and the unions that represent their interests - because we cannot have a strong middle class without a strong labor movement.<p>The truth is, the road ahead will not be easy. The economic crisis we face is vast and the challenges we confront are many; you know this because your members have already had to make sacrifices. But I have every confidence that if we are willing to do the difficult work that must be done, we will emerge from these trials stronger and more prosperous than we were before. And as we confront this crisis and work to provide health care to every American, rebuild our nation's infrastructure, move toward a clean energy economy, and pass the Employee Free Choice Act, I want you to know that you will always have a seat at the table.<p>Thank you for everything you do.\" "
"42" "\"Good morning. Even if these were the best of times, budget reform would be long overdue in Washington, and we have here some folks who have been working on these issues for a long time. But these are far from the best of times. By any measure, my administration inherited a fiscal disaster. When we walked in the door, we found a budget deficit of $1.3 trillion, the largest in American history. And this fiscal burden has been compounded by the most severe economic crisis since the Great Depression. It's a crisis that requires us to take swift and aggressive action to put Americans back to work and to make the long-delayed investments in energy, health care, and education that can build a new foundation for growth. <p>As we get our economy moving, we must also turn the tide on an era of fiscal irresponsibility so that we can sustain our recovery, enhance accountability, and avoid leaving our children a mountain of debt. And that's why even as we make the necessary investments to put our economy back on track, we're proposing significant changes that will help bring the yawning deficits we inherited under control. We are cutting what we don't need to make room for what we do. <p>The budget plan I outlined last week includes $2 trillion in deficit reduction. It reduces discretionary spending for nondefense programs as a share of the economy that--by more than 10 percent over the next decade, to the lowest level in nearly half a century. I want to repeat that. I want to make sure everybody catches this, because I think sometimes the chatter on the cable stations hasn't been clear about this. My budget reduces discretionary spending for nondefense programs as a share of the economy by more than 10 percent over the next decade, and it will take it to the lowest level in nearly half a century. <p>In addition, today I'm announcing that part of this deficit reduction will include reforms in how government does business, which will save the American people up to $40 billion each year. It starts with reforming our broken system of Government contracting. There is a fundamental public trust that we must uphold. The American people's money must be spent to advance their priorities, not to line the pockets of contractors or to maintain projects that don't work. <p>Recently that public trust has not always been kept. Over the last 8 years, Government spending on contracts has doubled to over half a trillion dollars. Far too often, the spending is plagued by massive cost overruns, outright fraud, and the absence of oversight and accountability. In some cases, contracts are awarded without competition. In others, contractors actually oversee other contractors. We are spending money on things that we don't need, and we're paying more than we need to pay. And that's completely unacceptable. <p>This problem cuts across the Government, but I want to focus on one particular example, and that is the situation in defense contracting. Now, I want to be clear, as Commander in Chief, I will do whatever it takes to defend the American people, which is why we've increased funding for the best military in the history of the world. We'll make new investments in 21st century capabilities to meet new strategic challenges, and we will always give our men and women the--in uniform, the equipment and the support that they need to get the job done. <p>But I reject the false choice between securing this Nation and wasting billions of taxpayer dollars. And in this time of great challenges, I recognize the real choice between investments that are designed to keep the American people safe and those that are designed to make a defense contractor rich. <p>Last year, the Government Accountability Office, GAO, looked into 95 major defense projects and found cost overruns that totaled $295 billion. Let me repeat: That's $295 billion in wasteful spending. And this wasteful spending has many sources. It comes from investments and unproven technologies. It comes from a lack of oversight. It comes from influence peddling and indefensible no-bid contracts that have cost American taxpayers billions of dollars. <p>In Iraq, too much money has been paid out for services that were never performed, buildings that were never completed, companies that skimmed off the top. At home, too many contractors have been allowed to get away with delay after delay after delay in developing unproven weapon systems. <p>It's time for this waste and inefficiency to end. It's time for a Government that only invests in what works. And what's encouraging is, is that there is broad bipartisan consensus on behalf of reform, and we are committed to taking swift action that changes our system of contracting to save taxpayers' money. <p>So here are a couple of immediate steps we're going to take. First, with the Presidential memorandum that I'm signing, I am instructing my administration to dramatically reform the way we do business on contracts across the entire Government. So starting today, Peter Orszag, my budget director, will work with Cabinet officials and agency heads to develop tough new guidelines on contracting by the end of September. We will stop outsourcing services that should be performed by the Government and open up the contracting process to small businesses. We will end unnecessary no-bid and cost-plus contracts that run up a bill that is paid by the American people, and we will strengthen oversight to maximize transparency and accountability. Altogether, these reforms can save the American people up to $40 billion each year. <p>Second, we must make investments to keep our country safe while cutting back on the waste and inefficiency that isn't. And that's why I'm so pleased to support the goals of the bipartisan effort on procurement reform that has been led by our own Carl Levin and John McCain in the Senate. They have done extraordinary work trying to push this issue to the forefront. We want to see if we can partner with Senator McCain and Senator Levin to get this done as soon as possible. And thanks to Secretary Gates, some of the reforms that they've talked about are already beginning to take shape. And I've asked him to work with Senators Levin and McCain on developing this legislation as it moves forward. And Bill Lynn, who is heading up procurement issues at our White House as Deputy Secretary of Defense, is going to be leading the charge on this as well. <p>I can assure you that this will be a priority for my administration. It's time to end the extra costs and long delays that are all too common in our defense contracting. We need to invest in technologies that are proven and cost-effective. We need more competition for contracts and more oversight as they're carried out. If a system isn't ready to be developed, we shouldn't pour resources into it. And if a system is plagued by cost overruns, it should be reformed. No more excuses, no more delays. The days of giving defense contractors a blank check are over. <p>Now, none of this will be easy. We'll have to end old ways of doing business. We'll have to take on entrenched special interests. We'll have to break bad habits that have built up over many years. But we can't keep spending good money after bad. All across America, families are making hard choices, and now we're going to have to do the same. I can promise you that this is just the beginning of a new way of doing business here in Washington, because the American people have every right to expect and to demand a Government that is more efficient, more accountable, and more responsible in keeping the public's trust. <p>And I also want to acknowledge a couple of Congressmen--Congressman Towns and Congressman Welch, who have been working diligently on this issue, and Claire McCaskill in the Senate, who has been sharpening her pencils and working with IGs across departments to see if we can make some significant reforms and improvements as well. <p>And again, thank you to Senators McCain and Senators Levin for their outstanding leadership on this issue. We look forward to getting it done. This is going to be just one more aspect of the kind of reform that's going to be critical in the months and years to come. <p>Thank you everybody.\" "
"43" "\"Everybody, please be seated. Do not fear, no long speeches here. [<i>Laughter</i>] We just want to say welcome on behalf of Michelle and myself. We're so glad all of you could join us. <p>Obviously, the country is going through an extraordinarily difficult time, and we are going to have some monumental debates taking place over the next several months and years. We also know that we're not always going to agree on everything. But given how hard so many of you are working on both sides of the aisle, day in, day out, we thought it was important for us to be able to step back for a moment, remind ourselves that we have things in common--family, friends, laughter--and hopefully, we'll have a chance to appreciate each other a little bit, take a timeout before we dive back into the game. <p>So we hope you have a wonderful evening--not to mention the fact that this is a pretty big house, so we get lonely. [<i>Laughter</i>] So--and it's hard for me to move around out there sometimes so I've got to bring the world to me. <p>But, anyway, I'm grateful for all of you coming. Michelle is thrilled that you're here. And we hope you just have a wonderful evening. <p>Thank you.\" "
"44" "\"Everybody please have a seat. Thank you so much, Travis, for the wonderful introduction. Thank you for Melody Barnes, who has done more than anyone to help coordinate this forum and its extraordinary work, and so we appreciate her leadership. <p>We're here today to discuss one of the greatest threats not just to the well-being of our families and the prosperity of our businesses, but to the very foundation of our economy, and that's the exploding costs of health care in America today. <p>In the last 8 years, premiums have grown four times faster than wages. An additional 9 million Americans have joined the ranks of the uninsured. The cost of health care now causes a bankruptcy in America every 30 seconds. By the end of the year, it could cause 1.5 million Americans to lose their homes. Even for folks who are weathering this economic storm and have health care right now, all it takes is one stroke of bad luck--an accident or an illness, a divorce, a lost job--to become one of the nearly 46 million uninsured or the millions who have health care, but really can't afford what they've got. <p>We didn't get here by accident. The problems we face today are a direct consequence of actions that we failed to take yesterday. Since Teddy Roosevelt first called for reform nearly a century ago, we have talked, and we have tinkered. We have tried and fallen short. We've stalled for time, and again, we have failed to act because of Washington politics or industry lobbying. And today, there are those who say we should defer health care reform once again; that at a time of economic crisis, we simply can't afford to fix our health care system as well. <p>Well, let me be clear: The same soaring costs that are straining families' budgets are sinking our businesses and eating up our Government's budget too. Too many small businesses can't insure their employees. Major American corporations are struggling to compete with their foreign counterparts, and companies of all sizes are shipping their jobs overseas or shutting their doors for good. Medical--Medicare costs are consuming our Federal budget; I don't have to tell Members of Congress this. Medicaid is overwhelming our State budgets; I don't need to tell Governors and State legislatures that. <p>At the fiscal summit that we held here last week, the one thing on which everyone agreed was that the greatest threat to America's fiscal health is not Social Security, though that's a significant challenge; it's not the investments that we've made to rescue our economy during this crisis. By a wide margin, the biggest threat to our Nation's balance sheet is the skyrocketing cost of health care. It's not even close. <p>That's why we cannot delay this discussion any longer. That's why today's forum is so important. Because health care reform is no longer just a moral imperative, it's a fiscal imperative. If we want to create jobs and rebuild our economy and get our Federal budget under control, then we have to address the crushing cost of health care this year, in this administration. Making investments in reform now, investments that will dramatically lower costs, won't add to our budget deficits in the long term. Rather, it is one of the best ways--in fact maybe the only way--to reduce those long-term costs. <p>Now, I know people are skeptical about whether Washington can bring about this change. Our inability to reform health care in the past is just one example of how special interests have had their way and the public interest has fallen by the wayside. And I know people are afraid we'll draw the same old lines in the sand and give in to the same entrenched interests and arrive back at the same stalemate that we've been stuck in for decades. <p>But I am here today, and I believe you are here today, because this time is different. This time, the call for reform is coming from the bottom up and from all across the spectrum, from doctors, from nurses, from patients, from unions, from businesses, from hospitals, health care providers, community groups. It's coming from mayors and Governors and legislatures--Democrats, Republicans--all who are racing ahead of Washington to pass bold health care initiatives on their own. This time, there is no debate about whether all Americans should have quality, affordable health care. The only question is, how? <p>And the purpose of this forum is to start answering that question, to determine how we lower costs for everyone, improve quality for everyone, and expand coverage to all Americans. And our goal will be to enact comprehensive health care reform by the end of this year. That is our commitment. That is our goal. <p>Now, in the past month alone, we've done a lot more to advance that goal than we've done in the past decade. We've provided and protected coverage for 11 million children from working families and for 7 million Americans who've lost their jobs in this downturn. We've made the largest investment in history in preventive care, invested in electronic medical records that will save money, ensure privacy, and save lives. We've launched a new effort to find a cure for cancer in our time. We've also set aside in our budget a health care reserve fund to finance comprehensive reform. I know that more will be required, but this is a significant downpayment that's fully paid for, does not add one penny to our deficit. And I look forward to working with Congress and the American people to get this budget passed. <p>Now, as we work to determine the details of health care reform, we won't always see eye to eye. We may disagree--and disagree strongly--about particular measures. But we know that there are plenty of areas of agreement as well, and that should serve as the starting points for our work. <p>We can all agree that if we want to bring down skyrocketing costs, we'll need to modernize our system and invest in prevention. We can agree that if we want greater accountability and responsibility, we have to ensure that people aren't overcharged for prescription drugs or discriminated against for preexisting conditions. And we need to eliminate fraud, waste, and abuse in Government programs. I think most of us would agree that if we want to cover all Americans, we can't make the mistake of trying to fix what isn't broken. So if somebody has insurance they like, they should be able to keep that insurance. If they have a doctor that they like, they should be able to keep their doctor. They should just pay less for the care that they receive. <p>And finally, we can all agree that if we want to translate these goals into policies, we need a process that is as transparent and inclusive as possible. And that's why I've asked all of you--representatives of organizations, interests, and parties from across the spectrum--to join us here today. In fact, this was the hottest ticket in town. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's why we asked concerned citizens like the folks on this stage to organize open meetings across America where people could air their views. As Travis said, more than 3,000 meetings were held in all 50 States and DC; more than 30,000 people attended. I thank them for their input and their ideas and look forward to reading the report that Travis has presented to me. <p>In this effort, every voice has to be heard, every idea must be considered, every option must be on the table. There should be no sacred cows. Each of us must accept that none of us will get everything that we want, and that no proposal for reform will be perfect. If that's the measure, we will never get anything done. But when it comes to addressing our health care challenge, we can no longer let the perfect be the enemy of the essential. And I don't think anybody would argue that we are on a sustainable path when it comes to health care. <p>Finally, I want to be very clear at the outset that while everyone has a right to take part in this discussion, nobody has the right to take it over and dominate. The status quo is the one option that's not on the table, and those who seek to block any reform at all--any reform at any costs--will not prevail this time around. <p>I didn't come here to Washington to work for those interests. I came here to work for the American people, the folks I met on the campaign trail, the people I hear from every single day in the White House. Folks who are working hard, making all the right decisions, but still face choices that no one in this country should have to make: how long to put off that doctor's appointment; whether to fill that prescription; when to give up and head to the emergency room because there are no other options. <p>I've read some of the many letters they've sent asking me for help, and they're usually not asking for much. I don't get letters where people are just asking for a free ride, for a handout. Most of them are embarrassed about their situation; they would rather not have to ask for help. They start, usually, by saying that they've never written a letter like this before. Some end by apologizing, saying they've written to me because they have nowhere else to turn, asking me not to forget about them, not to forget about their families. <p>But there are a lot of people out there who are desperate. There's a lot of desperation out there. Today I want them and people like them across this country to know that I have not forgotten them. We have not forgotten them. They are why we're here today, to start delivering the change they demanded at the polls in November, that they have continued to demand since the election. And if we're successful, if we can pass comprehensive reform, these folks will see their costs come down, they'll get the care they need, and we'll help our businesses create jobs again so our economy can grow. <p>So it's not going to be easy. And there are going to be false starts and setbacks and mistakes along the way. But I'm confident, if we come together and work together, we will finally achieve what generations of Americans have fought for and fulfill the promise of health care in our time. And what a remarkable achievement that would be, something that Democrats and Republicans, business and labor, consumer groups and providers, all of us could share extraordinary pride in finally dealing with something that has been vexing us for so long. <p>So let's get to work. Thank you.\" "
"45" "\"Thank you very much. Please, everybody have a seat. Thank you so much. Well, what a wonderful reception. Thank you very much. I want to begin by thanking Mayor Coleman, Director Brown, and the entire Columbus police force for inviting me to be a part of this ceremony. It is a great honor and a privilege to stand with the men and women of this police academy's 114th graduating class. You have studied hard, you have trained tirelessly, and there is no longer any doubt that you will be employed as officers of the law when you leave here today. <p>I also want to just very quickly acknowledge one of the finest Governors in the country, who's been just dealing with all kinds of stuff and doing it with grace and aplomb and never breaks a sweat, but is working hard on behalf of his constituency, Ted Strickland; the Attorney General of the United States, Eric Holder. <p>I came out here with the--a number of members of the Ohio congressional delegation, but I want to make a special note of my former colleague when I was in the Senate, who is just as passionate about working people as anybody in the country, Sherrod Brown. Give Sherrod a big round of applause. <p>This city of Columbus needs the courage and the commitment of this graduating class to keep it safe, to make sure that people have the protection that they need. This economy needs your employment to keep it running. Just this morning we learned that we lost another 651,000 jobs throughout the country in the month of February alone, which brings the total number of jobs lost in this recession to an astounding 4.4 million. <p>Four point four million jobs, I don't need to tell the people of this State what statistics like this mean, because so many of you have been watching jobs disappear long before this recession hit. And I don't need to tell this graduating class what it's like to know that your job might be next, because up until a few weeks ago, that is precisely the future that this class faced, a future that millions of Americans still face right now. Well, that is not a future I accept for the United States of America. That is why I signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act into law. <p>Now there were those who argued that our recovery plan was unwise and unnecessary. They opposed the very notion that government has a role in ending the cycle of job loss at the heart of this recession. There are those who believe that all we can do is repeat the very same policies that led us here in the first place. <p>But I also know that this country has never responded to a crisis by sitting on the sidelines and hoping for the best. I know that throughout our history, we have met every great challenge with bold action and big ideas. That's what's fueled a shared and lasting prosperity. And I know that at this defining moment for America we have a responsibility to ourselves and to our children to do it once again. We have a responsibility to act, and that's what I intend to do as President of the United States of America. <p>So for those who still doubt the wisdom of our recovery plan, I ask them to talk to the teachers who are still able to teach our children because we passed this plan. I ask them to talk to the nurses who are still able to care for our sick and the firefighters and first-responders who will still be able to keep our communities safe. I ask them to come to Ohio and meet the 25 men and women who will soon be protecting the streets of Columbus because we passed this plan. I look at these young men and women, I look into their eyes and I see their badges today and I know we did the right thing. <p>These jobs and the jobs of so many other police officers and teachers and firefighters all across Ohio will now be saved because of this recovery plan, a plan that will also create jobs in every corner of this State. Last week, we announced that Ohio would receive $128 million that will put people to work renovating and rebuilding affordable housing. On Tuesday I announced that we'd be sending another $935 million to Ohio that will create jobs rebuilding our roads, our bridges, and our highways. And yesterday Vice President Biden announced $180 million for this State that will go towards expanding mass transit and buying fuel-efficient buses, money that will be putting people to work, getting people to work. <p>Altogether, this recovery plan will save and create over 3 1/2 million American jobs over the next 2 years. Be-cause of this plan, those who have lost their jobs in this recession will be able to receive extended unemployment benefits and continued health care coverage. Because of this plan, 95 percent of working Americans will receive a tax break that you will see in your paychecks starting on April 1st. And because of this plan, stories like the one we're celebrating here in Columbus will soon take place all across this Nation. <p>Today I'm pleased to announce that Attorney General Eric Holder and the Department of Justice are making available $2 billion in Justice Assistance Grants from the recovery act. That's funding that will help communities throughout America keep their neighborhoods safer with more cops, more prosecutors, more probation officers, more radios and equipment, more help for crime victims, and more crime prevention programs for youth. Cities and States can apply for these funds right away, and as soon as those applications are received, the Justice Department will start getting the money out the door within 15 days. <p>In Savannah, Georgia, the police department would use this funding to hire more crime and intelligence analysts and put more cops on the beat protecting our schools. In Long Beach, California, it will be able to help fund 17,000 hours of overtime for law enforcement officials who are needed in high-crime areas. West Haven, Connecticut, will be able to restore crime prevention programs that were cut, even though they improved the quality of life in the city's most troubled neighborhoods. And the State of Iowa will be able to rehire drug enforcement officers and restart drug prevention programs that have been critical in fighting the crime and violence that plagues too many cities and too many towns. <p>So the list goes on and on. From Maine to San Francisco, from Colorado to New Jersey, these grants will put Americans to work doing the work necessary to keep America safe. They'll be directed only towards worthy programs that have been carefully planned and proven to work, and Vice President Biden and I will be holding every State and community accountable for the tax dollars they spend. <p>Now, by itself, this recovery plan won't turn our economy around or solve every problem. In the flight over here with the Ohio delegation, I talked to them about the fact that we've got big challenges ahead of us. We inherited a big mess. This police force still faces budget challenges down the road, there are still workers in Columbus who are losing their jobs, and there is still so much work to be done throughout Ohio to lay a new foundation for growth and prosperity. <p>That's the work we must continue in the days and months ahead. That's why my administration is also moving quickly and aggressively to restart lending for families and businesses, to help responsible homeowners pay their mortgages and refinance their homes, to address the major economic challenges of our time: the cost of health care, our dependence on foreign oil, the state of our schools. <p>All of this takes time and it will take patience. It will entail great effort and cooperation. But most of all, it will require a renewed sense of responsibility from every American, a responsibility to ourselves and one another, a responsibility that's already been demonstrated by the men and women who are sitting behind me here today. <p>The job you signed up for is not easy. It can mean long shifts and late nights. It demands focus and determination and great bravery in the face of unknown dangers. When you run into that building or chase down that suspect, you will be risking your own life in order to protect the lives of men and women you have never met and some that you may never know. <p>But you knew all that when you joined the academy. You knew the risks involved, you knew the sacrifices required, and yet you stood up and said, \\"I'll take that risk. I'll make that sacrifice. I will do that job.\\" <p>And that, Columbus, is the very essence of responsibility. That's the spirit we need in this country right now, no matter what our role is or what our profession that we've chosen. It's a spirit that asks us to look beyond our own individual ambitions to the wider obligations we have as the good citizens of a great nation, a spirit that calls on us to say, \\"I'll make that sacrifice. I'll do that job.\\" <p>If we can summon that spirit once more, if we're willing to look out for one another and listen to one another, if we are willing to pull together and do our part, if we can show even a fraction of the courage and selflessness that these cadets have already demonstrated, then I have no doubt that we will emerge from this crisis stronger than before and keep this Nation's dream alive for future generations. <p>Thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"46" "\"Yesterday we learned that the economy lost another 651,000 jobs in the month of February, which brings the total number of jobs lost in this recession to 4.4 million. The unemployment rate has now surpassed 8 percent, the highest rate in a quarter century. These aren't just statistics, but hardships experienced personally by millions of Americans who no longer know how they'll pay their bills or make their mortgage or raise their families. <p>From the day I took office, I knew that solving this crisis would not be easy, nor would it happen overnight. And we will continue to face difficult days in the months ahead. But I also believe that we will get through this; that if we act swiftly and boldly and responsibly, the United States of America will emerge stronger and more prosperous than it was before. <p>That's why my administration is committed to doing all that's necessary to address this crisis and lead us to a better day. That's why we're moving forward with an economic agenda that will jump-start job creation, restart lending, relieve responsible homeowners, and address the long-term economic challenges of our time: the cost of health care, our dependence on oil, and the state of our schools. <p>To prevent foreclosures for as many as 4 million homeowners and lower interest rates and lift home values for millions more, we are implementing a plan to allow lenders to work with borrowers to refinance or restructure their mortgages. On Wednesday, the Department of Treasury and Housing and Urban Development released the guidelines that lenders will use for lowering mortgage payments. This plan is now at work. <p>To restore the availability of affordable loans for families and businesses--not just banks--we are taking steps to restart the flow of credit and stabilize the financial markets. On Thursday, the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve launched the Consumer and Business Lending Initiative, a plan that will generate up to a trillion dollars of new lending so that families can finance a car or college education and small businesses can raise the capital that will create jobs. <p>And we've already begun to implement the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, a plan that will save and create over 3.5 million jobs over the next 2 years, jobs rebuilding our roads and bridges, constructing wind turbines and solar panels, expanding broadband and mass transit. And because of this plan, those who have lost their job in this recession will be able to receive extended unemployment benefits and continued health care coverage, while 95 percent of working Americans will receive a tax break beginning April 1st. <p>Of course, like every family going through hard times, our country must make tough choices. In order to pay for the things we need, we cannot waste money on the things we don't. My administration inherited a $1.3 trillion budget deficit, the largest in history. And we've inherited a budgeting process as irresponsible as it is unsustainable. For years, as Wall Street used accounting tricks to conceal costs and avoid responsibility, Washington did too. <p>These kinds of irresponsible budgets and inexcusable practices are now in the past. For the first time in many years, my administration has produced a budget that represents an honest reckoning of where we are and where we need to go. <p>It's also a budget that begins to make the hard choices that we've avoided for far too long, a strategy that cuts where we must and invests where we need. That's why it includes $2 trillion in deficit reduction, while making historic investments in America's future. That's why it reduces discretionary spending for nondefense programs as a share of the economy by more than 10 percent over the next decade to the lowest level since they began keeping these records nearly half a century ago. And that's why on Wednesday, I signed a Presidential memorandum to end unnecessary no-bid contracts and dramatically reform the way contracts are awarded, reforms that will save the American people up to $40 billion each year. <p>Finally, because we cannot bring our deficit down or grow our economy without tackling the skyrocketing cost of health care, I held a health care summit on Thursday to begin the long-overdue process of reform. Our ideas and opinions about how to achieve this reform will vary, but our goal must be the same: quality, affordable health care for every American that no longer overwhelms the budgets of families, businesses, and our government. <p>Yes, this is a moment of challenge for our country, but we've experienced great trials before. And with every test, each generation has found the capacity to not only endure but to prosper, to discover great opportunity in the midst of great crisis. That is what we can and must do today. And I am absolutely confident that is what we will do. I am confident that at this defining moment, we will prove ourselves worthy of the sacrifice of those who came before us and the promise of those who will come after.\" "
"47" "\"Thank you. All right, please have a seat. [<i>Applause</i>] Thank you so much. Well, I'm excited too. [<i>Laughter</i>] Today, with the Executive order I am about to sign, we will bring the change that so many scientists and researchers, doctors and innovators, patients and loved ones have hoped for and fought for these past 8 years. We will lift the ban on Federal funding for promising embryonic stem cell research. We will also vigorously support scientists who pursue this research, and we will aim for America to lead the world in the discoveries it one day may yield. <p>At this moment, the full promise of stem cell research remains unknown, and it should not be overstated. But scientists believe these tiny cells may have the potential to help us understand and possibly cure some of our most devastating diseases and conditions: to regenerate a severed spinal cord and lift someone from a wheelchair, to spur insulin production and spare a child from a lifetime of needles, to treat Parkinson's, cancer, heart disease, and others that affect millions of Americans and the people who love them. <p>But that potential will not reveal itself on its own. Medical miracles do not happen simply by accident. They result from painstaking and costly research, from years of lonely trial and error, much of which never bears fruit, and from a Government willing to support that work. From lifesaving vaccines to pioneering cancer treatments to the sequencing of the human genome, that is the story of scientific progress in America. When Government fails to make these investments, opportunities are missed, promising avenues go unexplored, some of our best scientists leave for other countries that will sponsor their work, and those countries may surge ahead of ours in the advances that transform our lives. <p>In recent years, when it comes to stem cell research, rather than furthering discovery, our Government has forced what I believe is a false choice between sound science and moral values. In this case, I believe the two are not inconsistent. As a person of faith, I believe we are called to care for each other and work to ease human suffering. I believe we have been given the capacity and will to pursue this research and the humanity and conscience to do so responsibly. <p>It's a difficult and delicate balance. And many thoughtful and decent people are conflicted about or strongly oppose this research. And I understand their concerns, and I believe that we must respect their point of view. But after much discussion, debate, and reflection, the proper course has become clear. The majority of Americans, from across the political spectrum and from all backgrounds and beliefs, have come to a consensus that we should pursue this research; that the potential it offers is great, and with proper guidelines and strict oversight, the perils can be avoided. <p>That is a conclusion with which I agree. And that is why I am signing this Executive order, and why I hope Congress will act on a bipartisan basis to provide further support for this research. We are joined today by many leaders who have reached across the aisle to champion this cause, and I commend all of them who are here for that work. <p>Ultimately, I cannot guarantee that we will find the treatments and cures we seek. No President can promise that. But I can promise that we will seek them actively, responsibly, and with the urgency required to make up for lost ground. Not just by opening up this new front of research today, but by supporting promising research of all kinds, including groundbreaking work to convert ordinary human cells into ones that resemble embryonic stem cells. <p>I can also promise that we will never undertake this research lightly. We will support it only when it is both scientifically worthy and responsibly conducted. We will develop strict guidelines, which we will rigorously enforce, because we cannot ever tolerate misuse or abuse. And we will ensure that our Government never opens the door to the use of cloning for human reproduction. It is dangerous, profoundly wrong, and has no place in our society or any society. <p>Now, this order is an important step in advancing the cause of science in America. But let's be clear: Promoting science isn't just about providing resources; it's also about protecting free and open inquiry. It's about letting scientists, like those who are here today, do their jobs, free from manipulation or coercion and listening to what they tell us, even when it's inconvenient. Especially when it's inconvenient. It is about ensuring that scientific data is never distorted or concealed to serve a political agenda and that we make scientific decisions based on facts, not ideology. <p>By doing this, we will ensure America's continued global leadership in scientific discoveries and technological breakthroughs. And that is essential not only for our economic prosperity but for the progress of all humanity. <p>And that's why today I'm also signing a Presidential memorandum directing the head of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy to develop a strategy for restoring scientific integrity to Government decisionmaking, to ensure that in this new administration, we base our public policies on the soundest science; that we appoint scientific advisers based on their credentials and experience, not their politics or ideology; and that we are open and honest with the American people about the science behind our decisions. That's how we'll harness the power of science to achieve our goals, to preserve our environment, protect our national security, to create the jobs of the future, and live longer, healthier lives. <p>As we restore our commitment to science and expand funding for promising stem cell research, we owe a debt of gratitude to so many tireless advocates, some of whom were with us today, many of whom are not. Today we honor all those whose names we don't know, who organized and raised awareness and kept on fighting, even when it was too late for them or for the people they love. And we honor those we know who used their influence to help others and bring attention to this cause, people like Christopher and Dana Reeve, who we wish could be here to see this moment. <p>One of Christopher's friends recalled that he hung a sign on the wall of the exercise room where he did his grueling regimen of physical therapy. And it read: \\"For everyone who thought I couldn't do it, for everyone who thought I shouldn't do it, for everyone who said it's impossible, see you at the finish line.\\" Christopher once told a reporter who was interviewing him: If you came back here 10--\\"if you came back here in 10 years, I expect that I'd walk to the door to greet you.\\" Now, Christopher did not get that chance. But if we pursue this research, maybe one day, maybe not in our lifetime or even in our children's lifetime, but maybe one day, others like Christopher Reeves might. <p>There's no finish line in the work of science. The race is always with us, the urgent work of giving substance to hope and answering those many bedside prayers, of seeking a day when words like \\"terminal\\" and \\"incurable\\" are potentially retired from our vocabulary. Today, using every resource at our disposal, with renewed determination to lead the world in the discoveries of this new century, we rededicate ourselves to this work. <p>So before I sign, I want to just note the people who are on the stage with me. In addition to our outstanding Secretary of Energy, Secretary Chu, we also have Dr. Patricia Bath; we have Dr. H. Robert Horvitz; we have Dr. Janet Rowley; Dr. Harold Varmus, who's going to be the Cochair of my President's Council on Science; we've got Dr. Michael Bishop; and we also have Dr. Peter Agre. So these are an example of the outstanding scientists who we hope will guide us through this process in the years to come. <p>And with them standing beside me, I'd also like to invite some of my colleagues from Congress who have done just such extraordinary work to share in the limelight, because you guys are still going to have some work to do, and--but it's because of the leadership of so many of you across partisan lines that we've been able to accomplish so much already. <p>So thank you very much, everybody. Let's go sign this.\" "
"48" "\"<i>President Obama.</i> Well, let me just say that I am very grateful for the Secretary-General taking the time to visit with us today. As I've said previously, I think the United Nations can be an extraordinarily constructive, important partner in bringing about peace and stability and security to people around the world. And the Secretary-General has shown extraordinary leadership during his tenure as Secretary-General. <p>We had a wide-ranging conversation. There are a host of international issues that we both agree have to be addressed. We talked about the economic crisis and how that's affecting not only developed countries, but very poor countries around the world, and the potential threat to food supplies if it continues to worsen, and the need for international coordination. <p>We discussed the issue of Afghanistan, where the Secretary-General has been very helpful in bringing together a donors conference. We're going to be talking about how we can ramp up and better coordinate civilian activities in Afghanistan so that we can be more effective in that region. And we also talked about the upcoming elections in Afghanistan. <p>We discussed Haiti and the concerns that we both have about a long-suffering country that's just gone through a terrible crisis as a consequence of hurricanes. <p>And one of the things that we spent I think the most time talking about was the issue of Darfur. As many of you are aware, we have a ongoing crisis in Darfur that has heightened recently, where the Khartoum Government has kicked out some of the most important nongovernmental organizations that provide direct humanitarian aid to millions of people who've been internally displaced in the Sudan. And we have a potential crisis of even greater dimensions than what we already saw. <p>I impressed upon the Secretary-General how important it is from our perspective to send a strong, unified, international message that it is not acceptable to put that many people's lives at risk; that we need to be able to get those humanitarian organizations back on the ground; and that the United States wants to work as actively as possible with the United Nations to try to resolve the immediate humanitarian crisis and to start putting us on a path for long-term peace and stability in the Sudan. <p>And this is something that the United States Secretary to the United Nations, Secretary Rice, has been working on diligently. It's something that we care about deeply. And we're hopeful that we can make some significant progress. <p>Last point that I would make is, Secretary Ban has spoken extensively about the issue of climate change, and as all of you know, this is something that my administration is deeply concerned about as well. We welcome his leadership. And we're looking forward to working with some of the major countries involved to figure out how, even in the midst of economic crisis, we can move forward and prevent what could be longer-term ecological crises that could have a tremendously adverse effect on the international economy if we don't take action. <p><i>Secretary-General Ban. </i>Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm very much honored to meet you and discuss on all the matters of our mutual concern and interest between the United Nations and the United States. <p>It's a very encouraging sign coming from your office to the United Nations that we are meeting at such an early stage of your administration. And I count on your great leadership. United Nations and United States share common visions and objectives for peace and stability, development and human rights. As Secretary-General of the United Nations, you can count on me, my full commitment and working together with you. <p>I think year 2009 is a make-or-break year, full of crises on many fronts, for United Nations, for United States, and whole international community as a whole. For that, we need to work very closely to address all the issues. I have been closely following with a deepest admiration what you have been taking, demonstrating great leadership, very dynamic and visionary, to overcome this international economic crisis. I welcome your very strong national stimulus packages, and I'm also looking forward to meeting you and discussing with you and other leaders at G-20 summit meeting in London. <p>What I'd like to emphasize, as Secretary-General of the United Nations, is that leaders of G-20 should not lose sight of the challenges and plight of hundreds of hundreds of millions of poorest of people of the developing countries who have been impacted by this economic crisis. <p>The leaders of industrialized countries should keep their commitment on Millennium Development Goals and official development assistance and help developing countries overcome in food security and also help them to adapt and mitigate climate change. <p>Climate change, as, Mr. President, you have said, is a priority for the United Nations and for whole international community. I am going to focus and work together with the leaders of the world to address this issue, to unlock all this massive investment for the green economic recovery and also to save our planet. This is an issue of our era. I count on your strong commitment and leadership. Whole world is now looking at your leadership. And I'm willing to--I'm committed to work together with you. <p>We have discussed, as President Obama just mentioned, on many issues, starting from Afghanistan, Sudan, and Iraq and Pakistan, and disarmament, and nonproliferation issues like North Korean nuclear issues. And on all of these issues, we--I'm committed to work together with you. I count on your leadership. <p>United Nations stands ready to work together with you, Mr. President, to make this make-or-break year turn into make-it-work, full of optimism and resolution. And thank you very much, Mr. President. <p><i>President Obama. </i>Thank you so much, Mr. Secretary. <p><i>Secretary-General Ban. </i>Thank you, sir. <p><i>President Obama. </i>Thank you, everybody. Appreciate it.\" "
"49" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. <i>Si se puede.</i> <p><i>Audience members.</i> <i>Si se puede!</i> <i>Si se puede!</i> <i>Si se puede!</i> <p><i>The President. </i>Thank you. Thank you so much. Please, everybody have a seat. Thank you for the wonderful introduction, David. And thank you for the great work that you are doing each and every day. And I appreciate such a warm welcome. Some of you I've gotten a chance to know; many of you I'm meeting for the first time. But the spirit of the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, the desire to create jobs and provide opportunity to people who sometimes have been left out, that's exactly what this administration is about. That's the essence of the American Dream. And so I'm very proud to have a chance to speak with all of you. <p>You know, every so often, throughout our history, a generation of Americans bears the responsibility of seeing this country through difficult times and protecting the dream of its founding for posterity. This is a responsibility that's fallen to our generation. Meeting it will require steering our Nation's economy through a crisis unlike anything that we have seen in our time. <p>In the short term, that means jump-starting job creation and restarting lending, and restoring confidence in our markets and our financial system. But it also means taking steps that not only advance our recovery, but lay the foundation for lasting, shared prosperity. <p>I know there are some who believe we can only handle one challenge at a time. And they forget that Lincoln helped lay down the transcontinental railroad and passed the Homestead Act and created the National Academy of Sciences in the midst of civil war. Likewise, President Roosevelt didn't have the luxury of choosing between ending a depression and fighting a war; he had to do both. President Kennedy didn't have the luxury of choosing between civil rights and sending us to the Moon. And we don't have the luxury of choosing between getting our economy moving now and rebuilding it over the long term. <p>Now, America will not remain true to its highest ideals, and America's place as a global economic leader will be put at risk, unless we not only bring down the crushing costs of health care and transform the way we use energy, but also if we do--if we don't do a far better job than we've been doing of educating our sons and daughters, unless we give them the knowledge and skills they need in this new and changing world. <p>For we know that economic progress and educational achievement have always gone hand in hand in America. The land-grant colleges and public high schools transformed the economy of an industrializing nation. The GI bill generated a middle class that made America's economy unrivaled in the 20th century. Investments in math and science under President Eisenhower gave new opportunities to young scientists and engineers all across the country. It made possible somebody like a Sergey Brin to attend graduate school and found an upstart company called Google that would forever change our world. <p>The source of America's prosperity has never been merely how ably we accumulate wealth, but how well we educate our people. This has never been more true than it is today. In a 21st century world where jobs can be shipped wherever there's an Internet connection, where a child born in Dallas is now competing with a child in New Delhi, where your best job qualification is not what you do, but what you know, education is no longer just a pathway to opportunity and success, it's a prerequisite for success. <p>That's why workers without a 4-year degree have borne the brunt of recent layoffs, Latinos most of all. That's why, of the 30 fastest growing occupations in America, half require a bachelor's degree or more. By 2016, 4 out of every 10 new jobs will require at least some advanced education or training. <p>So let there be no doubt: The future belongs to the nation that best educates its citizens. And my fellow Americans, we have everything we need to be that nation. We have the best universities, the most renowned scholars. We have innovative principals and passionate teachers and gifted students, and we have parents whose only priority is their child's education. We have a legacy of excellence and an unwavering belief that our children should climb higher than we did. <p>And yet, despite resources that are unmatched anywhere in the world, we've let our grades slip, our schools crumble, our teacher quality fall short, and other nations outpace us. Let me give you a few statistics. In eighth grade math, we've fallen to ninth place. Singapore's middle schoolers outperform ours three to one. Just a third of our 13- and 14-year-olds can read as well as they should. And year after year, a stubborn gap persists between how well white students are doing compared to their African American and Latino classmates. The relative decline of American education is untenable for our economy, it's unsustainable for our democracy, it's unacceptable for our children, and we can't afford to let it continue. <p>What's at stake is nothing less than the American Dream. It's what drew my father and so many of your fathers and mothers to our shores in pursuit of an education. It's what led Linda Brown and Gonzalo and Felicitas Mendez to bear the standard of all who were attending separate and unequal schools. It's what has led generations of Americans to take on that extra job, to sacrifice the small pleasures, to scrimp and save wherever they can, in hopes of putting away enough, just enough, to give their child the education that they never had. It's that most American of ideas, that with the right education, a child of any race, any faith, any station, can overcome whatever barriers stand in their way and fulfill their God-given potential. <p>Of course, we've heard all this year after year after year after year, and far too little has changed. Certainly, it hasn't changed in too many overcrowded Latino schools; it hasn't changed in too many inner-city schools that are seeing dropout rates of over 50 percent. It's not changing not because we're lacking sound ideas or sensible plans, in pockets of excellence across this country, we're seeing what children from all walks of life can and will achieve when we set high standards, have high expectations, when we do a good job of preparing them. Instead, it's because politics and ideology have too often trumped our progress that we're in the situation that we're in. <p>For decades, Washington has been trapped in the same stale debates that have paralyzed progress and perpetuated our educational decline. Too many supporters of my party have resisted the idea of rewarding excellence in teaching with extra pay, even though we know it can make a difference in the classroom. Too many in the Republican Party have opposed new investments in early education, despite compelling evidence of its importance. So what we get here in Washington is the same old debate about it's more money versus more reform, vouchers versus the status quo. There's been partisanship and petty bickering, but little recognition that we need to move beyond the worn fights of the 20th century if we're going to succeed in the 21st century. <p>I think you'd all agree that the time for finger-pointing is over. The time for holding us--holding ourselves accountable is here. What's required is not simply new investments, but new reforms. It is time to expect more from our students. It's time to start rewarding good teachers, stop making excuses for bad ones. It's time to demand results from government at every level. It's time to prepare every child, everywhere in America, to outcompete any worker, anywhere in the world. It's time to give all Americans a complete and competitive education from the cradle up through a career. We've accepted failure for far too long. Enough is enough. America's entire education system must once more be the envy of the world, and that's exactly what we intend to do. <p>That's exactly what the budget I'm submitting to Congress has begun to achieve. Now, at a time when we've inherited a trillion-dollar deficit, we will start by doing a little housekeeping, going through our books, cutting wasteful education programs. My outstanding Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan, who's here today--stand up, Arne, so everybody can see you. I'm assuming you also saw my Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis. But Secretary Duncan will use only one test when deciding what ideas to support with your precious tax dollars: It's not whether an idea is liberal or conservative, but whether it works. And this will help free up resources for the first pillar of reforming our schools, investing in early childhood initiatives. <p>This isn't just about keeping an eye on our children, it's about educating them. Studies show that children in early childhood education programs are more likely to score higher in reading and math, more likely to graduate from high school and attend college, more likely to hold a job, and more likely to earn more in that job. For every dollar we invest in these programs, we get nearly $10 back in reduced welfare rolls, fewer health care costs, and less crime. That's why the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that I signed into law invests $5 billion in growing Early Head Start and Head Start, expanding access to quality childcare for 150,000 more children from working families and doing more for children with special needs. And that's why we are going to offer 55,000 first-time parents regular visits from trained nurses to help make sure their children are healthy and prepare them for school and for life. <p>Now, even as we invest in early childhood education, let's raise the bar for early learning programs that are falling short. Now, today, some children are enrolled in excellent programs, some children are enrolled in mediocre programs, and some are wasting away their most formative years in bad programs. That includes the one-fourth of all children who are Hispanic, and who will drive America's workforce of tomorrow, but who are less likely to have been enrolled in an early childhood education program than anyone else. <p>That's why I'm issuing a challenge to our States: Develop a cutting-edge plan to raise the quality of your early learning programs; show us how you'll work to ensure that children are better prepared for success by the time they enter kindergarten. If you do, we will support you with an Early Learning Challenge Grant that I call on Congress to enact. That's how we will reward quality and incentivize excellence and make a down payment on the success of the next generation. <p>So that's the first pillar of our education reform agenda. The second, we will end what has become a race to the bottom in our schools and instead spur a race to the top by encouraging better standards and assessments. Now, this is an area where we are being outpaced by other nations. It's not that their kids are any smarter than ours, it's that they are being smarter about how to educate their children. They're spending less time teaching things that don't matter and more time teaching things that do. They're preparing their students not only for high school or college, but for a career; we are not. Our curriculum for eighth graders is two full years behind top performing countries. That's a prescription for economic decline. And I refuse to accept that America's children cannot rise to this challenge. They can, and they must, and they will meet higher standards in our time. <p>So let's challenge our States, let's challenge our States to adopt world-class standards that will bring our curriculums to the 21st century. Today's system of 50 different sets of benchmarks for academic success means fourth grade readers in Mississippi are scoring nearly 70 points lower than students in Wyoming, and they're getting the same grade. Eight of our States are setting their standards so low that their students may end up on par with roughly the bottom 40 percent of the world. <p>That's inexcusable. That's why I'm calling on States that are setting their standards far below where they ought to be to stop low-balling expectations for our kids. The solution to low test scores is not lowering standards, it's tougher, clearer standards. Standards like those in Massachusetts, where eighth graders are--[<i>applause</i>]--we've got the Massachusetts contingent here--[<i>laughter</i>]--in Massachusetts, eighth graders are now tying for first, first in the whole world in science. Other forward-thinking States are moving in the same direction by coming together as part of a consortium. And more States need to do the same. And I'm calling on our Nation's Governors and State education chiefs to develop standards and assessments that don't simply measure whether students can fill in a bubble on a test, but whether they possess 21st century skills like problem-solving and critical thinking and entrepreneurship and creativity. <p>That is what we'll help them do later this year--that's what we're going to help them do later this year when we finally make No Child Left Behind live up to its name by ensuring not only that teachers and principals get the funding that they need, but that the money is tied to results. And Arne Duncan will also back up this commitment to higher standards with a fund to invest in innovation in our school districts. <p>Of course, raising standards alone will not make much of a difference unless we provide teachers and principals with the information they need to make sure students are prepared to meet those standards. And far too few States have data systems like the one in Florida that keep track of a student's education from childhood through college. And far too few districts are emulating the example of Houston and Long Beach and using data to track how much progress a student is making and where that student is struggling. That's a resource that can help us improve student achievement and tell us which students had which teachers so we can assess what's working and what's not. That's why we're making a major investment in this area, that we will cultivate a new culture of accountability in America's schools. <p>Now, to complete our race to the top requires the third pillar of reform, recruiting, preparing, and rewarding outstanding teachers. From the moments students enter a school, the most important factor in their success is not the color of their skin or the income of their parents, it's the person standing at the front of the classroom. That's why our Recovery Act will ensure that hundreds of thousands of teachers and school personnel are not laid off, because those Americans are not only doing jobs they can't afford to lose, they're rendering a service our Nation cannot afford to lose either. <p>America's future depends on its teachers. And so today, I'm calling on a new generation of Americans to step forward and serve our country in our classrooms. If you want to make a difference in the life of our Nation, if you want to make the most of your talents and dedication, if you want to make your mark with a legacy that will endure, then join the teaching profession. America needs you. We need you in our suburbs. We need you in our small towns. We especially need you in our inner cities. We need you in classrooms all across our country. <p>And if you do your part, then we'll do ours. That's why we're taking steps to prepare teachers for their difficult responsibilities and encourage them to stay in the profession. That's why we're creating new pathways to teaching and new incentives to bring teachers to schools where they're needed most. That's why we support offering extra pay to Americans who teach math and science to end a teacher shortage in those subjects. It's why we're building on the promising work being done in places like South Carolina's Teachers Advancement Program and making an unprecedented commitment to ensure that anyone entrusted with educating our children is doing the job as well as it can be done. <p>Now, here's what that commitment means: It means treating teachers like the professionals they are while also holding them more accountable. In up to 150 more school districts, new teachers will be mentored by experienced ones. Good teachers will be rewarded with more money for improved student achievement and asked to accept more responsibilities for lifting up their schools. Teachers throughout a school will benefit from guidance and support to help them improve. <p>And just as we've given our teachers all the support they need to be successful, we need to make sure our students have the teacher they need to be successful. And that means States and school districts taking steps to move bad teachers out of the classroom. But let me be clear--[<i> applause</i>]. Let me be clear: The overwhelming number of teachers are doing an outstanding job under difficult circumstances. My sister is a teacher, so I know how tough teaching can be. But let me be clear: If a teacher is given a chance or two chances or three chances but still does not improve, there's no excuse for that person to continue teaching. I reject a system that rewards failure and protects a person from its consequences. The stakes are too high. We can afford nothing but the best when it comes to our children's teachers and the schools where they teach. <p>Now, that leads me to the fourth part of America's education strategy, promoting innovation and excellence in America's schools. One of the places where much of that innovation occurs is in our most effective charter schools. And these are public schools founded by parents, teachers, and civic or community organizations with broad leeway to innovate, schools I supported as a State legislator and a United States Senator. <p>But right now there are many caps on how many charter schools are allowed in some States, no matter how well they're preparing our students. That isn't good for our children, our economy, or our country. Of course, any expansion of charter schools must not result in the spread of mediocrity, but in the advancement of excellence. And that will require States adopting both a rigorous selection and review process to ensure that a charter school's autonomy is coupled with greater accountability, as well as a strategy, like the one in Chicago, to close charter schools that are not working. Provided this greater accountability, I call on States to reform their charter rules and lift caps on the number of allowable charter schools, wherever such caps are in place. <p>Now, even as we foster innovation in where our children are learning, let's also foster innovation in when our children are learning. We can no longer afford an academic calendar designed for when America was a nation of farmers who needed their children at home plowing the land at the end of each day. That calendar may have once made sense, but today it puts us at a competitive disadvantage. Our children--listen to this--our children spend over a month less in school than children in South Korea, every year. That's no way to prepare them for a 21st century economy. That's why I'm calling for us not only to expand effective after-school programs, but to rethink the school day to incorporate more time, whether during the summer or through expanded-day programs for children who need it. <p>Now, I know longer school days and school years are not wildly popular ideas. [<i>Laughter</i>] Not with Malia and Sasha--[<i>laughter</i>]--not in my family, and probably not in yours. But the challenges of a new century demand more time in the classroom. If they can do that in South Korea, we can do it right here in the United States of America. <p>Of course, no matter how innovative our schools or how effective our teachers, America cannot succeed unless our students take responsibility for their own education. That means showing up for school on time, paying attention in class, seeking out extra tutoring if it's needed, staying out of trouble. To any student who's watching, I say this: Don't even think about dropping out of school. Don't even think about it. <p>As I said a couple of weeks ago, dropping out is quitting on yourself, it's quitting on your country, and it's not an option, not anymore. Not when our high school dropout rate has tripled in the past 30 years. Not when high school dropouts earn about half as much as college graduates. Not when Latino students are dropping out faster than just about anyone else. It's time for all of us, no matter what our backgrounds, to come together and solve this epidemic. <p>Stemming the tide of dropouts will require turning around our low-performing schools. Now, just 2,000 high schools in cities like Detroit and Los Angeles and Philadelphia produce over 50 percent of America's dropouts. And yet there are too few proven strategies to transform these schools. And there are too few partners to get the job done. <p>So today I'm issuing a challenge to educators and lawmakers, parents and teachers alike: Let us all make turning around our schools our collective responsibility as Americans. And that will require new investments in innovative ideas. That's why my budget invests in developing new strategies to make sure at-risk students don't give up on their education, new efforts to give dropouts who want to return to school the help they need to graduate, and new ways to put those young men and women who have left school back on a pathway to graduation. <p>Now, the fifth part of America's education strategy is providing every American with a quality higher education, whether it's college or technical training. Never has a college degree been more important; never has it been more expensive. And at a time when so many of our families are bearing enormous economic burdens, the rising cost of tuition threatens to shatter dreams. And that's why we will simplify Federal college assistance forms so it doesn't take a Ph.D. to apply for financial aid. <p>That's why we're already taking steps to make college or technical training affordable. For the first time ever, Pell grants will not be subject to the politics of the moment or the whim of the market, they will be a commitment that Congress is required to uphold each and every year. Not only that: Because rising costs mean Pell grants cover less than half as much tuition as they did 30 years ago, we're raising the maximum Pell grant to $5,550 a year and indexing it above inflation. We're also providing a $2,500-a-year tuition tax credit for students from working families. And we're modernizing and expanding the Perkins Loan Program to make sure schools like UNLV don't get a tenth as many Perkins loans as schools like Harvard. <p>To help pay for all of this, we're putting students ahead of lenders by eliminating wasteful student loan subsidies that cost taxpayers billions each year. All in all, we are making college affordable for 7 million more students with a sweeping investment in our children's futures and America's success. And I call on Congress to join me and the American people by making these investments possible. <p>Now, this is how we will help meet our responsibility as a nation to open the doors of college to every American. But it will also be the responsibility of colleges and universities to control spiraling costs. We can't just keep on putting more money in and universities and colleges not doing their part to hold down tuitions. And it's the responsibility of our students to walk through the doors of opportunity. <p>In just a single generation, America has fallen from 2d place to 11th place in the portion of students completing college. That is unfortunate, but it's by no means irreversible. With resolve and the right investments, we can retake the lead once more. And that's why, in my address to the Nation the other week, I called on Americans to commit to at least one year or more of higher education or career training, with the goal of having the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by the year 2020. And to meet that goal, we are investing $2.5 billion to identify and support innovative initiatives across the country that achieve results in helping students persist and graduate. <p>So let's not stop at education with college. Let's recognize a 21st century reality: Learning doesn't end in our early twenties. Adults of all ages need opportunities to earn new degrees and new skills, especially in the current economic environment. And that means working with all our universities and schools, including community colleges--a great and undervalued asset--to prepare workers for good jobs in high-growth industries and to improve access to job training not only for young people who are just starting their careers, but for older workers who need new skills to change careers. And that's going to be one of the key tasks that Secretary Solis is involved with, is making sure that lifelong learning is a reality and a possibility for more Americans. <p>It's through initiatives like these that we'll see more Americans earn a college degree or receive advanced training and pursue a successful career. And that's why I'm calling on Congress to work with me to enact these essential reforms and to reauthorize the Workforce Reinvestment Act. That's how we will round out a complete and competitive education in the United States of America. <p>So here's the bottom line: yes, we need more money; yes, we need more reform; yes, we need to hold ourselves more accountable for every dollar we spend. But there's one more ingredient I want to talk about. No government policy will make any difference unless we also hold ourselves more accountable as parents, because government, no matter how wise or efficient, cannot turn off the TV or put away the video games. Teachers, no matter how dedicated or effective, cannot make sure your child leaves for school on time and does their homework when they get back at night. These are things only a parent can do. These are things that our parents must do. <p>I say this not only as a father, but also as a son. When I was a child my mother and I lived overseas, and she didn't have the money to send me to the fancy international school where all the American kids went to school. So what she did was she supplemented my schooling with lessons from a correspondence course. And I can still picture her waking me up at 4:30 in the morning, 5 days a week, to go over some lessons before I went to school. And whenever I'd complain and grumble and find some excuse and say, \\"Aww, I'm sleepy,\\" she'd patiently repeat to me her most powerful defense. She'd say, \\"This is no picnic for me either, buster.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>You know, when you're a kid you don't think about the sacrifices they're making. She had to work; I just had to go to school. But she'd still wake up every day to make sure I was getting what I needed for my education. And it's because she did this day after day, week after week, because of all the other opportunities and breaks that I got along the way, all the sacrifices that my grandmother and my grandfather made along the way, that I can stand here today as President of the United States. It's because of the sacrifices--[<i>applause</i>]. See, I want every child in this country to have the same chance that my mother gave me, that my teachers gave me, that my college professors gave me, that America gave me. <p>You know these stories; you've lived them as well. All of you have a similar story to tell. You know, it's--I want children like Yvonne Bojorquez to have that chance. Yvonne is a student at Village Academy High School in California. Now, Village Academy is a 21st century school where cutting-edge technologies are used in the classroom, where college prep and career training are offered to all who seek it, and where the motto is \\"Respect, Responsibility, and Results.\\" <p>Now, a couple of months ago, Yvonne and her class made a video talking about the impact that our struggling economy was having on their lives. And some of them spoke about their parents being laid off or their homes facing foreclosure or their inability to focus on school with everything that was happening at home. And when it was her turn to speak, Yvonne said: \\"We've all been affected by this economic crisis. [We] are all college-bound students; we're all businessmen and doctors and lawyers and all this great stuff. And we have all this potential, but the way things are going, we're not going to be able to [fulfill it].\\" <p>It was heartbreaking that a girl so full of promise was so full of worry that she and her class titled their video, \\"Is Anybody Listening?\\" So today there's something I want to say to Yvonne and her class at Village Academy: I am listening; we are listening; America is listening. And we will not rest until your parents can keep your jobs--we will not rest until your parents can keep their jobs and your families can keep their homes, and you can focus on what you should be focusing on, your own education; until you can become the businessmen, doctors, and lawyers of tomorrow, until you can reach out and grasp your dreams for the future. <p>For in the end, Yvonne's dream is a dream shared by all Americans. It's the founding promise of our Nation: That we can make of our lives what we will; that all things are possible for all people; and that here in America, our best days lie ahead. I believe that. I truly believe if I do my part, and you, the American people, do yours, then we will emerge from this crisis a stronger nation and pass the dream of our founding on to posterity, ever safer than before. <p>Thank you very much. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"50" "\"Good morning. I ran for President pledging to change the way business is done in Washington and to build a Government that works for the people by opening it up to the people. And that means restoring responsibility and transparency and accountability to actions that the Government takes. And working with the Congress over my first 50 days in office, we've made important progress toward that end. <p>Working together, we passed an American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that's already putting people back to work doing the work that America needs done. We did it without the customary congressional earmarks, the practice by which individual legislators insert projects of their choosing. We're implementing the Recovery Act with an unprecedented level of aggressive oversight and transparency, including a web site, recovery.gov, that allows every American to see how their tax dollars are spent and report on cases where the system is breaking down. <p>I also signed a directive that dramatically reforms our broken system of Government contracting, reining in waste and abuse and inefficiency, saving the American taxpayers up to $40 billion each year in the process. <p>And I've laid out plans for a budget that begins to restore fiscal discipline so we can bring down the $1.3 trillion budget deficit we've inherited and pave the way for our long-term prosperity. For the first time in many years, we've produced an honest budget that makes the hard choices required to cut our deficit in half by the end of my first term in office. <p>Now, yesterday Congress sent me the final part of last year's budget, a piece of legislation that rolls nine bills required to keep the Government running into one, a piece of legislation that addresses the immediate concerns of the American people by making needed investments in line with our urgent national priorities. That's what nearly 99 percent of this legislation does, the nearly 99 percent that you probably haven't heard much about. <p>What you likely have heard about is that this bill does include earmarks. Now, let me be clear: Done right, earmarks have given legislators the opportunity to direct Federal money to worthy projects that benefit people in their districts, and that's why I have opposed their outright elimination. And I also find it ironic that some of those who rail most loudly against this bill because of earmarks actually inserted earmarks of their own and will tout them in their own States and their own districts. <p>But the fact is that on occasion, earmarks have been used as a vehicle for waste and fraud and abuse. Projects have been inserted at the 11th hour, without review and sometimes without merit, in order to satisfy the political or personal agendas of a given legislator, rather than the public interest. There are times where earmarks may be good on their own, but in the context of a tight budget might not be our highest priority. So these practices hit their peak in the middle of this decade, when the number of earmarks had ballooned to more than 16,000 and played a part in a series of corruption cases. <p>In 2007, the new Democratic leadership in Congress began to address these abuses with a series of reforms that I was proud to have helped to write. We eliminated anonymous earmarks and created new measures of transparency in the process, so Americans can better follow how their tax dollars are being spent. These measures were combined with the most sweeping ethics reforms since Watergate. We banned gifts and meals and made sure that lobbyists have to disclose who they're raising campaign money from, and who in Congress they send it to. So we've made progress. But let's face it, we have to do more. <p>I am signing an imperfect omnibus bill because it's necessary for the ongoing functions of Government, and we have a lot more work to do. We can't have Congress bogged down at this critical juncture in our economic recovery. But I also view this as a departure point for more far-reaching change. <p>In my discussions with Congress, we have talked about the need for further reforms to ensure that the budget process inspires trust and confidence instead of cynicism. So I believe as we move forward, we can come together around principles that prevent the abuse of earmarks. <p>Now, these principles begin with a simple concept: Earmarks must have a legitimate and worthy public purpose. Earmarks that Members do seek must be aired on those Members' web sites in advance, so the public and the press can examine them and judge their merits for themselves. Each earmark must be open to scrutiny at public hearings, where Members will have to justify their expense to the taxpayer. <p>Next, any earmark for a for-profit, private company should be subject to the same competitive bidding requirements as other Federal contracts. The awarding of earmarks to private companies is the single most corrupting element of this practice, as witnessed by some of the indictments and convictions that we've already seen. Private companies differ from the public entities that Americans rely on every day, schools and police stations and fire departments. <p>When somebody is allocating money to those public entities, there's some confidence that there's going to be a public purpose. When they are given to private entities, you've got potential problems. You know, when you give it to public companies--public entities like fire departments, and if they are seeking taxpayer dollars, then I think all of us can feel some comfort that the State or municipality that's benefiting is doing so because it's going to trickle down and help the people in that community. When they're private entities, then I believe they have to be evaluated with a higher level of scrutiny. <p>Furthermore, it should go without saying that an earmark must never be traded for political favors. <p>And finally, if my administration evaluates an earmark and determines that it has no legitimate public purpose, then we will seek to eliminate it, and we'll work with Congress to do so. <p>Now, I know there are Members in both Houses with good ideas on this matter. And just this morning, the House released a set of recommendations for reform that I think hold great promise. I congratulate them on that. Now I'm calling on Congress to enact these reforms as the appropriation process moves forward this year. Neither I nor the American people will accept anything less. <p>It's important that we get this done to ensure that the budget process works better, the taxpayers are protected, and that we save billions of dollars that we so desperately need to right our economy and address our fiscal crisis. Along with that reform, I expect future spending bills to be debated and voted on in an orderly way and sent to my desk without delay or obstruction, so that we don't face another massive, last-minute omnibus bill like this one. <p>I recognize that Congress has the power of the purse. As a former Senator, I believe that individual Members of Congress understand their districts best, and they should have the ability to respond to the needs of their communities. I don't quarrel with that. But leadership requires setting an example and setting priorities, and the magnitude of the economic crisis we face requires responsibility on all our parts. <p>The future demands that we operate in a different way than we have in the past. So let there be no doubt: This piece of legislation must mark an end to the old way of doing business and the beginning of a new era of responsibility and accountability that the American people have every right to expect and demand. <p>If we're going to solve our economic crisis, if we're going to put Americans back to work, if we're going to make the investments required to build a foundation for our future growth, then we must restore the American people's faith that their Government is working for them, and that it's on their side. That's the Government I promised, that's the Government I intend to lead. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. All right.\" "
"51" "\"Thank you so much. Well, today, as we continue our celebration of international Women's History Month, I'm proud to sign this Executive order establishing the women's--the White House Council on Women and Girls. It's a council with a mission that dates back to our founding, to fulfill the promise of our democracy for all our people. <p>I sign this order not just as a President, but as a son, a grandson, a husband, and a father, because growing up, I saw my mother put herself through school and follow her passion for helping others. But I also saw how she struggled to raise me and my sister on her own, worrying about how she'd pay the bills and educate herself and provide for us. <p>I saw my grandmother work her way up to become one of the first women bank vice presidents in the State of Hawaii. But I also saw how she hit a glass ceiling, how men no more qualified than she was kept moving up the corporate ladder ahead of her. <p>I've seen Michelle, the rock of the Obama family, juggling work and parenting with more skill and grace than anybody that I know. But I also saw how it tore at her at times, how sometimes when she was with the girls she was worrying about work, and when she was at work she was worrying about the girls. It's a feeling that I share every day. <p>In so many ways, the stories of the women in my life reflect the broader story of women in this country, a story of both unyielding progress and also untapped potential. Today, women make up a growing share of our workforce and the majority of students in our colleges and our law schools. Women are breaking barriers in every field, from science and business to athletics and the Armed Forces. Women are serving at the highest levels of my administration, and we have Madam Speaker presiding over our House of Representatives. I had the privilege of participating in a historic campaign with a historic candidate, who we now have the privilege of calling Madam Secretary. <p>But at the same time, when women still earn just 78 cents for every dollar men make, when one in four women still experiences domestic violence in their lifetimes, when women are more than half of our population, but just 17 percent of our Congress, when women are 49 percent of the workforce, but only 3 percent of our Fortune 500 CEOs, when these inequalities stubbornly persist in this country, in this century, then I think we need to ask ourselves some hard questions. I think we need to take a hard look at where we're falling short and who we're leaving out and what that means for the prosperity and the vitality of our Nation. <p>And I want to be very clear: These issues are not just women's issues. When women make less than men for the same work, it hurts families who find themselves with less income and have to work harder just to get by. When a job doesn't offer family leave, that also hurts men who want to help care for a new baby or an ailing parent. When there's no affordable childcare, that hurts children who wind up in second-rate care or spending afternoons alone in front of the television set. <p>And when any of our citizens cannot fulfill their potential because of factors that have nothing to do with their talent, their character, their work ethic, that says something about the state of our democracy. It says something about whether we're honoring those words put on paper more than two centuries ago, whether we're doing our part, like generations before us, to breathe new life into them in our time. <p>That, above all, is the true purpose of our Government, not to guarantee our success, but to ensure that in America all things are still possible for all people. Not to solve all our problems, but to ensure that we all have the chance to pursue our own version of happiness. To give our daughters the chance to achieve as greatly as the women who join us today. That's the impact our Government can have. <p>It's the impact of a Health and Human Services Department that funds research by women like Dr. Nina Fedoroff, a biotechnology and life science pioneer who won the National Medal of Science in 2006. It's the impact of a Defense Department that works to recruit and promote women, so that women like Sergeant Major Michele Jones, who was the Army's highest ranking enlisted woman before she retired, can strengthen our military with their leadership. <p>It's the impact of a Department of Education that enforces title IX, so athletes like Olympic gold medalist Dominique Dawes and Lisa Leslie have a level playing field to compete and to win. It's the impact of a White House and a Congress that fight for legislation like the Lilly Ledbetter fair pay restoration act, so that all women can get paid what they deserve. I'm very proud this was the very first bill that I signed into law. <p>And that's why I'm establishing this Council, not just to continue efforts like these, but to enhance them. The Council will be composed of the heads of every Cabinet and Cabinet-level agency and will meet on a regular basis. We have many of those Cabinet members here. Some of the men showed up; we put them in the second row. [<i>Laughter</i>] But they're going to be fighting--[<i>applause</i>]--they're going to be part of this Council, and it's going to meet on a regular basis. <p>Its purpose is very simple: to ensure that each of the agencies in which they're charged takes into account the needs of women and girls in the policies they draft, the programs they create, the legislation they support. It's not enough to only have individual women's offices at individual agencies, or only have one office in the White House. Rather, as former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright once said, in our Government, \\"responsibility for the advancement of women is not the job of any one agency; it's the job of all of them.\\" And she should know; she helped lead an interagency women's initiative during the Clinton administration. <p>At the same time, given the critical importance of its work, this Council must have strong leadership from the White House and direct accountability to me. And that's why I'm appointing Valerie Jarrett, one of my closest advisers and most senior members of my administration, to lead it. Tina Tchen, another senior member of my White House staff, will serve as the Council's Executive Director. <p>In the end, while many of the challenges women and girls face are new, the work of this Council is not; it's been with us for generations. Frances Perkins, who was President Franklin Roosevelt's Secretary of Labor and the first woman to serve in the Cabinet, a great hero of the New Deal, described it well when she said: \\"I had a kind of duty to other women to walk in and sit down on the chair that was offered and so establish the rights of others long hence and far distant in geography to sit in the high seats\\"--to sit in the high seats. <p>That is why I'm standing here today, because of what my mother and grandmother did for me, because of their hard work and sacrifice and unflagging love. That's what Michelle's doing right now, thinking every day about making sure that Malia and Sasha have the same opportunities as anybody's sons do. That's why so many of us are here today, because of the women who came before us, who were determined to see us sit in the high seats; women who reached for the ballot and raised families and traveled long, lonely roads to be the first in the boardroom or in the courtroom or on the battlefield and in the factory floor; women who cracked and shattered those glass ceilings so that my daughters, and all of our sons and daughters, could dream a little bigger and reach a little higher. <p>So now it's up to us to carry that work forward, to ensure that our daughters and granddaughters have no limits on their dreams, no obstacles to their achievements, and that they have opportunities their mothers and grandmothers and great- grandmothers never dreamed of. That's the purpose of this Council. Those are the priorities of my Presidency. And I look forward to working with all of you to fulfill them in the months and years to come. <p>All right, so I'm going to go sign this thing. Thank you very much.\" "
"52" "\"Thank you, General Wilson, for the wonderful introduction and your hospitality. Thank you to Secretary Gates and Admiral Mullen for the extraordinary service that they render to this country. I want to acknowledge the other members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who are doing outstanding work and have been a great support to me, and Ambassador Ross. <p>To each of you who are here: for your service to our country and your commitment to our security, I want to say thank you on behalf of the American people. You know, I think so highly of NDU that I picked one of your alumni, General Jim Jones, to be my National Security Adviser. <p>And I know many of you have served in harm's way, and for that you have the respect of a grateful nation. And before I go any further, I want to acknowledge all of our troops now serving overseas. They have shouldered an awesome responsibility. They have performed brilliantly. And they have the full support of the American people. <p>Today it is my privilege to join you in dedicating this building to the memory of President Abraham Lincoln. We know, of course, that there are many monuments to Lincoln's memory across this country. His words are written into stately walls and his image is printed on our currency. His story is taught in our schools and his name is synonymous with freedom. You and I live in the Union that he saved, and we inherited the progress that he made possible. <p>Yet despite this far-reaching legacy, it is still--to quote the man himself--\\"altogether fitting and proper\\" that we should set aside this ground, and dedicate this hall, in his memory, because Lincoln's Presidency was characterized by war, even as his ambition was a just and lasting peace. Here, in this indispensable institution, we find a living legacy to that ambition. Here, at National Defense University, men and women come together to think, to learn, and to seek new strategies to defend our Union while pursuing the goal of a just and lasting peace. <p>The grounds that make up this campus tell us an interesting story about how America can pursue this goal. Fort McNair was built over two centuries ago to protect a young Capital against invasion. Its defenses were traditional: training for soldiers, stockpiles of arms, fortifications to hold advancing armies at bay. It was overrun by a British attack in the War of 1812, and treated the wounded warriors of the Civil War in Lincoln's day. <p>And then, just over a century ago, President Theodore Roosevelt came here to lay the cornerstone of the Army War College. In dedicating the school, Roosevelt spoke words that resonate to this day. He said, \\"More and more, it has become evident in modern warfare that the efficiency of the unit, of the individual officer, and the individual enlisted man is going to be the prime factor in deciding the fate of fought fields.\\" <p>More than 100 years later, Roosevelt's insight remain the essential mission of this institution: the belief that even as our weapons have grown more powerful, individuals still determine the strength of our national security; the belief that individual Americans remain, as Roosevelt said, \\"the prime factor in deciding the fate of fought fields.\\" <p>The battlefields that we now face would be unfamiliar to Lincoln and Roosevelt. The days when President Lincoln would wander down to the War Department's telegraph office to get reports from the front are long past, but the threats to our Nation are real, and they are direct. <p>From this fort, which was founded to defend the city of Washington against invasion, you could stand on September 11, 2001, and watch the smoke from the Pentagon billowing up across the Potomac. The attacks of 9/11 signaled the new dangers of the 21st century. And today, our people are still threatened by violent extremists, and we're still at war with terrorists in Afghanistan and Pakistan who are plotting to do us harm. <p>Yet terrorism and extremism make up just one part of the many challenges that confront our Nation. In Iraq, we will surely face difficult days ahead as we responsibly end a war by transitioning to Iraqi control of their country. A historic economic downturn has put at stake the prosperity that underpins our strength, while putting at risk the stability of governments and the survival of people around the world. We're threatened by the spread of the world's deadliest weapons, by emerging cyber threats, and by a dependence on foreign oil that endangers our security and our planet. Poverty, disease, the persistence of conflict and genocide in the 21st century challenge our international alliances, partnerships, and institutions, and must call on all of us to reexamine our assumptions. <p>These are the battlefields of the 21st century; these are the threats that we now face. And in these struggles, the United States of America must succeed, and we will succeed. We also know that the old approaches won't meet the challenges of our time. Threats now move freely across borders, and the ability to do great harm lies in the hands of individuals as well as nations. No technology, no matter how smart, can stop the spread of nuclear weapons. No army, no matter how strong, can eliminate every adversary. No weapon, no matter how powerful, can erase the hatred that lies in someone's heart. <p>So it falls to institutions like this and to individuals like you to help us understand the world as it is, to develop the capacities that we need to confront emerging danger, and to act with purpose and pragmatism to turn this moment of peril into one of promise. That's how we will find new pathways to peace and security. That is the work that we must do. <p>Now, make no mistake: This Nation will maintain our military dominance. We will have the strongest Armed Forces in the history of the world. And we will do whatever it takes to sustain our technological advantage, and to invest in the capabilities that we need to protect our interests, and to defeat and deter any conventional enemy. But we also need to look beyond this conventional advantage as we develop the new approaches and new capabilities of the 21st century, and in that effort, this university must play a critical role. <p>Our troops are faced with complex missions. Increasingly, they're called upon to defeat nimble enemies while keeping local populations on their side. And that's why my administration is committed to growing the size of our ground forces, and to investing in the skills that can help our troops succeed in the unconventional mission that they now face. We must understand different languages and different cultures; we must study determined adversaries and developing tactics. That's the education that takes place within the walls of this university, and that is the work that must be done to keep our Nation safe. <p>America must also balance and integrate all elements of our national power. We cannot continue to push the burden on to our military alone, nor leave dormant any aspect of the full arsenal of American capability. And that's why my administration is committed to renewing diplomacy as a tool of American power, and to developing our civilian national security capabilities. This effort takes place within the walls of this university, where civilians sit alongside soldiers in the classroom. And it must continue out in the field, where American civilians can advance opportunity, enhance governance and the rule of law, and attack the causes of war around the world. We have to enlist our civilians in the same way they--we enlist those members of the armed services in understanding this broad mission that we have. <p>And finally, we know that the United States cannot defeat global threats alone. There is no permanent American solution to the security challenges that we face within any foreign nation, nor can the world meet the tests of our time without strong American leadership. And that's why my administration is committed to comprehensive engagement with the world, including strengthened partnerships with the foreign militaries and security forces that can combat our common enemies. Those partnerships are advanced here, within the walls of this university, where we welcome men and women from around the world to study alongside Americans, to understand our values, to forge partnerships, and hopefully friendships, that contribute to a safer world. <p>The lesson of history is that peace and security do not come easily. Each person who passes through this university will play a different role. Some of you will serve in uniform abroad, or help train troops here at home. Some will be diplomats, intelligence officers, or congressional staffers; others will work in the private sector. Some will rise to be senior officers and top strategists, and some of you might even decide to run for public office, although I'd warn you about that. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Your story is your own and the education that you're receiving will help you advance it. But you're here because you've also accepted the responsibility of having your story as part of the larger American story. Your story is serving your fellow citizens in the wider world. And my message to you today is simple: Your individual service makes all of the difference. You will make the decisions, large and small, that will help shape our future. <p>So as we dedicate this building where you and future generations will be prepared to make those choices, remember that the true strength of our Nation comes not from the might of our arms or the scale of our wealth, it comes from the power of our ideals: democracy, liberty, equality, justice, and unyielding hope. <p>Those ideals are embedded in our national character because generations of Americans have chosen to live them in their own lives, to advance them through their service and through their sacrifice. This is the truth that Lincoln understood, that pragmatism must serve a common purpose, a higher purpose. That's the legacy that we inherit. And that, in the end, is how government of the people, and by the people, and for the people, will endure in our time. <p>So thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"53" "\"Hello, everybody. Please have a seat. I've got my Illinois contingent over here. Please, everybody have a seat. Thank you so much. <p>I just wanted to stop by and say hello. I know that you heard from Joe Biden at the top of this session, and I wanted to let you know that we are very grateful to all of you for taking the time to come. We hope that this is being a productive session. And I want to emphasize that all of you are at the frontlines of what is probably the most important task that we have in this country over the next couple of years, and that's getting the economy started again. <p>I think all of you in your respective roles are hearing stories of people who are going through extraordinary hardship in your respective States. And we passed this American Recovery and Reinvestment Act because we strongly believe that this is an opportunity not only to deal with the immediate crisis, but also to lay the foundations for long-term growth and prosperity in this country. <p>And, you know, the American people are behind what we're doing. And the question then becomes, are we going to be able to deliver for them? They are going to be watching very carefully. And there are those who believe that Government doesn't have a role to play in this recovery. There are those who believe that we should be focusing exclusively on Wall Street when it comes to this crisis, and that we don't have time to worry about infrastructure, and we don't have time to worry about our health systems, and we don't have time to think about how we're going to improve our educational systems. <p>And all of you, what you do in the coming weeks and coming months, over the next couple of years is going to make a huge difference in whether or not the trust that the American people have placed in us is justified. <p>So my main message to all of you is, I think you're up to the task; I think you guys will do extraordinary work with using these precious tax dollars that the American people have given up in order to deliver on the kind of economic growth--short-term and long-term--and job creation that's going to be so important. <p>But we're going to need to work really hard, and we're going to have to make sure that every single dollar is well spent. We've got to go above and beyond what I think is the typical ways of doing business in order to make sure that the American people get the help that they need and that our economy gets the boost that it needs. <p>And so I've said before--I know Joe emphasized this to you earlier--if we see money being misspent, we're going to put a stop to it, and we will call it out, and we will publicize it. On the other hand, if the money is being spent as it needs to be spent, to rebuild our roads and our bridges and our schools and making sure that we are putting in place the kinds of infrastructure foundations that are necessary for economic growth over the long term, then I think all of us will benefit and our voters and our constituents, the people we work for, are going to be extraordinarily grateful. <p>So you've got this wonderful mission, and, you know, it's rare where you get a chance to put your shoulder to the wheel of history and move it in a better direction. This is such an opportunity. I think--I hope all of you seize it. I know this is very tough work because you've got a lot of money coming out quickly, it's got to be spent wisely, you don't always have the infrastructure, the organizational structures to accommodate all this stuff right away, and you're going to have to build that and do so in record time. <p>But looking around, you guys look like pretty capable people. So I have great confidence in you, and I think you're going to do a wonderful job. We appreciate you. Good luck. And I'll be seeing you at some ribbon cuttings. All right. Thank you.\" "
"54" "\"I've often said that I don't believe government has the answer to every problem or that it can do all things for all people. We are a nation built on the strength of individual initiative. But there are certain things that we can't do on our own. There are certain things only government can do. And one of those things is ensuring that the foods we eat and the medicines we take are safe and don't cause us harm. That's the mission of our Food and Drug Administration, and it is a mission shared by our Department of Agriculture and a variety of other agencies and offices at just about every level of government. <p>The men and women who inspect our foods and test the safety of our medicines are chemists and physicians, veterinarians and pharmacists. It's because of the work they do each and every day that the United States is one of the safest places in the world to buy groceries at a supermarket or pills at a drugstore. Unlike citizens of so many other countries, Americans can trust that there is a strong system in place to ensure that the medications we give our children will help them get better, not make them sick, and that a family dinner won't end in a trip to the doctor's office. <p>But in recent years, we've seen a number of problems with the food making its way to our kitchen tables. In 2006, it was contaminated spinach. In 2008, it was Salmonella in peppers and possibly tomatoes. And just this year, bad peanut products led to hundreds of illnesses and cost nine people their lives, a painful reminder of how tragic the consequences can be when food producers act irresponsibly and Government is unable to do its job. Worse, these incidents reflect a troubling trend that's seen the average number of outbreaks from contaminated produce and other foods grow to nearly 350 a year, up from 100 a year in the early 1990s. <p>Part of the reason is that many of the laws and regulations governing food safety in America have not been updated since they were written in the time of Teddy Roosevelt. It's also because our system of inspection and enforcement is spread out so widely among so many people that it's difficult for different parts of our Government to share information, work together, and solve problems. And it's also because the FDA has been underfunded and understaffed in recent years, leaving the agency with the resources to inspect just 7,000 of our 150,000 food processing plants and warehouses each year. That means roughly 95% of them go uninspected. <p>That is a hazard to public health. It is unacceptable, and it will change under the leadership of Dr. Margaret Hamburg, whom I am appointing today as Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration. From her research on infectious disease at the National Institutes of Health to her work on public health at the Department of Health and Human Services to her leadership on biodefense at the Nuclear Threat Initiative, Dr. Hamburg brings to this vital position not only a reputation of integrity but a record of achievement in making Americans safer and more secure. Dr. Hamburg was one of the youngest people ever elected to the National Academy of Sciences' Institute of Medicine. And her two children have a unique distinction of their own. Their birth certificates feature her name twice, once as their mother and once as New York City health commissioner. In that role, Dr. Hamburg brought a new life to a demoralized agency, leading an internationally recognized initiative that cut the tuberculosis rate by nearly half and overseeing food safety in our Nation's largest city. <p>Joining her as Principal Deputy Commissioner will be Dr. Joshua Sharfstein. As Baltimore's health commissioner, Dr. Sharfstein has been recognized as a national leader for his efforts to protect children from unsafe over-the-counter cough and cold medications. And he's designed an award-winning program to ensure that Americans with disabilities had access to prescription drugs. <p>Their critical work, and the critical work of the FDA they lead, will be part of a larger effort taken up by a new food safety working group I am creating. This working group will bring together Cabinet Secretaries and senior officials to advise me on how we can upgrade our food safety laws for the 21st century, foster coordination throughout government, and ensure that we are not just designing laws that will keep the American people safe, but enforcing them. And I expect this group to report back to me with recommendations as soon as possible. <p>As part of our commitment to public health, our Agriculture Department is closing a loophole in the system to ensure that diseased cows don't find their way into the food supply. And we are also strengthening our food safety system and modernizing our labs with a billion dollar investment, a portion of which will go toward significantly increasing the number of food inspectors, helping ensure that the FDA has the staff and support they need to protect the food we eat. <p>In the end, food safety is something I take seriously, not just as your President, but as a parent. When I heard peanut products were being contaminated earlier this year, I immediately thought of my 7-year-old daughter, Sasha, who has peanut butter sandwiches for lunch probably three times a week. No parent should have to worry that their child is going to get sick from their lunch, just as no family should have to worry that the medicines they buy will cause them harm. Protecting the safety of our food and drugs is one of the most fundamental responsibilities Government has, and with the outstanding team I am announcing today, it is a responsibility that I intend to uphold in the months and years to come. <p>Thanks.\" "
"55" "\"Thank you very much. To Jim Benson for helping to organize this; for Mahdee for your service to our country, a pledge of allegiance that you've shown in your own commitment to protecting this country; and obviously, to Secretary Shinseki: It is an honor to join you and the hard-working public servants here at the Department of Veterans Affairs as we mark a milestone in the distinguished history of this Department. <p>You know, 20 years ago, on the day the Veterans Administration was officially elevated to a Cabinet-level agency and renamed the Department of Veterans Affairs, a ceremony was held to swear in the Administrator of the old entity as Secretary of the new one. And in his remarks that day, President George H.W. Bush declared that the mission of this agency is, quote, \\"so vital that there's only one place for the veterans of America: in the Cabinet Room, at the table with the President of the United States of America.\\" And I could not agree more. <p>I could not be more pleased that Eric Shinseki has taken a seat at that table. Throughout his long and distinguished career in the Army, Secretary Shinseki won the respect and admiration of our men and women in uniform because they've always been his highest priority, and he has clearly brought that same sense of duty and commitment to the work of serving our veterans. <p>As he knows, it's no small task. This Department has more than a quarter of a million employees across America, and its services range from providing education and training benefits, health care and home loans, to tending those quiet places that remind us of the great debt we owe and remind me of the heavy responsibility that I bear. It's a commitment that lasts from the day our veterans retire that uniform to the day that they are put to rest and that continues on for their families. <p>Without this commitment, I might not be here today. After all, my grandfather enlisted after Pearl Harbor and went on to march in Patton's army. My grandmother worked on a bomber assembly line while he was gone. My mother was born at Fort Leavenworth while he was away. When my grandfather returned, he went to college on the GI bill, bought his first home with a loan from the VHA, moved his family west, all the way to Hawaii, where he and my grandmother helped to raise me. <p>And I think about my grandfather whenever I have the privilege of meeting the young men and women who serve in our military today. They are our best and brightest, and they're our bravest: enlisting in a time of war, enduring tour after tour of duty, serving with honor under the most difficult circumstances, and making sacrifices that many of us cannot begin to imagine. The same can be said of their families, as my wife Michelle has seen firsthand during visits to military bases across this country. We don't just deploy our troops in a time of war, we deploy their families too. <p>So while the mission of this Department is always vital, it is even more so during long and difficult conflicts like those that we're engaged in today. Because when the guns finally fall silent and the cameras are turned off and our troops return home, they deserve the same commitment from their Government as my grandparents received. <p>Last month, I announced my strategy for ending the war in Iraq. And I made it very clear that this strategy would not end with the military plans and diplomatic agendas, but would endure through my commitment to upholding our sacred trust with every man and woman who has served this country. And the same holds true for our troops serving in Afghanistan. <p>The homecoming we face over the next year and a half will be the true test of this commitment: whether we will stand with our veterans as they face new challenges--physical, psychological, and economic--here at home. <p>I intend to start that work by making good on my pledge to transform the Department of Veterans Affairs for the 21st century. That's an effort that, under Secretary Shinseki's leadership, all of you have already begun conducting a thorough review of your operations all across this agency. And I intend to support this effort not just with words of encouragement, but with resources. And that's why the budget I sent to Congress increases funding for this Department by $25 billion over the next 5 years. <p>With this budget, we don't just fully fund our VA health care program, we expand it to serve an additional 500,000 veterans by 2013, to provide better health care in more places, and to dramatically improve services related to mental health and injuries like Posttraumatic Stress Disorder and traumatic brain injury. We also invest in the technology to cut redtape and ease the transition from active duty. And we provide new help for homeless veterans, because those heroes have a home; it's the country they served, the United States of America. And until we reach a day when not a single veteran sleeps on our Nation's streets, our work remains unfinished. Now--[<i>applause</i>]. <p>Finally, in this new century, it's time to heed the lesson of history, that our returning veterans can form the backbone of our middle class, by implementing a GI bill for the 21st century. I know you're working hard under a tough deadline, but I am confident that we will be ready for August 1st. And that's how we'll show our service men and women that when you come home to America, America will be here for you. That's how we will ensure that those who have borne the battle, and their families, will have every chance to live out their dreams. <p>I've had the privilege of meeting so many of these heroes. And some of the most inspiring are those that I've met in places like Walter Reed, young men and women who've lost a limb or even their ability to take care of themselves, but who never lose the pride they feel for their country. And that is, after all, what led them to wear the uniform in the first place, their unwavering belief in the idea of America: That no matter where you come from, what you look like, who your parents are, this is a place where anything is possible, where anyone can make it, where we take care of each other and look out for each other, especially for those who've sacrificed so much for this country. <p>These are the ideals that generations of Americans have fought for and bled for and died for. These are the ideals at the core of your mission, a mission that dates back before our founding, one taken up by our first President years before he took office, back when he served as Commander in Chief of the Continental Army. Then-General Washington fought tirelessly to support the veterans of America's Revolutionary War. Such support, he argued, should \\"never be considered as a pension or gratuity. . .\\"--rather--\\". . . it was the price of their blood,\\" and of our independence; \\". . . it is, therefore,\\" he said, \\"more than a common debt, it is a debt of honor\\"--a debt of honor. <p>Washington understood that caring for our veterans was more than just a way of thanking them for their service. He recognized the obligation is deeper than that, that when our fellow citizens commit themselves to shed blood for us, that binds our fates with theirs in a way that nothing else can. And in the end, caring for those who have given their fullest measure of devotion to us--and for their families--is a matter of honor, as a nation and as a people. <p>That's a responsibility you hold; that's the work that you do, repaying that debt of honor, a debt we can never fully discharge. And I know it's not always easy. I know there's much work ahead to transform this agency for the 21st century. But I have the fullest confidence that with Secretary Shinseki's leadership, and with the hard work of the men and women of this Department, we will fulfill our sacred trust and serve our returning heroes as well as they've served us. <p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you, everybody.\" "
"56" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you very much. First of all, Marco, thank you for the wonderful introduction. I don't know if people heard properly here, but this is a all-natural health food restaurant in Philly. [<i>Laughter</i>] So I asked him what was the equivalent at his shop for a cheesesteak. [<i>Laughter</i>] And he described for me--what was it, a chicken---- <p><i>Marco Lentini.</i> It's our chicken Italiano. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's a chicken cutlet, spinach Florentine, sharp provolone, all on an Italian ciabatta bread. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> Right. So I wanted to know if there was whiz on that. [<i>Laughter</i>] And he said no. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But Marco is an example of what small business is all about. And I think Cynthia is an example of what community banks are doing all across the country, partnering with small businesses in order to create jobs and opportunity and entrepreneurship that's been the driving force in our economy for so very long. <p>So I thank all of you, particularly the small businesses and community bankers who are here today. And I thank the two of you, as well as some of the other entrepreneurs that we met, and bankers that we met, before this public event. Thank you for sharing your stories. <p>I also want to thank the chair and ranking member of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, Senators Mary Landrieu and Olympia Snowe. Please give them a big round of applause. As well as the chair and ranking member of the House Committee on Small Business, Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez and Congressman Sam Graves, who are here as well. I want to thank them publicly for being here, but also so much of the good work that our proposals today are building on has to do with the vigilance that they've shown on their committees. So we very much appreciate that. <p>Now, before I talk about the new steps that we're taking to get credit flowing to small businesses across our country, I do want to comment on the news about executive bonuses at AIG. I think some of you have heard a little bit about this over the last few days. This is a corporation that finds itself in financial distress due to recklessness and greed. Under these circumstances, it's hard to understand how derivative traders at AIG warranted any bonuses, much less $165 million in extra pay. I mean, how do they justify this outrage to the taxpayers who are keeping the company afloat? <p>In the last 6 months, AIG has received substantial sums from the U.S. Treasury. And I've asked Secretary Geithner to use that leverage and pursue every single legal avenue to block these bonuses and make the American taxpayers whole. I want everybody to be clear that Secretary Geithner has been on the case. He's working to resolve this matter with the new CEO, Edward Liddy--who, by the way, everybody needs to understand came on board after the contracts that led to these bonuses were agreed to last year. <p>But I think Mr. Liddy and certainly everybody involved needs to understand this is not just a matter of dollars and cents, it's about our fundamental values. All across the country, there are people who are working hard and meeting their responsibilities every single day, without the benefit of Government bailouts or multimillion dollar bonuses. You've got a bunch of small-businesspeople here who are struggling just to keep their credit line open, that they are foregoing pay, as one of our entrepreneurs talked about; they are in some cases mortgaging their homes and doing a whole host of things just in order to keep things afloat. All they ask is that everyone, from Main Street to Wall Street to Washington, play by the same rules. And that is an ethic that we have to demand. <p>And what this situation also underscores is the need for overall financial regulatory reform, so we don't find ourselves in this position again, and for some form of resolution mechanism in dealing with troubled financial institutions, so that we've got greater authority to protect American taxpayers and our financial system in cases such as this. <p>Now, we already have resolution authority--[<i>coughing</i>]--excuse me. I'm choked up with anger here--[<i>laughter</i>]. We always--already have some of that resolution authority when it comes to a traditional bank. But when you start getting into AIGs and some of these other operations that have a whole bunch of different financial instruments, then we don't have all the regulatory power that we need. And this is something that I expect to work with Congress to deal with in the weeks and months to come. <p>Well, we're here today to talk about how my administration can help the millions of small businesses bearing the brunt of this credit crisis. And Secretary Geithner and I just met with not only Marco and Cynthia, but a number of other small-business owners and community lenders who shared with us experiences that are familiar to so many. <p>Small businesses are the heart of the American economy. They're responsible for half of all private sector jobs, and they create roughly 70 percent of all new jobs in the past decade. So small businesses are not only job generators, they're also at the heart of the American Dream. After all, these are businesses born in family meetings around kitchen tables. They're born when a worker takes a chance on her desire to be her own boss. They're born when a part-time inventor becomes a full-time entrepreneur, or when somebody sees a product that could be better or a service that could be smarter, and they think, \\"Well, why not me? Let me try it. Let me take my shot.\\" That's Marco's story, which he just shared with us. <p>That's Brian Conrad's story. When Brian's company eliminated his department--Brian is sitting right there, so I don't want to embarrass him here, but it's a great story--he lost his job, but he found his calling and started, you know, doing all kinds of work on a restaurant called the Blue Monkey, which now employs some 40 people in Pennsylvania's Lehigh Valley. <p>That's Carmen Jones's story. Carmen is over there. Carmen was disabled in an accident a few years ago. And in facing personal trials, she discovered a reservoir of strength and an untapped market. So today, she helps companies advertise and sell their services to people living with disabilities. <p>Now, this is America's story, a place where we believe all things are possible, where we are limited only by our willingness to take a chance and work hard to achieve our dreams. But today, too many entrepreneurs can't access the capital to start, operate, or grow their business. Too many dreams are being deferred or denied by a form letter canceling a line of credit. <p>And this is a consequence of the credit crisis, which began when some banks bundled and sold mortgages in complex ways to hide risk and avoid responsibility. The collapse of these mortgage-backed securities and other complex financial instruments froze the credit markets, including the markets that helped small businesses access loans to cover payroll, to purchase supplies, or to expand in ways that create new jobs. <p>So, and I think it's important just to take a moment to understand: Here's how these markets work. A community bank like the one run by Cynthia offers an entrepreneur like Marco a loan to open up a restaurant. Before this crisis, Cynthia had two options. Her bank could hold the loan and receive regular payments from Marco as he pays back the amount that he borrowed plus interest. But another option was the bank could also sell part of the loan as an asset to a larger bank or to an investor. And that means that her bank could then use these new funds for more business loans and auto loans and home loans and student loans. <p>That's why this secondary market--Cynthia's ability to resell loans--is so important: It means banks can offer small businesses and families more credit because the bank has more money on hand. If Cynthia could get that $11 million that--of SBA loans that she currently holds in her portfolio, if she can get that into the secondary market, that's now $11 million that she can make work back in her community. <p>Today, unfortunately, there aren't nearly as many secondary buyers for these kinds of loans, even when they're guaranteed by the Small Business Administration. So community banks cannot bring in the funds necessary to provide as many loans. And as a result, we've seen a precipitous drop in lending to small business. <p>The SBA typically guarantees $20 billion in loans annually. But this year, lending may fall below $10 billion. Even businesses with impeccable credit can't access loans. <p>So entrepreneurs and their employees pay an enormous price. But the whole country pays a price as well, because less lending leads to fewer jobs and lower spending, which leads to less lending, a vicious cycle that delays our recovery. And small businesses don't just provide jobs, they provide the innovations that help us lead in the global economy. <p>Smaller companies produce 13 times more patents per employee than large companies. Now, think about it. Hewlett-Packard began in a garage--it was a small business. Google began as a research project--small business. The first Apple computers were built by hand one at a time--small business. McDonald's started with one restaurant--Marco, I know you've got ideas--[<i>laughter</i>]--small business. <p>Our recovery in the present and our prosperity in the future depend upon the success of America's small businesses and entrepreneurs. And that's why my administration has already taken aggressive action on their behalf. My recovery plan, as has already been noted, raises the guarantees on SBA loans to 90 percent and eliminates costly fees for borrowers and lenders that can be too costly in a recession. And these changes are being implemented now, fulfilling a campaign promise that I made. The recovery plan also includes a series of tax cuts for small businesses and tax incentives to encourage investments in small businesses. And the Treasury Department has launched the Consumer and Business Lending Initiative to help unfreeze the credit markets. <p>I've also proposed, as part of my budget, that we reduce to zero the capital gains tax for investments in small or startup businesses, expanding and making permanent one of the tax cuts in the recovery plan. And my budget, as part of our health care reform efforts, calls for tax credits and other assistance to help small businesses offer coverage to their workers. <p>So we've already done a lot, but we've got to do more. And none of these steps will be effective unless we unlock the credit markets that are denying small businesses the loans they need to grow. <p>Therefore, as part of my financial stability plan, the Treasury Department will begin purchasing up to $15 billion of SBA loans through the Troubled Asset Relief Program or TARP. We will immediately unfreeze the secondary market for SBA loans and increase the liquidity of community banks. Cynthia's bank is going to be able to sell those $11 million in loans so that she's got more money to lend. <p>So with this action, any lender that provides SBA small-business loans will have a buyer for those loans. And in turn, community banks will no longer have to choose between providing loans to creditworthy small businesses and maintaining the required capital and liquidity. <p>Now, this plan is the latest step--but by no means the last step--in our ongoing efforts to stabilize the financial markets on behalf of businesses and consumers. We'll be outlining further steps on behalf of small businesses in the weeks and months ahead. And we will continue to do whatever is necessary to lead this economy out of recession and lay the foundation for long-term prosperity. <p>That's what the small-business owners in this room expect us to do. They're folks like John Wilson, the president and part owner of a small business in Raleigh, North Carolina. He wrote to me a few weeks ago and participated in the meeting we just held. <p>And John's business, N.C. Design Group, sells cabinets and interior design services. And not surprisingly, it's been a tough year. Sales have fallen by half. And keep in mind, John had previously doubled what had started off as a very small business, to the point where he's providing a living for--it was up to 40--48 people. And John did all that he could to save loans. The owners, including John, have taken no compensation, but they had to reduce the size of their company from 48 employees to 34. And John just told the group of us that he personally took the time to speak to each and every person that he had to lay off. And I don't think he minds me sharing that he cried each time he did it, because it's a hard thing when somebody is working hard and committed to helping you build your business, you having to lay them off. <p>And now, even though they've never been late on a payment to the bank, they're having trouble keeping a credit line. It's putting his small business--and the 34 jobs left--in jeopardy. <p>Now, John is not looking for a handout, he's looking for the opportunity to succeed. And he said it best himself in his letter, and I'm quoting from the letter here: \\"Small businesspeople are incredibly resilient and resourceful given half a chance,\\" he said. \\"But we need the chance.\\" <p>Well, I want to say to John and to every American running a small business or hoping to run a small business one day: You deserve a chance. America needs you to have that chance. And as President, I will continue to do everything in my power to ensure that you have the opportunity to contribute to your community, to our economy, and to the future of the United States of America. <p>Thank you, everybody. Thank you. All right.\" "
"57" "\"Hello, everybody. Happy St. Patrick's Day. Green tie, not bad, huh? Conrad didn't get the memo. You didn't, either. <p>Good morning. With the budget committees hard at work this week, I wanted to meet with Chairman Conrad and Chairman Spratt to talk about the progress they're making on this budget resolution. <p>Because these are no ordinary times, I don't just view this budget document as numbers on a page or a laundry list of programs, I see it as a economic blueprint for our future, a foundation on which to build a recovery that lasts. <p>Now, this budget does not attempt to solve every problem or address every issue. Because of the massive deficit we inherited and the enormous costs of this financial crisis, we have made some tough choices that will cut our deficit in half by the end of my first term and reduce it by $2 trillion over the next decade. That will bring discretionary spending for domestic programs as a share of the economy to its lowest level in nearly half a century. <p>What we will not cut back, however, are those investments that are directly linked to our long-term prosperity. As I said last week, we can't go back to a bubble economy, an economy based on reckless speculation and spending beyond our means, on bad credit and inflated home prices, and some of the shenanigans that have been taking place on Wall Street. Such activity does not lead to the creation of lasting wealth. It leads to the illusion of prosperity, and as we're finding out, it hurts us all in the end. <p>And that's why this budget makes the investments that will lead to real growth and real prosperity, investments that will make a difference in the lives of this generation and future generations because it makes us more productive. <p>Because so many Americans are just one illness or medical emergency away from bankruptcy, we have made a historic commitment to health care reform in this budget, reform that will finally lower costs for families, businesses, and State governments; reform that's not a luxury, but a necessity if we hope to bring down the cost of Medicare and Medicaid so that we can reduce our deficit in the long run. This is a fight that Kent Conrad and John Spratt have been fighting for a long time. The two gentlemen standing with me today, they've been leaders in efforts to get these entitlement programs under control, and they understand that if we don't solve the problem of health care costs now, we are not going to be able to get a handle on entitlements down the road. <p>Because we know that the countries who out-educate us today will outcompete us tomorrow, this budget also invests in a complete and competitive education for every American, in early childhood education programs that work, in high standards and accountability for our schools, in rewards for teachers who succeed, and an affordable college education for anyone who wants to go. That's the reason the three of us are standing here today. None of us were born with a silver spoon in our mouths, but we got a great education. And if we combine additional resources with a commitment to reform, then I think we can deliver that for every American child. <p>Because we know that the new jobs and new industries of tomorrow will involve harnessing renewable resources--renewable sources of energy, this budget will finally spark the transformation we need to create those jobs and those businesses right here in America. It makes clean energy the profitable kind of energy, and it invests in technologies like wind power and solar power, advanced biofuels, clean coal, fuel-efficient cars and trucks. <p>And because millions of Americans are already struggling under the weight of their monthly bills and mortgage payments, this budget does not raise the taxes of any family making less than $250,000 a year by a single dime. In fact, 95 percent of all working families will receive a tax cut as a result of our recovery plan. <p>Now, there are those who say the plans in this budget are too ambitious to enact; to say that--they say that in the face of challenges that we face, we should be trying to do less than more. What I say is that the challenges we face are too large to ignore. The cost of our health care is too high to ignore. The dependence on oil is too dangerous to ignore. Our education deficit is growing too wide to ignore. To kick these problems down the road for another 4 years or another 8 years would be to continue the same irresponsibility that led us to this point. That's not why I ran for this office. I didn't come here to pass on our problems to the next President or the next generation; I came here to solve them. <p>I know that there are some on Wall Street and in Washington who've said that we should only focus on the banking crisis and one problem at a time. Well, we're spending a lot of time focusing on this banking crisis, and we will continue to do so because until we get liquidity flowing again, we will not fully recover. But the American people don't have the luxury of just focusing on Wall Street. They don't have the luxury of choosing to pay either their mortgage or their medical bills. They don't get to pick between paying for their kids' college tuition and saving enough money for retirement. They have to do all these things. They have to confront all these problems, and as a consequence, so do we. <p>Now, there's been a lot of discussion about this budget already, and I hope we engage in a healthy debate going forward. The challenges we face are not partisan. We're going to get some numbers with respect to the budget that may make this even tougher in the coming couple of weeks. The answers don't have to be partisan, and I welcome and encourage proposals and improvements from both Democrats and Republicans in the coming days. <p>But the one thing I will say is this: With the magnitude of the challenges we face right now, what we need in Washington are not more political tactics; we need more good ideas. We don't need more point-scoring; we need more problem-solving. So if there are Members of Congress who object to specific policies and proposals in this budget, then I ask them to be ready and willing to propose constructive, alternative solutions. If certain aspects of this budget people don't think work, provide us some ideas in terms of what you do. \\"Just say no\\" is the right advice to give your teenagers about drugs. It is not an acceptable response to whatever economic policy is proposed by the other party. <p>The American people sent us here to get things done. And in this moment of enormous challenge, they are watching and waiting for us to lead. Let's show them that we're equal to this task before us. Let's pass a budget that puts this Nation on the road to lasting prosperity. I know Kent Conrad is committed to doing that; John Spratt is committed to doing that; I'm committed to doing that. We're going to need everybody working together to get this thing done. <p>All right? Thank you, everybody.\" "
"58" "\"<i>President Obama.</i> Well, happy St. Patrick's Day to everybody. I want to welcome <i>Taoiseach</i> Brian Cowen and his lovely wife on their first visit to the White House for this wonderful St. Patrick's Day tradition. This is the first for both of us, and with a little bit of luck, I'm sure we'll get it right. <p>We are pleased to be joined by a statesman who worked as hard as anybody to usher in an age of peace in Northern Ireland, and that is my now Middle East envoy--because he's a glutton for punishment--Senator George Mitchell. <p>I am also proud today to announce that I am naming a great friend, Dan Rooney, cofounder of the Ireland Fund, unwavering supporter of Irish peace and culture and education--not to mention the owner of the Super Bowl champion Pittsburgh Steelers--as the United States Ambassador to Ireland. He will be an outstanding representative. <p>Just a private note here: Dan is a great friend. He and his family are as gracious and thoughtful a group of people as I know, and so I know that he is just going to do an outstanding job. And the people of Ireland, I think, will benefit greatly from him representing the United States there. <p>Now, before I turn it over to <i>Taoiseach</i>, it turns out that we have something in common. He hails from County Offaly. And it was brought to my attention on the campaign that my great-great-great- grandfather on my mother's side came to America from a small village in this county as well. We are still speculating on whether we are related. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I do share, though, a deep appreciation for the remarkable ties between our nations. I am grateful to him for his leadership of Ireland. The bond between our countries could not be stronger. As somebody who comes from Chicago, I know a little bit about Ireland, and the warmth, the good humor, and the fierce passion and intelligence of the Irish people is something that has informed our own culture as well. And so that's why this day and this celebration is so important. <p>So with that, what I'd like to do is let <i>Taoiseach</i> say a few words. And then I believe he's got something to give me. <p><i>Prime Minister Cowen.</i> Well, thank you very much indeed. Mr. President; Secretary of State; Senators; distinguished Members of Congress; members of the Irish delegation; members of the press; ladies and gentlemen. It's, well--first of all, Mary and I would like to thank you, President and First Lady, for your very warm and gracious welcome to the White House this morning. Your invitation to me today and to host this ceremony honors Ireland and all her people at home and abroad. <p>And I want to, in the first instance, greatly welcome your appointment of Dan Rooney, and we look forward to Dan and Pat coming to Ireland. They will be very welcome. They are regular visitors; they know Ireland so well. And Dan has been a great personal friend of mine down the years too, and I really very much welcome his appointment. And I know how great an honor it is for his family. <p>Can I say, Mr. President, you were saying you were trying to work out if we're related or not. I just want to say that I have checked, and unfortunately, there are no Kearneys on the electoral register anymore in my electoral district. [<i>Laughter</i>] But if there were, I assure you, I'd have them on my campaign team. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I hope, of course, some day to reciprocate your great hospitality by welcoming you and Mrs. Obama to Ireland, where we will offer you the warmest of Irish welcomes, I can assure you. <p>Mr. President, during your election campaign you captivated the hearts and minds of millions of people. On the island of Ireland, across Europe, and across the continent, indeed, your story and your message of hope were truly inspirational and universal in their appeal. We offer you our warmest congratulations, our good wishes, and our steadfast support. <p>Mr. President, St. Patrick's Day is a time of joy and pride for all Irish men and women everywhere. Today when Irish America is bound together by a green thread woven through the great cities and into the heartland and length and breadth of this great country, it is a day, too, of reflection on our immigrant history, of our sense of place and of our need to connect. <p>St. Patrick, of course, was an immigrant to our shores. He brought with him the great gift of faith, and in doing so he changed our country so much for the better. The Irish, in turn, brought this message of hope and his values of generosity around the globe, including to this great nation. <p>We are proud of our Irish community in America, of how they have preserved their Irish culture and heritage, and how they have helped build this great country. They have lived and worked here, and they have succeeded. They've enriched Ireland, and they have enriched America. <p>And on this St. Patrick's Day, in these most difficult times, we remember the enormous trials and deprivations experienced by our immigrant peoples in times past: times of poverty, oppression, and famine, indeed troubles on a scale unimaginable to us today. Their achievements inspire us with the strength of the human spirit and the certainty that we will succeed, and that we will manage our way together to safer and better economic times. <p>It is my firm conviction that America's leadership, your leadership, will be at the heart of that global resurgence. And every country has its own pressures and difficulties; we must each face up to them and to our own problems. But we also have to stand together in partnership. In Ireland you will find, Mr. President, the most steadfast of friends. <p>Time and again in our history, we have looked to America for leadership on the long and often difficult road to peace. At the darkest moments, the United States has been a constant source of hope, a reservoir of support, and a steady and trusted guide. The contribution of the United States has been immeasurable. And some of those who played a central role in our peace process are with us today, including your Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, and, of course, our dear friend, Senator George Mitchell. I wish them well in their work for peace in the Middle East. And I know that their work in Ireland will help to give them the strength and wisdom they will need in the months and years ahead. <p>We all know that the process of peace-building and of reconciliation takes patience and perseverance. In recent days, an evil, unrepresentative, and tiny minority has challenged the democratic institutions which we have built together in Ireland. The people of Ireland, north and south, have risen to that challenge. They have spoken with one voice. They have rejected violence and division. They have stood by peace, reconciliation, democracy, and freedom. <p>Mr. President, there is a phrase in the Irish language--\\"<i>Is feidir linn</i>\\"--it may seem familiar. It translates as \\"Yes you can.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] In that spirit, and in the spirit of friendship between our two countries, I am pleased to present you this bowl of shamrock. <p>I thank you once more for your kind welcome to the White House, and I wish a very happy St. Patrick's Day to you, to your family, and to the American people. Thank you very much. <p><i>President Obama.</i> Well, the--let me try that again. <i>Is feidir linn</i>? <p><i>Prime Minister Cowen.</i> <i>Is feidir linn</i>. <p><i>President Obama.</i> <i>Is feidir linn</i>. All right. I got that. [<i>Laughter</i>] Yes we can. <p>I want to thank the <i>Taoiseach</i> and the people of Ireland for this beautiful bowl of shamrocks. Not only does it symbolize the deep and enduring bond between our peoples, but it serves as a hopeful reminder that whatever hardships the winter may bring, the eternal promise of springtime is always around the corner. <p>Now, the contributions of the Irish to the American story cannot be overstated. Irish signatures are on our founding documents; Irish blood has been spilled on our battlefields; Irish sweat went into building our greatest cities. We are better for their contributions to our democracy, and we are richer for their art and their literature, their poetry and their songs. <p>Rarely in world history has a nation so small had so large an impact on another. Tens of millions of Americans trace their roots back to the Emerald Isles, and on St. Patrick's Day, many millions more claim too. [<i>Laughter</i>] On behalf of them--[<i>laughter</i>]--and all Americans, I thank the Irish people for this gift and for all that they've contributed to the chronicles and the character of America. <p>And I do want to share briefly a few words about the recent attacks in Northern Ireland. Almost 11 years ago, the world watched with wonder as brave men and women found the courage to see past the scars of generations of violence and mistrust and come together around a future of peace. We watched with hope as the people of Ireland and Northern Ireland went to the ballot box and overwhelmingly endorsed such a peaceful future. <p>But every peace process is challenged by those who would seek to destroy it. And no one ever believed that this extraordinary endeavor would be any different. And we knew that there would be setbacks; we knew that there would be false starts. We knew that the opponents of peace would trot out the same old tired violence of the past in hopes that this young agreement would be too fragile to hold. <p>And the real question was this: When tested, how would the people of Northern Ireland respond? Now we know the answer: They've responded heroically. They and their leaders on both sides have condemned this violence and refrained from the old partisan impulses. They've shown they judge progress by what you build and not what you tear down. And they know that the future is too important to cede to those who are mired in the past. <p>The thoughts and prayers of Americans everywhere go out to the families of the fallen. And I want everyone listening to know this: The United States will always stand with those who work towards peace. After seeing former adversaries mourning and praying and working together this week, I've never been more confident that peace will prevail. <p>Now, today is a day for all the people of America and Ireland to celebrate our shared history and our shared future with joy and good cheer. So I can't think of a better place to take the <i>Taoiseach</i> for lunch than the Congress. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We'll be--[<i>laughter</i>]--that was good, wasn't it? <p><i>Prime Minister Cowen.</i> That was good. <p><i>President Obama.</i> You like that? [<i>Laughter</i>] We'll be heading there shortly for the annual Speaker's St. Patrick's Day luncheon, a tradition in which Democrats and Republicans put aside partisanship and unite around one debate only: who is more Irish than whom. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So I thanked the <i>Taoiseach</i> in advance for bringing relative peace to Washington for at least this day. [<i>Laughter</i>] Thank you very much.\" "
"59" "\"Please, everyone, have a seat. Have a seat. Have another one of those cookies that's being passed around. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Speaker Pelosi, distinguished Members of the House and Senate, honored guests, the <i>Taoiseach</i> and his entire delegation, all the extraordinary leaders from Ireland, Northern Ireland, who are here: Thank you so much for joining us in this wonderful St. Patrick's Day tradition. <p>As Speaker Pelosi mentioned, this lunch was begun under Tip O'Neill and Ronald Reagan, two men of Irish stock who loved a good scrap, but who also knew how to work together to find common ground and to put the differences of the day aside in favor of laughter and good cheer at the end of the day. <p>In fact, looking at all of you, I'm reminded of a greeting President Reagan once offered the guests at this gathering. \\"On St. Patrick's Day,\\" he said, \\"you should spend time with saints and scholars. So I have two more stops to make.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But it is--[<i>laughter</i>]--it is wonderful to see so many wonderful Irish Americans, as well as so many who wish they were. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>People help you discover a lot about yourself when you're running for President. As has been mentioned, it was brought to my attention last year that my great-great-great-grandfather on my mother's side hailed from a small village in County Offaly. <p>Now, when I was a relatively unknown candidate for office, I didn't know about this part of heritage, which would have been very helpful in Chicago. [<i>Laughter</i>] So I thought I was bluffing when I put the apostrophe after the O. [<i>Laughter</i>] I tried to explain that \\"Barack\\" was an ancient Celtic name. [<i>Laughter</i>] <i>Taoiseach</i>, I hope our efforts today put me on the path of earning that apostrophe. <p>And of course, this St. Patrick's Day seems different than most because there's one person missing--as it's already been mentioned--one person who has touched all of us fortunate enough to walk these halls with his mentorship and his friendship, the hardestworking Irish American we know, friend to all, father to some: Teddy Kennedy. He sends his best, along with--[<i>applause</i>]. <p>If I may speak seriously for a moment, earlier this morning, I mentioned briefly the recent attacks in Northern Ireland by those who would seek to challenge a hard-earned peace. And I told the <i>Taoiseach</i>, not all Americans are Irish, but all Americans support those who stand on the side of peace. And this peace will prevail. <p>This peace will prevail because the response of the people of Northern Ireland and their leaders to these cowardly attacks has been nothing short of heroic, true profiles in courage. They've condemned this violence, refrained from the old partisan impulses, made it absolutely clear that the future is too important to cede to those who are mired in the past. The sight of former adversaries mourning and praying and working together this week should inspire us all and strengthen our resolve to see that this peace does not falter. <p>And today we also reflect on the fact that the past and the future of our nations are forever intertwined. The Irish came to America with the dream of a better life, but they didn't just wait for somebody to hand it to them, they helped forge the very promise of America: that success is possible if you're willing to work hard for it. <p>Irish hands have signed our founding documents and fought in our wars. They've helped build our greatest cities. Through tragedy and triumph, despite bigotry and hostility, and against all odds, the Irish created a place for themselves in the American story. We are a nation blessed with so many immigrant and ethnic groups that have contributed to that story, and in doing so, they helped fashion a better life for all of us. <p>Now our challenge tomorrow, and in the months and years ahead, is to try and remember some of that spirit of this day, to work together with a renewed commitment to overcome the obstacles that stand in our way, and toil just as passionately as our forebears to bring about a better life for all Americans. <p>And so to paraphrase some wise Irishman or woman, may we govern--may we who govern have the hindsight to know where we've been, the insight to know where we are, and the foresight to know where we are headed. <p><i>Taoiseach</i>, thank you so much for being here, and your lovely wife and the entire delegation. Happy St. Patrick's Day to all of you. Thank you.\" "
"60" "\"<i>The President.</i> Well, good evening, everybody. <p><i>Audience members. </i>Good evening! <p><i>The President.</i> And welcome to St. Patrick's Day at the White House. I notice that the Boston crowd is a little rambunctious tonight. How about Chicago? That's what I'm talking about. [<i>Laughter</i>] It seems particularly fitting that we gather tonight in a house that was, after all, designed and built by an Irish architect. <p>And we've had a wonderful day that began by meeting with a strong friend of the United States, <i>Taoiseach</i> Brian Cowen, who presented us with a gift of shamrocks from the people of Ireland, a symbol of the enduring ties between our nations and a reminder of the everlasting promise of spring. And I'm so glad that we've gotten a chance to know him and his lovely wife Mary, who've just been entirely gracious today. And we're very grateful to them. As it turns out, the <i>Taoiseach</i> and I have something in common--I've mentioned this in previous speeches--both he and my great-great-great-grandfather on my mother's side hail from County Offaly. <p>And I've also had the pleasure of meeting First Minister Peter Robinson and Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness of Northern Ireland, two men who have stood together to chart a historic path towards peace. They are with us tonight and deserve an extraordinary round of applause. <p>And I've just met with Sir Hugh Orde, the Chief Constable of Northern Ireland's Police Service, who is leading the efforts to bring those responsible for the recent violence to justice. And we are grateful for him. <p>All of us have watched this week as the people of Northern Ireland and their leaders have responded, nothing short of heroically, to those who would challenge a hard-earned peace, and the thoughts and prayers of Americans everywhere are--go out to the families of the fallen. And I want everyone listening to know this: The United States of America will always stand with those who are working towards peace, and after seeing former adversaries mourning and praying and working together, I have never been more confident that this peace will prevail. <p>Today served as a solid reminder of just how deeply woven the ties between our two nations are. Irish signatures are on the founding documents; Irish blood has been spilled on our battlefields; Irish sweat went into the building of our greatest cities. Tens of millions of Americans now trace their roots back to that little island that has made such a large impact on America and on the world. <p>For generations, the Irish, along with so many other immigrant and ethnic groups, came to America equipped often with nothing but their faith and an unbending belief that success was possible for all who were willing to work for it. That, after all, may be the reason that Americans identify so strongly with the story of St. Patrick. It's the story of believing in the unseen and of making that belief a reality. <p>That's what the Irish did. They struggled to create a place for themselves in a distant land, and with a commitment to faith and family and hard work, they transformed that land in the process. And even after all the generations of becoming and being Americans, their descendants have never lost that enduring spirit that insists they proclaim themselves Irish still. That same pride was embodied by a man who once occupied this very house, a man who was only three generations removed from Ireland. <p>In the third year of his Presidency, John F. Kennedy decided to make a trip to his ancestral home. One of his aides advised against it, telling the President, \\"You've got all the Irish votes in the country that you'll ever get.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"If you go to Ireland, people will say it's just a pleasure trip.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And President Kennedy replied, \\"That's exactly what I want\\"--[<i>laughter</i>]--\\"a pleasure trip to Ireland.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And while there, he visited the port from which his great-grandfather embarked for America. And in an address to the Irish Parliament and Ireland's American-born President, he reflected, as we all have from time to time, on the role chance plays over the generations in determining who we become. <p>I want to read a quote from him. He said, \\"If this nation had achieved its present political and economic stature a century ago, my great-grandfather might never have left New Ross, and I might, if fortunate, be sitting down there with you,\\" Kennedy said. \\"Of course, if your own President had never left Brooklyn, he might be standing up here instead of me.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It bears saying that if Patrick Kennedy hadn't left County Wexford, or if Thomas Fitzgerald hadn't left County Limerick, the American people might also have been denied one of the finest public servants of this or any age, Sir Edward M. Kennedy. Teddy Kennedy wishes he could be here tonight, but I guarantee this much: The very thought of all of you gathered here has his eyes smiling, and he expects you to party. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>He has, as much as anyone, reminded us of what it means to be Irish: that no matter what hardships may come, there is always joy to be found in this life; and that through hard work, tomorrow can be better than any day; that comfort is found amidst faith and family, love and laughter, poetry and song. <p>And tonight, in this room with all of you, I'm reminded of the words of my favorite poet, Yeats: \\"There are no strangers here, only friends you haven't met yet.\\" <p>Happy St. Patrick's Day, everybody. God bless you. <p>And with that, I would like to bring to the podium our honored guest for the evening, the <i>Taoiseach</i>, our outstanding Prime Minister of Ireland, Brian Cowen.\" "
"61" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you, thank you. Thank you so much. Good evening, everybody. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Good evening! <p><i>The President. </i>Welcome to St. Patrick's Day at the White House. And it seems particularly fitting that we gather tonight in a house that was, after all, designed and built by an Irish architect. <p>I want to thank Joe Biden and Jill Biden for being such great friends to Michelle and myself. And Joe is an outstanding Vice President. Jill instructs him on how to be an outstanding Vice President. [<i>Laughter</i>] And Joe's mother is just a sweetheart, and so her--you know, we're all thinking of her as she gets back on the mend. <p>We have had a wonderful day that began by meeting with a strong friend of the United States, <i>Taoiseach</i> Brian Cowen, who presented us with gifts of shamrocks from the people of Ireland, a symbol of the enduring ties between our nations, and a reminder of the everlasting promise of spring. And he also brought his wonderful wife Mary, and she has just been extraordinarily gracious. We are grateful to them. I was mentioning in the other room, it turns out that the <i>Taoiseach</i> and I have something in common. Both he and my great-great-great-grandfather--[<i>laughter</i>]--on my mother's side hail from County Offaly. My great-great-great-grandfather was a bootmaker there, apparently, and I have been adopted there. I understand that I have been invited to a pub there--[<i>laughter</i>]--to enjoy a pint there. [<i>Laughter</i>] And so we're going to take them up on that offer at some point. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Hey! <p><i>President Obama.</i> I also--you can tell these are my friends because they cheered about the pint. [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"Hey!\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Just a side note, you know, Guinness tastes very different in Ireland. It is much better. You guys are keeping the good stuff for yourself. It could start a trade dispute. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I also had the pleasure of meeting First Minister Peter Robinson and Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness of Northern Ireland, two men who have stood together to chart a historic path towards peace. And they are with us here tonight and deserve an extraordinary round of applause. <p>I've also met with Sir Hugh Orde, the Chief Constable of Northern Ireland's Police Services, who is leading the efforts to bring those responsible for the recent violence to justice. We've all watched this week as the people of Northern Ireland and their leaders have responded nothing short of heroically to those who would challenge a hard-earned peace, and the thoughts and prayers of Americans go out to the families of the fallen. And I want everyone who is listening to know this: that the United States of America will always stand with those who work towards peace. And after seeing former adversaries mourning and praying and working together, I have never been more confident that this peace will prevail. <p>Today serves, as well, as a solid reminder of just how deeply intertwined, how deeply woven the ties between our nations are. Irish signatures are on our founding documents; Irish blood has been spilled on our battlefields; Irish sweat went into building our greatest cities. Tens of millions of Americans now trace their roots back to that little island that has made such a large impact on America, and I include myself in that category. <p>For generations, the Irish, along with so many other immigrant and ethnic groups, came to America equipped often with nothing more than faith and an unbending belief that success was possible for all who were willing to work hard for it. And that, after all, may be the reason Americans identify so strongly with the story of St. Patrick, the story of believing in the unseen and of making that belief a reality. <p>And that's what the Irish did in this country. They struggled to create a place for themselves in a distant land. And with a commitment to faith and family and hard work, they transformed that land in the process. And even after all the generations of becoming and being Americans, their descendants have never lost the enduring spirit that insists on proclaiming themselves Irish still. That same pride was embodied by a man who once occupied this very house and whose portrait is right outside this door, a man who was only three generations removed from Ireland. <p>In the third year of his Presidency, John F. Kennedy decided to make a trip to his ancestral home. And one of his aides advised against it. The aide said, \\"You've already got all the Irish votes you want in this country.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"If you go to Ireland, people will say it's just a pleasure trip.\\" And Kennedy responded, \\"That's exactly what I want\\"--[<i>laughter</i>]--\\"a pleasure trip to Ireland.\\" That's what I want too--[<i>laughter</i>]--but I'm not going to get one right now. We've got a little more work to do. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But while he was there, President Kennedy visited the port from which his great-grandfather embarked for America. And he addressed the Irish Parliament, and he reflected, as we all have from time to time, on the role chance plays over the generations in determining who we become. <p>And he said, \\"If this nation had achieved its present political and economic stature a century ago, my great-grandfather might never have left New Ross, and I might, if fortunate, be sitting down there with you,\\" Kennedy said. \\"Of course, if your own President had never left Brooklyn, he might be standing up here instead of me.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Of course, it bears saying that if Patrick Kennedy hadn't left County Wexford, or if Thomas Fitzgerald hadn't left County Limerick, the American people would have been deprived of the Presidency of John F. Kennedy, but also would have been denied one of the finest public servants of this or any age, and a great friend of mine and many of yours, Sir Edward M. Kennedy. <p>Teddy wishes he could be here tonight, but I guarantee you this much: The very thought of all of you gathered here would put a twinkle in his eye and a smile on his face. He as much as anyone reminds us of what it means to be Irish: that no matter what hardships may come, there's always joy to be found in this life; that through hard work, tomorrow can be better than today; that comfort is found amidst faith and family, love and laughter, poetry and song. <p>And tonight, in this room with all of you, I am reminded of the words of that great Irish poet, Yeats: \\"There are no strangers here, only friends you haven't met yet.\\" <p>Happy St. Patrick's Day, everybody. I'd like now to bring to the podium, the <i>Taoiseach</i> Brian Cowen.\" "
"62" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you, guys. Thank you. Please, everybody have a seat. Well, first of all, Levon, what a wonderful story. I can tell you're a great dad, and Alex is lucky to have you. <p>I want to make some additional acknowledgments. We've got a lot of dignitaries here, people who were helpful in helping to pull this together. First of all, the Congresswoman from this district, Grace Napolitano, there she is right there. We've got Senator Gloria Negrete McLeod. Did I pronounce that properly? No? Why don't you help me out? <p><i>Senator Gloria Negrete McLeod.</i> Negrete McLeod. <p><i>The President.</i> Negrete McLeod--so nice to see you. Assemblywoman Norma Torres, Senator Christine Kehoe, good to see you; Senator Ron Calderon. We've got the mayor of Long Beach, Mayor Bob Foster is here; we've got the mayor of Pomona, Mayor Elliott Rothman. We've got Village Academy High School students who are here--in the house. Ted Craver, who is the CEO of Edison International, is here, and just helped us on the tour. Go ahead and stand. Thank you, Ted. We've got Al Fohrer, who is the CEO of Southern California Edison, who is here. We have Ed Kjaer, who just gave me the tour, right here; Pat Lavin, business manager, IBEW Local 47. <p>Thank you all for taking the time to be here. And it is good to be back in California. It's always nice to get out of Washington for a little bit, recharge your batteries. [<i>Laughter</i>] You know a little bit about that here. [<i>Laughter</i>] I want to thank the folks here at the Electric Vehicle Technical Center for the tour we just had. <p>Yesterday I was in Costa Mesa talking with people about this economic downturn that we're in. It's a downturn that's hitting this State as much as any State in the Union. One out of 10 Californians are out of work and actively looking for jobs. The foreclosure crisis has had a devastating impact on southern California in particular. But Californians aren't just bearing the brunt of this crisis; you are doing what needs to be done to overcome it. <p>This workshop is a perfect example of that. Day by day, test by test, trial by painstaking trial, the scientists, the engineers, the workers at this site are developing the ideas and innovations that our future depend on. It's your ingenuity that will help create the new jobs and new industries of tomorrow. <p>I know it's not easy. There are days, I'm sure, when progress seems fleeting and days when it feels like you're making no progress at all. That's how it feels in the White House sometimes too. [<i>Laughter</i>] But often, our greatest discoveries are born not in a flash of brilliance, but in the crucible of a deliberate effort over time. And often they take something more than imagination and dedication alone; often they take an investment and a commitment from government. That's how we sent a man to the Moon. That's how we were able to launch a worldwide web. And it's how we'll help to build the clean energy economy that's the key to our competitiveness in the 21st century. <p>We'll do this because we know, as Levon just said, that the nation that leads on energy will be the nation that leads the world in the 21st century. Our children's futures depend on it. That's why, around the world, nations are racing to lead in these industries of the future. Germany is leading the world in solar power. Spain generates almost 30 percent of its power by harnessing the wind, while we manage less than 1 percent. Japan is producing the batteries that currently power American hybrid cars. <p>So the problem is not a lack of technology. You're producing the technology right here. The problem is that for decades we've avoided doing what we must do as a nation to turn challenge into opportunity. As a consequence, we import more oil than we did on 9/11. The 1908 Model T--think about this--the 1908 Model T earned better gas mileage than the typical SUV in 2008. Think about that. A hundred years later and we're getting less gas mileage, not better, on SUVs. Even as our economy has been transformed by new forms of technology, our electric grid looks largely the same as it did half a century ago. <p>So we have a choice to make. We can remain one of the world's leading importers of foreign oil, or we can make the investments that would allow us to become the world's leading exporter of renewable energy. We can let climate change continue to go unchecked, or we can help stop it. We can let the jobs of tomorrow be created abroad, or we can create those jobs right here in America and lay the foundation for lasting prosperity. <p>And that's what my recovery plan does. It will create or save 3.5 million jobs, nearly 400,000 of them right here in California, in part, by making investments in areas critical to our long-term growth. And that is the forward-thinking purpose of the budget that I submitted to Congress. It's a budget that makes hard choices about where to save and where to spend, that makes overdue investments in education, health care, and, yes, in energy--investments that will catalyze innovation and industry, create green jobs, and launch clean, renewable energy companies right here in California. <p>Over the next 3 years, we will double this Nation's supply of renewable energy. We've also made the largest investment in basic research funding in American history, an investment that will spur not only new discoveries in energy but breakthroughs in science and technology. We will invest $15 billion a year to develop technologies like wind power and solar power, advanced biofuels, clean coal, and fuel-efficient cars and trucks that are built right here in the United States of America. <p>We will soon lay down thousands of miles of powerlines that can create new energy in cities and towns across this country. And we will put Americans to work making homes and buildings more efficient so that we can save billions of dollars on our energy bill, just like you've done in California for decades. And we will put 1 million plug-in hybrid vehicles on America's roads by 2015. That's what we're going to focus on. <p>Now, because these cars of tomorrow require batteries of tomorrow, I'm announcing that the Department of Energy is launching a $2 billion competitive grant program under the Recovery Act that will spark the manufacturing of the batteries and parts that run these cars, that will allow for the upgrading of factories that will produce them, and in the process, create thousands of jobs in facilities like this one all across America. <p>Show us that your idea or your company is best suited to meet America's challenges, and we will give you the chance to prove it. And just because I'm here today doesn't exempt all of you from that challenge. Every company that wants a shot at these tax dollars is going to have to prove their worth. So, Levon, you're going to have to work hard. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We're also making a $400 million downpayment on the infrastructure necessary to get these cars on the road. And because these cars won't leave the showroom unless consumers buy them, the Recovery Act includes a new tax credit of $7,500 to encourage Americans to plug one in at home. <p>Now, true to form, true to form, California has already forged ahead with its own plans rather than wait for Washington. It's fitting that the State home to the first freeway and the first gas station is already at work devising the next freeway and the next gas station. This green freeway you're planning with Oregon and Washington would link your States with a network of rest stops that allow you to do more than just grab a cup of coffee, but also charge your car, refuel it with hydrogen or biofuels, swap out a battery in the time it takes to fill a gas tank. Charging stations have begun to pop up around downtown San Francisco, and that city has just joined with San Jose and Oakland with the vision of becoming the electric vehicle capital of the United States. <p>And here at Southern California Edison and all across the country, in factories and laboratories, at the Big Three and at small startups, these innovations are taking place right now. In Michigan and Ohio and right here in California, we're seeing exciting developments in this field as hard-working men and women like you are already laying the groundwork for this new industry. Even as our American automakers are undergoing some painful adjustments, they are also retooling and reimagining themselves into an industry that can compete and win, and millions of jobs depend on it. <p>So this is the critical work you're doing, but it's just one component of what must be a comprehensive energy plan. And that's why we're making an $11 billion investment in upgrading our power grid, so that it can carry renewable energy from the far-flung places that harness or produce it to the cities that use it. That's why we'll create jobs retrofitting millions of homes and cutting energy use in Federal buildings by one quarter, saving the American taxpayer $1.5 billion each year. <p>These are challenging times, but we know we can do this. It won't come without a cost; it won't be easy. We've got 240 million cars already on the road. We've got to upgrade the world's largest energy grid while it's already in use. And other countries aren't standing around and waiting for us; they're forging ahead with their own bold energy plans. <p>But this is the thing we have to remember: We've faced tough challenges before. At our best, we have never relied on hope and chance alone. Time and time again, we've tapped those great American resources: industriousness and ingenuity. That, after all, is what California is all about. This is a State that has always drawn people who've had their eyes set on the horizon, who've always dreamed of a future that others thought beyond reach. That's the spirit that you are reclaiming here at the electric vehicle test center. That's the spirit we need to reclaim all across the country. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"63" "\"Today I want to extend my very best wishes to all who are celebrating Nowruz around the world. This holiday is both an ancient ritual and a moment of renewal, and I hope that you enjoy this special time of year with friends and family. <p>In particular, I would like to speak directly to the people and leaders of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Nowruz is just one part of your great and celebrated culture. Over many centuries, your art, your music, literature, and innovation have made the world a better and more beautiful place. <p>Here in the United States, our own communities have been enhanced by the contributions of Iranian Americans. We know that you are a great civilization, and your accomplishments have earned the respect of the United States and the world. <p>For nearly three decades, relations between our nations have been strained. But at this holiday we are reminded of the common humanity that binds us together. Indeed, you will be celebrating your New Year in much the same way that we Americans mark our holidays, by gathering with friends and family, exchanging gifts and stories, and looking to the future with a renewed sense of hope. <p>Within these celebrations lies the promise of a new day, the promise of opportunity for our children, security for our families, progress for our communities, and peace between nations. Those are shared hopes; those are common dreams. <p>So in this season of new beginnings, I would like to speak clearly to Iran's leaders: We have serious differences that have grown over time. My administration is now committed to diplomacy that addresses the full range of issues before us and to pursuing constructive ties among the United States, Iran, and the international community. This process will not be advanced by threats. We seek instead engagement that is honest and grounded in mutual respect. <p>You, too, have a choice. The United States wants the Islamic Republic of Iran to take its rightful place in the community of nations. You have that right, but it comes with real responsibilities, and that place cannot be reached through terror or arms, but rather through peaceful actions that demonstrate the true greatness of the Iranian people and civilization. And the measure of that greatness is not the capacity to destroy, it is your demonstrated ability to build and create. <p>So on the occasion of your New Year, I want you, the people and leaders of Iran, to understand the future that we seek. It's a future with renewed exchanges among our people and greater opportunities for partnership and commerce. It's a future where the old divisions are overcome, where you and all of your neighbors and the wider world can live in greater security and greater peace. <p>I know that this won't be reached easily. There are those who insist that we be defined by our differences. But let us remember the words that were written by the poet Saadi so many years ago: \\"The children of Adam are limbs to each other, having been created of one essence.\\" <p>With the coming of a new season, we're reminded of this precious humanity that we all share. And we can once again call upon this spirit as we seek the promise of a new beginning. <p>Thank you, and <i>Eid-eh Shoma Mobarak</i>.\" "
"64" "\"Hey, guys. Good to see you. Well, I am thrilled to have three of the most innovative elected officials in the country, representing not only a wide range of political spectrums, but also different States, different responsibilities, all of whom are concerned about the issue of our infrastructure and how we develop the long-term prosperity that's going to be so important for America's success. <p>And I'm confident that with all these bright minds sitting around the table, that we're going to not only continue the progress that's been made in the Recovery Act, but we're going to be able to get a budget passed that reflects our--the concerns that we're hearing around the table. And that we're going to be able to, on the highway reauthorization act, we're also going to be able to build in some innovative approaches that will make a lot of difference and spur the kind of job creation, economic growth, and development that we all want to see. <p>All right. Thank you, guys.\" "
"65" "\"Thank you so much. Please, everybody have a seat. Thank you so much. It is wonderful to see so many of you, a lot of old friends who I saw on the campaign trail, had a chance to meet all across the country, and I'm glad we're now gathered together to try to actually get something done. <p>You know, over the last 2 years during the course of this campaign, one of the things that I saw was how dedicated each and every one of you are to making sure that your States and your constituencies are well served by State government. And part of my job as President is to ensure that we're a good partner with you, because you're where rubber hits the road; you're where people actually see the benefits of a good education and high-quality health care, transportation, energy plans that actually make sense. <p>And so the purpose, the goal of this meeting is to ensure that we are all on the same page, because our folks are counting on it. And it's helpful for me also to talk to you because you guys see things from outside of Washington. And the more I can break out of the bubble, the better off I am. <p>Over the last 2 days, I've been traveling in California, talking with Americans about the challenges they're facing as a result of this economic crisis. And these are challenges that all of you know very well. You're on the frontlines of this recession. It's your States that are struggling with shrinking revenues; your budgets are being cut; services that your families depend on in a moment of need are being placed under tremendous strain. And as a former State legislator, I know how difficult your work can be and how important it is to have a strong partner in Washington. I want you to know I'm committed to being that kind of partner. <p>And that's why we're taking unprecedented steps not just to help your States make it through these difficult times, but to make sure that you come out stronger on the other end, more prosperous than you were before. That's the purpose of the budget that I'm submitting to Congress. It's a budget that makes hard choices about where to save and where to spend. Because of the massive deficit we inherited and the cost of this financial crisis, we are having to go through the books line by line, page by page, so that we can cut our deficit in half by the end of my first term and reduce it by $2 trillion over the next decade. <p>What we will not cut are investments that will lead to real growth and prosperity over the long term. That's why our budget makes a historic commitment to comprehensive health care reform. That's why it enhances America's competitiveness by reducing our dependence on foreign oil and building on a clean energy economy. And that's why it makes a downpayment on a complete and competitive education for every child in America from the cradle up through the time that they get a career. In short, our budget will strengthen each of our 50 States for generations to come. <p>And that's also the purpose of the Recovery Act that I signed into law last month. It's a plan that will not only help States and painful budget cuts, but also make a meaningful difference in the lives of Americans across this country. Because of what we did, there will be teachers in the classroom and police on the beat who otherwise wouldn't be pursuing their essential missions. Because of what we did, neighborhood health clinics are creating jobs and providing affordable care to those who need it. And because of what we did, 95 percent of hard-working families will receive a tax cut, a tax cut that they'll see in their paychecks starting on April 1st. So altogether we expect to create or save 3.5 million jobs, 90 percent of which are in the private sector. <p>It's the most sweeping recovery plan in our Nation's history, and with a plan of such size comes an obligation to be vigilant with every dime that we spend. That will require all of us--me, Joe, each of you--to hold yourselves accountable. It will require a new level of transparency in how we invest taxpayer dollars. It will require a new sense of responsibility here in Washington, but also in the 50 States. And that's a standard that we've sought to uphold from the very beginning. <p>That's why I asked Joe to ensure that we are implementing our Recovery Act quickly and implementing it well. That's why I've appointed a proven and aggressive Inspector General to help prevent waste and fraud before it happens and root it out when it does. And that's why, on the very day I signed our Recovery Act into law, we launched a web site called recovery.gov, so that Americans can see where their tax dollars are going and make sure we're delivering results. And 46 States have launched their own web sites--linked to recovery.gov--to help people keep track of how money is being spent down to the local level. <p>Today, as part of our continuing efforts to make government more accountable, we're taking the next step in implementing the Recovery Act. I'm issuing a directive that will provide guidelines to Federal agencies for what does and what does not constitute an acceptable use of taxpayer money, guidelines that will help ensure that we are proving ourselves worthy of the great trust the American people have placed in us. <p>That starts with a fundamental commitment. Decisions about how Recovery Act dollars are spent will be based on the merits. Let me repeat that. Decisions about how Recovery money will be spent will be based on the merits. They will not be made as a way of doing favors for lobbyists. <p>Any lobbyist who wants to talk with a member of my administration about a particular Recovery Act project will have to submit their thoughts in writing, and we will post it on the Internet for all to see. If any member of my administration does meet with a lobbyist about a Recovery Act project, every American will be able to go online and see what that meeting was about. These are unprecedented restrictions that will help ensure that lobbyists don't stand in the way of our recovery. <p>And this plan cannot and will not be an excuse for waste and abuse. Whenever a project comes up for review, we're going to ask a simple question: Does it advance the core mission of the Recovery Act? Does it jump-start job creation? Does it lay the foundation for lasting prosperity? <p>The initiatives that will get priority will be ones that have demonstrated how they meet this test, initiatives that maximize the number of jobs we are creating so we can get the most bang out of every taxpayer buck, initiatives that help make health care more affordable and rebuild our crumbling roads and bridges or provide other enduring benefits to the American people. <p>Now, no plan is perfect. And I can't stand here and promise you that not one single dollar will slip through the cracks. But what I can promise you is that we will do everything in our power to prevent that from happening, which is why we're building on the provisions in the Recovery Act to forbid the use of these funds to build things like dog parks. Now, let me be clear. I don't have anything against dog parks. [<i>Laughter</i>] I intend to get a dog. [<i>Laughter</i>] What I do oppose is building them with funds from the Recovery Act, because that's not how we'll jump-start job creation, and that's not how we'll put our economy on a firmer footing for the future. <p>And because I'm not willing to ask all of you to do what I'm not willing to do myself, we're going to set an example here in the White House. Now, I'll give you an example. Recently, a proposal was submitted requesting Recovery Act funds to modernize old electrical and heating systems in the East Wing of the White House. Now, this is a much-needed project that's long overdue, and I hope Congress funds it in the future. But because this request does not meet the high standards that I have set, because it will not create many jobs or advance our recovery, it will not be funded under the Recovery Act. <p>So the rules I'm putting in place today will help create a new culture of accountability. And I'm pleased that the U.S. Conference of Mayors has committed to joining us in this effort. I don't need to remind you that the American people are watching what we do. They need this plan to work. They're skeptical, and understandably, because they've seen taxpayer dollars frittered away before. They expect to see their hard-earned money spent efficiently. And this extraordinary moment requires extraordinary responsibilities on all our part. There's little room for error here, especially in a time for crisis. <p>You know, during World War II, a largely unknown Senator grew concerned that waste, corruption, and scandal threatened to choke off our Nation's war efforts before they'd truly begun. Congress didn't think a whole lot of the matter and granted him far less money than he'd asked for, but this little-known Member of Congress named Harry Truman had the courage of his convictions. So he traveled all across the country, gathered information, holding hundreds of hearings and issuing dozens of reports, and when it was all over, he had saved billions of dollars and deterred corruption and bolstered America's confidence in the conduct of the war. <p>What Harry Truman understood was that spending tax dollars wisely isn't just about keeping our books straight, it's about fulfilling our obligations as keepers of the public trust. And while I do not know how long the road to recovery will be, I do know that we're in a fight right now to get this economy back on track. And if we act with the same sense of responsibility that Harry Truman showed during wartime all those years ago, and if we build a partnership that stretches from the statehouse to the White House, then we'll turn this economy around and the American people will emerge from this crisis stronger than we were before. <p>So thank you very much. I'm looking forward to working with you. Thank you, guys.\" "
"66" "\"Last week, I spent a few days in California talking with ordinary Americans in town halls and in the places where they work. We talked about their struggles, and we talked about their hopes. At the end of the day, these men and women weren't as concerned with the news of the day in Washington as they were about the very real and very serious challenges their families face every day: whether they'll have a job and a paycheck to count on; whether they'll be able to pay their medical bills or afford college tuition; whether they'll be able to leave their children a world that's safer and more prosperous than the one we have now. <p>Those are the concerns I heard about in California. They are the concerns I've heard about in letters from people throughout this country for the last 2 years, and they are the concerns addressed in the budget I sent to Congress last month. <p>With the magnitude of the challenges we face, I don't just view this budget as numbers on a page or a laundry list of programs. It's an economic blueprint for our future, a vision of America where growth is not based on real estate bubbles or overleveraged banks, but on a firm foundation of investments in energy, education, and health care that will lead to a real and lasting prosperity. <p>These investments are not a wish list of priorities that I picked out of thin air, they are a central part of a comprehensive strategy to grow this economy by attacking the very problems that have dragged it down for too long: the high cost of health care and our dependence on foreign oil; our education deficit and our fiscal deficit. <p>Now, as the House and the Senate take up this budget next week, the specific details and dollar amounts in this budget will undoubtedly change; that's a normal and healthy part of the process. But when all is said and done, I expect a budget that meets four basic principles. <p>First, it must reduce our dependence on dangerous foreign oil and finally put this Nation on a path to a clean, renewable energy future. There is no longer a doubt that the jobs and industries of tomorrow will involve harnessing renewable sources of energy. The only question is whether America will lead that future. I believe we can and we will, and that's why we've proposed a budget that makes clean energy the profitable kind of energy, while investing in technologies like wind power and solar power, advanced biofuels, clean coal, and fuel-efficient cars and trucks that can be built right here in America. <p>Second, this budget must renew our Nation's commitment to a complete and competitive education for every American child. In this global economy, we know the countries that out-educate us today will outcompete us tomorrow, and we know that our students are already falling behind their counterparts in places like China. That is why we have proposed investments in childhood education programs that work, in high standards and accountability for our schools, in rewards for teachers who succeed, and in affordable college education for anyone who wants to go. It is time to demand excellence from our schools so that we can finally prepare our workforce for a 21st century economy. <p>Third, we need a budget that makes a serious investment in health care reform, reform that will bring down costs, ensure quality, and guarantee people their choice of doctors and hospitals. Right now, there are millions of Americans where just one illness or medical emergency away from bankruptcy. There are businesses that have been forced to close their doors or ship jobs overseas because they can't afford insurance. Medicare costs are consuming our Federal budget; Medicaid is overwhelming our State budgets. So to those who say we have to choose between health care reform and fiscal discipline, I say that making investments now that will dramatically lower health care costs for everyone won't add to our budget deficit in the long term; it is one of the best ways to reduce it. <p>Finally, this budget must reduce that deficit even further. With the fiscal mess we've inherited and the cost of this financial crisis, I've proposed a budget that cuts our deficit in half by the end of my first term. That's why we are scouring every corner of the budget and have proposed $2 trillion in deficit reductions over the next decade. In total, our budget would bring discretionary spending for domestic programs as a share of the economy to its lowest level in nearly half a century. And we will continue making these tough choices in the months and years ahead so that as our economy recovers, we do what we must to bring down this deficit. <p>I'll be discussing each of these principles next week, as Congress takes up the important work of debating this budget. I realize there are those who say these plans are too ambitious to enact. To that I say that the challenges we face are too large to ignore. I didn't come here to pass on our problems to the next President or the next generation; I came here to solve them. <p>The American people sent us here to get things done, and at this moment of great challenge, they are watching and waiting for us to lead. Let's show them that we are equal to the task before us, and let's pass a budget that puts this Nation on the road to lasting prosperity.\" "
"67" "\"<i>The President. </i>Thank you, Paul, for talking about the work that you're doing at Serious Materials. And thank you, Susan, for describing the research that's taking place under your leadership at MIT. I have to say that Susan made sure to tell me not to touch anything on the table. [<i>Laughter</i>] So--I was going to do some experiments for you today--[<i>laughter</i>]--but we decided not to. <p>Finally, I'd like to thank everyone who's here today for joining us this afternoon. And I want to introduce a few people on our team that are critical to this effort. As was already mentioned, John Holdren has now been confirmed our White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Carol Browner is here, assistant to me for energy and climate change. And behind her is Nancy Sutley, who is the Chair of the White House Council on Environmental Quality. So thanks to them, thanks to all of you for coming; welcome to the White House. <p>We gather at a challenging time for our country. We face an economic crisis unlike any we've known in a generation. We've lost 4.4 million jobs since this recession began. Millions of families are at risk of losing their homes, and tens of millions more have lost value in their homes. Our financial system has been severely undermined by the collapse of a credit bubble that was--is as irresponsible as it was unsustainable. <p>Now, many of you in this room, I know, are experiencing this crisis in one way or another. Perhaps you've won fewer investors than you'd hoped, or you've earned lower revenues than you expected; perhaps your share price has fallen or the cost of securing a loan has risen. <p>But you're also helping us to overcome this crisis. Paul's company, Serious Materials, just reopened, as he mentioned, a manufacturing plant outside of Pittsburgh. Last year, that factory was shuttered and more than 100 jobs were lost. The town was devastated. Today, that factory is whirring back to life, and Serious Materials is rehiring the folks who lost their jobs. And these workers will now have a new mission producing some of the most energy efficient windows in the world. <p>We've got other examples in this room. Deepika Singh--where is Deepika, is she here? There you are, right there. Deepika is here from Gainesville, Florida. She's the founder and president of Sinmat--did I pronounce that correctly?--that's developing new ways to manufacture microchips that can help power smarter energy systems, from more fuel-efficient hybrid cars to more responsive, efficient lighting for homes and businesses. <p>So these are the stories that are being told all across our country. I remember during the campaign I visited McKinstry Company in Seattle, which is retrofitting schools and businesses to make them more energy efficient. McKinstry is expanding and expects to hire as many as 500 new workers in the next few years. I visited another company, PV Powered, a company developing more reliable solar technology in Bend, Oregon, and then there was Bombard Electric in Las Vegas, which is building up Nevada's renewable energy capacity. <p>And just last week, I visited the Electric Vehicle Technical Center in Pomona, California, which is testing batteries to power a new generation of plug-in hybrids that will help end our dependence on foreign oil. I have to say, Susan, the battery I saw was bigger than that one that's on the desk--[<i>laughter</i>]--but that may be the direction we're moving. <p>So innovators like you are creating the jobs that will foster our recovery and creating the technologies that will power our long-term prosperity. So I thank you for your work. It's said that necessity is the mother of invention. At this moment of necessity, we need you. We need some inventiveness. Your country needs you to create new jobs and lead new industries. Your country needs you to mount a historic effort to end once and for all our dependence on foreign oil. <p>And in this difficult endeavor, in this pursuit on which I believe our future depends, your country will support you. Your President will support you. My administration has begun implementing the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which will create or save 3.5 million jobs, and 90 percent of those will be in the private sector. Through $59 billion invested in clean energy and in tax incentives to promote clean energy, the Recovery Act is estimated to create more than 300,000 jobs. <p>And these are jobs that will be created as we double our country's supply of renewable energy and make the largest investment in basic research funding in American history. These are jobs developing new batteries to power the next generation of plug-in hybrid cars, like those being tested at the facility I visited in California last week. These are jobs upgrading our power grid so that it can carry renewable energy from the far-flung places that--where it's produced to the cities that use it. <p>And these are jobs that will be created through today's announced $1.2 billion for research through the Department of Energy's national labs. As we speak, my Secretary of Energy, Steven Chu, is visiting Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, where recovery funds will speed construction of a laboratory that will help develop materials for new solar cells and other clean energy technologies. <p>Through this plan, we have achieved more in 2 months in support of a new, clean energy economy than we've achieved in perhaps 30 years. And the budget I've proposed builds on this foundation. The budget is a comprehensive strategy to grow this economy. We will attack the problems that have held us back for too long: the high cost of health care, the budget deficit, our broken education system, and our energy dependence. <p>We have a choice. We can choose to do what we've done. We can leave these problems for the next budget or the next administration, but more likely for the next generation. But we've seen the consequences of this failure to take responsibility, this failure to seize the moment. We've seen the cycles of boom and bust. We've seen our dependence on foreign oil rise. We've seen health care premiums nearly double over the past 8 years. We've seen our schools fall short. In other words, we've seen enough. <p>We can remain the world's leading importer of foreign oil, or we can become the world's leading exporter of renewable energy. We can allow climate change to wreck unnatural havoc, or we can create jobs preventing its worst effects. We can hand over the jobs of the 21st century to our competitors, or we can create those jobs right here in America. <p>We know the right choice. We have known the right choice for a generation. The time has come to make that choice, to act on what we know. And that's why my budget makes a historic investment: $150 billion over 10 years in clean energy and energy efficiency, building on what we've achieved through the recovery plan. <p>And it includes a 10-year commitment to make the research and experimentation tax credit permanent. This is a tax credit that Serious Materials has used to grow its business, and one I'm sure others here today have used as well. This is a tax credit that returns $2 to the economy for every dollar we spend. Yet over the years, we've allowed this credit to lapse or we've extended it year to year, even just a few months at a time. Under my budget, this tax credit will no longer fall prey to the whims of politics and partisanship. It will be far more effective when businesses like yours can count on it, when you've got some stability and reliability. <p>I've also proposed reducing to zero the capital gains tax for investments in small or startup businesses, expanding and making permanent one of the tax cuts in the recovery plan. And Federal agencies will continue to set aside a portion of R&amp;D budgets for small businesses, because small businesses are innovative businesses, producing 13 times more patents per employee than large companies. <p>Finally, building on the recovery plan my administration is implementing and the budget I have proposed, we will be pursuing comprehensive legislation to finally end our addiction to foreign oil and prevent the worst consequences of climate change, while creating the incentives to finally make clean energy the profitable kind of energy in America. <p>And we know how much promise this holds. Orion Energy Systems is a perfect example, which Neal Verfuerth--did I say that, Neal, properly? <p><i>Neal Verfuerth.</i> Yes, sir. <p><i>The President. </i>Is that you right there? <p><i>Mr. Verfuerth</i>. Yes, sir. <p><i>The President. </i>Okay. Neal just spoke to you about this. Orion employs more than 250 people providing energy-saving lighting to Fortune 500 companies. And it recently began work on a new 70,000 square foot office and technology center. <p>Long before this success, Neal had tried his hands at clean energy. He bought two solar panel distributorships, but the manufacturing companies he depended on went under. Years later, he started Orion as a distributor for lighting systems, growing with the help of loans through the Small Business Administration. <p>Then, about 10 years ago, he had an idea. It was in the middle of the night, but Neal hopped in his car and drove to a factory in Plymouth. And this was one of those moments when the future refused to wait until morning. [<i>Laughter</i>] He grabbed 2 by 4s and a broom handle; he tinkered until somebody else arrived. He had finally figured out a design for a new lighting fixture that made it possible to produce twice the light using half the energy. <p>But as Neal will tell you, this is when the real work began seeking capital, seeking customers, seeking the support that would allow him to test and improve and perfect what he had designed. And that took time, and that took patience, and it took creativity. <p>Progress is rarely easy, and I know people in this room understand that. Sometimes it takes months to learn that your ideas just won't work or years to learn that it will. Sometimes the funding dries up or the investors walk away. Sometimes you have to fail before you can succeed. And often it takes not just the commitment of an innovator, but the commitment of a country to innovation. Often, what's required is the support of government, recognizing that our future is what we make of it; our future is what we build it to be. <p>So all of you, you are helping us to build a cleaner, brighter future, and a stronger, more prosperous economy. And my administration and our country will support you in that difficult work. <p>Thank you. <p>By the way, I was just thinking about it; I suspect this is \\"Orion\\" as opposed to \\"Orien,\\" but--[<i>laughter</i>]--the way it was written up. I just wanted to make sure while I was giving you a plug that--[<i>laughter</i>]--we got the right plug, all right. It's \\"Orion.\\" <p>All right. Thank you, guys.\" "
"68" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Commander, can you hear us? <p><i>Commander Mike Fincke</i>. Welcome aboard the International Space Station, where we're joined with our international crew from the Space Shuttle <i>Discovery</i>. Welcome aboard. Glad to hear your voice. We hear you loud and clear, sir. <p><i>The President.</i> Well, thank you so much for taking the time to speak with us. We've got a crew of wonderful schoolchildren here who are all interested in space, and we've got some Members of Congress who are like big kids when it comes to talking to astronauts. <p>I'm told that you're cruising at about 17,000 miles per hour, so we're glad that you are using the hands-free phone. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Commander Fincke</i>. Mr. President, we go around the planet once every 90 minutes. It's quite a thrill, and it is very fast, and we see 16 sunrises and 16 sunsets every day. <p><i>The President.</i> That is unbelievable. Well, the first thing we want to do is just let you know how proud we are of you. I've got to say especially once I found out that you're from Bellwood, Illinois. <p><i>Mission Specialist Sandra Magnus</i>. Mr. President, it was a beautiful place to grow up, and I have a lot of roots that are still there. <p><i> International Space Station/Solar Panels</i> <p><i>The President.</i> Well, that's great. The--we are really excited about the project that you're doing. My understanding is, is that you are installing some additional solar panels on the space station, and that's actually going to increase the number of people that can work out of the space station, is that correct? <p><i>Mission Specialist John Phillips</i>. Sir, that's correct. We've roughly doubled the amount of solar power available for experimentation and for supporting a larger crew, and we hope to go to a crew of six and a more aggressive experimental program this year. <p><i>The President.</i> Well, this is really exciting, because we're investing back here on the ground a whole array of solar and other renewable energy projects, and so to find out that you're doing this up at the space station is particularly exciting. <p>Can I ask how exactly do you end up installing these solar panels? What's involved? Somebody want to give us a rundown on how you go about doing it? <p><i>Mission Specialist Steven Swanson</i>. Yes, sir. First it comes up on a truss segment that is about 5-feet long. We use a robotic arm to attach it to the--into another truss segment. And then once that's attached and bolted on through spacewalks, then we'll go ahead and unfurl or actually deploy the solar arrays in a position so that we can unfurl them from inside during the commanding through software. <p><i>The President.</i> About how long does it take? <p><i>Mission Specialist Swanson</i>. It takes a lot if you put it all together, about 6 hours, but if you actually do the commanding to actually deploy them out to their full length--only takes about 2 hours. <p><i> International Cooperation in Space</i> <p><i>The President.</i> Well, obviously we're really proud about the extraordinary work that our American astronauts are doing. You are representative of the dedication and sense of adventure and discovery that we're so proud of. But one of the things that's wonderful about this is that it is an international space station. And I know that we have our Japanese and Russian counterparts on board as well. We'd love to say hello to them and hope that this is an example of the kind of spirit of cooperation that we can apply not just in space, but here on the ground as well. <p><i>Mission Specialist Koichi Wakata</i>. Yes, it's an honor to have a chance to talk with you, Mr. President. We have a Russian crewmember, American crewmember, and I'm from Japan. And we have 15 countries working together in this wonderful project--international space station, as well as on the ground, in space. And this really symbolizes the future of the scientific development of the world, and I'm just happy to be part of this. <p><i>The President.</i> That's wonderful. <p><i>Flight Engineer Yury Lonchkov</i>. Mr. President, we work together to do everything. It's really, really important for us. And American, Russian, Japanese, Italian, everybody, people, all people, work together. <p><i> Working in Space/Talking to Schools</i> <p><i>The President.</i> Now, I notice you're bouncing around quite a bit there, guys. Are you wearing something to strap you down, or are you about to float away? <p><i>Commander Fincke</i>. Mr. President, we're just holding on with our toes on to some handrails below us, and at any moment we could all just easily float up. And that's one of the fun things about flying in space; we get a chance to talk to a lot of kids and show them all the adventures that we have flying around. It's also--it's not just a lot of fun, it's a little bit tough on our bodies; you have to exercise. And so we get a chance to talk to a lot of schools while we're up here--schools all over the planet--to help inspire the next generation. <p><i>The President.</i> Yes, I hear that you're going to be talking to my alma mater, Punahou School, when you fly over Hawaii. <p><i>Commander Fincke</i>. We're looking forward to that, sir. <p><i>The President.</i> All right, well, you tell them <i>aloha</i>. <p>Listen, we've got a bunch of young people here. I want to see if any of them have some questions. <p>Anybody have a question over here? Okay, this--hold on, we've got a young lady right here who's got a question. <p><i> Astronaut Diets</i> <p><i>Q. </i>As a astronaut, what do you eat? <p><i>The President.</i> Did you hear that question? They want to know what you guys are eating up there. <p><i>Mission Specialist Richard Arnold.</i> We're eating really well. We eat a lot of--it's prepared at NASA, but it's kind of like the backpacking food. It's dehydrated, re-rehydrated, and warm it up. We also use--have food similar to Meals Ready to Eat that they use for the military and that a few of us ate last year when the hurricane came through Houston. <p><i>The President.</i> Do you guys still drink Tang up there? [<i>Laughter</i>] I've got Bill Nelson here, and he says that that's been taken off the menu. [<i>Laughter</i>] Any--that's, by the way, before the time of you young people. We used to drink Tang. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We've got a young man right here. Hold on one second. <p><i> Down Time in Space</i> <p><i>Q. </i>Can you play video games in space? <p><i>The President.</i> Can you play video games in space? <p><i>Mission Specialist Phillips</i>. We can, in fact. And in fact, a few years ago when I was up here for 6 months, I had a video game that I used to play in my spare time, although, unfortunately, we don't have much spare time. So we can; we have a lot of laptop computers. But for the most part we stay real busy doing real work. <p><i> Experiments</i> <p><i>The President.</i> The--so tell us what kinds of experiments are you doing? Once you got the panel up, what kinds of other activities are you doing? Is it mostly just maintaining the craft, or are there certain experiments or projects that you're engaged in as well? <p><i>Mission Specialist Magnus.</i> Well, sir, we have experiments already up here that we've been doing for many years, and we'll be able to double that with the addition of the full array that our shuttle friends brought up. <p>We do a lot of experiments on combustion, understanding materials, understanding how--you know, we're guinea pigs--so understanding how people's bodies change in space, and all this is in preparation for long-duration missions to the Moon and Mars. <p>And the exciting thing about doing science up here is we really don't know what we don't know, and that gives you the greatest potential for learning. And we've had a lot of cases where people have set up experiments, and we've conducted them here on the space station, only to find out that we've learned something new, something more about the fundamentals of the processes and the science. So it's a really great place to learn a lot. <p><i>The President.</i> Outstanding. <p>Any of the young people have another question--this young man right here? Hold on one second. <p><i> Discoveries</i> <p><i>Q. </i>Have you found any life forms or any plants out in space? <p><i>The President.</i> That's a good question. Any life forms out there other than you guys? <p><i>Mission Specialist Magnus.</i> We're actually doing an experiment on this mission to take a swab or a sample of the surface of the EVA, the spacewalker's gloves, both before and after the space walk. And that's a--that was sort of a demonstration of the type of technology that we'll be able to use on the Moon and Mars for the same purpose, to try and see if we can determine what sort of bacteria or microorganisms are living in the various environments we're going to encounter. <p>We, unfortunately, haven't really found anything here. I think we'll have much more success at finding new types of life and different structures when we go to places like Moon and Mars and moons of Titan and these other types of environments. <p><i>The President.</i> Excellent question. All right, I've got a young man back here. <p><i> Astronaut Training</i> <p><i>Q. </i>What things did you have to study to be a astronaut? <p><i>The President.</i> All right, that's a good question. You guys are all extraordinarily trained. What--if we've got some budding astronauts over here, what should they be doing? I'm assuming they better hit the books on science and math. <p><i>Pilot Dominic \\"Tony\\" Antonelli.</i> That's--you got it just right. The--one of the beautiful things about getting to work here is you can study just about anything that you're really interested in--science and math being a big part of it. But we have medical doctors, geologists, engineers, and physicists in the group here with us. So it's pretty much anything in the math and science field. We've got a couple of schoolteachers here with us so--studying education as well as the math and science. <p>But there really is room up here for everybody. The important part, though, is to work really hard and do well in school. It will make a difference in your future. <p><i> Physical Fitness Requirements</i> <p><i>The President.</i> And what about--what about fitness requirements these days? Some of us remember watching \\"The Right Stuff,\\" where--that's pretty impressive. [<i>Laughter</i>] Is there a particular---- <p><i>Commander Lee Archambault.</i> Well, Mr. President, the fitness requirements are still---- <p><i>The President.</i> Go ahead. Go ahead, I'm sorry. <p><i>Commander Archambault</i>. Mr. President, the fitness requirements are still there. As a matter of fact, the International Space Station just recently incorporated a new fitness machine. It's like--it's a very, very fancy workout machine you see in a gym, but it's called the ARED, and we can do a lot of good exercises on it--the leg--strength training for your legs as well as your upper body. So particularly for the long duration folks, it's very important to maintain your muscles in good tone and to help you readapt when you get back on planet Earth. <p><i>The President.</i> Excellent. Okay, there's--a young lady back here had a question. <p><i> Exercising in Space</i> <p><i>Q. </i>When you say you \\"exercise,\\" what do you do? <p><i>Mission Specialist Joseph Acaba</i>. Well, we have a couple of different exercise machines up here. On the space shuttle we brought up a--it looks like a bicycle that you would find in a gymnasium. So we can use that. And they have one here on the space station. <p>And the other machine, you can do all kinds of stuff. You can do squats; you can do curls. We have a lot we can do. We also have a treadmill, so you can go ahead and run up here in space. <p><i>The President.</i> Any--okay, we've got another question from a young man. Hold on. <p><i> Stars/International Cooperation on Space Exploration</i> <p><i>Q. </i>Do you know how many stars there are in space? <p><i>The President.</i> Asking how many stars in space--I'll be interested in hearing the answer to this one. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Commander Fincke</i>. Well, aboard the International Space Station, we can look down and see our beautiful planet Earth, and we can also look up and see the rest of the cosmos. And we can see that there are so many stars out there that it's very hard to count them all. And we can see that our Earth is a very small--very small planet in such a big universe. And it's just really amazing, because it gives us a deep perspective of--that we have to really take good care of our own planet--and that our own planet is just a--is a small place, and we have the whole rest of the universe to work together in an international sense and go explore this whole universe that's in front of us and all the discoveries that we'll make together. <p>So maybe we'll someday be able to count how many stars that we have, because we're starting to go to the stars as human beings together. And that's what's really exciting about serving aboard the International Space Station and flying up and down on space shuttles, is that we're part of that great adventure. <p>And we need you kids to study hard, because we can't do it all by ourselves. We really need you guys to work hard and do whatever you're supposed to do and do it well, like Tony said, because there's a whole universe in front of us. <p><i> Impact of Weightlessness on Sleep</i> <p><i>The President.</i> I had a quick question. Does weightlessness have an impact in terms of your ability to sleep? <p><i>Mission Specialist Arnold</i>. Sir, we just arrived here, just a few days ago, and it's taken a while to get used to--for me, personally, missing a pillow. You're used to laying down on a mattress and having a place to rest your head. And--so it's taken a while to get used to that. <p><i>The President.</i> Well, the--I know the kids got a chance to ask some questions. I want to make sure that if there are any Members of Congress who've got some questions that they're interested in, that they've got a chance too. <p>Okay, hold on. This is Kay Bailey Hutchison from Texas. <p><i> Salmonella Experiment</i> <p><i>Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison.</i> I understand that you are doing experiments on Salmonella and watching those organisms and how they react and grow. And we've had some Salmonella problems here on Earth. What do you think you will be able to learn from the environment in space that maybe you couldn't learn here on Earth? <p><i>Mission Specialist Phillips.</i> I'm actually going to have a bit of a hard time answering that question. We do, indeed, have an experiment called the National Laboratory Program vaccine experiment, in which Salmonella are--in which certain micro-organisms are exposed to Salmonella. My job as an astronaut was basically to turn the crank and activate the experiment, and then after about 4 or 5 days, I turn the crank again and deactivate it. <p>I'm not exactly sure what the scientists are going to do with the data back at home or with the samples. We are returning, however, eight big vials of samples of these cultures of micro-organisms and Salmonella, and let the scientists go to work. <p><i>The President.</i> Does Bill Nelson--he knows a little something about this stuff. <p><i> International Space Station Laboratory</i> <p><i>Senator Bill Nelson. </i>Hey, guys, I wish I were up there with you. You are just getting to the point where it's really looking like a full-up national laboratory where we can really do the experimentation. When will you have it full-up, ready to go, where we can then reap the results of that $100 billion investment? <p><i>Commander Fincke.</i> It's nice to hear you again, sir. The International Space Station has already been delivering some of the science we've promised. With--where we are now is--in Expedition 18, our crew, is--we're making the turn from three people to six people. The next crew that comes after us--a few months after we get replaced--will have six people onboard the International Space Station. So that's why we needed the solar power; that's why we needed the second toilet and other things, so that we'd have room and facilities for six people. <p>And once we have six people, we'll have enough time and energy--solar power, I mean--to run all the experiments that we can. And then it's just a matter of getting enough experiments up and down from the space station to really reap on that science. We've already been delivering, and we've got a lot more to come. And like Sandy said, there's a lot of things we don't know, so there's some really interesting discoveries out in front of us. <p><i>The President.</i> Do any of the young people have any more questions? Hold on one second, we've got one here. <p><i> Being an Astronaut</i> <p><i>Q. </i>Do you love doing your job? <p><i>The President.</i> They asked if you love doing your job. <p><i>Mission Specialist Wakata.</i> Yes, it's wonderful to work in space. Ever since I saw Apollo 11, the lunar landing, when I was 5-years-old, I always longed for going to space and work. And here dreams came true. I had to study hard and worked hard, but I'm so happy to be here, and I'm loving living here and working with so many wonderful people here. <p><i> Time it Takes to Get Into Space</i> <p><i>The President.</i> The--just a couple of logistical questions. How long did it take--from the time of launch, how long does it get--does it take to get to the space station? <p><i>Commander Archambault.</i> Well, Mr. President, let me answer that in two ways. First of all, it takes us about 8 1/2 minutes to get to orbit, and at that time we're going 17,500 miles an hour. But we're in a bit of a tail chase with the space station, and it's approximately about a day and a half to 2 days later that we actually rejoin with the space station. <p><i>The President.</i> Okay, so 8 minutes just to get into orbit, but then you've got to basically try to catch up with the space station and match up so that you can lock in. <p><i>Commander Archambault</i>. Sir, that's exactly right. <p><i>The President.</i> Okay. <p>Anybody have any more questions? Hold on one second. <p><i> Astronauts' Favorite Experiment</i> <p><i>Q. </i>What's your favorite or the most interesting experiment you're working on up at the space station? <p><i>The President.</i> Okay, do you guys have a favorite experiment right now? <p><i>Mission Specialist Magnus</i>. That's a really tough question, because they're all interesting in different ways. Mike and I were doing a flame experiment where we're trying to help the scientists on the ground understand how fire behaves up here. There's all kinds of reason for that. So that was interesting because it's sort of an unusual environment to intentionally put a fire. <p>I think one of the ones I like the most is an experiment that we're doing on ourselves to try and understand how our nutritional state changes and our biochemistry changes, and that will help us design food and understand a little bit more about the processes that the human body undergoes. That's probably my favorite one. But there's all kinds of interesting things in all of the experiments. <p><i> Weightlessness</i> <p><i>The President.</i> Now, can I ask you a question? Were you tempted to cut your hair shorter while you were up there, or do you--is it fun in weightlessness? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Mission Specialist Magnus</i>. Well, that's a really good question, because it is a little bit of an overhead to take care of long hair here. I think ideally a short haircut is the way to go, but quite frankly, on me it wouldn't be so nice, so I kept it long. <p><i>The President.</i> I think it's a real fashion statement. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Hold on one second, we've got another young man back here. <p><i> Spare Time</i> <p><i>Q. </i>How much spare time do you have on the day--in the day? <p><i>The President.</i> How much spare time do you have? It sounds like you guys are pretty busy. <p><i>Mission Specialist Acaba. </i>They do keep us pretty busy up here, and we have a very tight schedule that starts from the moment you wake up until the moment you go to sleep. But they give us a little bit of time in the morning to get yourself ready, get yourself cleaned up, have some breakfast, and the same in the evening. So we can use that time to either call down to our family and friends or maybe even check our e-mail and see how things are going back on Earth. <p><i> Communication With Earth</i> <p><i>The President.</i> Now, that's interesting. Does e-mail work pretty much the same between the space station and computers here on Earth? <p><i>Commander Fincke</i>. Mr. President, as just about everybody on the planet knows, is that e-mail is a pretty important way for us to keep in touch with each other. Even though we're really far away and traveling really fast, we still use e-mail also. Unfortunately, we only synchronize our e-mail once or twice a day, sometimes three times a day. So it's not as fast and instantaneous as we are used to on the ground, but even so, it's a really useful way to get in touch with other people. <p>In addition, we have kind of an Internet over--voice-over Internet protocol telephone, so it's really nice that we can get the--a chance to talk to our families--not 24/7, but when we do have good satellite coverage we do get the chance to call home. And that's--for those of us who stay up for a long time, that's what's really important to us. <p><i>The President.</i> Excellent. All right, well, I know that you guys probably have a whole bunch of stuff to do, but I think that we may have one more question from a Member of Congress. Hold on one second. <p><i>Representative Suzanne Kosmas.</i> Thank you very much. My name is Suzanne Kosmas, and I actually represent central Florida, the area that includes the Kennedy Space Center. So I want to first thank you on behalf of all Americans for your service to us and for what you represent in terms of America and our supremacy in space exploration, along with our international partners, and for what you're doing there at the International Space Station. <p>I had the honor of being at the Kennedy Space Center last week when you took off, and it was a fabulous, absolutely fantastic launch. And we--so I wished you <i>adieu</i> from there, and now I'm wishing you hello from here. <p>I want to thank you again for your service and tell you how excited I am to be representing the Kennedy Space Station and that area, but also for what you do that inspires people to be interested in the science and technology that has led us to this pioneering place where you are. And the things that we anticipate that we will be able to reap from your service I'm very thrilled about, particularly the idea, as the President has said, of alternative energies and the fact that you're using solar panels in space. What we're hoping, in the long run, that you will be able to, from space, use solar energy to come back to Earth. <p>And again, I'm thrilled to be here and very excited to have the opportunity to talk to you. And thank you so much for your service to our country. <p><i>The President.</i> Well, I think that all of us echo---- <p><i>Commander Archambault</i>. Thank you, ma'am, we appreciate that. And each one of us here is very lucky and honored to be right where we're at here today, so the honor is all ours. We're honored to be here doing this great work. <p><i>The President.</i> Well, I think all of us echo the sentiment. We are extraordinarily proud of you. We're so grateful that you took the time to speak to all of us. I know these young people are pretty excited to be on a direct link with astronauts in space. <p>So does everybody want to say good-bye? <p><i>Audience members.</i> Good-bye. <p><i>The President.</i> All right. They're all beaming. And we appreciate you guys, so look forward to seeing you when you're back on the ground. God bless you. <p><i>Commander Archambault</i>. Thank you, Mr. President. And on behalf of the Space Shuttle <i>Discovery</i> crew here in the dark blue shirts, I want to say we're very honored that you spent some time with us today. It meant a lot to us. We thank you very much. <p>And from one Chicago guy to another, I wish you well, sir. <p><i>The President.</i> That's it. <p><i>Commander Archambault</i>. And for closing comments, I'll pass the microphone off to Commander Mike Fincke, the commander of the International Space Station. <p><i>The President.</i> Thank you. <p><i>Commander Fincke</i>. Mr. President, I'm not from Chicago. I'm sorry about that. But my crew and I were--are really happy to have a chance to talk to you and share our adventure with even more people. It's pretty impressive what human beings can do when we work together constructively and not destructively. And that's the mission of the International Space Station. <p>So thanks for joining us. Thanks for flying with us at 17,500 miles an hour today. We sure--we're glad to have a chance to share it with you and the distinguished Members from Congress, as well as all the kids out there. <p>So, everybody, thanks again for joining us. <p><i>The President.</i> Thank you, guys. Bye-bye.\" "
"69" "\"<i>President Obama.</i> Hello, everybody. It is good to see you. Just had an excellent meeting with Prime Minister Rudd and his team. Obviously, there are very few countries that are closer than the United States and Australia. And Prime Minister Rudd's Government, I think, has shown the kind of vision not just domestically, but on the international stage that we greatly admire. <p>I expressed thanks to the Government of Australia for everything that it's done with respect to Afghanistan, and we discussed the fact that we're engaged in a strategic review process at this point that will lead, I hope, to a more effective coalition strategy. It's not yet completed, but there's going to be close consultation between our two governments. <p>We spent the bulk of our time talking about the global financial crisis and what's been happening with respect to our respective economies and the world economy. And in the runup to the G-20, I feel that there's a great meeting of the minds between Prime Minister Rudd and myself in terms how we should approach it. <p>The importance of doing what's necessary to support global demand and job development and economic growth; the importance of a financial regulatory mechanism that prevents the kind of systemic risks that have done so much damage over the last several months; and finally, making sure that, as an international community, we are looking after the severe threat that poor countries, emerging markets, are under as a consequence of this financial crisis, and recognizing that our own growth, our own success in rebounding from this crisis is going to be tied up with what happens around the world. And it's going to be important for the relatively wealthy nations like ours to take leadership in assuring that we don't see a continued downward spiral that has an even more devastating impact in some of these emerging markets. <p>So I'm very grateful for secretary--or for Prime Minister Rudd's friendship. He has been one of the people who I've called on various occasions to--right after the election and repeatedly over the last several months. I think he's doing a terrific job, and I'm looking forward to partnering him for some years to come. <p><i>Prime Minister Rudd.</i> Well, thank you, Mr. President, and it's great to be back in Washington. This alliance of ours between Australia and the United States has been going for about 65 years or so and some 13 U.S. Presidents and 13 Australian Prime Ministers. And it's a first-class alliance, and it's a first-class partnership between our two countries, and the purpose of this visit is to reaffirm it and to examine its future and to work on its future together. <p>As the President has just indicated, we spent some time talking about our common challenges in Afghanistan. It's important to remind ourselves why we're there, and that is never to forget those who lost their lives on September 11, never forget those who have been killed in terrorist attacks since, never forget that many of those responsible were trained and given support in Afghanistan. And so our mission remains to ensure that that country doesn't become a safe haven for terrorists in the future. <p>As the President has indicated, we spent a huge part of our time discussing what is a global recession, a global economic crisis coming out of a global financial crisis. And a global recession requires a global solution, and that's why so much of our discussion today focused on common actions we need to take together at the upcoming G-20 summit in London. <p>I think the actions taken by the U.S. administration and the statement yesterday by Treasury Secretary Geithner on impaired asset management is an important step in the overall road to global economic recovery. And actions of that type in Europe and elsewhere are also necessary parts of our long-term global economic recovery. <p>I look forward to working with the President in London on the concrete actions that we need to agree on there, stimulating our economies, working on the future of the IMF, and working also on what we do to better regulate the global financial system in the future. <p>The President and I also had an opportunity to discuss the enduring challenge of climate change, and this is an economic challenge and an environmental challenge. It presents challenges and it presents opportunities. But we look forward very much to partnering with the United States in dealing with this big one for the future. <p>It's going to be tough, it's going to be hard, it's going to require a lot of political leadership. But with our partners around the world, I think our governments are determined to make a difference and not just to push this one away permanently in the too-hard basket. I think that's good. And I'll just say it's great to have America onboard. It's great to have America onboard on this one. <p>And, Mr. President, to see the return of U.S. global economic leadership, we appreciate that very much, and it's going to be necessary in the difficult times which lie ahead for us all. <p>Thank you very much for all your hospitality today. <p><i>President Obama.</i> Well, thank you. We've got a couple of questions, so we're going to start with David Alexander [Reuters]. <p><i> Treasury Department Resolution Authority/Global Financial Regulations</i> <p><i>Q. </i>Yes. Secretary Geithner told Members of Congress this morning that he needs the authority to shut down nonbank financial institutions like AIG when they get into trouble. Should that authority rest with the Treasury Department directly or through an existing regulator? And how long do you think it'll take to convince Congress? <p><i>President Obama.</i> Well, I hope it doesn't take too long to convince Congress. I know that Barney Frank, the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, as well as Chris Dodd on the Senate side, their Republican counterparts, Richard Shelby and Congressman Baucus, were sitting in this room to discuss this issue. <p>Right now we do not have resolution authority for a nonbank institution like AIG that is comparable to what we have for banks that get into trouble using the FDIC. And in the absence of that capacity, you end up with the situation that we've been in, a systemic--or an institution that poses systemic risks to the system, but a lack of capacity to shut it down in an orderly way, renegotiate contracts, sell off bad assets, and do so in a way that doesn't endanger the entire system. <p>So we are already hard at work in putting forward a detailed proposal. We will work in consultation with Members of Congress. That will be just one phase of a broader regulatory framework that we're going to have to put in place to prevent these kinds of crises from happening again. And as Prime Minister Rudd and I already discussed, it's going to be important that even as individual countries take actions to prevent these kinds of crises, that our regulations spur a race to the top as opposed to the race--a race to the bottom. <p>If the major economies aren't coordinating in some fashion, then what you end up having is potential capital fleeing to the places with the least restraint, the least transparency, the least openness. And in a global market with capital flows that end up being in the trillions moving in the blink of an eye, it's very important that this end up being a coordinated effort, and I'm confident that working with people like Prime Minister Rudd, we're going to be able to hammer out a better approach than we've been taking recently. <p><i>Prime Minister Rudd.</i> Now on the Australian side, the President's very well prepared; he's got a list of two Australian journalist names there. I do not know who the two American journalists--[<i>laughter</i>]--who are the two Australians? Over here. <p><i> Global Economy/Energy</i> <p><i>Q. </i>Mr. President, subprime loans make up just about 1 percent of Australian mortgages, yet Australians are suffering because of the financial crisis, losing retirement incomes and even losing jobs. What assurances can you give the Australian people that everything you do will work to fix this crisis? And, Prime Minister, how confident are you that the President will be successful? <p><i>President Obama.</i> Well, as Prime Minister Rudd indicated, there's a global crisis, and what we've seen is a pattern that's been building up. In this case, subprime lending was the initial trigger, but there's a larger problem, and that is huge unregulated capital flows, a reliance on bubbles as a driver of economic growth. And what we have said is that it is very important us--for us to return to a much more stable approach to economic growth. One that's built on improved education, making sure that we are developing the new clean energies of the future, having a regulatory system in place that protects consumers--in the case of housing, for example, here in the United States, you saw people being peddled loans that they could never hope to pay back--but also protects the system by ensuring that you're not leveraging off of one shaky loan huge numbers of other financial products that ultimately prove to be worthless. <p>So this whole issue of financial regulation is going to be absolutely critical. We are very confident that we are going to be able to work in concert with the other major economies to stabilize the financial system. I think all of us are going to have a set of challenges. All the--both wealthy countries as well as emerging markets are going to have a challenge in finding new areas of economic growth that I think are going to be necessary to replace some of the financial shenanigans that have been taking place over the last several years. <p>One area where we agree there's enormous potential is in the area of clean energy. Both Australia and the United States have vast coal reserves, but we're also very interested in figuring out how do we reduce the greenhouse gases that are causing global warming. If we can take some intelligent steps, and we start to discuss how we could work together on this, figuring out how to sequester and capture the carbon that's emitted from coal, as just one element of a broader range of energy initiatives, that's an example of something that can create jobs--also deal with a potential environmental crisis--that's the kind of economic growth that I think we're going to be looking for. <p><i>Prime Minister Rudd.</i> Just on what the President said on jobs coming out of clean energy, I welcome today the fact that President Obama has indicated that the United States will become a partner with Australia and many other governments around the world in the Australian initiative for a global carbon capture and storage institute. And that's going to be welcome around the world. Generating jobs through clean coal and carbon sequestration technologies is critical. It's also critical in terms of bringing down greenhouse gas emissions. <p>On your broader question about U.S. actions, can I just say this: The central economic problem today is how you restore normal private credit flows across the global economy. And one of the--the significant impediment to that so far around the world has been the problem of impaired assets on the balance sheets of the world's biggest banks. <p>What you've seen in the United States is decisive action by the administration through the plan further outlined by Secretary Geithner yesterday. This is really important stuff; it's really fundamental stuff. And a framework within which that occurs and is implemented globally--including by our friends in Europe--once done, you actually then can track the pathway to global economic recovery. That's why the statement--the announcement by the Treasury Secretary yesterday is so important and welcomed by us and, as you can see, by markets around the world. <p>The other thing I'll just say is the stimulus packages by the U.S. Government and--deployed in recent times--is fundamentally important. We are doing things similar in Australia. The International Monetary Fund says we should all be aiming towards generating 2 percent of GDP worth of stimulus over the next couple of years. That's right to provide temporary support for growth and jobs in the period ahead while we're seeing the recovery in credit flows. <p>So again, in answer to your question, the stimulus package deployed by the U.S. is important not just for this economy, but globally--as are similar actions around the world. <p><i>President Obama.</i> Roger [Roger Runningen] from Bloomberg. <p><i> International Banking Regulations</i> <p><i>Q. </i>Yes. Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to talk about the G-20 a little bit. The French Prime Minister, in a news conference here in Washington this morning, said that you will be supporting tighter international regulations on hedge funds. We've not heard that from you, so is that true, number one? And number two, what exactly do you have in mind? <p><i>President Obama.</i> Well, the--I have not seen the quote from the French Foreign [Prime]<A CLASS=\\"footnote\\" actuate=\\"user\\" href=\\" id(pgfId-1136240)\\" show=\\"replace\\" xml:link=\\"simple\\">2</A> Minister, so I don't want to respond to his quote. <p><i>Q. </i>Do you want to go for tighter regulations, though? <p><i>President Obama.</i> Here's what I've said--and I think Secretary Geithner has indicated as much--is that it is important for us to have a regulatory framework for various flows of capital and financial instruments that could pose a systemic risk to the system. <p>How we do that--whether it's a matter of each national government dealing with this and then coordinating effectively across borders, how much of it is reporting and disclosure and <FOOTNOTES> <FOOTNOTE> <Footnote> <A ID=\\"pgfId-1136240\\"/> White House correction. </Footnote> </FOOTNOTE> </FOOTNOTES> transparency versus restrictions on how these various instruments operate--I think that's all something that needs to be worked out. That's part of the effort that we're going to be initiating here in the United States. We will be discussing it at the G-20. <p>And I know that this is an area of particular interest to President Sarkozy. I will be speaking with him this week, and our foreign--our respective finance ministers have already spoken. So my expectation is, is that coming out of the G-20, there will be a framework to deal with a whole host of these financial regulatory issues. <p>Not all of them may get resolved immediately; many of them are highly technical. But I think the important theme to the whole process is going to be making sure that we are not simply regulating the banks under a framework that was created back in the 1930s, at a time when the global financial system has evolved in a thousand different other directions. There's got to be a more comprehensive view than the one that we've been taking so far. <p><i>Prime Minister Rudd.</i> Phil Coorey. <p><i> Australia's Role in Afghanistan/Military Operations in Afghanistan</i> <p><i>Q. </i>Mr. President, Phil Coorey, Sydney Morning Herald. If I could go back to Afghanistan, there's a fair degree of anticipation in Australia that we'll be asked to extend significantly, if not expand, our commitment to the war. There's also dwindling support amongst the Australian people for that sentiment. Could you tell the Australian people on the other side of the Pacific why they should support any such commitment--extended or expanded commitment? And could you offer them any suggestion as to how long that commitment may continue? <p><i>President Obama.</i> Well, we are in the process of a strategic review. I don't want to prejudge what is still a work in process. What I shared with Prime Minister Rudd, though, is something that I think the Australian people understand, just as the American people understand, that the threat of terrorist attacks from Al Qaida and their affiliates is not a threat that's going away. We have to take it seriously. <p>Obviously, the United States has in its memory--what's been burned into our memory is the events of 9/11. But I think the Australian people remember what happened in Bali. That's not something that we will forget. And as a consequence, it's important for us to stay on the offensive and to dismantle these terrorist organizations wherever they are. <p>It is a difficult task. It's one that requires us to stay focused. It requires effective coordinated action. It requires a recognition that we will not just solve these problems militarily, but we're also going to have to be much more effective diplomatically; we're going to have to be much more effective on the development front. And my expectation would be that over the next several years, you are going to see a more comprehensive strategy, a more focused strategy, a more disciplined strategy to achieve our common goals. <p>I think the American people, just like the Australian people, are always frustrated with the need to send our young men and women overseas for extended periods of time. Not only does it cost in terms of dollars, it puts enormous strain on families, and some don't return. And that's always something that weighs on the minds of the public. But I think that the American and the Australian people also recognize that in order for us to keep our homelands safe, in order to maintain our way of life, in order to ensure order in--on the international scene, that we can't allow vicious killers to have their way. And we're going to do what's required to ensure that does not happen. <p><i>Prime Minister Rudd.</i> Good. Good to see you. <p><i>President Obama.</i> Thank you so much. Thank you, everybody. Appreciate it.\""
"70" "\"<i>President Obama.</i> Thank you. Well, what a great honor. I will tell Michelle that I've been compared to Alexander the Great. [<i>Laughter</i>] I will see whether that gets me a little more respect--[<i>laughter</i>]--at home. She knows she's still the boss. <p>Your Eminence, it is a great honor to have you here. And I want to mention a few others who are here that deserve acknowledgment. Father Alex Karloutsos--Father Alex, where did you go? There he is. The Greek Minister of Justice is here. Where--there he is. Dendias--did I say that properly? We also have the Greek Ambassador Mallias, and we have the Cypriot Ambassador Kakouris. <p>Thank you all. And I see a lot of good friends, a few from Chicago; we've got the Chicago contingent in the house. Wonderful supporters, great friends of mine, welcome to the White House. <p>It is a great honor to be here with His Eminence as we mark the 10th anniversary since he became Archbishop. And it is a privilege to join all of you as we celebrate the contributions of Greece and those of Greek heritage to this country and to the world. <p>Today we commemorate the 188th anniversary of Greek independence, and we reaffirm a bond between our two nations born through struggle but also through shared ideals. It is a bond that's on display today in towns and cities across the United States. In Chicago, we have a thriving Greek American community centered around a neighborhood known as Greektown. There's a parade marking independence each year. In fact, at this very moment, you might find young people in Chicago's streets paying tribute to their Greek heritage by wearing the traditional foustanellas. [<i>Laughter</i>] I notice some of you aren't dressed appropriately. [<i>Laughter</i>] I haven't seen any around the White House today, but I'm keeping an eye out. <p><i>Audience member.</i> Maybe next year. <p><i>President Obama.</i> Next year? Alexi, where's yours? [<i>Laughter</i>] Because, as you know, there are many proud Greek Americans in my administration. <p>And this bond we share dates to our founding. America's revolutionaries imagined a new system of government, but they drew upon an ancient precedent. It's no coincidence that the leaders of the American Revolution, Jefferson and Madison, Adams, Hamilton, were students of Greek history and Greek philosophy. As a boy, Thomas Jefferson, the author of the Declaration of Independence, was said to prefer spending time with his Greek grammar books than with his classmates. <p>In our darkest days, when our Revolution was a fading hope, when friends were few and victories were rare, these leaders found allies in ancient texts. And just as America's Founders sought guidance and inspiration from Greece, Greek revolutionaries drew strength and support from the United States, as was just mentioned by His Eminence. In fact, these leaders appealed directly to the American people, offering respect and seeking support. They wrote, \\"it is your land\\"--\\"it is in your land that liberty has fixed her abode. In imitating you, we shall imitate our ancestors and be thought worthy of them if we succeed in resembling you.\\" <p>In a message to Congress soon after the inception of fighting, President Monroe affirmed our kinship with the Greeks who were, and I quote, \\"contending in favor of their liberties.\\" He spoke of a \\"strong hope . . . that these people will recover their independence and resume their equal station among the nations of the Earth.\\" <p>Of course, it's been a difficult and long-enduring struggle, both in the many centuries before the call for independence and in the nearly two centuries since. It's perhaps the cruelest of ironies that a people who first tested a free and democratic form of government were doomed to live so long without it. <p>But it's also one of history's great triumphs that even in the darkest periods, the light of those ideals were never extinguished: Through brutal wars, instead, people who were inspired by the ideals met them with bravery; through occupations that were met with defiance; through hardship met with incredible character--and character of a people that never lost hope in the values Greece has always represented. <p>Today, Greece stands as a testament of that unflinching character, as does the steadfast allegiance between our two nations. And I am proud to welcome so many Greek citizens and Greek Americans to the White House as we celebrate this occasion and our continued partnership in the years ahead. <p>So thank you, Your Eminence. Thanks, all of you, for taking the time to be here. Thank you.\" "
"71" "\"<i>President Obama.</i> Hello, everybody. <p><i>Secretary General de Hoop Scheffer.</i> Hello, good morning. <p><i>President Obama.</i> Hey, how are you doing? Well, everybody set up? I want to welcome the Secretary General. We just had an outstanding meeting. He has been a strong leader of NATO and we are very grateful for the service that he's provided. He's a great friend to the United States. <p>You know, we are about to celebrate the 60th anniversary of NATO at a summit in both France and Germany. It is a testimony to the strength of the transatlantic alliance, a testimony to the effectiveness of NATO in creating stability and peace and prosperity, laying the groundwork for so much that has taken place over the last several years. <p>We have a set of challenges that require NATO to shift from the 20th century to the 21st century--issues of terrorism, failed states, nuclear proliferation--a whole host of new challenges, as well as the traditional role that NATO has played in preserving the territorial integrity of NATO members. <p>And at this summit--the Secretary General and I have been discussing the agenda for the summit. We are confident that we can create a process whereby NATO, which is already strong, becomes stronger, where we become even more effective in coordinating our efforts in Afghanistan. As many of you know, we're in the process, this administration, of going through an evaluation, a strategic review of our approach to Afghanistan. And we expect to share that with our NATO counterparts. We've been in close consultation with them, and we believe that we are going to be able to ensure that the NATO members who have made so many sacrifices and have been working so hard already are reinvigorated and that the coordination that's going to be taking place will make it even more effective for us as we complete a successful NATO mission. <p>We've also discussed the role that NATO plays with respect to Russia and how this administration, my administration, is seeking a reset of the relationship with Russia, but in a way that's consistent with NATO membership and consistent with the need to send a clear signal throughout Europe that we are going to continue to abide by the central belief that countries who seek and aspire to join NATO are able to join NATO. <p>And finally, I thanked the Secretary General for his outstanding service. He is coming to the end of his tenure. I told him that he's a young man, so he's going to have to find something else to do, because he's an extraordinary talent. But he still has a lot of work in NATO to do just to get us through what is going to be a historic summit. And so I'm very grateful to him for taking the time to travel here. <p><i>Secretary General de Hoop Scheffer.</i> Many thanks, Mr. President. For me, of course, it was a pleasure to meet the President of the United States, President Obama, for the first time here in the Oval Office in the run up, indeed, to the NATO summit in the beginning of April, so less than 2 weeks away in Strasbourg and Kehl, in France and Germany, in the heart of Europe, by the way, which is an interesting place to celebrate NATO's 60th anniversary. <p>But as the President already said, celebrating your 60th anniversary should not only be back to look at your successes, but also look ahead. And in Afghanistan, there are still major challenges. Many things are going right, but many things are not going right. We are, of course, waiting the results of the review going on in the United States of America, very relevant for the other allies, very relevant for NATO, and that review will certainly be discussed at the summit, Afghanistan being NATO's most important operational priority. <p>NATO's future will be discussed as well. The question: Is NATO going to have a new strategic concept, which brings to the surface a number of questions President Obama already spoke about--NATO's expeditionary capabilities, never forgetting NATO's core function, the integrity of the NATO territory, NATO's relations with Russia. We have many things on which we disagree, but NATO needs Russia and Russia needs NATO, so let's work on the things we agree on, and let's not hide our disagreements and let us realize that also this relationship can and in my opinion should be strengthened. <p>So it's a full plate at the summit, from Afghanistan to NATO-Russia to NATO's future. We'll greet, hopefully, two new members--NATO's door is open--Albania and Croatia in the family of democratic nations. And as President Obama said a moment ago, NATO's door will stay open for new members if they perform--if they fulfill the criteria. <p>And I'm quite sure that President Obama's administration, as we discussed in the past 45 minutes, is and will be a staunch supporter of the North Atlantic Alliance, because it was and is and will stay, Mr. President, a unique alliance, bringing the United States of America, Canada, and the European allies together. So it was a privilege to talk to the President. Thank you very much indeed, sir. <p><i>President Obama.</i> Thank you. <p><i>Secretary General de Hoop Scheffer.</i> Thank you. <p><i>President Obama.</i> Thank you very much. Thank you, guys.\" "
"72" "\"Buenas noches <i>[Good evening]</i>. I want to thank the millions of you who voted for tonight's winners, and I also want to thank all of you who voted in that other election back in November - even if it wasn't for me.  With the challenges we face right now, it is absolutely critical that you stay involved and make your voices heard.  I want you to know that I will always be listening, and my Administration is working hard so that we can expand opportunity for all Americans and reach that better day. Now I know you tuned in for \\"Premio Lo Nuestro,\\" so let me get right to it. I don't know who'll get married tonight or who'll get Video of the Year, but I know you're in for some great performances that celebrate the rich diversity of Latin music, and that's good news. So enjoy the show, y para los nominados que se preguntan si esta ser&aacute; su noche, les digo, &iexcl;si se puede! <p><i>[and for all those nominees wondering if tonight is their night, let me just say, &iexcl;yes you can!]</i>\" "
"73" "\"Good morning. Please be seated. Before I begin today, let me acknowledge, first of all, Your Excellencies, all the Ambassadors who are in attendance. I also want to acknowledge both the civilians and our military personnel that are about to be deployed to the region. And I am very grateful to all of you for your extraordinary work. <p>I want to acknowledge General David Petraeus, who's here and has been doing an outstanding job at CENTCOM; we appreciate him. I want to thank Bruce Riedel--Bruce is down at the end here--who has worked extensively on our strategic review. I want to acknowledge Karl Eikenberry, who's here, and is our Ambassador-designate to Afghanistan. And to my national security team, thanks for their outstanding work. <p>Today I'm announcing a comprehensive, new strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan. And this marks the conclusion of a careful policy review, led by Bruce, that I ordered as soon as I took office. My administration has heard from our military commanders as well as our diplomats. We've consulted with the Afghan and Pakistani Governments, with our partners and our NATO allies, and with other donors and international organizations. We've also worked closely with Members of Congress here at home. And now I'd like to speak clearly and candidly to the American people. <p>The situation is increasingly perilous. It's been more than 7 years since the Taliban was removed from power, yet war rages on and insurgents control parts of Afghanistan and Pakistan. Attacks against our troops, our NATO allies, and the Afghan Government have risen steadily. And most painfully, 2008 was the deadliest year of the war for American forces. <p>Many people in the United States, and many in partner countries that have sacrificed so much, have a simple question: What is our purpose in Afghanistan? After so many years, they ask, why do our men and women still fight and die there? And they deserve a straightforward answer. <p>So let me be clear: Al Qaida and its allies, the terrorists who planned and supported the 9/11 attacks, are in Pakistan and Afghanistan. Multiple intelligence estimates have warned that Al Qaida is actively planning attacks on the United States homeland from its safe haven in Pakistan. And if the Afghan Government falls to the Taliban or allows Al Qaida to go unchallenged, that country will again be a base for terrorists who want to kill as many of our people as they possibly can. <p>The future of Afghanistan is inextricably linked to the future of its neighbor Pakistan. In the nearly 8 years since 9/11, Al Qaida and its extremist allies have moved across the border to the remote areas of the Pakistani frontier. This almost certainly includes Al Qaida's leadership, Usama bin Laden and Ayman Al-Zawahiri. They have used this mountainous terrain as a safe haven to hide, to train terrorists, to communicate with followers, to plot attacks, and to send fighters to support the insurgency in Afghanistan. For the American people, this border region has become the most dangerous place in the world. <p>But this is not simply an American problem--far from it--it is, instead, an international security challenge of the highest order. Terrorist attacks in London and Bali were tied to Al Qaida and its allies in Pakistan, as were attacks in North Africa and the Middle East, in Islamabad and in Kabul. If there is a major attack on an Asian, European, or African city, it too is likely to have ties to Al Qaida's leadership in Pakistan. The safety of people around the world is at stake. <p>For the Afghan people, a return to Taliban rule would condemn their country to brutal governance, international isolation, a paralyzed economy, and the denial of basic human rights to the Afghan people, especially women and girls. The return in force of Al Qaida terrorists who would accompany the core Taliban leadership would cast Afghanistan under the shadow of perpetual violence. <p>As President, my greatest responsibility is to protect the American people. We are not in Afghanistan to control that country or to dictate its future. We are in Afghanistan to confront a common enemy that threatens the United States, our friends and our allies, and the people of Afghanistan and Pakistan who have suffered the most at the hands of violent extremists. <p>So I want the American people to understand that we have a clear and focused goal to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat Al Qaida in Pakistan and Afghanistan and to prevent their return to either country in the future. That's the goal that must be achieved; that is a cause that could not be more just. And to the terrorists who oppose us, my message is the same: We will defeat you. <p>To achieve our goals, we need a stronger, smarter, and comprehensive strategy. To focus on the greatest threat to our people, America must no longer deny resources to Afghanistan because of the war in Iraq. To enhance the military, governance, and economic capacity of Afghanistan and Pakistan, we have to marshal international support. And to defeat an enemy that heeds no borders or laws of war, we must recognize the fundamental connection between the future of Afghanistan and Pakistan, which is why I've appointed Ambassador Richard Holbrooke, who is here, to serve as Special Representative for both countries and to work closely with General Petraeus to integrate our civilian and military efforts. <p>Let me start by addressing the way forward in Pakistan. The United States has great respect for the Pakistani people. They have a rich history and have struggled against long odds to sustain their democracy. The people of Pakistan want the same things that we want: an end to terror, access to basic services, the opportunity to live their dreams, and the security that can only come with the rule of law. The single greatest threat to that future comes from Al Qaida and their extremist allies, and that is why we must stand together. <p>The terrorists within Pakistan's borders are not simply enemies of America or Afghanistan, they are a grave and urgent danger to the people of Pakistan. Al Qaida and other violent extremists have killed several thousand Pakistanis since 9/11. They've killed many Pakistani soldiers and police. They assassinated Benazir Bhutto. They've blown up buildings, derailed foreign investment, and threatened the stability of the state. So make no mistake: Al Qaida and its extremist allies are a cancer that risks killing Pakistan from within. <p>It's important for the American people to understand that Pakistan needs our help in going after Al Qaida. This is no simple task. The tribal regions are vast, they are rugged, and they are often ungoverned. And that's why we must focus our military assistance on the tools, training, and support that Pakistan needs to root out the terrorists. And after years of mixed results, we will not, and cannot, provide a blank check. Pakistan must demonstrate its commitment to rooting out Al Qaida and the violent extremists within its borders. And we will insist that action be taken, one way or another, when we have intelligence about high-level terrorist targets. <p>The Government's ability to destroy these safe havens is tied to its own strength and security. To help Pakistan weather the economic crisis, we must continue to work with the IMF, the World Bank, and other international partners. To lessen tensions between two nuclear-armed nations that too often teeter on the edge of escalation and confrontation, we must pursue constructive diplomacy with both India and Pakistan. To avoid the mistakes of the past, we must make clear that our relationship with Pakistan is grounded in support for Pakistan's democratic institutions and the Pakistani people. And to demonstrate through deeds as well as words a commitment that is enduring, we must stand for lasting opportunity. <p>A campaign against extremism will not succeed with bullets or bombs alone. Al Qaidas offers the people of Pakistan nothing but destruction. We stand for something different. So today I am calling upon Congress to pass a bipartisan bill cosponsored by John Kerry and Richard Lugar that authorizes $1.5 billion in direct support to the Pakistani people every year over the next 5 years, resources that will build schools and roads and hospitals and strengthen Pakistan's democracy. I'm also calling on Congress to pass a bipartisan bill cosponsored by Maria Cantwell, Chris Van Hollen, and Peter Hoekstra that creates opportunity zones in the border regions to develop the economy and bring hope to places plagued with violence. And we will ask our friends and allies to do their part, including at the donors conference in Tokyo next month. <p>I don't ask for this support lightly. These are challenging times; resources are stretched. But the American people must understand that this is a downpayment on our own future, because the security of America and Pakistan is shared. Pakistan's Government must be a stronger partner in destroying these safe havens, and we must isolate Al Qaida from the Pakistani people. And these steps in Pakistan are also indispensable to our efforts in Afghanistan, which will see no end to violence if insurgents move freely back and forth across the border. <p>Security demands a new sense of shared responsibility. And that's why we will launch a standing, trilateral dialog among the United States, Afghanistan, and Pakistan. Our nations will meet regularly, with Secretaries Clinton and Secretary Gates leading our effort. Together, we must enhance intelligence sharing and military cooperation along the border, while addressing issues of common concern like trade, energy, and economic development. <p>This is just one part of a comprehensive strategy to prevent Afghanistan from becoming the Al Qaida safe haven that it was before 9/11. To succeed, we and our friends and allies must reverse the Taliban's gains and promote a more capable and accountable Afghan Government. <p>Our troops have fought bravely against a ruthless enemy. Our civilians have made great sacrifices. Our allies have borne a heavy burden. Afghans have suffered and sacrificed for their future. But for 6 years, Afghanistan has been denied the resources that it demands because of the war in Iraq. Now, we must make a commitment that can accomplish our goals. <p>I've already ordered the deployment of 17,000 troops that had been requested by General McKiernan for many months. These soldiers and marines will take the fight to the Taliban in the south and the east and give us a greater capacity to partner with Afghan security forces and to go after insurgents along the border. This push will also help provide security in advance of the important Presidential elections in Afghanistan in August. <p>At the same time, we will shift the emphasis of our mission to training and increasing the size of Afghan security forces, so that they can eventually take the lead in securing their country. That's how we will prepare Afghans to take responsibility for their security, and how we will ultimately be able to bring our own troops home. <p>For 3 years, our commanders have been clear about the resources they need for training. And those resources have been denied because of the war in Iraq. Now, that will change. The additional troops that we deployed have already increased our training capacity. And later this spring, we will deploy approximately 4,000 U.S. troops to train Afghan security forces. For the first time, this will truly resource our effort to train and support the Afghan Army and police. Every American unit in Afghanistan will be partnered with an Afghan unit, and we will seek additional trainers from our NATO allies to ensure that every Afghan unit has a coalition partner. We will accelerate our efforts to build an Afghan Army of 134,000 and a police force of 82,000 so that we can meet these goals by 2011, and increases in Afghan forces may very well be needed as our plans to turn over security responsibility to the Afghans go forward. <p>This push must be joined by a dramatic increase in our civilian effort. Afghanistan has an elected government, but it is undermined by corruption and has difficulty delivering basic services to its people. The economy is undercut by a booming narcotics trade that encourages criminality and funds the insurgency. The people of Afghanistan seek the promise of a better future. Yet once again, we've seen the hope of a new day darkened by violence and uncertainty. <p>So to advance security, opportunity, and justice--not just in Kabul, but from the bottom up in the Provinces--we need agricultural specialists and educators, engineers and lawyers. That's how we can help the Afghan Government serve its people and develop an economy that isn't dominated by illicit drugs. And that's why I'm ordering a substantial increase in our civilians on the ground. That's also why we must seek civilian support from our partners and allies, from the United Nations and international aid organizations, an effort that Secretary Clinton will carry forward next week in The Hague. <p>At a time of economic crisis, it's tempting to believe that we can shortchange this civilian effort. But make no mistake: Our efforts will fail in Afghanistan and Pakistan if we don't invest in their future. And that's why my budget includes indispensable investments in our State Department and foreign assistance programs. These investments relieve the burden on our troops. They contribute directly to security. They make the American people safer. And they save us an enormous amount of money in the long run, because it's far cheaper to train a policeman to secure his or her own village than to help a farmer seed a crop--or to help a farmer seed a crop than it is to send our troops to fight tour after tour of duty with no transition to Afghan responsibility. <p>As we provide these resources, the days of unaccountable spending, no-bid contracts, and wasteful reconstruction must end. So my budget will increase funding for a strong Inspector General at both State Department and USAID and include robust funding for the Special Inspector Generals for Afghan Reconstruction. And I want to be clear: We cannot turn a blind eye to the corruption that causes Afghans to lose faith in their own leaders. Instead, we will seek a new compact with the Afghan Government that cracks down on corrupt behavior and sets clear benchmarks, clear metrics for international assistance so that it is used to provide for the needs of the Afghan people. <p>In a country with extreme poverty that's been at war for decades, there will also be no peace without reconciliation among former enemies. Now, I have no illusion that this will be easy. In Iraq, we had success in reaching out to former adversaries to isolate and target Al Qaida in Iraq. We must pursue a similar process in Afghanistan, while understanding that it is a very different country. <p>There is an uncompromising core of the Taliban. They must be met with force, and they must be defeated. But there are also those who've taken up arms because of coercion or simply for a price. These Afghans must have the option to choose a different course. And that's why we will work with local leaders, the Afghan Government, and international partners to have a reconciliation process in every Province. As their ranks dwindle, an enemy that has nothing to offer the Afghan people but terror and repression must be further isolated. And we will continue to support the basic human rights of all Afghans, including women and girls. <p>And going forward, we will not blindly stay the course. Instead, we will set clear metrics to measure progress and hold ourselves accountable. We'll consistently assess our efforts to train Afghan security forces and our progress in combating insurgents. We will measure the growth of Afghanistan's economy and its illicit narcotics production. And we will review whether we are using the right tools and tactics to make progress towards accomplishing our goals. <p>None of the steps that I've outlined will be easy; none should be taken by America alone. The world cannot afford the price that will come due if Afghanistan slides back into chaos or Al Qaida operates unchecked. We have a shared responsibility to act, not because we seek to project power for its own sake, but because our own peace and security depends on it. And what's at stake at this time is not just our own security, it's the very idea that free nations can come together on behalf of our common security. That was the founding cause of NATO six decades ago, and that must be our common purpose today. <p>My administration is committed to strengthening international organizations and collective action, and that will be my message next week in Europe. As America does more, we will ask others to join us in doing their part. From our partners and NATO allies, we will seek not simply troops, but rather clearly defined capabilities: supporting the Afghan elections, training Afghan security forces, a greater civilian commitment to the Afghan people. For the United Nations, we seek greater progress for its mandate to coordinate international action and assistance and to strengthen Afghan institutions. <p>And finally, together with the United Nations, we will forge a new contact group for Afghanistan and Pakistan that brings together all who should have a stake in the security of the region, our NATO allies and other partners, but also the Central Asian states, the Gulf nations and Iran, Russia, India, and China. None of these nations benefit from a base for Al Qaida terrorists and a region that descends into chaos. All have a stake in the promise of lasting peace and security and development. <p>And that is true, above all, for the coalition that has fought together in Afghanistan, side by side with Afghans. The sacrifices have been enormous. Nearly 700 Americans have lost their lives; troops from over 20 countries have also paid the ultimate price. All Americans honor the service and cherish the friendship of those who have fought and worked and bled by our side. And all Americans are awed by the service of our own men and women in uniform, who've borne a burden as great as any other generation's. They and their families embody the example of selfless sacrifice. <p>I remind everybody, the United States of America did not choose to fight a war in Afghanistan. Nearly 3,000 of our people were killed on September 11, 2001, for doing nothing more than going about their daily lives. Al Qaida and its allies have since killed thousands of people in many countries. Most of the blood on their hands is the blood of Muslims, who Al Qaida has killed and maimed in far greater number than any other people. That is the future that Al Qaida is offering to the people of Pakistan and Afghanistan, a future without hope or opportunity, a future without justice or peace. <p>So understand, the road ahead will be long and there will be difficult days ahead. But we will seek lasting partnerships with Afghanistan and Pakistan that promise a new day for their people. And we will use all elements of our national power to defeat Al Qaida and to defend America, our allies, and all who seek a better future. Because the United States of America stands for peace and security, justice and opportunity. That is who we are, and that is what history calls on us to do once more. <p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"74" "\"I am proud to be here today for the installation of my friend Eric Holder as the 82d Attorney General of the United States. <p>I want to recognize our Deputy Attorney General, David Ogden, for his outstanding service to this Department, both in this tour of duty, and in his last. Where did David go? He was here just a second ago. [<i>Laughter</i>] Here he is. Come on out here--that's David. I'd like to thank Special Agent Earl Camp for starting things off with the Pledge of Allegiance and for his tremendous sacrifice for this Nation. Thanks also to Members of Congress who have joined us, to President Steven Knapp for hosting us, and to Judge Robert Richter for administering the oath. Thank you very much. <p>I also want to welcome Eric's entire family, who is here today. Like me, Eric married up. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we are grateful to his extraordinary wife, Dr. Sharon Malone, and their children Brooke, Maya, and Eric, for sharing him with all of us. So, Sharon, thank you. Thank you, guys. <p>There are few more important jobs in our Nation's Government than that of Attorney General. As President, I swore an oath to preserve, protect, and defend our Constitution. And as Eric himself has said, it is the Attorney General who serves as the guardian of that revered document that is the basis of our laws and the driving force of our democracy. <p>And that's what's always distinguished this Nation, that we are bound together not by a shared bloodline or allegiance to any one leader or faith or creed, but by an adherence to a set of ideals. That's the core notion of our founding, that ours is a government of laws, and not men. It is the motto inscribed on the library of my law school alma mater: \\"Not under man but under God and law.\\" <p>But today, as we install the man charged with upholding our laws, we are reminded that the work of translating law into justice, of ensuring that those words put to paper more than two centuries ago mean something for all of our people, that is a fundamentally human process. <p>It is what so many of you, the men and women of our Justice Department, do every single day: keeping us safe from terrorist attacks, bringing to justice those who would do us harm, rooting out corruption and fighting violent crime, protecting our markets from manipulation and our environment from pollution, and upholding our most fundamental civil rights. <p>That's why I sought to appoint an Attorney General who understands that justice isn't about some abstract legal theory or footnote in a casebook. It's about how our laws affect the daily realities of people's lives, whether they can make a living and care for their families, whether they feel safe in their own homes and welcome in their own nation. <p>I sought someone who recognizes the very real threats we face, but has the wisdom, in those hard-to-call cases, to find that fine balance between ensuring our security and preserving our liberty. And most of all, I was looking for someone who believes deeply enough in the American people's cause to serve as the American people's lawyer. <p>And taken together, I think that's a pretty good description of our new Attorney General. It's a reflection of how he was raised and of the choices he's made throughout his life. Eric's father came to this country as a boy and served in the Army during the Second World War. And even though he couldn't get served at a lunch counter in the Nation he defended, he never stopped believing in its promise. He and Eric's mother worked hard to seize that promise for their sons and give them every opportunity to succeed. <p>But Eric was never content to achieve just for himself. Each time he rose, he worked to pull others up with him: mentoring young people in college; working for the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund in law school; distinguishing himself as a prosecutor, a judge, and a leader in this Department. All along working tirelessly to right the balance of power so ordinary people could get a fair shake, all along showing the independence of mind that justice requires, never hesitating to take on members of his own party, including those to whom he owed his job. In fact, several months ago, Eric even had the audacity to comment to a reporter on my basketball skills. [<i>Laughter</i>] He said, and I quote--[<i>laughter</i>]--here's what he said--he said, \\"I'm not sure he's ready for my New York game.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] We will see about that, Mr. Attorney General. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, I can't vouch for Eric's skills on the basketball court, but I can confirm that he is thoroughly prepared to take on the law enforcement challenges of this new century. As a student of history, he also knows history's lessons about what happens when we let politics and ideology cloud our judgment, and let fear and anger, rather than reason, dictate our policy. These are mistakes he will not repeat. Because in the end, Eric comes to this job with only one agenda, to do what is right under the law. <p>It's no easy task. And it is one that falls to every member of this Department, because our laws are only as effective, only as compassionate, only as fair as those who enforce them. In the end, our Union is only as perfect as we are willing to work for. It endures only to the extent that we are willing to fight for the ideals on which it is based, to do our part as generations before us to breathe new life into them with the more enlightened understandings of our time. <p>That has always been the core mission of this Department. It is the story told by the murals that adorn the walls of your headquarters, installed years ago to illustrate the power of law to improve our lives. <p>Now I haven't seen it yet myself, but I'm told that one of these murals, painted back in the 1930s, depicts black children and white children attending school together, sitting side by side in the same classroom. This was years before <i>Brown</i> versus <i>Board of Education</i>, at a time when Washington, DC, was still a segregated city. <p>It is, to this day, a moving reminder that sometimes law lags behind justice, and it is up to us to bridge that distance. That's been the work of Eric Holder's life and so many of yours. I thank you for answering the call to serve this Nation, and I look forward to working with you in the months and years ahead to meet the urgent challenges of our time. <p>So thank you. God bless you. Keep up the great work, and let's install our outstanding Attorney General.\" "
"75" "\"Even as we face an economic crisis which demands our constant focus, forces of nature can also intervene in ways that create other crises to which we must respond, and respond urgently. For the people of North and South Dakota and Minnesota who live along rivers spilling over their banks, this is one such moment. Rivers and streams throughout the region have flooded or are at risk of flooding. The cities of Fargo and neighboring Moorhead are vulnerable as the waters of the Red River have risen. Thousands of homes and businesses are threatened. <p>That's why, on Tuesday, I granted a major disaster declaration request for the State of North Dakota and ordered Federal support into the region to help State and local officials respond to the flooding. This was followed by an emergency declaration for the State of Minnesota. And we are also keeping close watch on the situation in South Dakota as it develops. <p>The Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management Agency continue to coordinate the Federal response. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano is helping to oversee Federal efforts, and she remains in close contact with State officials. Acting FEMA Administrator Nancy Ward has been in the region since yesterday to meet with folks on the ground and survey the area herself. <p>In addition, The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is assisting in the emergency construction of levees. The Coast Guard is aiding in search and rescue efforts, while the Department of Defense is helping to move people and supplies. Members of the National Guard have been activated and are on the scene as well. Hospitals and nursing homes in the area are being evacuated and residents in poor health or with special needs are being transported to higher ground. Teams from the Department of Health and Human Services are aiding in this work. And the Red Cross is in place to provide shelter and supplies for folks in need. <p>It is also important for residents in these States to remain vigilant in monitoring reports on flood crests and to follow instructions from their State and local leaders in the event that evacuations become necessary. <p>My administration is working closely with Governors John Hoeven, Mike Rounds, and Tim Pawlenty, and I've been meeting with Senators Byron Dorgan, Kent Conrad, and Amy Klobuchar, as well as Congressmen Earl Pomeroy and Collin Peterson, to pledge my support. I'll continue to monitor the situation carefully. We will do what must be done to help in concert with State and local agencies and nonprofit organizations and volunteers who are doing so much to aid the response effort. For at moments like these, we're reminded of the power of nature to disrupt lives and endanger communities, but we are also reminded of the power of individuals to make a difference. <p>In the Fargodome, thousands of people gathered not to watch a football game or a rodeo, but to fill sandbags. Volunteers filled 2.5 million of them in just 5 days, working against the clock, day and night, with tired arms and aching backs. Others braved freezing temperatures, gusting winds, and falling snow to build levees along the river's banks to help protect against waters that have exceeded record levels. <p>College students have traveled by the busload from nearby campuses to lend a hand during their spring breaks. Students from local high schools asked if they could take time to participate. Young people have turned social networks into community networks, coordinating with one another online to figure out how best to help. <p>In the face of an incredible challenge, the people of these communities have rallied in support of one another. And their service isn't just inspirational, it's integral to our response. It's also a reminder of what we can achieve when Americans come together to serve their communities. All across the Nation, there are men, women, and young people who have answered that call, and millions of other who would like to. Whether it's helping to reduce the energy we use, cleaning up a neighborhood park, tutoring in a local school, or volunteering in countless other ways, individual citizens can make a big difference. <p>And that's why I'm so happy that legislation passed the Senate this week and the House last week to provide more opportunities for Americans to serve their communities and the country. The bipartisan Senate bill was sponsored by Senator Orrin Hatch and Senator Ted Kennedy, leaders who embody the spirit of public service, and I am looking forward to signing this important measure into law. <p>In facing sudden crises or more stubborn challenges, the truth is we are all in this together, as neighbors and fellow citizens. That is what brought so many to help North Dakota and Minnesota and other areas affected by this flooding. That's what draws people to volunteer in so many ways, serving our country here and on distant shores. Our thanks go out to them today, and to all who are working day and night to deal with the disaster. We send them our thoughts, our prayers, and our continued assistance in this difficult time. <p>Thank you.\" "
"76" "\"Good morning, everybody. One of the challenges we've confronted from the beginning of this administration is what to do with the state of the struggling auto industry. In recent months, my Auto Task Force has been reviewing requests by General Motors and Chrysler for additional Government assistance, as well as plans developed by each of these companies to restructure, to modernize, and to make themselves more competitive. Our evaluation is now complete. But before I lay out what needs to be done going forward, I want to say a few words about where we are and what led us to this point. <p>It will come as no surprise that some Americans who have suffered most during this recession have been those in the auto industry and those working for companies that support it. Over the past year, our auto industry has shed over 400,000 jobs, not only at plants that produce cars, but at the businesses that produce the parts that go into them and the dealers that sell and repair them. More than 1 in 10 Michigan residents is out of work, the most of any State. And towns and cities across the great Midwest have watched unemployment climb higher than it's been in decades. <p>The pain being felt in places that rely on our auto industry is not the fault of our workers; they labor tirelessly and desperately want to see their companies succeed. It's not the fault of all the families and communities that supported manufacturing plants throughout the generations. Rather, it's a failure of leadership--from Washington to Detroit--that led our auto companies to this point. <p>Year after year, decade after decade, we've seen problems papered over and tough choices kicked down the road, even as foreign competitors outpaced us. Well, we've reached the end of that road. And we as a nation cannot afford to shirk responsibility any longer. Now is the time to confront our problems head on and do what's necessary to solve them. <p>We cannot, and must not, and we will not let our auto industry simply vanish. This industry is like no other; it's an emblem of the American spirit, a once and future symbol of America's success. It's what helped build the middle class and sustained it throughout the 20th century. It's a source of deep pride for the generations of American workers whose hard work and imagination led to some of the finest cars the world has ever known. It's a pillar of our economy that has held up the dreams of millions of our people. And we cannot continue to excuse poor decisions. We cannot make the survival of our auto industry dependent on an unending flow of taxpayer dollars. These companies and this industry must ultimately stand on their own, not as wards of the State. <p>And that's why the Federal Government provided General Motors and Chrysler with emergency loans to prevent their sudden collapse at the end of last year, only on the condition that they would develop plans to restructure. In keeping with that agreement, each company has submitted a plan to restructure. But after careful analysis, we've determined that neither goes far enough to warrant the substantial new investments that these companies are requesting. <p>And so today I'm announcing that my administration will offer GM and Chrysler a limited additional period of time to work with creditors, unions, and other stakeholders to fundamentally restructure in a way that would justify an investment of additional taxpayer dollars. During this period they must produce plans that would give the American people confidence in their long-term prospects for success. <p>Now, what we're asking for is difficult. It will require hard choices by companies. It will require unions and workers who have already made extraordinarily painful concessions to do more. It'll require creditors to recognize that they can't hold out for the prospect of endless Government bailouts. It'll have to--it will require efforts from a whole host of other stakeholders, including dealers and suppliers. Only then can we ask American taxpayers who have already put up so much of their hard-earned money to once more invest in a revitalized auto industry. <p>But I'm confident that if each are willing to do their part, if all of us are doing our part, then this restructuring, as painful as it will be in the short term, will mark not an end, but a new beginning for a great American industry, an auto industry that is once more out-competing the world, a 21st century auto industry that is creating new jobs, unleashing new prosperity, and manufacturing the fuel-efficient cars and trucks that will carry us towards an energy-independent future. I am absolutely committed to working with Congress and the auto companies to meet one goal: The United States of America will lead the world in building the next generation of clean cars. <p>And no one can deny that our auto industry has made meaningful progress in recent years, and this doesn't get talked about often enough. Some of the cars made by American workers right now are outperforming the best cars made abroad. In 2008, the North American car of the year was a GM. This year Buick tied for first place as the most reliable car in the world. Our companies are investing in breakthrough technologies that hold the promise of new vehicles that will help America end its addiction to foreign oil. <p>But our auto industry is not moving in the right direction fast enough to succeed in a very tough environment. So let me discuss what measures need to be taken by each of the auto companies requesting taxpayer assistance, and I'll start with General Motors. <p>GM has made a good-faith effort to restructure over the past several months, but the plan that they've put forward is, in its current form, not strong enough. However, after broad consultation with a range of industry experts and financial advisers, I'm absolutely confident that GM can rise again, providing that it undergoes a fundamental restructuring. As an initial step, GM is announcing today that Rick Wagoner is stepping aside as chairman and CEO. This is not meant as a condemnation of Mr. Wagoner, who's devoted his life to this company and has had a distinguished career; rather, it's a recognition that it will take new vision and new direction to create the GM of the future. <p>In this context, my administration will offer General Motors adequate working capital over the next 60 days. And during this time, my team will be working closely with GM to produce a better business plan. They must ask themselves: Have they consolidated enough unprofitable brands? Have they cleaned up their balance sheets, or are they still saddled with so much debt that they can't make future investments? Above all, have they created a credible model for how not only to survive, but to succeed in this competitive global market? <p>Let me be clear: The United States Government has no interest in running GM; we have no intention of running GM. What we are interested in is giving GM an opportunity to finally make those much-needed changes that will let them emerge from this crisis a stronger and more competitive company. <p>The situation at Chrysler is more challenging. It's with deep reluctance but also a clear-eyed recognition of the facts that we've determined, after careful review, that Chrysler needs a partner to remain viable. Recently, Chrysler reached out and found what could be a potential partner, the international car company Fiat, where the current management team has executed an impressive turnaround. Fiat is prepared to transfer its cutting-edge technology to Chrysler and, after working closely with my team, has committed to building new fuel-efficient cars and engines right here in the United States. We've also secured an agreement that will ensure that Chrysler repays taxpayers for any new investments that are made before Fiat is allowed to take a majority ownership stake in Chrysler. <p>Still, such a deal would require an additional investment of taxpayer dollars, and there are a number of hurdles that must be overcome to make it work. I'm committed to doing all I can to see if a deal can be struck in a way that upholds the interests of American taxpayers. And that's why we'll give Chrysler and Fiat 30 days to overcome these hurdles and reach a final agreement, and we will provide Chrysler with adequate capital to continue operating during that time. If they are able to come to a sound agreement that protects American taxpayers, we will consider lending up to $6 billion to help their plan succeed. But if they and their stakeholders are unable to reach such an agreement, and in the absence of any other viable partnership, we will not be able to justify investing additional tax dollars to keep Chrysler in business. <p>Now, while Chrysler and GM are very different companies with very different paths forward, both need a fresh start to implement the restructuring plan they develop. That may mean using our bankruptcy code as a mechanism to help them restructure quickly and emerge stronger. Now, I want everybody to be clear about this. I know that when people hear the word \\"bankruptcy\\" it can be unsettling, so let me explain exactly what I mean. What I'm talking about is using our existing legal structure as a tool that, with the backing of the U.S. Government, can make it easier for General Motors and Chrysler to quickly clear away old debts that are weighing them down so that they can get back on their feet and onto a path to success, a tool that we can use even as workers staying on the job building cars that are being sold. <p>What I'm not talking about is a process where a company is simply broken up, sold off, and no longer exists; we're not talking about that. And what I'm not talking about is a company that's stuck in court for years, unable to get out. <p>So it's my hope that the steps I'm announcing today will have a salutary effect, will go a long way forward towards answering many of the questions that people have about the future of GM and Chrysler. But just in case there's still nagging doubts, let me say it as plainly as I can: If you buy a car from Chrysler or General Motors, you will be able to get your car serviced and repaired, just like always. Your warranty will be safe. In fact, it will be safer than it's ever been, because starting today, the United States Government will stand behind your warranty. <p>But we must also recognize that the difficulties facing this industry are due in no small part to the weaknesses in our economy as a whole. And therefore, to support demand for auto sales during this period, I'm directing my team to take several steps. <p>First, we will ensure that Recovery Act funds to purchase Government cars get out as quickly as possible and work through the budget process to accelerate other Federal fleet purchases as well. <p>Second, we'll accelerate our efforts through the Treasury Department's Consumer and Business Lending Initiative. And we are working intensively with the auto finance companies to increase the flow of credit to both consumers and dealers. <p>Third, the IRS is launching a campaign to alert consumers of a new tax benefit for auto purchases made between February 16th and the end of this year. If you buy a car anytime this year, you may be able to deduct the cost of any sales and excise taxes. And this provision could save families hundreds of dollars and lead to as many as 100,000 new car sales. <p>Finally, several Members of Congress have proposed an even more ambitious incentive program to increase car sales while modernizing our auto fleet. And such fleet modernization programs, which provide a generous credit to consumers who turn in old, less fuel-efficient cars and purchase cleaner cars, have been successful in boosting auto sales in a number of European countries. I want to work with Congress to identify parts of the Recovery Act that could be trimmed to fund such a program and make it retroactive starting today. <p>Now, let there be no doubt, it will take an unprecedented effort on all our parts--from the Halls of Congress to the boardroom, from the union hall to the factory floor--to see the auto industry through these difficult times. And I want every American to know that the path I'm laying out today is our best chance to make sure that the cars of the future are built where they've always been built--in Detroit and across the Midwest--to make America's auto industry in the 21st century what it was in the 20th century, unsurpassed around the world. The path has been chosen after consulting with other governments that are facing this crisis. We've worked closely with the Government of Canada on GM and Chrysler, as both those companies have extensive operations there. The Canadian Government has indicated its support for our approach and will be announcing their specific commitments later today. <p>While the steps I'm taking will have an impact on all Americans, some of our fellow citizens will be affected more than others. So I'd like to speak directly to all those men and women who work in the auto industry or live in countless communities that depend on it. Many of you have been going through tough times for longer than you care to remember. And I won't pretend that the tough times are over. I can't promise you there isn't more difficulty to come. <p>But what I can promise you is this: I will fight for you. You're the reason I'm here today. I got my start fighting for working families in the shadows of a shuttered steel plant. I wake up every single day asking myself what can I do to give you and working people all across this country a fair shot at the American Dream. <p>When a community is struck by a natural disaster, the Nation responds to put it back on its feet. While the storm that has hit our auto towns is not a tornado or a hurricane, the damage is clear, and we must likewise respond. And that's why today I'm designating a new Director of Recovery for Auto Communities and Workers to cut through the redtape and ensure that the full resources of our Federal Government are leveraged to assist the workers, communities, and regions that rely on our auto industry. Edward Montgomery, a former Deputy Labor Secretary, has agreed to serve in this role. <p>And together with Labor Secretary Solis and my Auto Task Force, Ed will help provide support to auto workers and their families, and open up opportunity to manufacturing communities in Michigan and Ohio and Indiana and every other State that relies on the auto industry. <p>They will have a strong advocate in Ed. He will direct a comprehensive effort that will help lift up the hardest hit areas by using the unprecedented levels of funding available in our Recovery Act and throughout our Government to create new manufacturing jobs and new businesses where they're needed most in your communities. And he will also lead an effort to identify new initiatives we may need to help support your communities going forward. <p>These efforts, as essential as they are, are not going to make everything better overnight. There are jobs that won't be saved; there are plants that may not reopen. There's little I can say that can subdue the anger or ease the frustration of all whose livelihoods hang in the balance because of failures that weren't theirs. <p>But there's something I want everybody to remember: Remember that it is precisely in times like these, in moments of trial and moments of hardship, that Americans rediscover the ingenuity and resilience that makes us who we are; that made the auto industry what it once was and what it will be again; that sent those first mass-produced cars rolling off the assembly lines; that built an arsenal of democracy that propelled America to victory in the Second World War; and that powered our economic prowess in the first American century. <p>Because I know that if we can tap into that same ingenuity and resilience right now, if we can carry one another through this difficult time and do what must be done, then we will look back and say that this was the moment when the American auto industry shed its old ways, marched into the future, remade itself, and once more became an engine of opportunity and prosperity not only in Detroit, not only in our Midwest, but all across America. <p>I'm confident we can make that happen, but we've got a lot of work to do. Thank you. Thank you, everybody.\" "
"77" "\"Well, thank you so much, Ken, for that extraordinary introduction and for the work that you and your team are undertaking at the Department of the Interior. We're going to add a little bit to your plate today as a consequence of this extraordinary piece of legislation. <p>I want to thank all the Members of the Legislature who helped to craft this. Many of them are on the stage here today. Obviously, I've got to single out the Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, for her extraordinary leadership, but also our leader in the Senate, Harry Reid, who worked so diligently on this bill and made sure that it got done. And so please give all of these legislators a big round of applause. <p>If you'll indulge me, there are just a couple other people I want to acknowledge: Nancy Sutley, who is the Chair of our Council on Environmental Quality, who is here. Where's Nancy? There she is, right in front. Jane Lubchenco, who is the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration--please, Jane. A couple of great friends from Indian nation: President Joe Shirley of Navajo Nation, who is here--go ahead, Joe, stand up; and Tribal Chairman Robert Bear, of the Duck Valley Shoshone-Paiute Tribes. Thank you so much. <p>It is fitting that we meet on a day like this. Winter's hardships are slowly giving way to spring and our thoughts naturally tend to turn to the outdoors. We emerge from the shelter offered by home and work and we look around, and we're reminded that the most valuable things in this life are those things that we already possess. <p>As Americans, we possess few blessings greater than the vast and varied landscapes that stretch the breadth of our continent. Our lands have always provided great bounty: food and shelter for the first Americans--for settlers and pioneers, the raw materials that grew our industry, the energy that powers our economy. <p>What these gifts require in return is our wise and responsible stewardship. As our greatest conservationist President, Teddy Roosevelt, put it almost a century ago, \\"I recognize the right and duty of this generation to develop and use the natural resources of our land; but I do not recognize the right to waste them, or to rob, by wasteful use, the generations that come after us.\\" That's the spirit behind the bipartisan legislation I'm signing today, legislation among the most important in decades to protect, preserve, and pass down our Nation's most treasured landscapes to future generations. <p>Many Senators and Congressmen here deserve enormous credit for making this bill possible. I'm grateful to all their hard work. As I mentioned before, Harry Reid made this a top priority. He made sure this was the first bill the Senate passed this year. This day would not be possible without his tireless dedication to protecting our treasured lands. <p>This legislation--just to give you a sense of the scope--this legislation guarantees that we will not take our forests, rivers, oceans, national parks, monuments, and wilderness areas for granted; but rather we will set them aside and guard their sanctity for everyone to share. That's something all Americans can support. And that's why so much of this legislation, some of it decades in the making, has the backing of Americans from every walk of life and corner of this country. Ranchers and fishermen, small-business owners, environmentalists, conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats on the local, State, and Federal levels, all united around the idea that there should be places that we must preserve; all doing the hard work of seeking common ground to protect the parks and other places that we cherish. <p>We're talking about places like Colorado, where this bill will realize a vision 35 years in the making by protecting the wild back country of Rocky Mountain National Park, which attracts 3 million visitors a year. Folks in communities around this park know they don't have to choose between economic and environmental concerns; the tourism that drives their local economy depends on good stewardship of their local environment. And year after year, these communities have worked together with Members of Congress in an attempt to ensure that Rocky Mountain National Park will forever remain as breathtaking as it is today. <p>And that is what this bill does from coast to coast. It protects treasured places from the Appalachians of Virginia and West Virginia to Michigan's Upper Peninsula; from the canyons of Idaho to the sandstone cliffs of Utah; from the Sierra Nevadas in California to the Badlands of Oregon. <p>It designates more than 2 million acres across nine States as wilderness, almost as much as was designated over the past 8 years combined. It creates thousands of miles of new scenic, historic, and recreational trails, cares for our historic battlefields, strengthens our National Park System. It safeguards more than 1,000 miles of our rivers, protects watersheds and cleans up polluted groundwater, defends our oceans and Great Lakes, and will revitalize our fisheries, returning fish to rivers that have not seen them in decades. <p>And it wisely faces our future challenges with regard to water. This bill assesses how growth and climate change will affect our access to water resources, especially in the West and Southwest, and it includes solutions to complex and long-simmering water disputes. It's hard to overstate the real and measurable impact this will have on people's lives, people like Frank Chee Willetto, a Navajo code talker in World War II, who's joined us today. And because of this legislation, Frank, along with 80,000 others in the Navajo Nation, will have access to clean running water for the very first time. That's something worth applauding. [<i>Applause</i>] Thank you for your service. <p>When coupled with the Recovery Act, which makes an historic $3 billion investment creating jobs that will restore and protect our landscapes and our ecosystems, preserve our national monuments, retrofit our facilities for energy efficiency and renewable energy--taken together, today's legislation takes another step toward fulfilling Teddy Roosevelt's vision for this land that we love. It's a vision that sees America's great wilderness as a place where what was, and what is, and what will be--all are the same; a place where memories are lived and relived; a place where Americans both young and young at heart can freely experience the spirit of adventure that has always been at the heart of the rugged character of America. <p>Now, the legislation I'm signing today also makes progress on another front for which many Americans have long waited. The Christopher and Dana Reeve's Paralysis Act is the first piece of comprehensive legislation specifically aimed at addressing the challenges faced by Americans living with paralysis. Many folks and organizations from across the disability community worked hard to get this bill passed, and we are grateful to each of you for bringing us that much closer to providing all Americans with disabilities a full, fair, and equal opportunity to achieve the American Dream. <p>This act creates new coordinated research activities through the National Institutes of Health that will connect the best minds and best practices from the best labs in the country, and focus their endeavors through collaborative scientific research into the cure for paralysis, saving effort, money, and most importantly, time. It promotes enhanced rehabilitation services for paralyzed Americans, helping develop better equipment and technology that will allow them to live full and independent lives free from unnecessary barriers. And it will work to improve the quality of life for all those who live with paralysis, no matter what the cause. <p>That's the mission of the Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation. In the lobby of their facility in New Jersey sits Christopher's empty wheelchair. And his son, Matthew Reeve, was once asked if the sight of it ever saddened him, and he replied no. He said, \\"Empty chairs, that was Dad's goal,\\" he said. \\"We hope there will be many more of them.\\" Matthew is here with us today. And the legislation I'm about to sign makes solid progress toward the realization of that hope and the promise of a brighter future. <p>All in all, this legislation is that rare end product of what happens when Americans of all parties and places come together in common purpose to consider something more than the politics of the moment. It's the very idea at the heart of this country: that each generation has a responsibility to secure this Nation's promise for the next. And by signing this bill into law, that's what we're doing today. <p>So--is Matthew here, by the way? Matthew, come on up. He looks like his dad, doesn't he? Thank you. All right. Let's sign this bill.\" "
"78" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. Obviously on a busy news day, I wanted us to make sure that we weren't losing sight of something that has been an ongoing international crisis, and that is the situation in Darfur. <p>As many of you know, there has been a longstanding humanitarian crisis there, prompted by displacement and genocide that has been taking place. There have been a series of negotiations around resolving this crisis in Sudan. It has not gotten resolved, and it is now worsening. <p>And so I wanted to publicly affirm the importance of General Scott Gration, who has been appointed as Special Envoy to Sudan, to work on a whole host of issues that I think are of importance to the international community and should touch the conscience of all of us. <p>General Gration is one of my top national security advisers. He's somebody who I've known for a long time. We've traveled together in Africa. He was a close associate during the campaign. And so I can't think of somebody who is better equipped to travel to Africa, the continent where he grew up, and communicate to Sudan a couple of important points. Number one, we have an immediate crisis prompted by the Khartoum Government's expulsion of nongovernmental organizations that are providing aid to displaced persons inside of Sudan. And we have to figure out a mechanism to get those NGOs back in place, to reverse that decision, or to find some mechanism whereby we avert a enormous humanitarian crisis. <p>Even as we're dealing with that immediate issue, we can't take our eyes off the longstanding conflicts in Sudan that have resulted in all these persons being displaced. And that means that General Gration's task is going to be to see if we can reinvigorate the north-south agreement, make sure that it is implemented in an effective way, and that we are also exploring a mechanism whereby we can get talks between rebels and the Khartoum Government that could help, once and for all, resolve the Darfur situation. <p>This is going to be a very difficult task; it will be a time-consuming task. We don't expect any solutions overnight to the longstanding problems there. Fortunately, what's happened in Darfur has touched so many people around the world, and we have seen such an extraordinary mobilization of advocates, many of who are sitting at this table--we've got bipartisan interest on the part of Members of Congress around this issue--that I actually think that America can speak effectively with one voice and bring the moral and other elements of our stature to bear in trying to deal with this situation. <p>And I can't think of a person who's better than Scott Gration to represent us in this critical task, and I am sending him off with my full confidence. He will be speaking for the administration, and he will be coming back to report to me very shortly about what he's found there and additional steps that we can take to deal with this situation. <p>So, thank you, Scott, for the great work. <p><i>Maj. Gen. Gration.</i> Thank you, sir. <p><i>The President.</i> Good. All right, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"79" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. Well, I wanted to come by--and don't worry, I'm not singing. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's a pretty funny one, isn't it? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Audience member.</i> The harmonica! <p><i>The President.</i> I'm not playing the harmonica, either. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Audience member.</i> Bowling! <p><i>The President.</i> I'm not bowling. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I am here to do one, simple thing, and that is to publicly thank David Obey for his extraordinary service to our country. He has been there through thick and through thin, in the majority and the minority. He has consistently held to his values. He has been a passionate advocate for working men and women and making sure that everybody has got a fair shot in our society. <p>He has been guided by his conscience. He has been directed by a fierce intelligence and great courage. And so, you know, many of us have him to thank for the path that he has created as we entered into politics. Because of him, this is a better place, this country of ours. And he is continuing to do outstanding work each and every day, including partnering with me to help get a whole bunch of stuff done that needs to get done on behalf of the American people. <p>So, David, thank you.\" "
"80" "\"<i>President Obama.</i> Let me just make a brief comment. I am very grateful to President Medvedev for taking the time to visit with me today. I'm particularly gratified because prior to the meeting, our respective teams had worked together and had developed a series of approaches to areas of common interest that I think present great promise. <p>As I've said in the past, I think that over the last several years the relationship between our two countries has been allowed to drift. And what I believe we've begun today is a very constructive dialog that will allow us to work on issues of mutual interest, like the reduction of nuclear weapons and the strengthening of our nonproliferation treaties, our mutual interest in dealing with terrorism and extremism that threatens both countries, our mutual interest in economic stability and restoring growth around the world, our mutual interest in promoting peace and stability in areas like the Middle East. <p>So I am very encouraged by the leadership of the President. I'm very grateful that he has taken the time to visit. I am especially excited about the fact that the President extended an invitation for me to visit Moscow to build on some of the areas that we discussed on today. And I have agreed to visit Moscow in July, which we both agreed was a better time than January to visit. <p>And my hope is that given the constructive conversations that we've had today, the joint statements that we will be issuing both on reductions of nuclear arsenals as well as a range of other areas of interest, that what we're seeing today is the beginning of new progress in the U.S.-Russian relations. And I think that President Medvedev's leadership is--has been critical in allowing that progress to take place. <p>So thank you very much. <p><i>President Medvedev.</i> I would like to sincerely thank President Obama for this opportunity to meet him and to meet this time in person. And indeed, we had an opportunity to compare our views on the current relations and current situation in the world. And we had an opportunity to agree upon certain common values that we need to foster in our relations and provide for further areas for cooperation in progression of our relations. <p>I can only agree that the relations between our countries have been adrift over the past years. As President Obama has said, they were drifting and drifting in some wrong directions. They were degrading to some extent. <p>That is why we believe that since such a situation was not to the benefit of the United States or Russia Federation, to say nothing about the global situation, we believe that the time has come to reset our relations, as it was said, and to open a new page in progression in the development of our common situation. <p>Indeed, it was said that we are prepared to cooperate further in such areas as the nonproliferation of WMDs, limitation of strategic weapons, countering terrorism, and improving economic and financial situation and the overall economic situation in the world. <p>It is important to note that there are many points on which we can work. And indeed, there are far more points in which we can--where we can come closer, where we can work, rather than those points on which we have differences. Thus, by bringing our positions closer, we can attain significant progress and, much more importantly, further our achievements. <p>I share the view of President Obama who said that our teams have worked really well in preparation of this meeting, and the declarations, the two declarations, which we are adopting are just another proof of that. And those are a declaration on the strategic weapons and the declaration on the general framework of relations between Russia and the United States, which set good grounds for our further interaction. <p>We will be very glad to host President Obama, to greet him in Moscow in July. Indeed, July is the warmest time in Russia and in Moscow, and I believe that will be exactly the feature of the talks and relations we are going to enjoy during that period in Moscow. And of course, we have set out certain objectives and certain goals and tasks we need to work through in order to get better prepared for this meeting. And indeed, I am convinced that is a good opportunity for this interaction. <p>Well, indeed, so we are convinced that we'll continue successfully our contacts, in particular today, where we were not only discussing international issues or bilateral items of interaction; we were also discussing education, which probably not everybody--where we have come to an understanding that we're reading the same textbooks while in these subjects. And this will set us further for interaction. <p>After this meeting, I am far more optimistic about the successful development of our relations and would like to thank President Obama for this opportunity.\" "
"81" "\"<i>President Obama.</i> I just want to welcome President Hu and thank him for extending himself to come to visit and allowing us to have our first face to face conversation. <p>Obviously, China is a great power. It has a long and extraordinary history. The relationship between the United States and China has become extremely constructive. Our economic relationships are very strong. And I've said publicly, and I continue to believe, that the relationship between China and the United States is not only important for the citizens of both our countries, but will help to set the stage for how the world deals with a whole host of challenges in the years to come. <p>So I'm looking forward to a very productive and open conversation about not only the state of the world economy during this time of crisis, but also know we can work cooperatively together to improve peace and security for both nations and the world at large. <p>I believe that as strong as our relationship already is, I am confident that we can make it even stronger in the years to come. <p><i>President Hu.</i> I'm very happy to have this opportunity to meet with President Obama. It's our first face-to-face meeting. <p>Since President Obama took office, we have secured a good beginning in the growth of this relationship. President Obama and I stayed in close touch, and foreign ministers of our two countries have exchanged visits in a short span of time. <p>In addition, the two sides both have reached agreement on the characterization of the China-U.S. relationship in this new era and on the mechanism of the strategic economic dialogs. These results have not come easily, which deserve our both sides' efforts to cherish. <p>And as President Obama rightly said just now, sound China-U.S. relationship is not only in the fundamental interest of our two peoples and our two countries, but also contributes to peace, stability, and prosperity in the Asian-Pacific region and in the world at large. <p>The Chinese side is willing to work together with the U.S. side to secure even greater progress in the development of the China-U.S. relationship, and I'm willing to establish a good working relationship and personal friendship with President Obama. <p>I'm sure my meeting with President Obama today will be positive and productive. <p><i>President Obama. </i>If I'm not mistaken, we're going to have our respective representatives on the strategic and economic dialog appear with us, so that everybody knows who's going to be talking. <p>So these high-level ministers will be charged with working in a very detailed and constructive way on issues of mutual interest to our two countries. And we are very grateful to President Hu for designating such distinguished ministers who are going to be working very constructively with Tim Geithner, my Secretary of Treasury, as well as Hillary Clinton, the Secretary of State. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"82" "\"Hold on a second, let's make a brief statement. I just want to thank President Lee and his entire delegation. Korea is one of America's closest allies and greatest friends. And under President Lee's leadership, that friendship has only grown stronger. So we are very interested in discussing the economic crisis, which is the topic of the G-20 meeting. But, obviously, we also have a great range of issues to discuss: on defense, on peace and stability in the Korean Peninsula, on the outstanding contributions that Korea has made with respect to the Afghanistan situation, and their global role and global leadership on issues like climate change. <p>So I just want to publicly say thank you to the Republic of Korea for their outstanding friendship and the close ties between our two countries. <p>Thank you.\" "
"83" "\"In this new century, we live in a world that's grown smaller and more interconnected than at any time in history. Threats to our Nation's security and economy can no longer be kept at bay by oceans or by borders drawn on maps. The terrorists who struck our country on 9/11 plotted in Hamburg, trained in Kandahar and Karachi, and threaten countries across the globe. Cars in Boston and Beijing are melting ice caps in the Arctic that disrupt weather patterns everywhere. The theft of nuclear material from the former Soviet Union could lead to the extermination of any city on Earth. And reckless speculation by bankers in New York and London has fueled a global recession that is inflicting pain on workers and families around the world and across America. <p>The challenges of our time threaten the peace and prosperity of every single nation, and no one nation can meet them alone. That's why it's sometimes necessary for a President to travel abroad in order to protect and strengthen our Nation here at home. That is what I have done this week. <p>I began my trip by attending a summit of the G-20--the countries that represent the world's largest economies--because we know that the success of America's economy is inextricably linked to that of the global economy. If people in other countries can't spend, that means they can't buy the goods we produce here in America, which means more lost jobs and more families hurting. Just yesterday, we learned that we lost hundreds of thousands more jobs last month, adding to the millions we've lost since this recession began. And if we continue to let banks and other financial institutions around the world act recklessly and irresponsibly, that affects institutions here at home as credit dries up, and people can't get loans to buy a home or car, to run a small business or pay for college. <p>Ultimately, the only way out of a recession that is global in scope is with a response that is global in coordination. That is why I'm pleased that after 2 days of careful negotiation, the G-20 nations have agreed on a series of unprecedented steps that I believe will be a turning point in our pursuit of a global economic recovery. All of us are now moving aggressively to get our banks lending again. All of us are working to spur growth and create jobs. And all of us have agreed on the most sweeping reform of our financial regulatory framework in a generation, reform that will help end the risky speculation and market abuses that have cost so many people so much. <p>I also met this past week with the leaders of China and Russia, working to forge constructive relationships to address issues of common concern, while being frank with each other about where we disagree. President Hu and I agreed that the link between China's economy and ours is of great mutual benefit, and we established a new strategic and economic dialog between the U.S. and China. President Medvedev and I discussed our shared commitment to a world without nuclear weapons, and we signed a declaration putting America and Russia on the path to a new treaty to further reduce our nuclear arsenals. Tomorrow I will lay out additional steps we must take to secure the world's loose nuclear materials and stop the spread of these deadly weapons. <p>Finally, I met yesterday with our NATO allies and asked them for additional civilian support and assistance for our efforts in Afghanistan. That is where Al Qaida trains, plots, and threatens to launch their next attack. That attack could occur in any nation, which means that every nation has a stake in ensuring that our mission in Afghanistan succeeds. <p>As we have worked this week to find common ground and strengthen our alliances, we have not solved all of our problems, and we have not agreed on every point or every issue in every meeting. But we have made real and unprecedented progress, and will continue to do so in the weeks and months ahead. <p>Because in the end, we recognize that no corner of the globe can wall itself off from the threats of the 21st century or from the needs and concerns of fellow nations. The only way forward is through shared and persistent efforts to combat fear and want wherever they exist. That is the challenge of our time. And if we move forward with courage and resolve, I am confident that we will meet this challenge. <p>Thank you.\" "
"84" "\"Thank you so much. I want to address my remarks directly to the delegation from Albania and Croatia and their leadership: Welcome to NATO. We are very excited about your participation. The Atlantic alliance is 60 years old, and it's a measure of our vitality that we are still welcoming new members. <p>I think it's important to point out that both Croatia and Albania have already done many significant things on behalf of the alliance, including the 140 Albanians and <p>Croatian troops who have served in Afghanistan. And I think that indicates the degree to which they will be strong contributors to the alliance. <p>To both countries, your large contributions--your proportionally large contributions to NATO's joint efforts show what a priority you've made this, and we are grateful for it. And we are proud to have you as allies. <p>Congratulations, as well, on the progress that you've made in difficult reforms that have brought you to this point. Both countries have achieved an extraordinary amount, and continuing along this path will help you bring--will help you become even closer to Euro-Atlantic integration. <p>I'd also like to note that as we welcome Albania and Croatia to NATO, this will not be the last time that we have such a celebration, and I look forward to the day when we can welcome Macedonia to the alliance. The door to membership will remain open for other countries that meet NATO's standards and can make a meaningful contribution to allied security. <p>Now, I would like to invite the Secretary General as well as the Presidents of Albania and Croatia to join me. We have the original treaty that has been archived in the United States, but we also have two duplicates that we would like to present to the Presidents of each country, so if you could join me at this table.\" "
"85" "\"Thank you so much. Thank you for this wonderful welcome. Thank you to the people of Prague. Thank you to the people of the Czech Republic. Today I'm proud to stand here with you in the middle of this great city, in the center of Europe. And to paraphrase one of my predecessors, I am also proud to be the man who brought Michelle Obama to Prague. <p>To Mr. President, to Mr. Prime Minister, to all the dignitaries who are here, thank you for your extraordinary hospitality. And to the people of the Czech Republic, thank you for your friendship to the United States. <p>Now, I've learned over many years to appreciate the good company and the good humor of the Czech people in my hometown of Chicago. Behind me is a statue of a hero of the Czech people, Tomas Masaryk. In 1918, after America had pledged its support for Czech independence, Masaryk spoke to a crowd in Chicago that was estimated to be over 100,000. I don't think I can match his record--[<i>laughter</i>]--but I am honored to follow his footsteps from Chicago to Prague. <p>For over a thousand years, Prague has set itself apart from any other city in any other place. You've known war and peace. You've seen empires rise and fall. You've led revolutions in the arts and science, in politics and in poetry. Through it all, the people of Prague have insisted on pursuing their own path and defining their own destiny. And this city--this golden city, which is both ancient and youthful--stands as a living monument to your unconquerable spirit. <p>When I was born, the world was divided, and our nations were faced with very different circumstances. Few people would have predicted that someone like me would one day become the President of the United States. Few people would have predicted that an American President would one day be permitted to speak to an audience like this in Prague. Few would have imagined that the Czech Republic would become a free nation, a member of NATO, a leader of a united Europe. Those ideas would have been dismissed as dreams. <p>We are here today because enough people ignored the voices who told them that the world could not change. We're here today because of the courage of those who stood up and took risks to say that freedom is a right for all people, no matter what side of a wall they live on, and no matter what they look like. We are here today because of the Prague Spring, because the simple and principled pursuit of liberty and opportunity shamed those who relied on the power of tanks and arms to put down the will of a people. <p>We are here today because 20 years ago, the people of this city took to the streets to claim the promise of a new day and the fundamental human rights that had been denied them for far too long. <i>Sametova Revoluce</i>--the Velvet Revolution taught us many things. It showed us that peaceful protest could shake the foundations of an empire and expose the emptiness of an ideology. It showed us that small countries can play a pivotal role in world events, and that young people can lead the way in overcoming old conflicts. And it proved that moral leadership is more powerful than any weapon. <p>That's why I'm speaking to you in the center of a Europe that is peaceful, united, and free, because ordinary people believed that divisions could be bridged, even when their leaders did not. They believed that walls could come down; that peace could prevail. We are here today because Americans and Czechs believed against all odds that today could be possible. <p>Now, we share this common history. But now this generation--our generation--cannot stand still. We too have a choice to make. As the world has become less divided, it has become more interconnected. And we've seen events move faster than our ability to control them--a global economy in crisis, a changing climate, the persistent dangers of old conflicts, new threats, and the spread of catastrophic weapons. <p>None of these challenges can be solved quickly or easily. But all of them demand that we listen to one another and work together; that we focus on our common interests, not on occasional differences; and that we reaffirm our shared values, which are stronger than any force that could drive us apart. That is the work that we must carry on. That is the work that I have come to Europe to begin. <p>To renew our prosperity, we need action coordinated across borders. That means investments to create new jobs. That means resisting the walls of protectionism that stand in the way of growth. That means a change in our financial system, with new rules to prevent abuse and future crisis. <p>And we have an obligation to our common prosperity and our common humanity to extend a hand to those emerging markets and impoverished people who are suffering the most, even though they may have had very little to do with financial crises, which is why we set aside over a trillion dollars for the International Monetary Fund earlier this week, to make sure that everybody receives some assistance. <p>Now, to protect our planet, now is the time to change the way that we use energy. Together, we must confront climate change by ending the world's dependence on fossil fuels, by tapping the power of new sources of energy like the wind and sun, and calling upon all nations to do their part. And I pledge to you that in this global effort, the United States is now ready to lead. <p>To provide for our common security, we must strengthen our alliance. NATO was founded 60 years ago, after communism took over Czechoslovakia. That was when the free world learned too late that it could not afford division. So we came together to forge the strongest alliance that the world has ever known. And we should--stood shoulder to shoulder, year after year, decade after decade, until an Iron Curtain was lifted and freedom spread like flowing water. <p>This marks the 10th year of NATO membership for the Czech Republic. And I know that many times in the 20th century, decisions were made without you at the table. Great powers let you down or determined your destiny without your voice being heard. I am here to say that the United States will never turn its back on the people of this nation. We are bound by shared values, shared history--we are bound by shared values and shared history and the enduring promise of our alliance. NATO's Article 5 states it clearly: \\"An attack on one is an attack on all.\\" That is a promise for our time and for all time. <p>The people of the Czech Republic kept that promise after America was attacked; thousands were killed on our soil, and NATO responded. NATO's mission in Afghanistan is fundamental to the safety of people on both sides of the Atlantic. We are targeting the same Al Qaida terrorists who have struck from New York to London and helping the Afghan people take responsibility for their future. We are demonstrating that free nations can make common cause on behalf of our common security. And I want you to know that we honor the sacrifices of the Czech people in this endeavor and mourn the loss of those you've lost. <p>But no alliance can afford to stand still. We must work together as NATO members so that we have contingency plans in place to deal with new threats, wherever they may come from. We must strengthen our cooperation with one another and with other nations and institutions around the world to confront dangers that recognize no borders. And we must pursue constructive relations with Russia on issues of common concern. <p>Now, one of those issues that I'll focus on today is fundamental to the security of our nations and to the peace of the world--that's the future of nuclear weapons in the 21st century. The existence of thousands of nuclear weapons is the most dangerous legacy of the cold war. No nuclear war was fought between the United States and the Soviet Union, but generations lived with the knowledge that their world could be erased in a single flash of light. Cities like Prague that existed for centuries, that embodied the beauty and the talent of so much of humanity, would have ceased to exist. <p>Today, the cold war has disappeared but thousands of those weapons have not. In a strange turn of history, the threat of global nuclear war has gone down, but the risk of a nuclear attack has gone up. More nations have acquired these weapons. Testing has continued. Black market trade in nuclear secrets and nuclear materials abound. The technology to build a bomb has spread. Terrorists are determined to buy, build, or steal one. Our efforts to contain these dangers are centered on a global nonproliferation regime, but as more people and nations break the rules, we could reach the point where the center cannot hold. <p>Now, understand, this matters to people everywhere. One nuclear weapon exploded in one city--be it New York or Moscow, Islamabad or Mumbai, Tokyo or Tel Aviv, Paris or Prague--could kill hundreds of thousands of people. And no matter where it happens, there is no end to what the consequences might be for our global safety, our security, our society, our economy, to our ultimate survival. <p>Some argue that the spread of these weapons cannot be stopped, cannot be checked; that we are destined to live in a world where more nations and more people possess the ultimate tools of destruction. Such fatalism is a deadly adversary, for if we believe that the spread of nuclear weapons is inevitable, then in some way we are admitting to ourselves that the use of nuclear weapons is inevitable. <p>Now, just as we stood for freedom in the 20th century, we must stand together for the right of people everywhere to live free from fear in the 21st century. And as nuclear power--as a nuclear power, as the only nuclear power to have used a nuclear weapon, the United States has a moral responsibility to act. We cannot succeed in this endeavor alone, but we can lead it; we can start it. <p>So today I state clearly and with conviction America's commitment to seek the peace and security of a world without nuclear weapons. I'm not naive. This goal will not be reached quickly, perhaps not in my lifetime. It will take patience and persistence. But now we too must ignore the voices who tell us that the world cannot change. We have to insist, \\"Yes we can.\\" <p>Now, let me describe to you the trajectory we need to be on. First, the United States will take concrete steps towards a world without nuclear weapons. To put an end to cold war thinking, we will reduce the role of nuclear weapons in our national security strategy and urge others to do the same. Make no mistake, as long as these weapons exist, the United States will maintain a safe, secure, and effective arsenal to deter any adversary and guarantee that defense to our allies, including the Czech Republic. But we will begin the work of reducing our arsenal. <p>To reduce our warheads and stockpiles, we will negotiate a new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty with the Russians this year. President Medvedev and I began this process in London and will seek a new agreement by the end of this year that is legally binding and sufficiently bold. And this will set the stage for further cuts, and we will seek to include all nuclear weapons states in this endeavor. <p>To achieve a global ban on nuclear testing, my administration will immediately and aggressively pursue U.S. ratification of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. After more than five decades of talks, it is time for the testing of nuclear weapons to finally be banned. <p>And to cut off the building blocks needed for a bomb, the United States will seek a new treaty that verifiably ends the production of fissile materials intended for use in state nuclear weapons. If we are serious about stopping the spread of these weapons, then we should put an end to the dedicated production of weapons-grade materials that create them. That's the first step. <p>Second, together we will strengthen the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty as a basis for cooperation. The basic bargain is sound. Countries with nuclear weapons will move towards disarmament, countries without nuclear weapons will not acquire them, and all countries can access peaceful nuclear energy . To strengthen the treaty, we should embrace several principles. We need more resources and authority to strengthen international inspections. We need real and immediate consequences for countries caught breaking the rules or trying to leave the treaty without cause. <p>And we should build a new framework for civil nuclear cooperation, including an international fuel bank, so that countries can access peaceful power without increasing the risks of proliferation. That must be the right of every nation that renounces nuclear weapons, especially developing countries embarking on peaceful programs. And no approach will succeed if it's based on the denial of rights to nations that play by the rules. We must harness the power of nuclear energy on behalf of our efforts to combat climate change and to advance peace opportunity for all people. <p>But we go forward with no illusions. Some countries will break the rules. That's why we need a structure in place that ensures when any nation does, they will face consequences. Just this morning we were reminded again of why we need a new and more rigorous approach to address this threat. North Korea broke the rules once again by testing a rocket that could be used for long-range missiles. This provocation underscores the need for action, not just this afternoon at the U.N. Security Council, but in our determination to prevent the spread of these weapons. <p>Rules must be binding. Violations must be punished. Words must mean something. The world must stand together to prevent the spread of these weapons. Now is the time for a strong international response, and North Korea must know that the path to security and respect will never come through threats and illegal weapons. All nations must come together to build a stronger, global regime. And that's why we must stand shoulder to shoulder to pressure the North Koreans to change course. <p>Iran has yet to build a nuclear weapon. My administration will seek engagement with Iran based on mutual interests and mutual respect. We believe in dialog, but in that dialog we will present a clear choice. We want Iran to take its rightful place in the community of nations, politically and economically. We will support Iran's right to peaceful nuclear energy with rigorous inspections. That's a path that the Islamic Republic can take. Or the Government can choose increased isolation, international pressure, and a potential nuclear arms race in the region that will increase insecurity for all. <p>So let me be clear: Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile activity poses a real threat, not just to the United States, but to Iran's neighbors and our allies. The Czech Republic and Poland have been courageous in agreeing to host a defense against these missiles. As long as the threat from Iran persists, we will go forward with a missile defense system that is cost-effective and proven. If the Iranian threat is eliminated, we will have a stronger basis for security and the driving force for missile defense construction in Europe will be removed. <p>So finally, we must ensure that terrorists never acquire a nuclear weapon. This is the most immediate and extreme threat to global security. One terrorist with one nuclear weapon could unleash massive destruction. Al Qaida has said it seeks a bomb and that it would have no problem with using it. And we know that there is unsecured nuclear material across the globe. To protect our people, we must act with a sense of purpose without delay. So today I am announcing a new international effort to secure all vulnerable nuclear material around the world within 4 years. We will set new standards, expand our cooperation with Russia, pursue new partnerships to lock down these sensitive materials. <p>We must also build on our efforts to break up black markets, detect and intercept materials in transit, and use financial tools to disrupt this dangerous trade. Because this threat will be lasting, we should come together to turn efforts such as the Proliferation Security Initiative and the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism into durable international institutions. And we should start by having a global summit on nuclear security that the United States will host within the next year. <p>Now, I know that there are some who will question whether we can act on such a broad agenda. There are those who doubt whether true international cooperation is possible, given inevitable differences among nations. And there are those who hear talk of a world without nuclear weapons and doubt whether it's worth setting a goal that seems impossible to achieve. <p>But make no mistake: We know where that road leads. When nations and peoples allow themselves to be defined by their differences, the gulf between them widens. When we fail to pursue peace, then it stays forever beyond our grasp. We know the path when we choose fear over hope. To denounce or shrug off a call for cooperation is an easy but also a cowardly thing to do. That's how wars begin. That's where human progress ends. <p>There is violence and injustice in our world that must be confronted. We must confront it not by splitting apart but by standing together as free nations, as free people. I know that a call to arms can stir the souls of men and women more than a call to lay them down. But that is why the voices for peace and progress must be raised together. <p>Those are the voices that still echo through the streets of Prague. Those are the ghosts of 1968. Those were the joyful sounds of the Velvet Revolution. Those were the Czechs who helped bring down a nuclear-armed empire without firing a shot. <p>Human destiny will be what we make of it. And here in Prague, let us honor our past by reaching for a better future. Let us bridge our divisions, build upon our hopes, accept our responsibility to leave this world more prosperous and more peaceful than we found it. Together we can do it. <p>Thank you very much. Thank you, Prague.\" "
"86" "\"Hello, everybody. It is--let me begin by thanking the President and First Lady for their extraordinary hospitality in this spectacular setting, in this beautiful city, in a country that is one of America's greatest friends. And I am thrilled to be in Prague, Michelle is thrilled to be in Prague. And everybody has been extraordinarily gracious. So the main message I have, first of all is, thank you for the friendship, for the cooperation, for the strategic partnership that exists between our two countries. <p>I do want to make a brief statement about some news that was made today. North Korea made a launch this morning that defies U.N. Security Council resolutions, that harms peace and stability for Northeast Asia. Secretary Clinton and Ambassador Rice have already begun reaching out to our friends and allies to coordinate ahead of the Security Council meeting that's been scheduled for this afternoon. <p>The launch only underscores the urgency of the agenda that I will be laying out in my speech later this morning. I call on North Korea to honor its commitment to abandon all nuclear weapons programs, to abide by recognized norms of international relations, and to work to promote peace and stability in Northeast Asia. <p>North Korea's development of a ballistic missile capability, regardless of the stated purpose of this launch, is aimed at providing it with the ability to threaten countries near and far with weapons of mass destruction. This action demands a response from the international community, including from the United Nations Security Council to demonstrate that its resolution cannot be defied with impunity. <p>Thank you very much. Again, I want to thank the President and First Lady and the entire Czech delegation for their extraordinary hospitality and the warm friendship between our two countries.\" "
"87" "\"Let me just say very briefly that the relationship between the United States and Poland is one of the strongest in the world. It's based not only on shared values, but also on the fact that, just to give you an example, in Chicago, my friends from Poland and the contribution they've made to our city is part of what makes America. So we have benefited from Polish culture and the Polish people and the outstanding Polish character. <p>And so it is a great pleasure to meet with these outstanding leaders. We're looking forward to continuing some of the conversations that we've been having both in the EU summit as well as in earlier meetings in NATO. And I'm confident that on issues ranging from security to energy to economics, that by working together, we're going to be able to make both our countries more prosperous and more peaceful for future generations.\" "
"88" "\"I just want to say that I've very much enjoyed working with Mr. Zapatero over the last several days. He is somebody who clearly understands not only Spain's extraordinary influence in the world, but also takes those responsibilities very seriously. And I think that we're going to be able to establish what is already a strong relationship between the two countries. I think we can make it even stronger. So I'm glad to call him a friend, and I welcome our opportunities to cooperate on a whole host of issues in the years to come.\" "
"89" "\"Mr. Speaker, Madam Deputy Speaker, distinguished members, I am honored to speak in this chamber, and I am committed to renewing the alliance between our nations and the friendship between our people. <p>This is my first trip overseas as President of the United States. I've been to the G-20 summit in London and the NATO summit in Strasbourg and the European Union summit in Prague. Some people have asked me if I chose to continue my travels to Ankara and Istanbul to send a message to the world. And my answer is simple: <i>evet</i>--yes. Turkey is a critical ally. Turkey is an important part of Europe. And Turkey and the United States must stand together and work together to overcome the challenges of our time. <p>Now, this morning I had the great privilege of visiting the tomb of your extraordinary founder of your republic. And I was deeply impressed by this beautiful memorial to a man who did so much to shape the course of history. But it is also clear that the greatest monument to Ataturk's life is not something that can be cast in stone and marble. His greatest legacy is Turkey's strong, vibrant, secular democracy, and that is the work that this assembly carries on today. <p>Now, this future was not easily assured; it was not guaranteed. At the end of World War I, Turkey could have succumbed to the foreign powers that were trying to claim its territory, or sought to restore an ancient empire. But Turkey chose a different future. You freed yourself from foreign control, and you founded a republic that commands the respect of the United States and the wider world. <p>And there is a simple truth to this story. Turkey's democracy is your own achievement. It was not forced upon you by any outside power, nor did it come without struggle and sacrifice. Turkey draws strength from both the successes of the past and from the efforts of each generation of Turks that makes new progress for your people. <p>Now, my country's democracy has its own story. The general who led America in revolution and governed as our first President was, as many of you know, George Washington. And like you, we built a grand monument to honor our Founding Father, a towering obelisk that stands in the heart of the Capital City that bears Washington's name. I can see the Washington Monument from the window of the White House every day. <p>It took decades to build. There were frequent delays. Over time, more and more people contributed to help make this monument the inspiring structure that still stands tall today. Among those who came to our aid were friends from all across the world who offered their own tributes to Washington and the country he helped to found. <p>And one of those tributes came from Istanbul. Ottoman Sultan Abdulmecid sent a marble plaque that helped to build the Washington Monument. Inscribed in the plaque was a poem that began with a few simple words: \\"So as to strengthen the friendship between the two countries.\\" Over 150 years have passed since those words were carved into marble. Our nations have changed in many ways, but our friendship is strong, and our alliance endures. <p>It is a friendship that flourished in the years after World War II, when President Truman committed our Nation to the defense of Turkey's freedom and sovereignty and Turkey committed itself into the NATO alliance. Turkish troops have served by our side from Korea to Kosovo to Kabul. Together we withstood the great test of the cold war. Trade between our nations has steadily advanced; so has cooperation in science and research. <p>The ties among our people have deepened as well, and more and more Americans of Turkish origin live and work and succeed within our borders. And as a basketball fan, I've even noticed that Hedo Turkoglu and Mehmet Okur have got some pretty good basketball games. <p>So the United States and Turkey have not always agreed on every issue, and that's to be expected; no two nations do. But we have stood together through many challenges over the last 60 years. And because of the strength of our alliance and the endurance of our friendship, both America and Turkey are stronger and the world is more secure. <p>Now our two democracies are confronted by an unprecedented set of challenges: an economic crisis that recognizes no borders, extremism that leads to the killing of innocent men and women and children, strains on our energy supply and a changing climate, the proliferation of the world's deadliest weapons, and the persistence of tragic conflict. <p>These are the great tests of our young century. And the choices that we make in the coming years will determine whether the future will be shaped by fear or by freedom, by poverty or by prosperity, by strife or by a just, secure, and lasting peace. <p>This much is certain: No one nation can confront these challenges alone, and all nations have a stake in overcoming them. That is why we must listen to one another and seek common ground. That is why we must build on our mutual interests and rise above our differences. We are stronger when we act together. That is the message that I've carried with me throughout this trip to Europe. That is the message that I delivered when I had the privilege of meeting with your President and with your Prime Minister. That will be the approach of the United States of America going forward. <p>Already, America and Turkey are working with the G-20 on an unprecedented response to an unprecedented economic crisis. Now, this past week, we came together to ensure that the world's largest economies take strong and coordinated action to stimulate growth and restore the flow of credit; to reject the pressures of protectionism and to extend a hand to developing countries and the people hit hardest by this downturn; and to dramatically reform our regulatory system so that the world never faces a crisis like this again. <p>As we go forward, the United States and Turkey can pursue many opportunities to serve prosperity for our people. The President and I this morning talked about expanding the ties of commerce and trade. There's enormous opportunity when it comes to energy to create jobs. And we can increase new sources to not only free ourselves from dependence of other energies--other countries' energy sources, but also to combat climate change. We should build on our Clean Technology Fund to leverage efficiency and renewable energy investments in Turkey. And to power markets in Turkey and Europe, the United States will continue to support your central role as an east-west corridor for oil and natural gas. <p>Now, this economic cooperation only reinforces the common security that Europe and the United States share with Turkey as a NATO ally and the common values that we share as democracies. So in meeting the challenges of the 21st century, we must seek the strength of a Europe that is truly united, peaceful, and free. <p>So let me be clear: The United States strongly supports Turkey's bid to become a member of the European Union. We speak not as members of the EU, but as close friends of both Turkey and Europe. Turkey has been a resolute ally and a responsible partner in transatlantic and European institutions. Turkey is bound to Europe by more than the bridges over the Bosporus. Centuries of shared history, culture, and commerce bring you together. Europe gains by the diversity of ethnicity, tradition and faith; it is not diminished by it. And Turkish membership would broaden and strengthen Europe's foundation once more. <p>Now, of course, Turkey has its own responsibilities. And you've made important progress towards membership. But I also know that Turkey has pursued difficult political reforms not simply because it's good for EU membership, but because it's right for Turkey. <p>In the last several years, you've abolished state security courts. You've expanded the right to counsel. You've reformed the penal code and strengthened laws that govern the freedom of the press and assembly. You've lifted bans on teaching and broadcasting Kurdish, and the world noted with respect the important signal sent through a new state Kurdish television station. <p>Now, these achievements have created new laws that must be implemented and a momentum that should be sustained. For democracies cannot be static, they must move forward. Freedom of religion and expression lead to a strong and vibrant civil society that only strengthens the state, which is why steps like reopening Halki Seminary will send such an important signal inside Turkey and beyond. An enduring commitment to the rule of law is the only way to achieve the security that comes from justice for all people. Robust minority rights let societies benefit from the full measure of contributions from all citizens. <p>I say this as the President of a country that not very long ago made it hard for somebody who looks like me to vote, much less be President of the United States. But it is precisely that capacity to change that enriches our countries. Every challenge that we face is more easily met if we tend to our own democratic foundation. Now, this work is never over. That's why, in the United States, we recently ordered the prison at Guantanamo Bay closed. That's why we prohibited, without exception or equivocation, the use of torture. All of us have to change, and sometimes change is hard. <p>Another issue that confronts all democracies as they move to the future is how we deal with the past. The United States is still working through some of our own darker periods in our history. Facing the Washington Monument that I spoke of is a memorial of Abraham Lincoln, the man who freed those who were enslaved even after Washington led our Revolution. Our country still struggles with the legacies of slavery and segregation, the past treatment of Native Americans. <p>Human endeavor is by its nature imperfect. History is often tragic, but unresolved it can be a heavy weight. Each country must work through its past. And reckoning with the past can help us seize a better future. Now, I know there's strong views in this chamber about the terrible events of 1915. And while there's been a good deal of commentary about my views, it's really about how the Turkish and Armenian people deal with the past. And the best way forward for the Turkish and Armenian people is a process that works through the past in a way that is honest, open, and constructive. <p>We've already seen historic and courageous steps taken by Turkish and Armenian leaders. These contacts hold out the promise of a new day. An open border would return the Turkish and Armenian people to a peaceful and prosperous coexistence that would serve both of your nations. So I want you to know that the United States strongly supports the full normalization of relations between Turkey and Armenia. It is a cause worth working towards. <p>It speaks to Turkey's leadership that you are poised to be the only country in the region to have normal and peaceful relations with all the South Caucasus nations. And to advance that peace, you can play a constructive role in helping to resolve the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, which has continued for far too long. <p>Advancing peace also includes the disputes that persist in the eastern Mediterranean. And here there's a cause for hope. The two Cypriot leaders have an opportunity through their commitment to negotiations under the United Nations Good Offices Mission. And the United States is willing to offer all the help sought by the parties as they work towards a just and lasting settlement that reunifies Cyprus into a bizonal and bicommunal federation. <p>Now, these efforts speak to one part of the critical region that surrounds Turkey. And when we consider the challenges before us, on issue after issue, we share common goals. In the Middle East, we share the goal of a lasting peace between Israel and its neighbors. Now let me be clear: The United States strongly supports the goal of two states, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace and security. That is a goal shared by Palestinians, Israelis, and people of good will around the world. That is a goal that the parties agreed to in the roadmap and at Annapolis. That is a goal that I will actively pursue as President of the United States. <p>We know the road ahead will be difficult. Both Israelis and Palestinians must take steps that are necessary to build confidence and trust. Both Israelis and Palestinians, both must live up to the commitments they have made. Both must overcome longstanding passions and the politics of the moment to make progress towards a secure and lasting peace. <p>The United States and Turkey can help the Palestinians and Israelis make this journey. Like the United States, Turkey has been a friend and partner in Israel's quest for security. And like the United States, you seek a future of opportunity and statehood for the Palestinians. So now, working together, we must not give into pessimism and mistrust. We must pursue every opportunity for progress, as you've done by supporting negotiations between Syria and Israel. We must extend a hand to those Palestinians who are in need, while helping them strengthen their own institutions. Now, we must reject the use of terror and recognize that Israel's security concerns are legitimate. <p>The peace of the region will also be advanced if Iran forgoes any nuclear weapons ambitions. Now, as I made clear in Prague yesterday, no one is served by the spread of nuclear weapons, least of all Turkey. You live in a difficult region, and a nuclear arm race would not serve the security of this nation well. This part of the world has known enough violence. It has known enough hatred. It does not need a race for an ever-more powerful tool of destruction. <p>Now, I have made it clear to the people and leaders of the Islamic Republic of Iran that the United States seeks engagement based on mutual interest and mutual respect. We want Iran to play its rightful role in the community of nations. Iran is a great civilization. We want them to engage in the economic and political integration that brings prosperity and security. But Iran's leaders must choose whether they will try to build a weapon or build a better future for their people. <p>So both Turkey and the United States support a secure and united Iraq that does not serve as a safe haven for terrorists. I know there were differences about whether to go to war. There were differences within my own country as well. But now we must come together as we end this war responsibly, because the future of Iraq is inseparable from the future of the broader region. As I've already announced, and many of you are aware, the United States will remove our combat brigades by the end of next August, while working with the Iraqi Government as they take responsibility for security. And we will work with Iraq, Turkey, and all Iraq's neighbors to forge a new dialog that reconciles differences and advances our common security. <p>Make no mistake, though: Iraq, Turkey, and the United States face a common threat from terrorism. That includes the Al Qaida terrorists who have sought to drive Iraqis apart and destroy their country. That includes the PKK. There is no excuse for terror against any nation. As President and as a NATO ally, I pledge that you will have our support against the terrorist activities of the PKK or anyone else. Now, these efforts will be strengthened by the continued work to build ties of cooperation between Turkey, the Iraqi Government, and Iraq's Kurdish leaders, and by your continued efforts to promote education and opportunity and democracy for the Kurdish population here inside Turkey. <p>Now, finally, we share the common goal of denying Al Qaida a safe haven in Pakistan or Afghanistan. The world has come too far to let this region backslide and to let Al Qaida terrorists plot further attacks. And that's why we are committed to a more focused effort to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat Al Qaida. That is why we are increasing our efforts to train Afghans to sustain their own security and to reconcile former adversaries. That's why we are increasing our support for the people of Afghanistan and Pakistan, so that we stand on the side not only of security, but also of opportunity and the promise of a better life. <p>Turkey has been a true partner. Your troops were among the first in the International Security Assistance Force. You have sacrificed much in this endeavor. Now we must achieve our goals together. I appreciate that you've offered to help us train and support Afghan security forces and expand opportunity across the region. Together, we can rise to meet this challenge like we have so many before. <p>I know there have been difficulties these last few years. I know that the trust that binds the United States and Turkey has been strained, and I know that strain is shared in many places where the Muslim faith is practiced. So let me say this as clearly as I can: The United States is not and will never be at war with Islam. In fact, our partnership with the Muslim world is critical, not just in rolling back the violent ideologies that people of all faiths reject, but also to strengthen opportunity for all its people. <p>I also want to be clear that America's relationship with the Muslim community, the Muslim world, cannot and will not just be based upon opposition to terrorism. We seek broader engagement based on mutual interests and mutual respect. We will listen carefully; we will bridge misunderstandings; and we will seek common ground. We will be respectful, even when we do not agree. We will convey our deep appreciation for the Islamic faith, which has done so much over the centuries to shape the world, including in my own country. The United States has been enriched by Muslim Americans. Many other Americans have Muslims in their families or have lived in a Muslim-majority country. I know because I am one of them. <p>Above all--above all we will demonstrate through actions our commitment to a better future. I want to help more children get the education that they need to succeed. We want to promote health care in places where people are vulnerable. We want to expand the trade and investment that can bring prosperity for all people. In the months ahead, I will present specific programs to advance these goals. Our focus will be on what we can do, in partnership with people across the Muslim world, to advance our common hopes and our common dreams. And when people look back on this time, let it be said of America that we extended the hand of friendship to all people. <p>Now, there is an old Turkish proverb: \\"You cannot put out fire with flames.\\" America knows this. Turkey knows this. There's some who must be met by force; they will not compromise. But force alone cannot solve our problems, and it is no alternative to extremism. The future must belong to those who create, not those who destroy. That is the future we must work for, and we must work for it together. <p>I know there are those who like to debate Turkey's future. They see your country at the crossroads of continents and touched by the currents of history. They know that this has been a place where civilizations meet and different peoples come together. They wonder whether you will be pulled in one direction or another. <p>But I believe here is what they don't understand: Turkey's greatness lies in your ability to be at the center of things. This is not where East and West divide; this is where they come together, in the beauty of your culture, in the richness of your history, in the strength of your democracy, in your hopes for tomorrow. <p>I am honored to stand here with you, to look forward to the future that we must reach for together, and to reaffirm America's commitment to our strong and enduring friendship. <p>Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.\" "
"90" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. Thank you, guys. Hooah! <p><i>Audience members.</i> Hooah! <p><i>The President.</i> Let me say, Multi-National Force--Iraq; Multi-National Corps--Iraq; Multi-National Security Transition Command--Iraq; First Corps; America's Corps Band: Thanks to all of you. Listen, I am so honored. <p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you. <p><i>The President. </i>I love you back. I am honored and grateful to be with all of you. And I'm not going to talk long because I want to shake as many hands as I can, and I've been talking all week. [<i>Laughter</i>] But there's a couple of things I want to say. Number one, thank you. <p><i>Audience member.</i> You're welcome. <p><i>The President. </i>You know, when I was at Camp Lejeune, I spoke about what it means for America to see our best and brightest, our finest young men and women serve us. And what I said then is something that I want to repeat to you, which is: You have performed brilliantly in every mission that has been given to you. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Hooah! <p><i>The President. </i>Under enormous strain and under enormous sacrifice, through controversy and difficulty and politics, you've kept your eyes focused on just doing your job. And because of that, every mission that's been assigned--from getting rid of Saddam, to reducing violence, to stabilizing the country, to facilitating elections--you have given Iraq the opportunity to stand on its own as a democratic country. That is an extraordinary achievement, and for that you have the thanks of the American people. That's point number one. <p>Point number two is, this is going to be a critical period, these next 18 months. I was just discussing this with your commander, but I think it's something that all of you know. It is time for us to transition to the Iraqis. They need to take responsibility for their country and for their sovereignty, and in order for them to do that, they have got to make political accommodations. They're going to have to decide that they want to resolve their differences through constitutional means and legal means. They are going to have to focus on providing government services that encourage confidence among their citizens. <p>All those things they have to do; we can't do it for them. But what we can do is make sure that we are a stalwart partner, that we are working alongside them, that we are committed to their success, that in terms of training their security forces, training their civilian forces in order to achieve a more effective government, they know that they have a steady partner with us. <p>And so just as we thank you for what you've already accomplished, I want to say thank you because you will be critical in terms of us being able to make sure that Iraq is stable, that it is not a safe haven for terrorists, that it is a good neighbor and a good ally, and we can start bringing our folks home. So now is not the time to lose focus. We have to be even more focused than we've been in order to achieve success. <p>The last point I want to make is, I know how hard it's been on a lot of you. You've been away from your families, many of you for multiple rotations. You've seen buddies of yours injured, and you remember those who have made the ultimate sacrifice. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Hooah! <p><i>The President. </i>There are probably some people here who have seen children born and have been missing watching them grow up. There are many of you who have listened to your spouse and the extraordinary sacrifices that they have to make when you're gone. <p>And so I want you to know that Michelle and myself are doing everything--[<i>applause</i>]--are doing everything we can to provide additional support for military families. The Federal budget that I have introduced increases support for military families. We are going to do everything required to make sure that the commitment we make to our veterans is met and that people don't have to fight for what they have earned as a consequence of their service. <p>The main point I want to make is, we have not forgotten what you have already done. We are grateful for what you will do. And as long as I am in the White House, you are going to get the support that you need and the thanks that you deserve from a grateful nation. <p>So thank you very much everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"91" "\"All right. Well, thank you so much for taking the time to join us. We are here with a wonderful group of homeowners. And I think for so many people around this country, the essence of the American Dream is owning your own home, being able to have that piece of property that is yours, that allows you to raise your kids, that represents your single biggest investment. And obviously, one of the triggers of the financial crisis and now the economic crisis that we've suffered is that because in some areas housing got--housing values got way overheated, in some cases you had a lack of regulation that allowed all sorts of complex financial instruments take advantage of homeowners. We have seen a collapse in the housing market, a precipitous drop in values, and that led to a lot of the problems in the financial markets. <p>Here's the good news. At the beginning of this administration, we said we are--we were going to tackle directly the problems that homeowners were experiencing and figure out ways in which we could provide them assistance in reducing their interest rates, modifying their loans so that they would be in a position to stay in their homes and reduce their monthly payments. And around the table here you see some wonderful families who have taken advantage of what are now historically low mortgage rates, brought about in part by some extraordinary actions by the Federal Reserve, but also brought about by the housing plan that Tim Geithner and Shaun Donovanhelped to design. <p>What you've seen now is rates are as low as they've been since 1971. Three-quarters of the American people get their mortgages through a Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac qualified loan. And as a consequence of us being able to reduce the interest rates that are available, we have now seen some extraordinary jumps in the rate of mortgage refinancings. <p>And everybody here represents families who have saved hundreds of dollars a month, thousands of dollars a year in some cases, and that's money directly in their pocket. More importantly, what it's allowed them to do is to consolidate their loans in some cases, reduce the length of their mortgages in other cases. It has given them the kind of security and stability in their mortgage payments that a lot more people can take advantage of. <p>So the main message that we want to send today is, there are 7 to 9 million people across the country who right now could be taking advantage of lower mortgage rates. That is money in their pocket. And we estimate that the average family can get anywhere from $1,600 to $2,000 a year in savings by taking advantage of these various mortgage programs that have been put in place. <p>We've already seen a substantial jump, 88 percent increase in refinancings over the last month. We've seen Fannie Mae refinance $77 billion of mortgages in March, which is their highest volume in one month since 2003. And rates on 30-year mortgages have dropped to an alltime low of 4.78 percent. <p>So we are at a time where people can really take advantage of this. And what we want to do is to send a message that if you are having problems with your mortgage, and even if you're not and you just want to save some money, you can go to makinghomeaffordable.gov--makinghomeaffordable.gov. And the way the web site is designed, you can plug in your information and immediately find out whether or not you are potentially eligible for one of these mortgage refinancings. <p>Now, we are in the process of rolling out some additional phases to the program. Everybody here represent responsible homeowners who made their payments, who have jobs and income that support their mortgages. In some cases, people may have had difficulties because they lost a job, somebody in their family got sick, they may have missed some payments. And in those cases we also want to be helpful, and we are putting in place a loan modification program, working with banks, working with services, that will allow other folks who are closer to losing their home in a stronger position in the future. <p>So there are a range of different programs that are available for a range of different types of borrowers. The main message we want to send today is, is that the programs that have been put in place can help responsible folks who have been making their payments, who are not looking for a handout, but this allows them to make some changes that will leave money in their pockets and leave them more secure in their homes. So we hope that everybody takes advantage of it. Again, the web site is makinghomeaffordable.gov--is that right?--makinghomeaffordable.gov, so get on the web site, find out what's available. <p>Last point we want to make. As people have become aware that the Government is helping to promote refinancing, we're starting to see some scam artists out there who are contacting people saying, \\"You can refinance your home. The Government has got a program; we're ready to help. Oh, but by the way, first you've got to pay some money.\\" I just want everybody who is watching today to know that if somebody is asking you for money up front before they help you with your refinancing, it's probably a scam. <p>So take advantage of makinghomeaffordable.gov, and that will allow you to figure out exactly how to proceed on this in a way that's making you money, saving you money, as opposed to costing you money. <p>All right. Thank you, everybody.\" "
"92" "\"Thank you, John, for your outstanding service, and your friendship is greatly appreciated. I want to thank my two outstanding Secretaries who are behind me, Bob Gates, who is doing just an extraordinary job over at the Pentagon, and General Shinseki, now Secretary Shinseki, who has served our country with extraordinary valor. <p>I also want to acknowledge all the wounded warriors and veterans and all those who care for them who are here today. You make us very, very proud. To the VSO and MSO leaders who work hard on behalf of those who serve this Nation, thank you for your advocacy and your hard work. As I look out in the audience, especially seeing these folks in their uniforms, I am reminded of the fact that we have the best fighting force in world history, and the reason we do is because of all of you. And so I'm very grateful for what you've done to protect and serve this country. <p>It is good to be back. We've had a productive week working to advance America's interests around the world. We worked to renew our alliances to enhance our common security. We collaborated with other nations to take steps towards rebuilding the global economy, which will revitalize our own. <p>And before coming home, I stopped to visit with our men and women who are serving bravely in Iraq. First and foremost, I wanted to say thank you to them on behalf of a grateful nation. They've faced extraordinary challenges, and they have performed brilliantly in every mission that's been given to them. They have given Iraq the opportunity to stand on its own as a democratic country, and that is a great gift. You know, we often talk about ideals like sacrifice and honor and duty. But these men and women, like the men and women who are here, embody it. They have made sacrifices many of us cannot begin to imagine. <p>We're talking about men like Specialist Jake Altman and Sergeant Nathan Dewitt, two of the soldiers who I had the honor to meet when I was in Baghdad. In 2007, as Specialist Altman was clearing mines so that other soldiers might travel in safety, he lost his hand when an IED struck his vehicle. And at Walter Reed, he asked to relearn the skills necessary to perform his duties with a prosthetic so that he could rejoin his old battalion. Sergeant Dewitt was severely injured in an attack last September, but he refused to let his injuries stop him from giving first aid to his wounded comrades. Today, they're both back alongside their fellow soldiers in their old units. <p>And we're talking about women like Tammy Duckworth, who I think is here. Tammy, where are you? There you are--a great friend who lost her legs when a rocket struck the Black Hawk helicopter she was piloting over Iraq. And when she returned home, she continued to serve her country heading the Department of Veterans Affairs in Illinois, and she serves her country still as my nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs. <p>We're talking about heroes like all the servicemembers and veterans of the United States Armed Forces, including the veterans who've joined us here today, many who gave up much, yet signed up to give more, many with their own battles still to come, all with their own stories to tell. <p>For their service and sacrifice, warm words of thanks from a grateful nation are more than warranted, but they aren't nearly enough. We also owe our veterans the care they were promised and the benefits that they have earned. We have a sacred trust with those who wear the uniform of the United States of America. It's a commitment that begins at enlistment, and it must never end. <p>But we know that for too long, we've fallen short of meeting that commitment. Too many wounded warriors go without the care that they need. Too many veterans don't receive the support that they've earned. Too many who once wore our Nation's uniform now sleep in our Nation's streets. It's time to change all that. It's time to give our veterans a 21st century VA. Over the past few months, we've made much progress towards that end, and today I'm pleased to announce some new progress. <p>Under the leadership of Secretary Gates and Secretary Shinseki, the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs have taken a first step towards creating one unified lifetime electronic health record for members of our armed services that will contain their administrative and medical information, from the day they first enlist to the day that they are laid to rest. <p>Currently, there is no comprehensive system in place that allows for a streamlined transition of health records between DOD and the VA. And that results in extraordinary hardship for a awful lot of veterans who end up finding their records lost, unable to get their benefits processed in a timely fashion. I can't tell you how many stories that I heard during the course of the last several years, first as a United States Senator and then as a candidate, about veterans who were finding it almost impossible to get the benefits that they had earned despite the fact that their disabilities or their needs were evident for all to see. <p>And that's why I'm asking both Departments to work together to define and build a seamless system of integration with a simple goal: When a member of the Armed Forces separates from the military, he or she will no longer have to walk paperwork from a DOD duty station to a local VA health center; their electronic records will transition along with them and remain with them forever. <p>Now, this would represent a huge step towards modernizing the way health care is delivered and benefits are administered for our Nation's veterans. It would cut through redtape and reduce the number of administrative mistakes. It would allow all VA sites access to a veteran's complete military medical record, giving them the information they need to deliver high-quality care. And it would do all this with the strictest and most rigorous standards of privacy and security, so that our veterans can have confidence that their medical records can only be shared at their direction. <p>Now, the care that our veterans receive should never be hindered by budget delays. I've shared this concern with Secretary Shinseki, and we have worked together to support advanced funding for veterans' medical care. What that means is a timely and predictable flow of funding from year to year, but more importantly, that means better care for our veterans. And I was pleased to see that the budget resolution passed by the Senate supports this concept in a bipartisan manner. <p>I'm also pleased that the budget resolutions adopted by both Houses of Congress preserve priorities that I outlined in my budget, priorities that will go a long way towards building that 21st century VA that we're looking for. The 2010 budget includes the largest, single-year increase in VA funding in three decades. And all told, we will increase funding by $25 billion over the next 5 years. This budget doesn't just signify increased funding for the VA health care program; it significantly expands coverage so that 500,000 more veterans who have previously been denied it will receive it, and it strengthens care and services across a broad range of areas. <p>Because the nightmares of war don't always end when our loved ones return home, this budget also meets the mental health needs of our wounded warriors. Untold thousands of service men and women returning from Iraq and Afghanistan suffer from Posttraumatic Stress Disorder or other serious psychological injury. And the growing incidence of suicide among active military returning veterans is disturbing. Sometimes the deadliest wounds are the ones you cannot see, and we cannot afford to let the unseen wounds go untreated. And that's why this budget dramatically increases funding for mental health screening and treatment at all levels. It increases the number of vet centers and mobile health clinics, expanding access to this needed care in rural areas. And it helps reduce the stigma of seeking care by adding mental health professionals to educate veterans and their families about their injuries and their options. <p>And because thousands of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans have suffered from traumatic brain injury, one of the signature injuries of these wars, this budget improves services for cognitive injuries. And many with TBI have never been evaluated by a physician. And because such injuries can often have long-term impacts that only show up down the road, this funding will help ensure they receive the ongoing care they need. <p>Because we all share the shame of 154,000 veterans going homeless on any given night, this budget also funds a pilot program with non-for-profit organizations to make sure that veterans at risk of losing their homes have a roof over their heads. And we will not rest until we reach a day when not one single veteran falls into homelessness. <p>Finally, this budget recognizes that our veterans deserve something more, an equal chance to reach for the very dream they defend. It's the chance America gave to my grandfather, who enlisted after Pearl Harbor and went on to march in Patton's army. When he came home, he went to college on the GI bill, which made it possible for him and so many veterans like him to live out their own version of the American Dream. And now it's our turn to help guarantee this generation the same opportunity that the greatest generation enjoyed by providing every returning servicemember with a real chance to afford a college education. And by providing the resources to effectively implement the post-9/11 GI bill, that is what this budget does. <p>And even as we care for veterans who've served this country, Bob Gates has helped us design a budget that does more for our soldiers, more for their families, and more for our military. It fully protects and properly funds the increase to our Army and Marine force strength and halts reductions in the Air Force and Navy, allowing fewer deployments and more time between each. It builds on care for our wounded warriors and our investments in medical research and development. It deepens our commitment to improve the quality of life for military families--military childcare, spousal support, and education--because they're deployed when their loved one gets deployed. <p>On my visit to Baghdad this week, I was inspired all over again by the men and women in our armed services. They're proud of the work they're doing. And we are all deeply proud of them. And through their service, they are living out the ideals that stir something deep within the American character: honor, sacrifice, and commitment to a higher purpose and to one another. <p>That, after all, is what led them to wear the uniform in the first place, their unwavering belief in America. And now we must serve them as well as they've served us. And as long as we are fortunate to have leaders like Secretary Gates and Secretary Shinseki, and as long as I am Commander in Chief, I promise that we will work tirelessly to meet that mission and make sure that all those who wear this Nation's uniform know this: When you come home to America, America will be there for you. <p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"93" "\"I speak to you today during a time that is holy and filled with meaning for believers around the world. Earlier this week, Jewish people gathered with family and friends to recite the stories of their ancestors' struggle and ultimate liberation. Tomorrow, Christians of all denominations will come together to rejoice and remember the resurrection of Jesus Christ. <p>These are two very different holidays with their own very different traditions, but it seems fitting that we mark them both during the same week. For in a larger sense, they are both moments of reflection and renewal. They are both occasions to think more deeply about the obligations we have to ourselves and the obligations we have to one another, no matter who we are, where we come from, or what faith we practice. <p>This idea that we're all bound up, as Martin Luther King once said, \\"in a single garment of destiny,\\" is a lesson of all the world's great religions. And it never has been more important for us to reaffirm that lesson than it is today, at a time when we face tests and trials unlike any we've seen in our time: an economic crisis that recognizes no borders; violent extremism that's claimed the lives of innocent men, women, and children from Manhattan to Mumbai; an unsustainable dependence on foreign oil and other sources of energy that pollute our air and water and threaten our planet; the proliferation of the world's most dangerous weapons; the persistence of deadly disease; and the recurrence of age-old conflicts. <p>These are challenges that no single nation, no matter how powerful, can confront alone. The United States must lead the way. But our best chance to solve these unprecedented problems comes from acting in concert with other nations. And that's why I met with leaders of the G-20 nations to ensure that the world's largest economies take strong and unified action in the face of the global economic crisis. Together, we've taken steps to stimulate growth, restore the flow of credit, open up markets, and dramatically reform our financial regulatory system to prevent such crises from occurring again, steps that will lead to job creation at home. <p>It is only by working together that we will finally defeat 21st-century security threats like Al Qaida. So it was heartening that our NATO allies united in Strasbourg behind our strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan and contributed important resources to support our efforts there. <p>It's only by coordinating with countries around the world that we will stop the spread of the world's most dangerous weapons. And that is why I laid out a strategy in Prague for us to work with Russia and other nations to stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons, to secure nuclear materials from terrorists, and ultimately, to free the world from the menace of a nuclear nightmare. <p>And it's only by building a new foundation of mutual trust that we will tackle some of our most entrenched problems. And that's why, in Turkey, I spoke to Members of Parliament and university students about rising above the barriers of race, region, and religion that too often divide us. <p>With all that's at stake today, we cannot afford to talk past one another. We can't afford to allow old differences to prevent us from making progress in areas of common concern. We can't afford to let walls of mistrust stand. Instead, we have to find and build on our mutual interests. For it is only when people come together and seek common ground that some of that mistrust can begin to fade. And that's where progress begins. <p>Make no mistake: We live in a dangerous world, and we must be strong and vigilant in the face of these threats. But let us not allow whatever differences we have with other nations to stop us from coming together around those solutions that are essential to our survival and success. <p>As we celebrate Passover, Easter, and this time of renewal, let's find strength in our shared resolve and purpose in our common aspirations. And if we can do that, then not only will we fulfill the sacred meaning of these holy days, but we will fulfill the promise of our country as a leader around the world.\" "
"94" "\"Hello, everybody. That's Malia, our technical adviser. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It is wonderful to see all of you today. Welcome. I hope everybody had a wonderful Easter. This is one of the greatest White House traditions, because it reminds us that this is the people's house. And to see so many children out here having a great time just fills Michelle and myself and the entire family with a whole lot of joy. <p>So I'm not really in charge here today. My sole job, in addition to thanking Fergie for that wonderful rendition of our national anthem and thanking my buddy the Easter Bunny for being here, is to introduce my First Lady, your First Lady, Michelle Obama.\" "
"95" "\"Thank you, everybody. I hope everybody had a wonderful Easter. I just came from the Easter Egg Roll, and it was a spectacular outing. All the kids were out there having fun, and it reminds us of why we do the work we do. <p>Before I discuss the purpose of my visit to the Department of Transportation today, I want to take a moment to say how pleased I am about the rescue of Captain Phillips and his safe return to the USS <i>Boxer</i> this weekend. His safety has been our principal concern, and I know this came as a welcome relief to his family and his crew. <p>I had a chance to talk to his wife yesterday and, as she put it, she couldn't imagine a better Easter than seeing his safe return. And I'm very proud of the efforts of the U.S. military and many other departments and agencies that worked tirelessly to resolve this situation. I share our Nation's admiration for Captain Phillips's courage and leadership and selfless concern for his crew. <p>And I want to be very clear that we are resolved to halt the rise of privacy [piracy]<A CLASS=\\"footnote\\" actuate=\\"user\\" href=\\" id(pgfId-1222576)\\" show=\\"replace\\" xml:link=\\"simple\\">5</A> in that region. And to achieve that goal we're going to have to continue to work with our partners to prevent future attacks, we have to continue to be prepared to confront them when they arise, and we have to ensure that those who commit acts of piracy are held accountable for their crimes. <p>Now, as we work to ensure America's safety out on the seas, I want to discuss what we're doing to restore economic security here at home to revitalize our Nation's infrastructure and create good jobs across America. It has been nearly 3 months since I first took office, and I think it's fair to say that we've been busy. Faced with an extraordinary economic crisis, we've responded with extraordinary action, action that's both unprecedented in scale and unprecedented in its speed. <p>We developed plans to stabilize our housing market, to unfreeze our credit markets, and to ensure the survival of our auto industry in this new century. We passed a budget that cuts our deficit in half while making investments to spur long-term growth and lasting prosperity. And because we know that people are hurting right now, and we need to create jobs and get money into people's pockets right now, we passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the most sweeping economic recovery plan in history; a plan to save or create 3.5 million jobs, putting Americans back to work doing the work America needs done, and to <FOOTNOTES> <FOOTNOTE> <Footnote> <A ID=\\"pgfId-1222576\\"/> White House correction.</Footnote> </FOOTNOTE> </FOOTNOTES> give a tax cut to 95 percent of working Americans. <p>Today, I think it's safe to say that this plan is beginning to work. We see it in the clean energy companies rehiring workers, in police departments cancelling planned layoffs, in health care clinics planning to expand to care for more folks in need. We see it in the 120 million families who are already taking home larger paychecks because of our Making Work Pay tax cut. And we see it particularly in the work of this Department, in the plans underway to rebuild crumbling roads and bridges, modernize our airports and shipyards, develop high-speed rail networks, and restore aging public transit systems. All told, we are making the largest new investment in America's infrastructure since President Eisenhower built the Interstate Highway System back in the 1950s. <p>But what is most remarkable about this effort, and what I'm here to talk about today, isn't just the size of our investment, or the number of projects we're investing in, it's how quickly, efficiently, and responsibly those investments have been made. <p>Today, because these projects are getting approved more quickly than we thought, thanks to, in large part, the outstanding work of the TIGER team and folks here at the Department of Transportation, and because these projects are costing less than we thought, we can utter a sentence rarely heard in recent years: This government effort is coming in ahead of schedule and under budget. <p>Think about it, we passed the recovery plan less than 2 months ago. Two weeks later, I came here to DOT to announce that we would be investing $28 billion to rebuild and repair our highways, roads, and bridges. Work on the very first project, resurfacing Route 650 in Silver Springs, Maryland, began that very same day. People who'd been out of a job found themselves being called back to work. <p>And some of the crews are here today, and we want to thank them, and we're proud of them, because they're making the roads safer and some of your commutes a little bit better, and at the same time they're doing what they've always done, working really hard to support their families and living out the American Dream. So we appreciate you guys. Thank you. <p>About a week later, we had approved 500 more projects. Two weeks after that, we had approved another 1,000 projects. And today I'm proud to announce that we have approved the 2000th project, a project to widen an interstate and rebuild an overpass in Portage, Michigan, improving safety, reducing congestion, and boosting local businesses. <p>This project will start this summer, creating an estimated 900 jobs right away, and it will go into 2011, creating nearly twice that many jobs altogether before it's finished. So I want to acknowledge Governor Granholm, both for her leadership on this project and for her tireless work to strengthen Michigan's economy. And I'm pleased that Joe Biden, who's overseeing our recovery efforts, will be attending the groundbreaking for this project in June. <p>Now, some may have thought it would take months to get to this point. But in part because of the hard work and commitment of the people in this Department, we approved these 2,000 projects in just 41 days. So taken together, these projects will reduce the congestion that costs us nearly $80 billion a year; it will save some of the 14,000 people who lose their lives each year because of bad roads and driving conditions; it will create good jobs that pay well and can't be shipped overseas. By the end of next year, our investments in highway projects alone will create or save 150,000 jobs. I want to repeat that: 150,000 jobs, most of them in the private sector. <p>I'm pleased that work on some of these projects has already started and that many more will be underway by this summer. But I want to be very clear that while we're doing this with speed, we're also doing it with care. We've acted quickly, because our economy, losing hundreds of thousands of jobs each month, means we don't have a minute to waste. And we've acted with care because we don't have a single taxpayer dollar to waste either. <p>And that's why I appointed a proven and aggressive Inspector General to root out waste and fraud. That's why we created a web site called recovery.gov, so you can see exactly where your tax dollars are going, and soon you'll be able to click on the transportation section and track the progress of every project underway. <p>And that's why I'm pleased to hear that in State after State across America, competition for these projects is so fierce, and contractors are doing such a good job cutting costs, that projects are consistently coming in under budget. The final bid for one road project in Connecticut was $8.4 million less than the State budgeted for. Another one in Louisiana was $4.7 million less. A project at BWI Airport will be completed for $8 million less than expected. Bids for projects in North Carolina have been 19 percent under budget. Colorado is reporting bids up to 30 percent less than they expected. And the officials in California have seen bids that are close to half as much as they had projected. <p>And because these projects are proceeding so efficiently, we now have more recovery dollars to go around. And that means we can fund more projects, revitalize more of our infrastructure, put more people back to work, and ensure that taxpayers get more value for their dollars. <p>Now, I have no illusion about how much work lies ahead and how hard it will be. The road to recovery is long; we will undoubtedly make some mistakes, we'll face some setbacks along the way, there will be some projects that don't work the way we want them to. But it is now clear that we're heading in the right direction. It's now clear that day by day, project by project, we are making progress. <p>We're doing what we've always done in this country. As President Johnson said more than 40 years ago when he signed the legislation creating this Department, the Department of Transportation, \\"America's history is a history of her transportation,\\" of railroads that pushed frontiers, and waterways and highways that opened up markets, airplanes that connected us to one another and to the world. <p>Throughout our history, there have been times when a generation of Americans seized the chance to remake the face of this Nation. And this is one of those times. And that's what we're doing today, building a 21st century infrastructure that will create jobs, spur growth, and sustain an economy that creates shared and lasting prosperity. <p>So thank you to the folks here at DOT; you're doing an outstanding job. Thanks to Ray LaHood for being a terrific leader of the Department. And thank you to Joe Biden for helping to drive this thing home. And thanks to all the workers who are standing behind us. We don't want to keep them too long. They've already got their hard hats. [<i>Laughter</i>] They are going to go straight into their cars, and they're going to go back to work. So thank you, everybody.\""
"96" "\"Thank you so much. It's good to be back. Thank you so much. Please, everybody, be seated. Well, to President DeGioia, thank you so much for the gracious introduction, and thanks for bringing your family--including J.T.--appreciate you. The--we're going to invite him over, hang out with the girls. [<i>Laughter</i>] He's a pretty good-looking young man. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>To Mayor Adrian Fenty, who's doing such a great job in this city, thank you so much for your attendance. To Representative Donna Edwards, who is here and represents Maryland's Fourth District, thank you. <p>To Georgetown University students, it is great to see you. [<i>Applause</i>] Thank you. Yes, well, it is good to be back. I appeared in this room during the campaign and had a wonderful reception then, and it's wonderful to be back and be with all of you. <p>We're going to talk about the economy today. And I was telling President DeGioia this may be a slightly longer speech than I usually give, but it's a slightly bigger topic, and that is how we are going to deal with so many of our economic challenges. <p>You know, it's been 12 weeks now since my administration began. And I think that even our critics would agree that at the very least, we've been busy. [<i>Laughter</i>] In just under 3 months, we've responded to an extraordinary set of economic challenges with extraordinary action, action that's been unprecedented both in terms of its scale and its speed. <p>And I know that some have accused us of taking on too much at once. Others believe we haven't done enough. And many Americans are simply wondering how all of our different programs and policies fit together in a single, overarching strategy that will move this economy from recession to recovery and, ultimately, to prosperity. <p>So today I want to step back for a moment and explain our strategy as clearly as I can. This is going to be prose and not poetry. I want to talk about what we've done, why we've done it, and what we have left to do. I want to update you on the progress we've made, but I also want to be honest about the pitfalls that may still lie ahead. <p>Most of all, I want every American to know that each action we take and each policy we pursue is driven by a larger vision of America's future, a future where sustained economic growth creates good jobs and rising incomes, a future where prosperity is fueled not by excessive debt or reckless speculation or fleeting profits, but is instead built by skilled, productive workers, by sound investments that will spread opportunity at home and allow this Nation to lead the world in the technologies and the innovation and discoveries that will shape the 21st century. That's the America I see. That's the America that Georgetown is preparing so many of you for. That is the future that I know that we can have. <p>Now, to understand how we get there, we first need to understand how we got here. Recessions are not uncommon. Markets and economies naturally ebb and flow, as we've seen many times in our history. But this recession is different; this recession was not caused by a normal downturn in the business cycle. It was caused by a perfect storm of irresponsibility and poor decisionmaking that stretched from Wall Street to Washington to Main Street. <p>As has been widely reported, it started in the housing market. During the course of the decade, the formula for buying a house changed. Instead of saving their pennies to buy their dream house, many Americans found that suddenly they could take out loans that by traditional standards their incomes just could not support. Others were tricked into signing these subprime loans by lenders who were trying to make a quick profit. The reason these loans were so readily available was that Wall Street saw big profits to be made. Investment banks would buy and package together these questionable mortgages into securities, arguing that by pooling the mortgages the risks had somehow been reduced. And credit agencies that are supposed to help investors determine the soundness of various investments stamped the securities with their safest rating when they should have been labeled \\"buyer beware.\\" <p>And no one really knew what the actual value of these securities were; no one fully understood what the risks were. But since the housing market was booming and prices were rising, banks and investors just kept buying and selling them, always passing off the risk to someone else for a greater profit without having to take any of the ultimate responsibility. Banks took on more debt than they could handle. <p>The Government-chartered companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, whose traditional mandate was to help support traditional mortgages, decided to get in on the action by buying and holding billions of dollars of these securities. AIG, the biggest insurer in the world that had a very traditional insurance business that was very profitable, decided to make profits suddenly by selling billions of dollars of complicated financial instruments that supposedly insured these securities. Everybody was making record profits, except the wealth created was real only on paper. And as the bubble grew, there was almost no accountability or oversight from anyone in Washington. <p>Then the housing bubble burst. Home prices fell, people began to default on their subprime mortgages, and the value of all those loans and securities plummeted. Banks and investors couldn't find anyone to buy them. Greed gave way to fear. Investors pulled their money out of the market. Large financial institutions that didn't have enough money on hand to pay off all their obligations collapsed. Other banks held on tight to their money and simply stopped lending. <p>Now, this is when the crisis spread from Wall Street to Main Street. After all, the ability to get a loan is how you finance the purchase of everything from a home to a car to, as you all well very--know very well, a college education. It's how stores stock their shelves and farms buy equipment and businesses make payroll. So when banks stopped lending money, businesses started laying off workers. When laid-off workers had less money to spend, businesses were forced to lay off even more workers. When people couldn't get a car loan, a bad situation at the auto companies became even worse. When people couldn't get home loans, the crisis in the housing market only deepened. Because the infected securities were being traded worldwide and other nations also had weak regulations, this recession soon became global. And when other nations can't afford to buy our goods, it slows our economy even further. <p>So this is the situation, the downward spiral that we confronted on the day that we took office. So our most urgent task has been to clear away the wreckage, repair the immediate damage to the economy, and do everything we can to prevent a larger collapse. And since the problems we face are all working off each other to feed a vicious economic downturn, we've had no choice but to attack all fronts of our economic crisis simultaneously. <p>Now, the first step was to fight a severe shortage of demand in the economy. So the Federal Reserve did this by dramatically lowering interest rates last year in order to boost investment. My administration and Congress boosted demand by passing the largest recovery plan in our Nation's history. It's a plan that's already in the process of saving or creating 3.5 million jobs over the next 2 years. It's putting money directly into people's pockets with a tax cut for 95 percent of working families; it's now showing up in paychecks across America. And to cushion the blow of this recession, we also provided extended unemployment benefits and continued health care coverage to Americans who've lost their jobs through no fault of their own. <p>Now, you will recall that some argued this recovery plan is a case of irresponsible Government spending, that it's somehow to blame for our long-term deficit projections, and that the Federal Government should be cutting instead of increasing spending right now. So I want to tackle this argument head on. <p>To begin with, economists on both the left and the right agree that the last thing a government should do in the middle of a recession is to cut back on spending. You see, when this recession began, many families sat around the kitchen table and tried to figure out where they could cut back, and so have many businesses. And this is a completely reasonable and understandable reaction. But if everybody--if everybody--if every family in America, if every business in America cuts back all at once, then no one is spending any money, which means there are no customers, which means there are more layoffs, which means that the economy gets even worse. That's why the Government has to step in and temporarily boost spending in order to stimulate demand. That's exactly what we're doing right now. <p>Now, second, I absolutely agree that our long-term deficit is a major problem that we have to fix. But the fact is that this recovery plan represents only a tiny fraction of that long-term deficit. As I'll discuss in a moment, the key to dealing with our long-term deficit and our national debt is to get a handle on out-of-control health care costs, not to stand idly by as the economy goes into free fall. <p>So the recovery plan has been the first step in confronting this economic crisis. The second step has been to heal our financial system so that credit is once again flowing to the businesses and families who rely on it. <p>The heart of this financial crisis is that too many banks and other financial institutions simply stopped lending money. In a climate of fear, banks were unable to replace their losses from some of those bad mortgages by raising new capital on their own, and they were unwilling to lend the money they did have because they were afraid that no one would pay it back. It's for this reason that the last administration used what they called the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, to provide these banks with temporary financial assistance in order to get them lending again. <p>Now, I understand that TARP is not popular, and I have to say that I don't agree with some of the ways the TARP program was managed, but I do agree with the broader rationale that we must provide banks with the capital and the confidence necessary to start lending again. And that's the purpose of the stress tests that will soon tell us how much additional capital will be needed to support lending at our largest banks. Ideally, these needs will be met by private investors who are willing to put in money to these banks. But where that's not possible, and banks require substantial additional resources from the Government, then we will hold accountable those who are responsible, we'll force the necessary adjustments, we'll provide the support to clean up those bank balance sheets, and we will assure the continuity of a strong and viable institution that can serve our people and our economy. <p>Of course, there are some who differ with our approach. On the one hand, there are some who argue that the Government should stand back and simply let these banks fail, especially since in many cases it was their bad decisions that helped create the crisis in the first place. But whether we like it or not, history has shown repeatedly that when nations do not take early and aggressive action to get credit flowing again, they have crises that last years and years instead of months and months, years of low growth, years of low job creation, years of low investment, all of which cost these nations far more than a course of bold, upfront action. <p>And although there are a lot of Americans who understandably think that Government money would be better spent going directly to families and businesses instead of to banks--one of my most frequent questions in the letters that I get from constituents is, \\"Where's my bailout?\\"--and I understand the sentiment. It makes sense intuitively, and morally it makes sense, but the truth is that a dollar of capital in a bank can actually result in $8 or $10 of loans to families and businesses. So that's a multiplier effect that can ultimately lead to a faster pace of economic growth. That's why we have to fix the banks. <p>Now, on the other hand, there have been some who don't dispute that we need to shore up the banking system, but they suggest that we've been too timid in how we go about it. This is essentially the nationalization argument that some of you may have heard. And the argument says that the Federal Government should have already preemptively stepped in and taken over major financial institutions the way that the FDIC currently intervenes in smaller banks, and that our failure, my administration's failure, to do so is yet another example of Washington coddling Wall Street--\\"Why aren't you tougher on the banks?\\" <p>So let me be clear: The reason we have not taken this step has nothing to do with any ideological or political judgment we've made about Government involvement in banks. It's certainly not because of any concern we have for the management and shareholders whose actions helped to cause this mess. Rather, it's because we believe that preemptive Government takeovers are likely to end up costing taxpayers even more in the end, and because it's more likely to undermine than create confidence. <p>Governments should practice the same principle as doctors: First, do no harm. So rest assured, we will do whatever is necessary to get credit flowing again, but we will do so in ways that minimize risk to taxpayers and to the broader economy. To that end, in addition to the program to provide capital to the banks, we've launched a plan that will pair Government resources with private investment in order to clear away the old loans and securities, the so-called toxic assets that are also preventing our banks from lending money. <p>Now, what we've also learned during this crisis is that our banks aren't the only institutions affected by these toxic assets that are clogging the financial system. AIG, for example, is not a bank, it's an insurance company, as I mentioned. And yet, because it chose to insure billions of dollars worth of risky assets, essentially creating a hedge fund on top of an insurance company, its failure could threaten the entire financial system and freeze lending even more. And that's why, as frustrating as it is--and I promise you, nobody is more frustrated than me with AIG--[<i>laughter</i>]--I promise--we've had to provide support for AIG, because the entire system, as fragile as it is, could be profoundly endangered if AIG went into a liquidation bankruptcy. <p>It's also why we need new legal authority so that we have the power to intervene in such financial institutions, the same way that bankruptcy courts currently do with businesses that hit hard times but don't pose systemic risks. And that way we can restructure these businesses in an orderly way that doesn't induce panic in the financial system and, by the way, will allow us to restructure inappropriate bonus contracts without creating a perception the Government can just change compensation rules on a whim. <p>This is also why we're moving aggressively to unfreeze markets and jump-start lending outside the banking system, where more than half of all lending in America actually takes place. To do this, we've started a program that will increase guarantees for small-business loans and unlock the market for auto loans and student loans. And to stabilize the housing market, we've launched a plan that will save up to 4 million responsible homeowners from foreclosure and help many millions more to refinance their homes. <p>In a few weeks, we will also reassess the state of Chrysler and General Motors, two companies with an important place in our history and a large footprint in our economy, but two companies that have also fallen on hard times. <p>Late last year, the companies were given transitional loans by the previous administration to tide them over as they worked to develop viable business plans. Unfortunately, the plans they developed fell short, so we've given them some additional time to work these complex issues through. And by the way, we owed that not to the executives whose bad bets contributed to the weakening of their companies, but to the hundreds of thousands of workers whose livelihoods hang in the balance; entire towns, entire communities, entire States are profoundly impacted by what happens in the auto industry. <p>Now, it is our fervent hope that in the coming weeks, Chrysler will find a viable partner; GM will develop a business plan that will put it on a path to profitability without endless support from American taxpayers. In the meantime, we're taking steps to spur demand for American cars and provide relief for autoworkers and their communities. And we will continue to reaffirm this Nation's commitment to a 21st century American auto industry that creates new jobs and builds the fuel-efficient cars and trucks that will carry us toward a clean energy future. <p>Finally, to coordinate a global response to this global recession, I went to the meeting of the G-20 nations in London the other week. Each nation has undertaken significant stimulus to spur demand. All agreed to pursue tougher regulatory reforms. We also agreed to triple the lending capacity of the International Monetary Fund, which, as many of you know, is an international financial institution supported by all the major economies, so that they can provide direct assistance to developing nations and vulnerable populations. That's not just charity; because America's success depends on whether other nations have the ability to buy what we sell, it's important that we pay attention to these emerging markets. We pledged to avoid the trade barriers and protectionism that hurts us all in the end. And we decided to meet again in the fall to gauge our progress and take additional steps if necessary. <p>So that's where we've been, that's what we've done in the last 3 months. All of these actions--the Recovery Act, the bank capitalization program, the housing plan, the strengthening of the nonbank credit market, the auto plan, and our work at the G-20--all have been necessary pieces of the recovery puzzle. They've been designed to increase aggregate demand, to get credit flowing again to families and businesses, and to help families and businesses ride out the storm. And taken together, these actions are starting to generate signs of economic progress. <p>Because of our recovery plan, schools and police departments have canceled planned layoffs; clean energy companies and construction companies are rehiring workers to build everything from energy efficient windows to new roads and highways. Our housing plan has helped lead to a spike in the number of homeowners who are taking advantage of historically low mortgage rates by refinancing, which is like putting a $2,000 tax cut in your pocket. Our program to support the market for auto loans and student loans has started to unfreeze this market and securitize more of this lending in the last few weeks. And small businesses are seeing a jump in loan activity for the first time in months. <p>Now, this is all welcome and encouraging news. It does not mean the hard times are over; 2009 will continue to be a difficult year for America's economy, and obviously, most difficult for those who've lost their jobs. The severity of this recession will cause more job loss, more foreclosures, and more pain before it ends. The market will continue to rise and fall. Credit is still not flowing nearly as easily as it should. The process for restructuring AIG and the auto companies will involve difficult and sometimes unpopular choices; we are not finished yet on that front. And all of this means that there's much more work to be done. But all of this also means that you can continue to expect an unrelenting, unyielding, day-by-day effort from this administration to fight for economic recovery on all fronts. <p>But even as we continue to clear away the wreckage and address the immediate crisis, it is my firm belief that our next task, beginning now, is to make sure such a crisis never happens again. Even as we clean up balance sheets and get credit flowing again, even as people start spending and businesses start hiring--all that's going to happen--we have to realize that we cannot go back to the bubble-and-bust economy that led us to this point. <p>It is simply not sustainable to have a 21st century financial system that is governed by 20th century rules and regulations that allowed the recklessness of a few to threaten the entire economy. It is not sustainable to have an economy where in 1 year, 40 percent of our corporate profits came from a financial sector that was based on inflated home prices, maxed-out credit cards, overleveraged banks, and overvalued assets. It's not sustainable to have an economy where the incomes of the top 1 percent has skyrocketed while the typical working household has seen their incomes decline by nearly $2,000. That's just not a sustainable model for long-term prosperity. <p>For even as too many were out there chasing ever-bigger bonuses and short-term profits over the last decade, we continued to neglect the long-term threats to our prosperity: the crushing burden that the rising cost of health care is placing on families and businesses; the failure of our education system to prepare our workers for a new age; the progress that other nations are making on clean energy industries and technologies while we remain addicted to foreign oil; the growing debt that we're passing on to our children. Even after we emerge from the current recession, these challenges will still represent major obstacles that stand in the way of our success in the 21st century. So we've got a lot of work to do. <p>Now, there's a parable at the end of the Sermon on the Mount that tells the story of two men. The first built his house on a pile of sand, and it was soon destroyed when a storm hit. But the second is known as the wise man, for when \\"the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock\\"--it was founded upon a rock. <p>We cannot rebuild this economy on the same pile of sand. We must build our house upon a rock. We must lay a new foundation for growth and prosperity, a foundation that will move us from an era of borrow and spend to one where we save and invest, where we consume less at home and send more exports abroad. <p>It's a foundation built upon five pillars that will grow our economy and make this new century another American century: number one, new rules for Wall Street that will reward drive and innovation, not reckless risk-taking; number two, new investments in education that will make our workforce more skilled and competitive; number three, new investments in renewable energy and technology that will create new jobs and new industries; number four, new investments in health care that will cut costs for families and businesses; and number five, new savings in our Federal budget that will bring down the debt for future generations. That's the new foundation we must build. That's our house built upon a rock. That must be our future, and my administration's policies are designed to achieve that future. <p>Let me talk about each of these steps in turn. The first step we will take to build this foundation is to reform the outdated rules and regulations that allowed this crisis to happen in the first place. It is time to lay down tough new rules of the road for Wall Street to ensure that we never find ourselves here again. Just as after the Great Depression new rules were designed for banks to avoid the kind of reckless speculation that helped to create the Depression, so we've got to make adaptations to our current set of rules: create rules that punish shortcuts and abuse; rules that tie someone's pay to their actual job performance--a novel concept--[<i>laughter</i>]; rules that protect typical American families when they buy a home, get a credit card, or invest in a 401(k). So we've already begun to work with Congress to shape this comprehensive new regulatory framework, and I expect a bill to arrive on my desk for my signature before the year is out. <p>The second pillar of this new foundation is an education system that finally prepares our workers for a 21st century economy. You know, in the 20th century, the GI bill helped send a generation to college. For decades, we led the world in educational attainment, and as a consequence, we led the world in economic growth. But in this new economy, we've come to trail the world's leaders in graduation rates, in educational achievement, in the production of scientists and engineers. That's why we have set a goal that will greatly enhance our ability to compete for the high-wage, high-tech jobs of the 21st century. By 2020, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. That is the goal that we have set, and we intend to meet it. <p>Now, to meet that goal, we have to start early. So we've already dramatically expanded early childhood education. We are investing in innovative programs that have proven to help schools meet high standards and close achievement gaps. We're creating new rewards that tie teachers' performance and new pathways for advancement. And I've asked every American to commit to at least 1 year or more of higher education or career training, and we have provided tax credits to make a college education more affordable for every American, even those who attend Georgetown. <p>And, by the way, one of the changes that I would like to see--and I'm going to be talking about this in weeks to come--is once again seeing our best and our brightest commit themselves to making things--engineers, scientists, innovators. For so long, we have placed at the top of our pinnacle folks who can manipulate numbers and engage in complex financial calculations. And that's good, we need some of that. [<i>Laughter</i>] But you know what we can really use is some more scientists and some more engineers, who are building and making things that we can export to other countries. <p>Now, the third pillar of this new foundation is to harness the renewable energy that can create millions of new jobs and new industries. We all know that the country that harnesses this new energy source will lead the 21st century. Yet we've allowed other countries to outpace us on this race to the future. I don't know about you, but I do not accept a future where the jobs and industries of tomorrow take root beyond our borders. I think it's time for America to lead again. <p>So the investments we made in the Recovery Act will double this Nation's supply of renewable energy in the next 3 years. And we are putting Americans to work making our homes and buildings more efficient so that we can save billions on our energy bills and grow our economy at the same time. <p>Now, the only, though, that we can truly spark the transformation that's needed is through a gradual, market-based cap on carbon pollution, so that clean energy is the profitable kind of energy. There are those who've argued that we shouldn't attempt, we shouldn't even be thinking, we shouldn't even be talking about such a transition until the economy recovers. And they are right that we have to take into account the costs of transition. Transitioning to a clean energy economy will not be easy. But we can no longer delay putting a framework for a clean energy economy in place. That needs to be done now. <p>If businesses and entrepreneurs know today that we are closing this carbon pollution loophole, they'll start investing in clean energy now. And pretty soon, we'll see more companies constructing solar panels, and workers building wind turbines, and car companies manufacturing fuel-efficient cars. Investors will put some money into a new energy technology, and a small business will open to start selling it. That's how we can grow this economy, enhance our security, and protect our planet at the same time. <p>Now, the fourth pillar of our new foundation is a 21st century health care system where families, businesses, and government budgets aren't dragged down by skyrocketing insurance premiums. One and a half million Americans could lose their homes this year just because of a medical crisis. Major American corporations are struggling to compete with their foreign counterparts. Small businesses are closing their doors. We can't allow the cost of health care to continue strangling our economy. <p>And that's why our Recovery Act will invest in electronic health records with strict privacy standards that can save money and lives and reduce medical error. That's why we've made the largest investment ever in preventive care, because that's one of the best ways to keep costs under control. And included in the budgets that just passed Congress is an historic commitment to reform that will finally make quality health care affordable for every American. So I'm looking forward in the next few months to working with both parties in Congress to make this reform a reality. We can get this done, and we have to get it done. <p>Now, fixing our health care system will require resources; it's not going to be free. But in my budget we've made a commitment to fully pay for reform without increasing the deficit, and we've identified specific savings that will make the health care system more efficient and reduce costs for us all. In fact, we've undertaken an unprecedented effort to find this kind of savings in every corner of the budget, because the final pillar in building our new foundation is restoring fiscal discipline once this economy recovers. <p>Already we've identified $2 trillion dollars in deficit reductions over the next decade. We need to do more, but we've already done that. We've announced procurement reform that will greatly reduce no-bid contracts and save the Government $40 billion. We need to do more, but that's an important start. Secretary Gates recently announced a courageous set of reforms that go right at the hundreds of billions of dollars in waste and cost overruns that have bloated our defense budget without making America safer. We need to do more, but that proposal by Secretary Gates is right on target. We will end education programs that don't work. We will root out waste and fraud and abuse in our Medicare program. <p>Altogether, this budget will reduce discretionary spending for domestic programs as a share of the economy by more than 10 percent over the next decade to the lowest level we've seen since we began keeping records nearly half a century ago. And as we continue to go through the Federal budget line by line, we will be announcing additional savings, secured by eliminating and consolidating programs that we don't need so that we can make room for the things that we do need. <p>That's what we're doing now. Of course, I realize that for some, this isn't enough. I know there's a criticism out there that my administration has been spending with reckless abandon, pushing a liberal social agenda while mortgaging our children's future. You've heard the argument. <p>Well, let me make three points. First, as I said earlier, the worst thing that we could do in a recession this severe is to try to cut Government spending at the same time as families and businesses around the world are cutting back on their spending. So as serious as our deficit and debt problems are--and they are very serious--major efforts to deal with them have to focus on the medium- and long-term budget picture, not on the short term. And that's exactly what we've done. <p>Second, in tackling the deficit issue, we simply cannot sacrifice the long-term investments that we so desperately need to generate long-term prosperity. That's the argument that some critics have made: \\"Well, you're proposing health care reform, you shouldn't be doing that; you're proposing education investments, you shouldn't be doing that. That adds to the deficit.\\" <p>Look, just as a cash-strapped family may cut back on all kinds of luxuries, but will still insist on spending money to get their children through college, will refuse to have their kids drop out of college and go to work in some fast food place, even though that might bring in some income in the short term, because they're thinking about the long term, so we as a country have to make current choices with an eye to the future. <p>If we don't invest now in renewable energy, if we don't invest now in a skilled workforce, if we don't invest now in a more affordable health care system, this economy simply won't grow at the pace it needs to in 2 or 5 or 10 years down the road. If we don't lay this new foundation now, it won't be long before we're right back where we are today. And I can assure you that chronically slow growth will not help our long-term budget situation. That's the second point. <p>Third point, the problem with our deficit and debt is not new. It has been building dramatically over the past 8 years, largely because big tax cuts combined with increased spending on two wars and the increased costs of Government health care programs have pushed it ever upwards. This structural gap in our budget, between the amount of money that's coming in and the amount of money that's going out, will only get worse as the baby boomers age and will in fact lead us down an unsustainable path. <p>But let's not kid ourselves and suggest that we can solve this problem by trimming a few earmarks or cutting the budget for the National Endowment for the Arts. That's just not true. Along with defense and interest on the national debt, the biggest cost drivers in our budget are entitlement programs like Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security, all of which get more and more expensive every year. So if we want to get serious about fiscal discipline, and I do, then we're going to not only have to trim waste out of our discretionary budget--which we've already begun--we will also have to get serious about entitlement reform. <p>Now, nothing will be more important to this goal than passing health care reform that brings down costs across the system, including in Medicare and Medicaid. So make no mistake, health care reform is entitlement reform. That's not just my opinion; that was the conclusion of a wide range of participants at the Fiscal Responsibility Summit that we held at the White House in February. And that's one of the reasons why I firmly believe we need to get health care reform done this year. <p>Now, once we tackle rising health care costs, we must also work to put Social Security on firmer footing. It's time for both parties to come together and find a way to keep the promise of a sound retirement for future generations. And we should restore a sense of fairness and balance to our Tax Code, including by shutting down corporate loopholes and ensuring that everyone pays what they owe. <p>Now, all of these efforts will require tough choices. All these efforts will require compromise. But the difficulties can't serve as an excuse for inaction--not anymore--which brings me to one final point that I'd like to make today. I've talked a lot about the fundamental weaknesses in our economy that led us to this day of reckoning. But we also arrived here because of a fundamental weakness in our political system. <p>For too long, too many in Washington put off hard decisions for some other time on some other day. There's been a tendency to spend a lot of time scoring political points instead of rolling up sleeves to solve real problems. There's also an impatience that characterizes this town, an attention span that has only grown shorter with the 24-hour news cycle that insists on instant gratification in the form of immediate results or higher poll numbers. When a crisis hits, there's all too often a lurch from shock to trance, with everyone responding to the tempest of the moment until the furor has died down, the media coverage has moved on to something else, instead of confronting the major challenges that will shape our future in a sustained and focused way. <p>This can't be one of those times. The challenges are too great. The stakes are too high. I know how difficult it is for Members of Congress in both parties to grapple with some of the big decisions we face right now. I'd love if these problems were coming at us one at a time instead of five or six at a time. It's more than most Congresses and most Presidents have to deal with in a lifetime. <p>But we have been called to govern in extraordinary times. And that requires an extraordinary sense of responsibility: to ourselves, to the men and women who sent us here, to the many generations whose lives will be affected for good or for ill because of what we do here. <p>There is no doubt that times are still tough. By no means are we out of the woods just yet. But from where we stand, for the very first time, we're beginning to see glimmers of hope. And beyond that, way off in the distance, we can see a vision of an America's future that is far different than our troubled economic past. It's an America teeming with new industry and commerce, humming with new energy and discoveries that light the world once more, a place where anyone from anywhere with a good idea or the will to work can live the dream they've heard so much about. <p>That is the house upon the rock: proud, sturdy, unwavering in the face of the greatest storms. And we will not finish it in 1 year. We will not finish it in many. But if we use this moment to lay that new foundation, if we come together and begin the hard work of rebuilding, if we persist and persevere against the disappointments and setbacks that will surely lie ahead, then I have no doubt that this house will stand and the dream of our Founders will live on in our time. <p>Thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"97" "\"Good morning. I decided not to bring Bo today because he stepped on my economic speech yesterday. [<i>Laughter</i>] Good morning. I know that April 15th is not exactly everyone's favorite date on the calendar, but it is an important opportunity for those of us in Washington to consider our responsibilities to the people who sent us here and who pay the bills. And I've brought some friends of mine who sent me here and pay the bills. <p>Across America, families like the people who join me have had tough choices forced upon them because of this economic downturn. Many have lost a job; many are fighting to keep their business open. Many more are struggling to make payments, to stay in their home, or to pursue a college education. And these Americans are the backbone of our economy, the backbone of our middle class. They're the workers, the innovators, the students who are going to be powering our recovery. So their dreams have to be our own. They need a government that is working to create jobs and opportunity for them, rather than simply giving more and more to those at the very top in the false hope that wealth automatically trickles down. <p>And that's why my administration has taken far-reaching action to give tax cuts to the Americans who need them, while jump-starting growth and job creation in the process. We start from the simple premise that we should reduce the tax burden on working people, while helping Americans go to college, own a home, raise a family, start a business, and save for retirement. Those goals are the foundation of the American Dream, and they are the focus of my tax policy. <p>First, we've passed a broad and sweeping tax cut for 95 percent of American workers. This tax cut was a core focus of my campaign, it was a core component of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, and it is the most progressive tax cut in American history. And starting April 1st, Americans saw this tax cut in the extra money that they took home with each paycheck. <p>Make no mistake: This tax cut will reach 120 million families and put $120 billion directly into their pockets, and it includes the most American workers ever to get a tax cut. This is going to boost demand, and it will save or create over half a million jobs. And the Congressional Budget Office has found that tax cuts like these for American workers are more than three times more effective in stimulating recovery than tax breaks for the very wealthiest Americans. <p>This tax cut also keeps a fundamental promise: that Americans who work hard should be able to make a decent living. It lifts more than 2 million Americans out of poverty. And together with the child tax credit, it ensures that a working parent will be able to support their family. <p>Second, we are helping small businesses keep their doors open so they can weather this economic storm and create good jobs. Instead of the normal 2 years, small businesses are now allowed to offset their losses during this downturn against the income they've earned over the last 5 years. And this could provide a record number of refunds for small businesses, which will provide them with the lifeline they need to maintain inventory and pay their workers. <p>Third, we are helping Americans get the education they need to succeed in a global economy. For years we've seen the price of tuition skyrocket at the same time that it became more and more important to earn a college degree. And that's why we are making college more affordable for every American that needs a hand. That is why we are committed to simplifying the student loan process so more families can get the help they need. And that's also why our $2,500 tax credit for all 4 years of college will help us reach a goal that will help our country lead in the 21st century: By 2020, Americans once again will have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. <p>Fourth, we are helping more Americans purchase homes that they can afford. Just as we must put an end to the irresponsible lending and borrowing that created the housing bubble, we must restore the home as a source of stability and an anchor of the American Dream. That's why we're providing a tax credit of up to $8,000 for first-time homebuyers, which will put a home within reach for hardworking Americans who are playing by the rules and making responsible choices. And by the way, there are at least a couple of folks here who have already used that $8,000 credit, and I think it's wonderful to see that this is already prompting some willingness for people to go ahead and make that first-time purchase where they thought maybe it was out of reach before. <p>Fifth, we know that tax relief must be joined with fiscal discipline. Americans are making hard choices in their budgets, and we've got to tighten our belts in Washington as well. And that's why we've already identified $2 trillion in deficit reductions over the next decade. And that's why we're cutting programs that don't work, contracts that aren't fair, and spending that we don't need. <p>We're also doing away with the unnecessary giveaways that have thrown our Tax Code out of balance. I said this during the campaign, I'm now saying it as President: We need to stop giving tax breaks to companies that stash profits or ship jobs overseas so we can invest in job creation here at home. And we need to end the tax breaks for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans, so that people like me, who are extraordinarily lucky, are paying the same rates that the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans paid when Bill Clinton was President. <p>Finally, we need to simplify a monstrous Tax Code that is far too complicated for most Americans to understand, but just complicated enough for the insiders who know how to game the system. So I've already started by asking Paul Volcker and my Economic Recovery Board to do a thorough review of how to simplify our Tax Code, and to report back to me by the end of this year. It's going to take time to undo the damage of years of carve-outs and loopholes. But I want every American to know that we will rewrite the Tax Code so that it puts your interests over any special interests. And we'll make it easier, quicker, and less expensive for you to file a return, so that April 15th is not a date that is approached with dread every year. <p>Now, I just had a conversation with these wonderful Americans, and like people I talked to all across the country, they're not looking for a free ride. Every single person here is working hard and deserves a chance to get ahead. And they're family like--families like the Kirkwoods, who just want to own their own business and put away some money away for their kids' college tuition. And they're workers like Clark Harrison, behind me, who has worked hard and wants to be able to purchase that first home. They're business owners like Alan Givens, who wants his company to sustain itself through bad times as well as the good. And I was encouraged to hear that Alan's business is going strong on a whole bunch of clean energy measures that he's helping to promote in his area. <p>For too long, we've seen taxes used as a wedge to scare people into supporting policies that actually increased the burden on working people instead of helping them live their dreams. That has to change, and that's the work that we've begun. We've passed tax cuts that will help our economy grow. We've made a clear promise that families that earn less than $250,000 a year will not see their taxes increase by a single dime. And we have kept to those promises that were made during the campaign. We've given tax relief to the Americans who need it and the workers who have earned it. And we're helping more Americans move towards their American Dream by going to school, owning a home, keeping their business, and raising their family. <p>So on this April 15th, we're reminded of the enormous responsibility that comes with handling peoples' tax dollars. And we're renewing our commitment to a simpler Tax Code that rewards work and the pursuit of the American Dream. And I just again want to personally thank all of the families and folks who join me here today, because they inspire me to do what I do every single day. <p>All right, thank you, everybody.\" "
"98" "\"Thank you very much. That is a wonderful reception, and I want to, in addition to Ray LaHood and Joe Biden, Rahm Emanuel, all of who have worked on this extensively, I also want to acknowledge Jim Oberstar and Rob Andrews, two of our finest Members of Congress, both people who understand that investing in our infrastructure, investing in our transportation system pays enormous dividends over the long term. So I'm grateful to them for being here. <p>Well, I've been speaking a lot lately about what we're doing to break free of our economic crisis so to put people back to work and move this nation from recession to recovery. And one area in which we can make investments with impact both immediate and lasting is in America's infrastructure. And that's why the Recovery and Reinvestment Plan we passed not 2 months ago included the most sweeping investment in our infrastructure since President Eisenhower built the Interstate Highway System in the 1950s. And these efforts will save money by untangling gridlock, and saving lives by improving our roads, and save or create 150,000 jobs, mostly in the private sector, by the end of next year. Already, it's put Americans back to work. And so far, we're ahead of schedule, we're under budget, and adhering to the highest standards of transparency and accountability. <p>But if we want to move from recovery to prosperity, then we have to do a little bit more. We also have to build a new foundation for our future growth. Today, our aging system of highways and byways, air routes and rail lines is hindering that growth. Our highways are clogged with traffic, costing us $80 billion a year in lost productivity and wasted fuel. Our airports are choked with increased loads. Some of you flew down here and you know what that was about. We're at the mercy of fluctuating gas prices, all too often. We pump too many greenhouse gases into the air. <p>What we need, then, is a smart transportation system equal to the needs of the 21st century, a system that reduces travel times and increases mobility, a system that reduces congestion and boosts productivity, a system that reduces destructive emissions and creates jobs. <p>What we're talking about is a vision for high-speed rail in America. Imagine boarding a train in the center of a city, no racing to an airport and across a terminal, no delays, no sitting on the tarmac, no lost luggage, no taking off your shoes. [<i>Laughter</i>] Imagine whisking through towns at speeds over 100 miles an hour, walking only a few steps to public transportation, and ending up just blocks from your destination. Imagine what a great project that would be to rebuild America. <p>Now, all of you know this is not some fanciful, pie-in-the-sky vision of the future. It is now; it is happening right now. It's been happening for decades. The problem is it's been happening elsewhere, not here. <p>In France, high-speed rail has pulled regions from isolation, ignited growth, remade quiet towns into thriving tourist destinations. In Spain, a high-speed line between Madrid and Seville is so successful that more people travel between those cities by rail than by car and airplane combined. China, where service began just 2 years ago, may have more miles of high-speed rail service than any other country just 5 years from now. And Japan, the nation that unveiled the first high-speed rail system, is already at work building the next, a line that will connect Tokyo with Osaka at speeds of over 300 miles per hour. So it's being done; it's just not being done here. <p>There's no reason why we can't do this. This is America. There's no reason why the future of travel should lie somewhere else beyond our borders. Building a new system of high-speed rail in America will be faster, cheaper, and easier than building more freeways or adding to an already overburdened aviation system, and everybody stands to benefit. <p>And that's why today, with the help of Secretary LaHood and Vice President Biden, America's number one rail fan, I've been told--[<i>laughter</i>]--I'm announcing my administration's efforts to transform travel in America with an historic investment in high-speed rail. And our strategy has two parts: improving our existing rail lines to make current train service faster--so Rob can, you know, shave a few hours over the course of a week--but also identifying potential corridors for the creation of world-class high-speed rail. To make this happen, we've already dedicated $8 billion of Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds to this initiative, and I've requested another $5 billion over the next 5 years. <p>The Department of Transportation expects to begin awarding funds to ready projects before the end of this summer, well ahead of schedule. And like all funding decisions under the Recovery Act, money will be distributed based on merit--not on politics, not as favors, not for any other consideration, purely on merit. <p>Now, this plan is realistic. And the first round of funding will focus on projects that can create jobs and benefits in the near term. We're not talking about starting from scratch, we're talking about using existing infrastructure to increase speeds on some routes from 70 miles an hour to over 100 miles per hour; so you're taking existing rail lines, you're upgrading them. And many corridors merit even faster service, but this is the first step that is quickly achievable, and it will create jobs improving tracks, crossings, signal systems. <p>The next step is investing in high-speed rail that unleashes the economic potential of all our regions by shrinking distances within our regions. There are at least 10 major corridors in the United States of 100 to 600 miles in length with the potential for successful high-speed rail systems. And these areas have explored its potential impact on their long-term growth and competitiveness, and they've already presented sound plans. I want to be clear: No decision about where to allocate funds has yet been made, and any region can step up, present a plan, and be considered. <p>The high-speed rail corridors we've identified so far would connect areas like the cities of the Pacific Northwest, southern and central Florida, the gulf coast to the Southeast to our Nation's Capital, the breadth of Pennsylvania and New York to the cities of New England, and something close to my heart, a central hub network that draws the cities of our industrial heartland closer to Chicago and one another. <p>Or California, where voters have already chosen to move forward with their own high-speed rail system, a system of new stations and 220-mile-per-hour trains that links big cities to inland towns, that alleviates crippling congestion on highways and at airports, and that makes travel from San Francisco to Los Angeles possible in 2 1/2 hours. <p>And by making investments across the country, we'll lay a new foundation for our economic competitiveness and contribute to smart urban and rural growth. We'll create highly skilled construction and operating jobs that can't be outsourced and generate demand for technology that gives a new generation of innovators and entrepreneurs the opportunity to step up and lead the way in the 21st century. We'll move to cleaner energy and a cleaner environment. We'll reduce our need for foreign oil by millions of barrels a year and eliminate more than 6 billion pounds of carbon dioxide emissions annually, equal to removing 1 million cars from our roads. <p>Now, I know that this vision has its critics. There's those who say high-speed rail is a fantasy, but its success around the world says otherwise. I know Americans love their cars, and nobody's talking about replacing the automobile and our highways as critical parts of our transportation system. We are upgrading those in the recovery package as well. But this is something that can be done, has been done, and can provide us enormous benefits. <p>Now, there are those who argue that if an investment doesn't directly benefit the people of their district, then it shouldn't be made. Jim, you know some of those arguments. [<i>Laughter</i>] But if we followed that rationale, we'd have no infrastructure at all. <p>There are those who say, well, this investment is too small. But this is just a first step. We know that this is going to be a long-term project. But us getting started now, us moving the process forward and getting people to imagine what's possible and putting resources behind it, so that people can start seeing examples of this around the country, that's going to spur all kinds of activity. <p>Now finally, there are those who say at a time of crisis, we shouldn't be pursuing such a strategy; we've got too many other things to do. But our history teaches us a different lesson. As Secretary LaHood just mentioned, President Lincoln was committed to a nation connected from East to West, even at the same time he was trying to hold North and South together. He was in the middle of a Civil War. While fighting raged on one side of the continent, tens of thousands of Americans from all walks of life came together on the other. Dreamers and risktakers willing to invest in America, college-educated engineers and supervisors who learned leadership in war, American workers and immigrants from all over the world, Confederates and Yankees joined on the same side. <p>And eventually, those two sets of tracks met. And with one final blow of a hammer, backed by years of hard work and decades of dreams, the way was laid for a nationwide economy. A telegraph operator sent out a simple message to a waiting nation. It just said, \\"DONE.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] A newspaper proclaimed: \\"We are the youngest of peoples, but we are teaching the world to march forward.\\" <p>In retrospect, America's march forward seems inevitable. But time and again, it's only made possible by generations that are willing to work and sacrifice and invest in plans to make tomorrow better than today. That's the vision we can't afford to lose sight of. That's the challenge that's fallen to this generation. And with this strategy for America's transportation future and our efforts across all fronts to lay a new foundation for our lasting prosperity, that is the challenge we will meet. <p>\\"Make no little plans\\"--that's what Daniel Burnham said in Chicago. I believe that about America: Make no little plans. So let's get to work. Thank you, everybody.\" "
"99" "\"Well, thank you very much. This is an extraordinary honor and an extraordinary pleasure to be here in Mexico with all of you today. I want to thank President Calderon and his wonderful First Lady and the delegation for their hospitality and facilitating this trip. And I want to thank the people of Mexico for the warmth with which I've been received, especially the young people who are here today. Thank you very much. <p>There is a reason why the first visit that I had with a foreign leader after my election was with President Calderon. It was a reminder, as John F. Kennedy said, that the bonds between our two countries cannot be broken. We are joined by a border, but our bonds are so much more than that. In my hometown of Chicago, the population is at least one-third made up of people of Mexican heritage. All across America, all across the United States, we have benefited from the culture, the language, the food, the insights, the literature, the energy, the ambitions of people who have migrated from our southern neighbor. And my hope is, is that the United States has had something to offer to Mexico as well. So our relationship, our friendship is strong, but as President Calderon said, we can make it stronger. <p>At a time where all of us are dealing with an extraordinary global recession, where unemployment is on the rise, where credit has begun to shrink, where businesses are struggling, it is more important than ever that we work together, not only to restore economic growth in Mexico and the United States, but also to make sure that growth is sustainable and to make sure that growth is from the bottom up, so that each and every person--every young person here in Mexico, as well as every young person in the United States, has an opportunity to live out their dreams. <p>At a time when the Mexican Government has so courageously taken on the drug cartels that have plagued both sides of the borders, it is absolutely critical that the United States joins as a full partner in dealing with this issue, both through initiatives like the Merida Initiative, but also on our side of the border, in dealing with the flow of guns and cash south. <p>And at a time when Mexico is not just a regional leader, but now a global leader, as shown by its outstanding participation in the G-20 summit and other multilateral organizations, it's critical that we join together around issues that can't be solved by any one nation, issues like climate change, issues like poverty, issues like terrorism. These are issues in which the United States and Mexico will have to stand side by side in order to promote common security and common prosperity. <p>So it is wonderfully fitting to see the children of Mexico, as well as, I suspect, a few children of the United States here together, waving flags of both countries, because we are reminded--[<i>applause</i>]--because we are reminded that, ultimately, the reason that we serve in government, ultimately, the reason that bilateral relationships like this are so important, is because it allows us to promote a better future for our children. <p>That's what we're fighting for, for their dreams, for their opportunities, for their futures. And I'm very much looking forward to developing the kind of relationship between Mexico and the United States that will allow all the children here, and all the children in both countries, to thrive for years to come. <p>So thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam First Lady, and to all of you, for welcoming me in such a gracious way. Thank you.\" "
"100" "\"Good evening. Thank you very much. Let me begin by expressing my deepest thanks to President Calderon and Mrs. Zavala for their gracious welcome, and thank you for the spectacular setting. I can't imagine a more magnificent evening. This is my first trip as President to Mexico, and it's one that I will always remember fondly for the hospitality and the warmth that has been provided to me during my brief visit. <p>Now, earlier today we conducted a series of productive meetings on a whole host of challenges and opportunities that we face jointly. We spoke about our deep economic ties, reflecting the $1 billion of trade that crosses our borders every day. And we discussed steps that we can take together, both bilaterally and in a global setting, to advance opportunity and prosperity in our two countries and across the Americas. <p>We spoke about the deep ties between our peoples, and what steps can be made to meet our immigration challenge. That involves passing comprehensive immigration reform in the United States, which I am committed to doing, and it involves making certain that we are promoting increased opportunity here in Mexico. <p>We spoke about our obligation to take steps to build clean energy together that can power our economies and beat back climate change in future centuries. And of course, we spoke about the grave dangers that the drug cartels are presenting to both our nations, that are threatening innocent men and women and children on both sides of our borders, and our shared determination to put an end to these drug wars. <p>These are some of the critical challenges that we face as a result of a border we share. But what makes us good neighbors is not that our interests are always aligned, that we will agree on everything. In our long and interwoven history, we haven't always been on the same side of every issue, and there is no doubt that in the future there will be differences once again. What makes us good neighbors is a simple truth that our people share so much more than common challenges and common interests. We also share values and ideals. We are both a people who know the meaning of hard work, a people who know what it means to struggle and to sacrifice on behalf of our children and our grandchildren, people who know that strength comes from faith and from family, people who have known hardship and trial and persevered in the face of great odds. <p>That's the story of the separate struggles for independence that have made our nations who we are, struggles that are forged on this continent, two adjoining nations founded on a set of shared values that our democracy is not simply a gift from a previous generation, but a responsibility for each generation to protect and to pass on to the next. We both understand that no one, whether through influence of politics, the power of money, or the fear of force, is above the law, and that we are--every one of us--equal, endowed with the basic human rights that spring not from our laws but from our Maker. <p>Each of our nations was formed out of this sense that a state has no greater responsibility than to uphold the essential dignity of its citizens. That was the promise of my country's struggle for independence. That was the promise of Mexico's struggle for independence. That was the promise of American independence. It's a promise advanced by Hidalgo as well as Washington, by Lincoln but also by Juarez, and a promise that now falls on all of us to advance in our own time. <p>More than 60 years ago, at a moment when our world was consumed with war, one of my predecessors came here to Mexico to reaffirm the relationship between our two nations. In a speech to the people of Mexico, Franklin Delano Roosevelt said: \\"[Our] peoples are finding that they have common aspirations. They can work together for a common objective. Let us never lose hold of that truth.\\" <p>That was President Roosevelt's message then; that is my message now. And I'm confident that if we continue to draw strength from our common aspirations and purpose from our common objectives, if we continue to act, as we have during this visit, in a spirit of mutual responsibility, mutual respect, and mutual interest, then that is a truth that we will uphold together in the months and years to come. <p>And I am so pleased that I have such an outstanding partner as President Calderon, somebody who has shown his courage and his bravery, and somebody who's shown that he combines a sense of principle with a sense of practicality; somebody who I know wants to be a partner with me as we strengthen our partnership and we make certain that the children of Mexico and the children of the United States are both seeing a future that's more prosperous and more hopeful than the ones that have come before. <p>So thank you very much, everybody. And let me please make a toast to my host.\" "
"101" "\"Good evening. I am honored to join you here today, and I want to thank Prime Minister Manning, the people of Trinidad and Tobago for their generosity in hosting the fifth Summit of the Americas. And I want to extend my greetings to all the heads of state, many of who I am meeting for the first time. All of us are extraordinarily excited to have this opportunity to visit this wonderful country, and as somebody who grew up on an island, I can tell you I feel right at home. <p>It's appropriate and important that we hold this summit in the Caribbean. The energy, the dynamism, the diversity of the Caribbean people inspires us all and are such an important part of what we share in common as a hemisphere. <p>I think everybody recognizes that we come together at a critical moment for the people of the Americas. Our well-being has been set back by a historic economic crisis. Our safety is endangered by a broad range of threats. But this peril can be eclipsed by the promise of a new prosperity and personal security and the protection of liberty and justice for all the people of our hemisphere. That's the future that we can build together, but only if we move forward with a new sense of partnership. <p>All of us must now renew the common stake that we have in one another. I know the promises of partnership have gone unfulfilled in the past and that trust has to be earned over time. While the United States has done much to promote peace and prosperity in the hemisphere, we have at times been disengaged, and at times we sought to dictate our terms. But I pledge to you that we seek an equal partnership. There's no--[<i>applause</i>]--there is no senior partner and junior partner in our relations; there is simply engagement based on mutual respect and common interests and shared values. So I'm here to launch a new chapter of engagement that will be sustained throughout my administration. <p>Now, to move forward, we cannot let ourselves be prisoners of past disagreements. I am very grateful that President Ortega--[<i>applause</i>]--I'm grateful that President Ortega did not blame me for things that happened when I was 3 months old. [<i>Laughter</i>] Too often, an opportunity to build a fresh partnership of the Americas has been undermined by stale debates. And we've heard all these arguments before, these debates that would have us make a false choice between rigid, state-run economies or unbridled and unregulated capitalism, between blame for right-wing paramilitaries or left-wing insurgents, between sticking to inflexible policies with regard to Cuba or denying the full human rights that are owed to the Cuban people. <p>I didn't come here to debate the past; I came here to deal with the future. I believe, as some of our previous speakers have stated, that we must learn from history, but we can't be trapped by it. As neighbors, we have a responsibility to each other and to our citizens. And by working together, we can take important steps forward to advance prosperity and security and liberty. That is the 21st century agenda that we come together to enact. That's the new direction that we can pursue. <p>Before we move forward for our shared discussions over this weekend, I'd like to put forward several areas where the United States is committed already to strengthening collective action on behalf of our shared goals. <p>First, we must come together on behalf of our common prosperity. That's what we've already begun to do. Our unprecedented actions to stimulate growth and restart the flow of credit will help create jobs and prosperity within our borders and within yours. We joined with our G-20 partners to set aside over a trillion dollars for countries going through difficult times, recognizing that we have to provide assistance to those countries that are most vulnerable. We will work with you to ensure that the Inter-American Development Bank can take the necessary steps to increase its current levels of lending and to carefully study the needs for recapitalization in the future. And we recognize that we have a special responsibility, as one of the world's financial centers, to work with partners around the globe to reform a failed regulatory system, so that we can prevent the kinds of financial abuses that led to this current crisis from ever happening again and achieve an economic expansion--not just in the United States but all across the hemisphere--that is built not on bubbles, but on sustainable economic growth. <p>We're also committed to combating inequality and creating prosperity from the bottom up. This is something that I've spoken about in the United States, and it's something that I believe applies across the region. I've asked Congress for $448 million in immediate assistance for those who have been hit hardest by the crisis beyond our borders. And today I'm pleased to announce a new Microfinance Growth Fund for the hemisphere that can restart the lending that can power businesses and entrepreneurs in each and every country that's represented here. This is not charity. Let me be clear: This is not charity. Together, we can create a broader foundation of prosperity that builds new markets and powers new growth for all peoples in the hemisphere, because our economies are intertwined. <p>Next, we can strengthen the foundation of our prosperity and our security and our environment through a new partnership on energy. Our hemisphere is blessed with bountiful resources, and we are all endangered by climate change. Now we must come together to find new ways to produce and use energy so that we can create jobs and protect our planet. <p>So today I'm proposing the creation of a new energy and climate partnership of the Americas that can forge progress to a more secure and sustainable future. It's a partnership that will harness the vision and determination of countries like Mexico and Brazil that have already done outstanding work in this area to promote renewable energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Now, each country will bring its own unique resources and needs, so we will ensure that each country can maximize its strengths as we promote efficiency and improve our infrastructure, share technologies, support investments in renewable sources of energy. And in doing so, we can create the jobs of the future, lower greenhouse gas emissions, and make this hemisphere a model for cooperation. <p>The dangers of climate change are part of a broad range of threats to our citizens; so the third area where we must work together is to advance our common security. Today, too many people in the Americas live in fear. We must not tolerate violence and insecurity, no matter where it comes from. Children must be safe to play in the street, and families should never face the pain of a kidnaping. Policemen must be more powerful than kingpins, and judges must advance the rule of law. Illegal guns must not flow freely into criminal hands, and illegal drugs must not destroy lives and distort our economy. <p>Yesterday President Calderon of Mexico and I renewed our commitment to combat the dangers posed by drug cartels. Today I want to announce a new initiative to invest $30 million to strengthen cooperation on security in the Caribbean. And I have directed key members of my Cabinet to build and sustain relations with their counterparts in the hemisphere to constantly adjust our tactics, to build upon best practices, and develop new modes of cooperation, because the United States is a friend of every nation and person who seeks a future of security and dignity. <p>And let me add that I recognize that the problem will not simply be solved by law enforcement if we're not also dealing with our responsibilities in the United States. And that's why we will take aggressive action to reduce our demand for drugs and to stop the flow of guns and bulk cash south across our borders. And that's why I'm making it a priority to ratify the Illicit Trafficking in Firearms Convention as another tool that we can use to prevent this from happening. And I also am mindful of the statement that's been made earlier, that unless we provide opportunity for an education and for jobs and a career for the young people in the region, then too many will end up being attracted to the drug trade. And so we cannot separate out dealing with the drug issue on the interdiction side and the law enforcement side from the need for critical development in our communities. <p>Finally, we know that true security only comes with liberty and justice. Those are bedrock values of the Inter-American Charter. Generations of our people have worked and fought and sacrificed for them. And it is our responsibility to advance them in our time. So together, we have to stand up against any force that separates any of our people from that story of liberty, whether it's crushing poverty or corrosive corruption, social exclusion or persistent racism or discrimination. Here in this room, and on this dais, we see the diversity of the Americas. Every one of our nations has a right to follow its own path. But we all have a responsibility to see that the people of the Americans have the ability to pursue their own dreams in democratic societies. <p>There's been several remarks directed at the issue of the relationship between the United States and Cuba, so let me address this. The United States seeks a new beginning with Cuba. I know that there is a longer--[<i>applause</i>]--I know there's a longer journey that must be traveled to overcome decades of mistrust, but there are critical steps we can take toward a new day. I've already changed a Cuba policy that I believe has failed to advance liberty or opportunity for the Cuban people. We will now allow Cuban Americans to visit the islands whenever they choose and provide resources to their families the same way that so many people in my country send money back to their families in your countries to pay for everyday needs. <p>Over the past 2 years, I've indicated, and I repeat today, that I'm prepared to have my administration engage with the Cuban Government on a wide range of issues, from drugs, migration, and economic issues, to human rights, free speech, and democratic reform. Now, let me be clear: I'm not interested in talking just for the sake of talking. But I do believe that we can move U.S.-Cuban relations in a new direction. <p>As has already been noted, and I think my presence here indicates, the United States has changed over time. It has not always been easy, but it has changed. And so I think it's important to remind my fellow leaders that it's not just the United States that has to change. All of us have responsibilities to look towards the future. <p>I think it's important to recognize, given historic suspicions, that the United States policy should not be interference in other countries, but that also means that we can't blame the United States for every problem that arises in the hemisphere. That's part of the bargain. That's part of the change that has to take place. That's the old way, and we need a new way. <p>The United States will be willing to acknowledge past errors where those errors have been made. We will be partners in helping to alleviate poverty. But the American people have to get some positive reinforcement if they are to be engaged in the efforts to lift other countries out of the poverty that they're experiencing. <p>Every nation has been on its own journey. Here in Trinidad and Tobago, we must respect those differences while celebrating those things that we share in common. Our nations were all colonized by empires and achieved our own liberation. Our people reflect the extraordinary diversity of human beings, and our shared values reflect a common humanity: the universal desire to leave our children a world that is more prosperous and peaceful than the one that we inherited. <p>So as we gather here, let us remember that our success must be measured by the ability of people to live their dreams. That's a goal that cannot be encompassed with any one policy or communique. It's not a matter of abstractions or ideological debates. It's a question of whether or not we are in a concrete way making the lives of our citizens better. It's reflected in the hopes of our children, in the strength of our democratic institutions, and our faith in the future. <p>It will take time. Nothing is going to happen overnight. But I pledge to you that the United States will be there as a friend and a partner, because our futures are inextricably bound to the future of the people of the entire hemisphere. And we are committed to shaping that future through engagement that is strong and sustained, that is meaningful, that is successful, and that is based on mutual respect and equality. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"102" "\"Good morning, everybody. I just want to say very quickly, I'm very grateful for the opportunity to meet with my colleagues from the south and participate in the meeting. UNASUR is doing some excellent work in their efforts in the region on things like energy and security. I have a lot to learn, and I very much look forward to listening and figuring out how we can work together more effectively. So hopefully, the meeting itself will go more smoothly than getting you guys in to take pictures. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>All right? Thank you, everybody.\" "
"103" "\"It's not news to say that we are living through challenging times: the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression, a credit crisis that's made that downturn worse, and a fiscal disaster that has accumulated over a period of years. <p>In the year 2000, we had projected budget surpluses in the trillions, and Washington appeared to be on the road to fiscal stability. Eight years later, when I walked in the door, the projected budget deficit for this year alone was 1.3 trillion. And in order to jump-start our struggling economy, we were forced to make investments that added to that deficit through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. <p>But as surely as our future depends on building a new energy economy, controlling health care costs, and ensuring that our kids are once again the best educated in the world, it also depends on restoring a sense of responsibility and accountability to our Federal budget. Without significant change to steer away from ever-expanding deficits and debt, we are on an unsustainable course. <p>So today, we simply cannot afford to perpetuate a system in Washington where politicians and bureaucrats make decisions behind closed doors with little accountability for the consequences, where billions are squandered on programs that have outlived their usefulness or exist solely because of the power of a lobbyist or interest group, and where outdated technology and information systems undermine efficiency, threaten our security, and fail to serve an engaged citizenry. <p>If we're going to rebuild our economy on a solid foundation, we need to change the way we do business in Washington. We need to restore the American people's confidence in their Government; that it is on their side, spending their money wisely to meet their families' needs. <p>That starts with the painstaking work of examining every program, every entitlement, every dollar of Government spending and asking ourselves: Is this program really essential? Are taxpayers getting their money's worth? Can we accomplish our goals more efficiently or effectively some other way? <p>It's a process we have already begun, scouring our budget line by line for programs that don't work so we can cut them to make room for ones that do. That means ending tax breaks for companies shipping jobs overseas, stopping the fraud and abuse in our Medicare program, and reforming our health care system to cut costs for families and businesses. It means strengthening whistleblower protections for Government employees who step forward to report wasteful spending, and it means reinstating the pay-as-you-go rule that we followed during the 1990s, so if we want to spend, we'll need to find somewhere else to cut. <p>And this Monday, in my first full Cabinet meeting, I will ask all of my department and agency heads for specific proposals for cutting their budgets. Already, members of my Cabinet have begun to trim back unnecessary expenditures. Secretary Napolitano, for example, is ending consulting contracts to create new seals and logos that have cost the Department of Homeland Security $3 million since 2003. In the largest Department, Secretary Gates has launched a historic project to reform defense contracting procedures and eliminate hundreds of billions of dollars in wasteful spending and cost overruns. And I commend Senators McCain and Levin, a Republican and a Democrat, who have teamed up to lead this effort in Congress. <p>Finally, in the coming weeks, I will be announcing the elimination of dozens of Government programs shown to be wasteful or ineffective. In this effort, there will be no sacred cows and no pet projects. All across America, families are making hard choices, and it's time their Government did the same. <p>That is why I have assembled a team of management, technology, and budget experts to guide us in this work, leaders who will help us revamp Government operations from top to bottom and ensure that the Federal Government is truly working for the American people. <p>I have named Jeffrey Zients, a leading CEO, management consultant, and entrepreneur, to serve as Deputy Director for Management of the Office of Management and Budget and as the first ever Chief Performance Officer. Jeffrey will work to streamline processes, cut costs, and find best practices throughout our Government. <p>Aneesh Chopra, who is currently the secretary of technology for Governor Kaine of Virginia, has agreed to serve as America's Chief Technology Officer. In this role, Aneesh will promote technological innovation to help achieve our most urgent priorities, from creating jobs and reducing health care costs to keeping our Nation secure. <p>Aneesh and Jeffrey will work closely with our Chief Information Officer, Vivek Kundra, who is responsible for setting technology policy across the Government and using technology to improve security, ensure transparency, and lower costs. The goal is to give all Americans a voice in their Government and ensure that they know exactly how we're spending their money and can hold us accountable for the results. <p>None of this will be easy; big change never is. But with the leadership of these individuals, I am confident that we can break our bad habits, put an end to the mismanagement that has plagued our Government, and start living within our means again. That's how we will get our deficits under control and move from recovery to prosperity. And that is how we will give the American people the kind of Government they expect and deserve, one that is efficient, accountable, and fully worthy of their trust. <p>Thank you.\" "
"104" "\"Well, good morning, everybody. I'm very pleased to have this opportunity to meet with the leaders of Central America. Obviously, we have a long history of relations between the United States and Central America, that is a critical partner on a whole range of issues. We have the leadership here--democratically elected--and provided a lot of important information during the course of this summit. <p>But obviously, when you're in a group of 36, it's more difficult to focus just on the regional issues. So this gives me an opportunity to hear more directly about both challenges and opportunities in the region. So I'm very grateful that they've taken the time to meet with me, and I'm looking forward to hearing more about how the United States can be an effective partner with all the countries represented. <p>Thank you.\" "
"105" "\"Well, thank you for the extraordinary welcome, and thanks for those of you who prepared, from the CIA gift shop the T-shirts, the caps, the water bottles. [<i>Laughter</i>] Michelle and the girls will appreciate that very much. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It is a great honor to be here with the men and women of the CIA. I've been eager to come out here to Langley for some time so I can deliver a simple message to you in person on behalf of the American people: Thank you. Thank you for all the work that you do to protect the American people and the freedom that we all cherish. <p>The CIA is fundamental to America's national security. And I want you to know that that's why I nominated such an outstanding public servant and close friend, Leon Panetta, to lead the Agency. He is one of our Nation's finest public servants, he has my complete confidence, and he is a strong voice in my national security team, as well as a strong advocate for the men and women of the CIA. <p>I also benefit from the counsel of several Agency veterans, chief among them, Steve Kappes, who has stayed on to serve as Leon's Deputy, and he's done outstanding work. I have to add, just as an aside by the way, I just met with a smaller group of about 50 so we could have a dialog, and all of you look really young. [<i>Laughter</i>] And so to have a graybeard--literally and figuratively--like Steve Kappes here, I think, is absolutely critical. [<i>Laughter</i>] I also want you to know that we have one of your own, John Brennan, who is doing a terrific job as my adviser for counterterrorism and homeland security. And we are very grateful for the work that he does and the insights that he brings from his long years of service here at the CIA. And I'd be remiss if I didn't mention the extraordinary former CIA officer and Director of Central Intelligence, Bob Gates, who is also part of our Cabinet and every once in a while gives me a few tips. <p>Let me share with you just a few thoughts about the situation in which we find ourselves. First, I want to underscore the importance of the CIA. When the CIA was founded, you were focused on one overarching threat, the Soviet Union. And for decades, the CIA carried out a critically important mission. And with the end of the cold war, some wondered how important the CIA would be to our future. Now we know. <p>Here in the 21st century, we've learned that the CIA is more important than ever, for, as Leon mentioned, we face a wide range of unconventional challenges: stateless terrorist networks like Al Qaida, the spread of catastrophic weapons, cyber threats, failed states, rogue regimes, persistent conflict, and now we have to add to our list, piracy. <p>The CIA is unique in the capabilities of collection, analysis, and operation that you bring to bear. So you are an indispensable tool, the tip of the spear in America's intelligence mission and our national security. It is because of you that I can make good decisions. You prove that the key to good intelligence is not simply technology; it's the quality of the men and women who have signed up to serve. <p>You're on the frontlines against unconventional challenges. You help us understand the world as it is. You support the work of our troops and our diplomats and law enforcement officers. You disrupt terrorist plots, and you're critical to our efforts to destroy terrorist networks. You serve capably, courageously, and from here in Virginia to dangerous outposts around the globe, you make enormous sacrifices on our behalf. So you should be proud of what you do. <p>Second, you need to know that you've got my full support. For decades, the American people have counted on you to protect them. I know that I've come to personally count on your services; I rely on your reporting and your analysis, which finds its way onto my desk every single day. <p>And I know you've got a tough job. I know there's no margin for error. And I know there are endless demands for intelligence, and there is an urgent necessity to collect and analyze information and to work seamlessly with other agencies to act on it. And what makes it tougher is when you succeed--as you so often do--that success usually has to stay secret. So you don't get credit when things go good, but you sure get some blame when things don't. Now--[<i>laughter</i>]--I got a amen corner out here. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, in that context I know that the last few days have been difficult. As I made clear in releasing the OLC memos--as a consequence of a court case that was pending and to which it was very difficult for us to mount an effective legal defense--I acted primarily because of the exceptional circumstances that surrounded these memos, particularly the fact that so much of the information was public--had been publicly acknowledged--the covert nature of the information had been compromised. <p>I have fought to protect the integrity of classified information in the past, and I will do so in the future. And there is nothing more important than protecting the identities of CIA officers. So I need everybody to be clear: We will protect your identities and your security as you vigorously pursue your missions. I will be as vigorous in protecting you as you are vigorous in protecting the American people. <p>Now, I have put an end to the interrogation techniques described in those OLC memos, and I want to be very clear and very blunt. I've done so for a simple reason, because I believe that our Nation is stronger and more secure when we deploy the full measure of both our power and the power of our values, including the rule of law. I know I can count on you to do exactly that. <p>There have been some conversations that I've had with senior folks here at Langley in which I think people have expressed understandable anxiety and concern. So I want to make a point that I just made in the smaller group. I understand that it's hard when you are asked to protect the American people against people who have no scruples and would willingly and gladly kill innocents. Al Qaida is not constrained by a constitution. Many of our adversaries are not constrained by a belief in freedom of speech or representation in court or rule of law. So I'm sure that sometimes it seems as if that means we're operating with one hand tied behind our back or that those who would argue for a higher standard are naive. I understand that. You know, I watch the cable shows once in a while. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>What makes the United States special, and what makes you special, is precisely the fact that we are willing to uphold our values and our ideals even when it's hard, not just when it's easy, even when we are afraid and under threat, not just when it's expedient to do so. That's what makes us different. So, yes, you've got a harder job, and so do I. And that's okay, because that's why we can take such extraordinary pride in being Americans. And over the long term, that is why I believe we will defeat our enemies, because we're on the better side of history. <p>So don't be discouraged by what's happened in the last few weeks. Don't be discouraged that we have to acknowledge, potentially, we've made some mistakes. That's how we learn. But the fact that we are willing to acknowledge them and then move forward, that is precisely why I am proud to be President of the United States, and that's why you should be proud to be members of the CIA. [<i>Applause</i>] All right. <p>Third point, I want you to know how much the American people appreciate your service. Sometimes it's hard to acknowledge sacrifices made by the people whose work or even identity must remain secret. And that's part of the enormous burden that you carry when you sign up. You make extraordinary sacrifices giving up parts of your life in service to your country. Many of you take long deployments overseas. You miss seeing your families. You miss weekend barbecues and the birthday parties, watching your children grow up. You can't even exchange in the simplest pleasures of talking about your job or complaining about your job openly. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>There are few signs of patriotism more powerful than offering to serve out of the limelight. And so many of you have signed up to serve after 9/11--that's partly why you're all so young--fully aware of the dangers before you. You serve courageously, but your courage is only known to a few. You accomplish remarkable things, but the credit you receive is the private knowledge that you've done something to secure this country. That's a sacrifice that's carved into those marble walls. Those 89 stars stand as a testament to both the men and women of the CIA who gave their lives in service to their country and to all who dedicate themselves to the mission of this Agency. <p>Now we must look forward to the future with confidence. All that you've achieved, I believe that the CIA's best days are still yet to come. And you will have my support and appreciation as you carry on this critical work. We live in dangerous times. I am going to need you more than ever, precisely because we're seeing changes in our foreign policy, and we want to send a new message to the world. That requires better intelligence, not less of it. That means that we're going to have to operate smarter and more effectively than ever. So I'm going to be relying on you, and the American people are going to rely on you. And I hope that you will continue to take extraordinary pride in the challenges that come with the job. <p>Thank you very much. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. All right.\" "
"106" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. Please have a seat. Well, welcome to the White House for your sixth straight--[<i>laughter</i>]--Commander in Chief Trophy. By now, you guys know your way around here better than I do. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I want to thank everybody who is here. Obviously, we want to thank the superintendent, Vice Admiral Jeffrey Fowler. Coach Ken, thank you. We were just talking--he's another local boy from Hawaii. [<i>Laughter</i>] He's 4 years younger than me, but apparently we've got some mutual friends. <p>Congratulations to the cocaptains, Clint and Jarod, for your outstanding season. A few other acknowledgements here, we've got Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger, where's Dutch? There he is right there. Good to see you. Congressman Eric Massa--good to see you, Eric. Congressman John Sarbanes, right here; we have B.J. Penn, the Acting Secretary of the Navy. Good to see you, sir. <p>And I want to extend a special welcome to Lieutenant Commander Wesley Brown, class of 1949. There he is, right here. Please stand. Wesley was the Academy's first African American graduate. He served his country for 25 years. And the brand new, state-of-the-art Wesley Brown Field House will ensure that class after class of Midshipmen know his legacy for decades to come. So we are very proud of you, sir. Thank you so much for your attendance here today. <p>The Midshipmen, they've got a lot to be proud of, as we know, six straight bowl games, six consecutive wins over Air Force, most importantly, seven straight wins over Army. [<i>Laughter</i>] What can I--I'm not saying anything. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>You showed incredible perseverance against Temple when you trailed by 20 with 9 minutes to go, tied it, won it in overtime. You won an incredible upset over Wake Forest, even if they got you back at the EagleBank Bowl. We won't talk about that. [<i>Laughter</i>] Often overshadowed by your fearsome offense is the most improved defense in the Nation. <p>And these seniors who are behind us should especially be proud: four straight NCAA rushing titles--team rushing titles, something no team has ever done before, in 4 years, 33 wins, and again, no losses to Army or Air Force. <p>I understand your unofficial motto is \\"No Excuses, Nobody Cares\\"--[<i>laughter</i>]. That is my wife Michelle's motto for me also. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I know that's what makes Navy football so special; you suit up and you play each week against some of the top teams in the country, and you refuse to let that excuse you from taking the coursework or your military training seriously. <p>And that's why I'm so proud of this team for leading the NCAA in graduation rates for 4 straight years--the most important statistic of the Midshipmen. In fact, I want to congratulate the entire Navy athletic department, because, as a whole, Navy athletics has led the Nation in graduation rates 4 years in a row. And that's an extraordinarily, extraordinary accomplishment. <p>So I want to congratulate Coach Ken--as I said, from my original home State, also the first Samoan American head coach in the history of Division I-A, just the third Navy coach since World War II to have a winning record in his first season. <p>Your starting quarterback is also Hawaiian. Where is he? Kaipo--where is he? This guy right here? [<i>Laughter</i>] I hear Kaipo is a pretty easygoing guy. He doesn't get rattled easily, performs under pressure. That's the Hawaiian spirit. That's how we roll. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I've been watching Mel Kiper getting ready for this weekend's NFL draft. Where is he? Mel? I understand that Eric Kettani--where is Eric--right here? One of the top-rated fullbacks in the Nation, he's a big guy. [<i>Laughter</i>] Shun White and Tyree Barnes are serious pro prospects as well. Where are they? These guys? Okay, they look good also. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But, like all 32 seniors on this team, they're preparing to trade one proud uniform for another, and that's the United States of America's uniform. And even though all of you have won 13 straight against the guys at West Point and Colorado Springs, you're all joining the same team now. <p>Football, it's said, makes boys into men. But the Academy makes men and women into leaders. And the bonds that you've built and the lessons that you've learned on that field and in your 4 years by the Bay have prepared you to join and lead the finest fighting force in the history of the world. <p>I want all of you to know that I have no greater honor or greater responsibility than serving as your Commander in Chief. I'm proud of you. And I promise you this: From the minute you put on that uniform to the minute you take it off, and for all the days of your life, this country will stand behind you and will be there for you, because we know that you will be there for us. <p>So God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Let's--let's give me a helmet.\" "
"107" "\"Thank you. Please be seated. Thank you. Well, what an extraordinary day. It is good to be here with all of you. <p>I want to, first of all, thank President Bill Clinton for joining us here today--where's President Clinton?--[<i>applause</i>]--for his lifetime of service to our country, but also the fact that he created AmeriCorps, and that not only made this day possible, it has directly enlisted more than half a million Americans in service to their country, service that has touched the lives of millions more. <p>Now, it just so happens that one of those people who have been touched by AmeriCorps was FLOTUS, otherwise known as First Lady of the United States--[<i>laughter</i>]--Michelle Obama, who ran a AmeriCorps-sponsored program, Public Allies, in Chicago. <p>I also want to thank former First Lady Rosalynn Carter for being here--[<i>applause</i>]--for her advocacy on behalf of those with mental illness, and for her husband's continued good works that inspire us all. I am thrilled to have Caroline Kennedy here--[<i>applause</i>]--for carrying on her family's long legacy of service. <p>To my congressional colleagues who did such a fantastic job on a bipartisan basis ushering this through, starting with the two leaders of the House and the Senate, Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid, I'm grateful to them, and obviously, to Barbara Mikulski and Orrin Hatch, George Miller, the entire delegation who helped to shepherd this through. Please give them a huge round of applause. <p>To my outstanding Vice President, Joe Biden; to Dr. Jill Biden; a couple of outstanding public servants in their own right, please, a warm welcome for General Colin Powell and his wonderful wife, Alma; for the outstanding mayor of the New York City, Michael Bloomberg; and I've got to give some special props to my fellow Illinoisan, a great friend, Dick Durbin. <p>Finally, and I know that I've got some prepared remarks, but I just want to go ahead and say it now. There are very few people who have touched the life of this Nation in the same breadth and the same order of magnitude than the person who is seated right behind me. And so this is just an extraordinary day for him. And I am truly grateful and honored to call him a friend, a colleague, and one of the finest leaders we've ever had, Ted Kennedy. <p>All right. I want to thank the students and the faculty of the SEED School--[<i>applause</i>]--our hosts for today, and their headmaster, Charles Adams. Where's Mr. Adams? Is he here? A shining example of how AmeriCorps alums go on to do great things. This school is a true success story, a place where for 4 of the last 5 years, every graduate from the SEED School was admitted to college, every graduate. <p>It's a place where service is a core component of the curriculum. And just as the SEED School teaches reading and writing, arithmetic and athletics, it also prepares our young Americans to grow into active and engaged citizens. And what these students come to discover through service is that by befriending a senior citizen, or helping the homeless, or easing the suffering of others, they can find a sense of purpose and renew their commitment to this country that we love. <p>And that is the spirit in which we gather today, as I sign into law a bill that represents the boldest expansion of opportunities to serve our communities and our country since the creation of AmeriCorps, a piece of legislation named for a man who has not only touched countless lives, but who still sails against the wind, a man who's never stopped asking what he can do for his country, and that's Senator Edward M. Kennedy. <p>In my Address to a joint session of Congress in February, I asked for swift passage of this legislation, and these folks on the stage came through. So, again, I want to thank wide bipartisan majorities in the House and the Senate who came together to pass this bill, especially Barbara Mikulski, Mike Enzi, Chris Dodd, John McCain, who's not here, Thad Cochran, as well as, on the House side, Representatives Miller and Carolyn McCarthy, Buck McKeon and Howard Berman. <p>More than anyone else, the new era of service we enter in today has been made possible by the unlikely friendship between these two men, Orrin Hatch and Ted Kennedy. They may be the odd couple of the Senate. [<i>Laughter</i>] One is a conservative Republican from Utah; the other is, well, Ted Kennedy. [<i>Laughter</i>] But time and again, they placed partnership over partisanship to advance this Nation even in times when we were told that wasn't possible. <p>Senator Hatch was shaped by his experience as a young missionary serving others, a period he has called the greatest of his life. And last year he approached Senator Kennedy to share his ideas about service. Out of that conversation came this legislation. And last month, at Senator Hatch's selfless request, the Senate unanimously chose to name this bill after his dear friend, Ted. That's the kind of class act that Orrin Hatch is. <p>Now, Ted's story, and the story of his family, is known to all. It's a story of service. And it's also the story of America, of hard work and sacrifice of generation after generation, some called upon to give more than others, but each committed to the idea that we can make tomorrow better than today. I wouldn't be standing here today if not for the service of others or for the purpose that service gave my own life. <p>I've told this story before. When I moved to Chicago more than two decades ago to become a community organizer, I wasn't sure what was waiting for me there, but I had always been inspired by the stories of the civil rights movement, and President Kennedy's call to service, and I knew I wanted to do my part to advance the cause of justice and equality. <p>And it wasn't easy, but eventually, over time, working with leaders from all across these communities, we began to make a difference in neighborhoods that had been devastated by steel plants that had closed down and jobs that had dried up. We began to see a real impact in people's lives. And I came to realize I wasn't just helping people, I was receiving something in return, because through service I found a community that embraced me, citizenship that was meaningful, the direction that I had been seeking. I discovered how my own improbable story fit into the larger story of America. <p>It's the same spirit of service I've seen across this country. I've met countless people of all ages and walks of life who want nothing more than to do their part. I've seen a rising generation of young people work and volunteer and turn out in record numbers. They're a generation that came of age amidst the horrors of 9/11 and Katrina, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, an economic crisis without precedent. And yet, despite all this--or more likely because of it--they've become a generation of activists possessed with that most American of ideas, that people who love their country can change it. <p>They're why the Peace Corps has three applications for every position available last year; why 35,000 young people applied for only 4,000 slots in Teach for America; why AmeriCorps has seen a 400-percent increase in applications in just the past 4 months. And yet, even as so many want to serve, even as so many are struggling, our economic crisis has forced our charities and non-for-profits to cut back. <p>What this legislation does, then, is to help harness this patriotism and connect deeds to needs. It creates opportunities to serve for students, seniors, and everyone in between. It supports innovation and strengthens the nonprofit sector. And it is just the beginning of a sustained, collaborative, and focused effort to involve our greatest resource, our citizens, in the work of remaking this Nation. <p>We're doing this because I've always believed that the answer to our challenges cannot come from government alone. Our Government can help to rebuild our economy and lift up our schools and reform health care systems and make sure our soldiers and veterans have everything they need, but we need Americans willing to mentor our eager young children, or care for the sick, or ease the strains of deployment on our military families. <p>And that's why this bill will expand AmeriCorps from 75,000 slots today to 250,000 in less than a decade. And it's not just for freshly minted college grads. As I said, my wife Michelle left her job at a law firm to be the founding director of an AmeriCorps program in Chicago that trains young people for careers in public service. And Michelle can tell you the transformation that occurred in her life as a consequence of being able to follow her passions, follow her dreams. <p>Programs like these are a force multiplier; they leverage small numbers of members into thousands of volunteers. And we will focus their service toward solving today's most pressing challenges: clean energy, energy efficiency, health care, education, economic opportunity, veterans, and military families. <p>We'll invest in ideas that help us meet our common challenges, no matter where those ideas come from. All across America, there are ideas that could benefit millions of Americans if only they were given a chance to take root and to grow, ideas like the one that Eric Adler and Raj Vinnakota had that led to this school and expanded its model to others. <p>That's why this bill includes a new Social Innovation Fund that will bring nonprofits and foundations and faith-based organizations and the private sector to the table with Government so that we can learn from one another's success stories. We'll invest in ideas that work, leverage private-sector dollars to encourage innovation, expand successful programs to scale and make them work in cities across America. <p>Because we must prepare our young Americans to grow into active citizens, this bill makes new investments in service learning. And we've increased the AmeriCorps education award and linked it to Pell grant award levels, another step toward our goal of ensuring that every American receives an affordable college education. Because millions of Americans are out of school and out of work, it creates an energy corps that will help people find useful work and gain skills in a growing industry of the future. Because our boomers are the most highly educated generation in history and our seniors live longer and more active lives than ever before, this bill offers new pathways to harness their talent and experience to serve others. And because this historic expansion of the Corporation for National and Community Service requires someone with both bold vision and responsible management experience, I have chosen Mary [Maria]<A CLASS=\\"footnote\\" actuate=\\"user\\" href=\\" id(pgfId-3179604)\\" show=\\"replace\\" xml:link=\\"simple\\">6</A> Eitel--where's Mary? There she is, stand up, Mary--as its new CEO. The founder and first president of the Nike Foundation, Maria is a smart and innovative thinker, and a leader who shares my belief in the power of service. And I also wanted to thank the Acting CEO, Nicky Goren--where's Nicky?--for guiding the corporation through this transition. <p>A week from tomorrow marks the 100th day of my administration. In those next 8 days, I ask every American to make an enduring commitment to serving your community and your country in whatever way you can. Visit whitehouse.gov to share your stories of service and success. And together, we will measure our progress not just in the number of hours served or volunteers mobilized, but in the impact our efforts have on the life of this Nation. <p>We're getting started right away. This afternoon, I'll be joined by President Clinton and Michelle and Joe Biden and Dr. Biden to plant trees in a park not far from here. It's as simple as that. All that's required on your part is a willingness to make a difference. And that is, after all, the beauty of service. Anybody can do it. You don't need to be a community organizer, or a Senator, or a Kennedy--[<i>laughter</i>]--or even a President to bring change to people's lives. <p>When Ted Kennedy makes this point, he also tells a story as elegantly simple as it is profound. An old man walking along a beach at dawn saw a young man pick up a starfish and throwing them out to sea. \\"Why are you doing that?\\" the old man inquired. The young man explained that the starfish had been stranded on the beach by a receding tide and would soon die in the daytime sun. \\"But the beach goes on for miles,\\" the old man said. \\"And there are so many. How can your effort make any difference?\\" The young man looked at the starfish in his hand, and without hesitating, threw it to safety in the sea. He looked up at the old man, smiled, and said: \\"It will make a difference to that one.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>To Ted, that's more than just a story. For even in the midst of his epic fights on the floor of the Senate to enact sweeping change, he's made a quiet trek to a school not far from the Capitol, week after week, year after year, without cameras or fanfare, to sit down and read with one solitary child. <p>Ted Kennedy is that young man who will not rest until we've made a difference in the life of every American. He walks down that beach, and he keeps on picking up starfish, tossing them into the sea. And as I sign this legislation, I want all Americans to take up that spirit of the man for whom this bill is named, of a President who sent us to the Moon, of a dreamer who always asked \\"Why not?,\\" of a younger generation that carries the torch of a single family that has made an immeasurable difference in the lives of countless families. <p>We need your service right now, at this moment in history. I'm not going to tell you what your role should be; that's for you to discover. But I'm asking you to stand up and play your part. I'm asking you to help change history's course, put your shoulder up against the wheel. And if I--if you do, I promise you, your life will be richer, our country will be stronger, and someday, years from now, you may remember it as the moment when your own story and the American story converged, when they came together, and we met the challenges of our new century. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. I'm going to go sign this bill. <p>[<i>At this point, the President signed the bill.</i>] <p>All right, everybody, this bill has been signed.\""
"108" "\"Thank you so much. Thank you, Rich, for the great introduction. Thank you very much. Please, everybody have a seat. <p>It is good to be back in Newton, and it's a privilege to be here at Trinity Structural Towers. I've got a couple of special thank yous that I want to make, because I've got a lot of old friends, not old in years, but been friends for a long time now. First of all, your outstanding Governor, Chet Culver, please give him a big round of applause. His wonderful wife, Mari, I see over here. She's not on the card, but--[<i>applause</i>]. My outstanding Secretary of Agriculture, who I plucked from Iowa, Tom Vilsack, and his wonderful wife Christie Vilsack. We've got the attorney general of Iowa, one of my cochairs when I ran in the Iowa caucus and nobody could pronounce my name, Tom Miller; my other cochair, Mike Fitzgerald, treasurer of Iowa. We got the Iowa Secretary of State, Mike Mauro--there he is. We've got your outstanding Member of Congress who's working hard for Newton all the time, Leonard Boswell; and your own pride of Newton, Mayor Chaz Allen. There he is, back there. It's good to see you again, Chaz. <p>It is terrific to be here, and by the way, I've got a whole bunch of folks here who were active in the campaign, and precinct captains. And I just want to thank all of them for showing up, and to all the great workers who are here at this plant, thank you. <p>I just had a terrific tour of the facility led by several of the workers and managers who operate this plant. It wasn't too long ago, as Rich said, that Maytag closed its operations in Newton. And hundreds of jobs were lost. These floors were dark and silent. The only signs of a once thriving enterprise were the cement markings where the equipment had been before they were boxed up and carted away. <p>Look at what we see here today. This facility is alive again with new industry. This community is still going through some tough times. If you talk to your neighbors and friends, I know they--the community still hasn't fully recovered from the loss of Maytag. Not everybody's been rehired. But more than 100 people will now be employed at this plant, maybe more, if we keep on moving. Many of the same folks who had lost their jobs when Maytag shut its doors now are finding once again their ability to make great products. <p>Now, obviously, things aren't exactly the same as they were with Maytag, because now you're using the materials behind me to build towers to support some of the most advanced wind turbines in the world. When completed, these structures will hold up blades that can generate as much as 2.5 megawatts of electricity, enough energy to power hundreds of homes. At Trinity, you are helping to lead the next energy revolution. But you're also heirs to the last energy revolution. <p>Think about it: Roughly a century and a half ago, in the late 1950s [1850s],<A CLASS=\\"footnote\\" actuate=\\"user\\" href=\\" id(pgfId-1648441)\\" show=\\"replace\\" xml:link=\\"simple\\">7</A> the Seneca Oil Company hired an unemployed train conductor named Edwin Drake to investigate the oil springs of Titusville, Pennsylvania. Around this time, oil was literally bubbling up from the ground, but nobody knew what to do with it. It had limited economic value and often all it did was ruin crops or pollute drinking water. <p>Now, people were starting to refine oil for use as fuel. Collecting oil remained time consuming, though, and it was back-breaking, and it was costly. It wasn't efficient, as workers harvested what they could find in the shallow ground, they'd literally scoop it up. But Edwin Drake had a plan. He purchased a steam engine, and he built a derrick, and he began to drill. <p>And months passed, and progress was slow. The team managed to drill into the bedrock just a few feet each day. And crowds gathered, and they mocked Mr. Drake. They thought him and the other diggers were foolish. The well that they were digging even earned the nickname, \\"Drake's Folly.\\" But Drake wouldn't give up. And he had an advantage: total desperation. It had to work. And then one day, it finally did. <p>One morning, the team returned to the creek to see crude oil rising up from beneath the surface. And soon, Drake's well was producing what was then an astonishing amount of oil, perhaps 10, 20 barrels every day. And then speculators followed, and they built similar rigs as far as the eye could see. In the next decade, the area would produce tens of millions of barrels of oil. And as the industry grew, so did the ingenuity of those who sought to profit from it, as competitors developed new techniques to drill and transport oil to drive down costs and gain a competitive advantage in the marketplace. <p>Now, our history is filled with such stories, stories of daring talent, of dedication to an idea even when the odds are great, of the unshakeable belief that in America, all things are possible. And this has been especially true in energy production. From the first commercially viable steamboat developed by Robert Fulton to the first modern solar cell developed at Bell Labs, from the experiments of Benjamin Franklin to harness the energy of lightning to the experiments of Enrico Fermi to harness the power contained in the atom, America has always led the world in producing and harnessing new forms of energy. <p>But just as we've led the global economy in developing new sources of energy, we've also led in consuming energy. While we make up less than 5 percent of the world's population, we produce roughly a quarter of the world's demand for oil. <p>And this appetite comes now at a tremendous cost to our economy. It's the cost measured by our trade deficit. Twenty percent of what we spend on imports is the price of our oil imports. We send billions of dollars overseas to oil-exporting nations, and I think all of you know many of them are not our friends. It's the same costs attributable to our vulnerability, to the volatility of oil markets. Every time the world oil market goes up, you're getting stuck at the pump. It's the cost we feel in shifting weather patterns that are already causing record-breaking droughts, unprecedented wildfires, more intense storms. <p>It's a cost we've known ever since the gas shortages of the 1970s. And yet, for more than 30 years, too little's been done about it. There's a lot of talk of action when oil prices skyrocket like they did last summer and everybody says we got to do something about energy independence, but then it slips from the radar when oil prices start falling like they have recently. So we shift from shock to indifference time and again, year after year. <p>We can't afford that approach anymore, not when the cost for our economy, for our country, <FOOTNOTES> <FOOTNOTE> <Footnote> <A ID=\\"pgfId-1648441\\"/> White House correction.</Footnote> </FOOTNOTE> </FOOTNOTES> and for our planet is so high. So on this Earth Day, it is time for us to lay a new foundation for economic growth by beginning a new era of energy exploration in America. That's why I'm here. <p>Now, the choice we face is not between saving our environment and saving our economy. The choice we face is between prosperity and decline. We can remain the world's leading importer of oil, or we can become the world's leading exporter of clean energy. We can allow climate change to wreak unnatural havoc across the landscape, or we can create jobs working to prevent its worst effects. We can hand over the jobs of the 21st century to our competitors, or we can confront what countries in Europe and Asia have already recognized as both a challenge and an opportunity. The nation that leads the world in creating new energy sources will be the nation that leads the 21st century global economy. <p>America can be that nation. America must be that nation. And while we seek new forms of fuel to power our homes and cars and businesses, we will rely on the same ingenuity, the same American spirit, that has always been a part of our American story. <p>Now, this will not be easy. There aren't any silver bullets. There's no magic energy source right now. Maybe some kid in a lab somewhere is figuring it out. Twenty years from now, there may be an entirely new energy source that we don't yet know about. But right now, there's no silver bullet. It's going to take a variety of energy sources, pursued through a variety of policies, to drastically reduce our dependence on oil and fossil fuels. As I've often said, in the short term, as we transition to renewable energy, we can and should increase our domestic production of oil and natural gas. We're not going to transform our economy overnight. We still need more oil; we still need more gas. If we've got some here in the United States that we can use, we should find it and do so in an environmentally sustainable way. We also need to find safer ways to use nuclear power and store nuclear waste. <p>But the bulk of our efforts must focus on unleashing a new, clean energy economy that will begin to reduce our dependence on foreign oil, will cut our carbon pollution by about 80 percent by 2050, and create millions of new jobs right here in America, right here in Newton. <p>My administration has already taken unprecedented action towards this goal. It's work that begins with the simplest, fastest, most effective way we have to make our economy cleaner, and that is to make our economy more energy efficient. California has shown that it can be done. While electricity consumption grew 50 percent in this country over the last three decades, in California, it remained flat. <p>Think about this. I want everybody to think about this. Over the last several decades, the rest of the country, we used 50 percent more energy; California remained flat, used the same amount, even though that they were growing just as fast as the rest of the country, because they were more energy efficient. They put in some good policy early on that assured that they weren't wasting energy. Now, if California can do it, then the whole country can do it. Iowa can do it. <p>Through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, we've begun to modernize 75 percent of all Federal building space, which has the potential to reduce long-term energy costs just in Federal buildings by billions of dollars on behalf of taxpayers. We're providing grants to States to help weatherize hundreds of thousands of homes, which will save the families that benefit about $350 each year. That's like a $350 tax cut. <p>Consumers are also eligible as part of the Recovery Act for up to $1,500 in tax credits to purchase more efficient cooling and heating systems, insulation, and windows in order to reduce their energy bills. And I've issued a memorandum to the Department of Energy to implement more aggressive efficiency standards for common household appliances, like dishwashers and refrigerators. We actually have made so much progress, just on something as simple as refrigerators, that you have seen refrigerators today many times more efficient than they were back in 1974. We save huge amounts of energy, if we upgrade those appliances. Through this--through these steps, over the next three decades, we will save twice the amount of energy produced by all the coal-fired power plants in America in any given year. <p>We're already seeing reports from across the country of how this is beginning to create jobs, because local governments and businesses rush to hire folks to do the work of building and installing these energy efficient products. And these steps will spur job creation and innovation as more Americans make purchases that place a premium on reducing energy consumption. Business across the country will join the competition, developing new products, seeking new consumers. <p>In the end, the sum total of choices made by consumers and companies in response to our recovery plan will mean less pollution in our air and water. It'll reduce costs for families and businesses--money in your pocket, and it will lower our overall reliance on fossil fuels, which disrupt our environment and endanger our children's future. <p>So that's step number one: energy efficiency. That's the low-hanging fruit. But energy efficiency can only take us part of the way. Even as we're conserving energy, we need to change the way we produce energy. <p>Today, America produces less than 3 percent of our electricity through renewable sources like wind and solar, less than 3 percent. Now, in comparison, Denmark produces almost 20 percent of their electricity through wind power. We pioneered solar technology, but we've fallen behind countries like Germany and Japan in generating it, even though we've got more sun than either country. I don't accept this is the way it has to be. When it comes to renewable energy, I don't think we should be followers, I think it's time for us to lead. <p>We are now poised to do exactly that. According to some estimates, last year, 40 percent of all new generating capacity in our country came from wind. In Iowa, you know what this means. This State is second only to Texas in installed wind capacity, which more than doubled last year alone. The result: Once shuttered factories are whirring back to life right here at Trinity. At TPI Composites, where more than 300 workers are manufacturing turbine blades, same thing. Elsewhere in this State and across America--in 2000, energy technology represented just one half of one percent of all venture capital investments. Today, it's more than 10 percent. <p>The recovery plan seeks to build on this progress and encourage even faster growth. We're providing incentives to double our Nation's capacity to generate renewable energy over the next few years, extending the production tax credit, providing loan guarantees, offering grants to spur investment in new sources of renewable fuel and electricity. My budget also invests $15 billion each year for 10 years to develop clean energy including wind power and solar power, geothermal energy, and clean coal technology. <p>And today I'm announcing that my administration is taking another historic step. Through the Department of Interior, we are establishing a program to authorize, for the very first time, the leasing of Federal waters for projects to generate electricity from wind, as well as from ocean currents and other renewable sources. And this will open the door to major investments in offshore clean energy. For example, there is enormous interest in wind projects off the coasts of New Jersey and Delaware, and today's announcement will enable these projects to move forward. <p>It's estimated that if we fully pursue our potential for wind energy on land and offshore, wind can generate as much as 20 percent of our electricity by 2030 and create a quarter-million jobs in the process, 250,000 jobs in the process, jobs that pay well and provide good benefits. It's a win-win: It's good for the environment; it's great for the economy. <p>Even as we pursue renewable energy from the wind and the Sun and other sources, we also need a smarter, stronger electricity grid--some of you have been hearing about this, this smart grid--a grid that can carry energy from one end of this country to the other. So when you guys are building these amazing towers and the turbines are going up and they're producing energy, we've got to make sure that energy produced in Iowa can get to Chicago, energy produced in North Dakota can get to Milwaukee. That's why we're making an $11 billion investment through the recovery plan to modernize the way we distribute electricity. <p>And as we're taking unprecedented steps to save energy and generate new kinds of energy for our homes and businesses, we need to do the same for our cars and trucks. Right now, two of America's iconic automakers are considering their future. They're facing difficult challenges--I'm talking about Chrysler and GM. But one thing we know is that for automakers to succeed in the future, these companies need to build the cars of the future, they can't build the cars of the past. Yet, for decades, fuel economy and fuel economy standards have stagnated, leaving American consumers vulnerable to the ebb and flow of gas prices. When gas prices spike up like they did last summer, suddenly the market for American cars plummets, because we build SUVs. That's it. It leaves the American economy ever more dependent on the supply of foreign oil. <p>We have to create the incentives for companies to develop the next generation of clean energy vehicles, and for Americans to drive them, particularly as the U.S. auto industry moves forward on a historic restructuring that can position it for a more prosperous future. And that's why my administration has begun to put in place higher fuel economy standards for the first time since the mid-1980s, so our cars will get better mileage, saving drivers money, spurring companies to develop more innovative products. The Recovery Act also includes $2 billion in competitive grants to develop the next generation of batteries for plug-in hybrids. We're planning to buy 17,600 American-made, fuel-efficient cars and trucks for the Government fleet. And today, Vice President Biden is announcing a Clean Cities grant program through the Recovery Act to help State and local governments purchase clean energy vehicles too. <p>We can clean up our environment and put people back to work in a strong U.S. auto industry, but we've got to have some imagination and we've got to be bold. We can't be looking backwards; we've got to look forward. <p>My budget's also making unprecedented investments in mass transit, high-speed rail, and in our highway system to reduce the congestion that wastes money and time and energy. We need to connect Des Moines to Chicago with high-speed rail, all across the Midwest. That way you don't have to take off your shoes when you want to go visit Chicago going through the airport. <p>My budget also invests in advanced biofuels and ethanol, which, as I've said, is an important transitional fuel to help us end our dependence on foreign oil while moving towards clean, homegrown sources of energy. <p>And while we're creating the incentives for companies to develop these technologies, we're also creating incentives for consumers to adapt to these new technologies. So the Recovery Act includes a new credit--new tax credit for up to $7,500 to encourage Americans to buy more fuel-efficient cars and trucks. So if you guys are in the market to buy a car or truck, check out that tax credit. <p>In addition, innovation depends on innovators doing the research and testing the ideas that might not pay off in the short run--some of them will be dead-ends, won't pay off at all--but when taken together, hold incredible potential over the long term. And that's why my recovery plan includes the largest investment in basic research funding in American history. And my budget includes a 10-year commitment to make the research and experimentation tax credit permanent. That's a tax credit that returns $2 to the economy for every dollar we spend. That young guy in the garage designing a new engine or a new battery, that computer scientist who's imagining a new way of thinking about energy, we need to fund them now, fund them early, because that's what America has always been about, technology and innovation. <p>And this is only the beginning. My administration will be pursuing comprehensive legislation to move towards energy independence and prevent the worst consequences of climate change, while creating the incentives to make clean energy the profitable kind of energy in America. <p>Now, there's been some debate about this whole climate change issue. But it's serious. It could be a problem. It could end up having an impact on farmers like Rich. If you're starting to see temperatures grow--rise 1, 2, 3 percent, have a profound impact on our lives. And the fact is, we place limits on pollutants like sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide and other harmful emissions. But we haven't placed any limits on carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. It's what's called the carbon loophole. <p>Now, last week, in response to a mandate from the United States Supreme Court, the Environmental Protection Agency determined that carbon dioxide and other tailpipe emissions are harmful to the health and well-being of our people. So there's no question that we have to regulate carbon pollution in some way; the only question is how we do it. <p>I believe the best way to do it is through legislation that places a market-based cap on these kinds of emissions. And today key members of my administration are testifying in Congress on a bill that seeks to enact exactly this kind of market-based approach. My hope is that this will be the vehicle through which we put this policy in effect. <p>And here's how a market-based cap would work: We'd set a cap, a ceiling, on all the carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that our economy is allowed to produce in total, combining the emissions from cars and trucks, coal-fired power plants, energy-intensive industries, all sources. <p>And by setting an overall cap, carbon pollution becomes like a commodity. It places a value on a limited resource, and that is the ability to pollute. And to determine that value, just like any other traded commodity, we'd create a market where companies could buy and sell the right to produce a certain amount of carbon pollution. And in this way, every company can determine for itself whether it makes sense to spend the money to become cleaner or more efficient, or to spend the money on a certain amount of allowable pollution. <p>Over time, as the cap on greenhouse gases is lowered, the commodity becomes scarcer, and the price goes up. And year by year, companies and consumers would have greater incentive to invest in clean energy and energy efficiency as the price of the status quo becomes more expensive. <p>What this does is it makes wind power more economical, makes solar power more economical. Clean energy all becomes more economical. And by closing the carbon loophole through this kind of market-based cap, we can address in a systematic way all the facets of the energy crisis. We lower our dependence on foreign oil, we reduce our use of fossil fuels, we promote new industries right here in America. We set up the right incentives so that everybody is moving in the same direction towards energy independence. <p>And as we pursue solutions through the public and private sectors, we also need to remember that every American has a role to play. This is not just a job for government. You know, some of you may remember, during the campaign, when gas was real high, I suggested during the campaign that one small step Americans could take would be to keep their tires inflated. Do you remember that? Everybody teased me. They said, \\"Oh, look, look, that's Obama's energy policy.\\" My opponent sent around tire gauges. But I tell you what, it turns out that saves you an awful lot of gas--money in your pocket. It also made sense for our energy use as a whole. If everybody kept their tires inflated, that would have a big dent. It would produce as much oil savings as we might be pumping in some of these offshore sites by drilling. <p>So we've got to get everybody involved in this process. I don't accept the conventional wisdom that suggests that the American people are unable or unwilling to participate in a national effort to transform the way we use energy. I don't believe that the only thing folks are capable of doing is just paying their taxes. I disagree. I think the American people are ready to be part of a mission. I believe that. <p>It's not just keeping your tires inflated. If each one of us replaced just one ordinary incandescent light bulb with one of those compact fluorescent light bulbs--you know, the squirrelly ones--that could save enough energy to light 3 million homes. Just one light bulb each, 3 million homes worth of energy savings. That's just one small step. So all of us are going to have to be involved in this process. And like I said, if you make the investment upfront, you, the individual consumer will save money in the long term, and all of us collectively will be better off. <p>Now, this is also a global problem, so it's going to require a global coalition to solve it. If we've got problems with climate change, and the temperature rising all around the world, that knows no boundaries, and the decisions of any nation will affect every nation. So next week, I will be gathering leaders of major economies from all around the world to talk about how we can work together to address this energy crisis and this climate crisis. <p>Truth is the United States has been slow to participate in this kind of a process, working with other nations. But those days are over now. We are ready to engage, and we're asking other nations to join us in tackling this challenge together. <p>All of these steps we've taken in just the first 3 months, probably represents more progress than we've achieved in three decades on the energy front. We're beginning the difficult work of reducing our dependence on foreign oil. We're beginning to break the bonds, the grip, that fossil fuels has on us. We're beginning to create a new, clean energy economy, and the millions of jobs that will flow from it. <p>Now, there are those who still cling to the notion that we ought to just continue doing what we do; that we can't change--Americans like to use a lot of energy, that's just how we are; that government has neither the responsibility nor the reason to address our dependence on energy sources, even though they undermine our security and threaten our economy and endanger our planet. <p>And then there is this even more dangerous idea, the idea that there's nothing we can do about it: \\"Our politics is broken; our people are unwilling to make hard choices.\\" So politicians decide: \\"Look, even though we know it's something that has to be done, we're just going to put it off.\\" That's what happened for the last three, four, five decades. Everybody has known that we had to do something, but nobody wanted to actually go ahead and do it, because it's hard. <p>So the implication in this argument is that we've somehow lost something important, that perhaps because of the very prosperity we've built over the course of generations, that we've given up that fighting American spirit, that sense of optimism, that willingness to tackle tough challenges, that determination to see those challenges to the end, the notion that we've gotten soft somehow. <p>I reject that argument. I reject it because of what you're doing right here at Trinity, what's happening right here in Newton after folks have gone through hard times. I reject it because of what I've seen across this country, in all the eyes of the people that I've met, in the stories that I've heard, in the factories I've visited, in the places where I've seen the future being pieced together, test by test, trial by trial. <p>So it will not be easy. There will be bumps along the road. There will be costs for our Nation and for each of us as individuals. As I said before, there's no magic bullet, there's no perfect answer to our energy needs. All of us are going to have to use energy more wisely. But I know that we are ready and able to meet these challenges. All of us are beneficiaries of a daring and innovative past. Our parents, our grandparents, our great-grandparents adapted to much more difficult circumstances to deliver the prosperity that we enjoy today. <p>And I'm confident that we can be and will be the benefactors of a brighter future for our children and grandchildren. That can be our legacy, a legacy of vehicles powered by clean renewable energy traveling past newly opened factories, of industries employing millions of Americans in the work of protecting our planet, of an economy exporting the energy of the future instead of importing the energy of the past, of a nation once again leading the world to meet the challenges of our time. <p>That's our future. I hope you're willing to work with me to get there. Thank you very much. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\""
"109" "\"<i>The President.</i> All right. Well, this is not \\"The Swamp\\" that you're used to, but DC is built on a swamp, so welcome to Washington, DC, and welcome back to the White House. I know at least that the--some of the upperclassmen have been here before. Congratulations on the national champions--being the national champions for the second time in 3 years. That's outstanding, and they deserve a big round of applause, so give them a--[<i>applause</i>]. <p>I want to congratulate everybody who makes this program run, from the assistants to the trainers, from the students to the ticket takers, all of you should be very, very proud. And I should mention, by the way, there are a whole bunch of Members of Congress who are here from Florida who are very proud. And so--and they brag about you in Congress all the time. <p>I want to thank Coach Urban Meyer, his wife Shelley, and their family for being here. I was just mentioning as we were walking down, there's something about Coach Meyer's teams; they just have a lot of heart. And that's a reflection of coaching values that talk about character and integrity and not just winning. And so we are very appreciative of the work that you've done, Coach. That's also why it's so easy to tell that these guys have operated like one big family. And that comes across on and off the field. <p>I do have to give a special shout-out to Marcus Gilbert. Where's Marcus? [<i>Laughter</i>] There he is. Marcus--I've got a soft spot for this guy, because his dad Jeff was the first Secret Service agent on my detail almost 2 years ago. He was with me for most of the campaign. He is a great friend of mine, and there he is back there. So that's Marcus's pop right here. We always tried to figure out how Marcus got so big--[<i>laughter</i>]--because Jeff is not that big, and his wife is even smaller. <p>People forget now, but this team was not ranked number one until the end of the season. That's perseverance. And that's thanks to the tone the coach sets. He trains these guys for \\"competitive excellence,\\" as he calls it, on and off the field. And in sports, as in life, your number may be called just once--oh, whose phone is that? [<i>Laughter</i>] Is that one of the player's phones? Fess up. [<i>Laughter</i>] All right. That's all right. Coach is going to talk to you after--[<i>laughter</i>]--about not turning off your phone. <p>In sports as in life--I was going to say your number may just be called once, but I didn't mean it literally. [<i>Laughter</i>] And Coach makes sure that you're--they're ready when that happens. <p>I understand that a lot of times reporters ask Coach Meyer, \\"What did you say to the team at halftime?\\" But what I've heard is he doesn't usually have to say too much because the leaders of this team step up and say what needs to be said. So there are guys like Percy and Brandon and Louis Murphy, and I understand there are a couple of comedians here, the 300-pound Pouncey twins. Where are they? [<i>Laughter</i>] Where are they at? Right there? [<i>Laughter</i>] All right. And then of course there's the quarterback. Where's Tebow at? <p><i>Timothy Tebow.</i> Right here. <p><i>The President.</i> There he is, over there--Heisman Trophy winner. That's what I'm talking about. [<i>Laughter</i>] Everybody is going to get a handshake afterwards, just relax. [<i>Laughter</i>] Tim is an inspiration to so many, a guy whose true strength comes not from the gym, but from his faith. He says he puts faith, family, and academics above football. And that's incredible when you think about what he's done on the field: first sophomore ever to win the Heisman Trophy, in a season in which he personally scored more touchdowns than 87 entire teams in Division I-A football. <p>I remember watching the upset when you guys lost to Ole Miss. I was actually doing a debate in Ole Miss right before the game. And I remember Tim apologizing, watching him on TV apologizing to Gators fans and laying down a challenge to himself, making a commitment, a promise that in fact they were going to push as hard as he--they could and he was going to personally take it upon himself to make sure that you never see a team play harder than we will the rest of the season. <p>You know, that's the kind of leadership that you want to see from all our young people, taking responsibility, challenging yourself and others, rising to the moment. You didn't promise that the Gators would win every game the rest of the way, but it's a testament to his leadership that they did, because he said we'll always play hard. <p>Now, he'll be the first to tell you he didn't do any of this alone. Everybody stepped up. So there are guys like wide receiver David Nelson--where's David? There we go--[<i>laughter</i>]--who went into Coach Meyer's office after Tim's promise and said he wouldn't do--he would do anything for this team, then upped his play all year, ended up catching the clinching touchdown. <p>What Coach Meyer and all these guys also understand is, being a champion doesn't stop when you leave the field. They've committed themselves to 400 hours each year in service to others, mentoring at-risk youth, showing them that--those youth that if they put their hearts into it, they too can succeed. They play with children in pediatric units, help kids learn to read, promote fitness and physical activity, and so much more. <p>And all of this makes the Gainesville community that much stronger, and it makes Florida that much stronger, it makes our country stronger. And I know that the guys behind me get a lot of it--a lot out of it in return. <p>Now, last point I would make. I don't want to stir up controversy. You guys are the national champions. I'm not backing off the fact we need a playoff system. But I have every confidence that you guys could have beat anybody else. And so we'll see how that plays itself out. I noticed they got all quiet after that. [<i>Laughter</i>] But you know, I'm one of those politicians, I don't just tell you what you want to hear, I tell you what you need to hear. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I know final exams start this weekend, so I don't want to keep you any longer. You guys are going to have to hit the books. But I just want to say good luck to those who are going to be back next year, to those of you who are moving on the wider stage. Congratulations to all of you for a national championship that I know that you are extremely proud of. And I look forward to continuing to enjoy watching all of you next fall. <p>So thank you very much, everybody. Give it up for the Gators.\" "
"110" "\"Thank you. Please be seated. Thank you very much. To Sara Bloomfield, for the wonderful introduction and the outstanding work that she's doing; to Fred Zeidman; Joel Geiderman; Mr. Wiesel, thank you for your wisdom and your witness; Speaker Nancy Pelosi; Senator Dick Durbin; Members of Congress; our good friend the Ambassador of Israel; members of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council; and most importantly, the survivors and rescuers and their families who are here today: It is a great honor for me to be here, and I'm grateful that I have the opportunity to address you briefly. <p>We gather today to mourn the loss of so many lives and celebrate those who saved them, honor those who survived and contemplate the obligations of the living. It is the grimmest of ironies that one of the most savage, barbaric acts of evil in history began in one of the most modernized societies of its time, where so many markers of human progress became tools of human depravity: science that can heal used to kill; education that can enlighten used to rationalize away basic moral impulses; the bureaucracy that sustains modern life used as the machinery of mass death, a ruthless, chillingly efficient system where many were responsible for the killing, but few got actual blood on their hands. <p>While the uniqueness of the Holocaust in scope and in method is truly astounding, the Holocaust was driven by many of the same forces that have fueled atrocities throughout history: the scapegoating that leads to hatred and blinds us to our common humanity; the justifications that replace conscience and allow cruelty to spread; the willingness of those who are neither perpetrators nor victims to accept the assigned role of bystander, believing the lie that good people are ever powerless or alone, the fiction that we do not have a choice. <p>But while we are here today to bear witness to the human capacity to destroy, we are also here to pay tribute to the human impulse to save. In the moral accounting of the Holocaust, as we reckon with numbers like 6 million, as we recall the horror of numbers etched into arms, we also factor in numbers like these: 7,200, the number of Danish Jews ferried to safety, many of whom later returned home to find the neighbors who rescued them had also faithfully tended their homes and businesses and belongings while they were gone. <p>We remember the number five, the five righteous men and women who join us today from Poland. We are awed by your acts of courage and conscience. And your presence today compels each of us to ask ourselves whether we would have done what you did. We can only hope that the answer is yes. <p>We also remember the number 5,000, the number of Jews rescued by the villagers of Le Chambon, France--one life saved for each of its 5,000 residents. Not a single Jew who came there was turned away or turned in. But it was not until decades later that the villagers spoke of what they had done, and even then, only reluctantly. The author of a book on the rescue found that those he interviewed were baffled by his interest. \\"How could you call us 'good'?\\" they said. \\"We were doing what had to be done.\\" <p>That is the question of the righteous, those who would do extraordinary good at extraordinary risk not for affirmation or acclaim or to advance their own interests, but because it is what must be done. They remind us that no one is born a savior or a murderer; these are choices we each have the power to make. They teach us that no one can make us into bystanders without our consent, and that we are never truly alone, that if we have the courage to heed that still, small voice within us, we can form a <i>minyan</i> for righteousness that can span a village, even a nation. <p>Their legacy is our inheritance. And the question is, how do we honor and preserve it? How do we ensure that \\"never again\\" isn't an empty slogan or merely an aspiration, but also a call to action? I believe we start by doing what we are doing today, by bearing witness, by fighting the silence that is evil's greatest co-conspirator. <p>In the face of horrors that defy comprehension, the impulse to silence is understandable. My own great uncle returned from his service in World War II in a state of shock, saying little, alone with painful memories that would not leave his head. He went up into the attic, according to the stories that I've heard, and wouldn't come down for 6 months. He was one of the liberators, someone who at a very tender age had seen the unimaginable. And so some of--the liberators who are here today honor us with their presence--all of whom we honor for their extraordinary service. My great uncle was part of the 89th Infantry Division, the first Americans to reach a Nazi concentration camp. And they liberated Ohrdruf, part of Buchenwald, where tens of thousands had perished. <p>The story goes that when the Americans marched in, they discovered the starving survivors and the piles of dead bodies. And General Eisenhower made a decision. He ordered Germans from the nearby town to tour the camp, so they could see what had been done in their name. And he ordered American troops to tour the camp, so they could see the evil they were fighting against. Then he invited Congressmen and journalists to bear witness. And he ordered that photographs and films be made. Some of us have seen those same images, whether in the Holocaust Museum or when I visited Yad Vashem, and they never leave you. Eisenhower said that he wanted \\"to be in a position to give firsthand evidence of these things, if ever, in the future, there develops a tendency to charge these allegations merely to propaganda.\\" <p>Eisenhower understood the danger of silence. He understood that if no one knew what had happened that would be yet another atrocity, and it would be the perpetrators' ultimate triumph. What Eisenhower did to record these crimes for history is what we are doing here today. That's what Elie Wiesel and the survivors we honor here do by fighting to make their memories part of our collective memory. That's what the Holocaust Museum does every day on our National Mall, the place where we display for the world our triumphs and failures and the lessons we've learned from our history. It's the very opposite of silence. <p>But we must also remember that bearing witness is not the end of our obligation; it's just the beginning. We know that evil has yet to run its course on Earth. We've seen it in this century in the mass graves and the ashes of villages burned to the ground and children used as soldiers and rape used as a weapon of war. To this day, there are those who insist the Holocaust never happened, who perpetrate every form of intolerance--racism and anti-Semitism, homophobia, xenophobia, sexism, and more--hatred that degrades its victim and diminishes us all. <p>Today, and every day, we have an opportunity, as well as an obligation, to confront these scourges, to fight the impulse to turn the channel when we see images that disturb us, or wrap ourselves in the false comfort that others' sufferings are not our own. Instead we have the opportunity to make a habit of empathy, to recognize ourselves in each other, to commit ourselves to resisting injustice and intolerance and indifference in whatever forms they may take, whether confronting those who tell lies about history or doing everything we can to prevent and end atrocities like those that took place in Rwanda, those taking place in Darfur. That is my commitment as President. I hope that is yours as well. <p>It will not be easy. At times, fulfilling these obligations require self-reflection. But in the final analysis, I believe history gives us cause for hope rather than despair, the hope of a chosen people who have overcome oppression since the days of Exodus, of the nation of Israel rising from the destruction of the Holocaust, of the strong and enduring bonds between our nations. <p>It is the hope, too, of those who not only survived, but chose to live, teaching us the meaning of courage and resilience and dignity. I'm thinking today of a study conducted after the war that found that Holocaust survivors living in America actually had a higher birthrate than American Jews. What a stunning act of faith, to bring a child in a world that has shown you so much cruelty, to believe that no matter what you have endured or how much you have lost, in the end, you have a duty to life. <p>We find cause for hope, as well, in Protestant and Catholic children attending school together in Northern Ireland, in Hutus and Tutsis living side by side, forgiving neighbors who have done the unforgivable, in a movement to save Darfur that has thousands of high school and college chapters in 25 countries and brought 70,000 people to the Washington Mall, people of every age and faith and background and race united in common cause with suffering brothers and sisters halfway around the world. <p>Those numbers can be our future; our fellow citizens of the world showing us how to make the journey from oppression to survival, from witness to resistance, and, ultimately, to reconciliation. That is what we mean when we say \\"never again.\\" <p>So today, during this season when we celebrate liberation, resurrection, and the possibility of redemption, may each of us renew our resolve to do what must be done. And may we strive each day, both individually and as a nation, to be among the righteous. <p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"111" "\"Thank you. That was excellent. We might have to run her for something some day. That was terrific. Thank you, Stephanie. I want to also introduce Yvonne Thomas, who's Stephanie's proud mother. And we appreciate everything that you've done. And Stephanie's father Albert is around here as well. <p>There are few things as fundamental to the American Dream or as essential for America's success as a good education. This has never been more true than it is today. At a time when our children are competing with kids in China and India, the best job qualification you can have is a college degree or advanced training. If you do have that kind of education, then you're well prepared for the future, because half of the fastest growing jobs in America require a Bachelor's degree or more. And if you don't have a college degree, you're more than twice as likely to be unemployed as somebody who does. So the stakes could not be higher for young people like Stephanie. <p>And yet, in a paradox of American life, at the very moment it's never been more important to have a quality higher education, the cost of that kind of education has never been higher. Over the past few decades, the cost of tuition at private colleges has more than doubled, while costs at public institutions have nearly tripled. Compounding the problem, tuition has grown ten times faster than a typical family's income, putting new pressure on families that are already strained and pricing far too many students out of college altogether. Yet we have a student loan system where we're giving lenders billions of dollars in wasteful subsidies that could be used to make college more affordable for all Americans. <p>This trend, a trend where a quality higher education slips out of reach for ordinary Americans, threatens the dream of opportunity that America's promised to all its citizens. It threatens to widen the gap between the haves and the have-nots. And it threatens to undercut America's competitiveness, because America cannot lead in the 21st century unless we have the best educated, most competitive workforce in the world. And that's the kind of workforce--and the kind of citizenry--to which we should be committed. <p>And that's why we have taken and proposed a number of sweeping steps over our first few months in office, steps that amount to the most significant efforts to open the doors of college to middleclass Americans since the GI bill. Millions of working families are now eligible for a $2,500 annual tax credit that will help them pay the cost of tuition, a tax credit that will cover the full cost of tuition at most of the 2-year community colleges that are some of the great and undervalued assets of our education system. <p>We're also bringing much needed reform to the Pell grants that roughly 30 percent of students rely on to put themselves through college. Today's Pell grants cover less than half as much tuition at a 4-year public institution as they did a few decades ago. And that's why we are adding $500 to the grants for this academic year and raising the maximum Pell grant to $5,550 next year, easing the financial burden on students and families. <p>And we are also changing the way the value of a Pell grant is determined. Today, that value is set by Congress on an annual basis, making it vulnerable to Washington politics. What we are doing is pegging Pell grants to a fixed rate above inflation so that these grants don't cover less and less as families' costs go up and up. And this will help prevent a projected shortfall in Pell grant funding in a few years that could rob many of our poorest students of their dream of attending college. It will help ensure that Pell grants are a source of funding that students can count on each and every year. <p>Now, while our Nation has a responsibility to make college more affordable, colleges and universities have a responsibility to control spiraling costs. And that will require hard choices about where to save and where to spend. So I challenge State college and university leaders to put affordability front and center as they chart a path forward. I challenge them to follow the example of the University of Maryland, where they're streamlining administrative costs, cutting energy costs, using faculty more effectively, making it possible for them to freeze tuition for students and for families. <p>At the same time, we're also working to modernize and expand the Perkins Loan Program by changing a system where colleges are rewarded for raising tuition, and instead, rewarding them for making college more affordable. <p>Now just as we've opened the doors of college to every American, we also have to ensure that more students can walk through them. And that's why I've challenged every American to commit to at least 1 year of higher education or advanced training, because by the end of the next decade, I want to see America have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. We used to have that; we no longer do. We are going to get that lead back. <p>And to help us achieve that goal, we are investing $2.5 billion to identify and support innovative initiatives that have a record of success in boosting enrollment and graduation rates, initiatives like the IBEST program in Washington State that combines basic and career-skills classes to ensure that students not only complete college, but are competitive in the workforce from the moment they graduate. <p>And to help cover the cost of all this, we're going to eliminate waste, reduce inefficiency, and cut what we don't need to pay for what we do. And that includes reforming our student loan system, so that it better serves the people it's supposed to serve--our students. <p>Right now, there are two main kinds of Federal loans. First, there are direct loans. These are loans where tax dollars go directly to help students pay for tuition, not to pad the profits of private lenders. The other kinds of loans are Federal Family Education Loans. These loans, known as FFEL loans, make up the majority of all college loans. Under the FFEL program, lenders get a big Government subsidy with every loan they make. And these loans are then guaranteed with taxpayer money, which means that if a student defaults, a lender can get back almost all of its money from our Government. <p>And there's only one real difference between direct loans and private FFEL loans. It's that under the FFEL program, taxpayers are paying banks a premium to act as middlemen, a premium that costs the American people billions of dollars each year. Well, that's a premium we cannot afford, not when we could be reinvesting that same money in our students, in our economy, and in our country. <p>And that's why I've called for ending the FFEL program and shifting entirely over to direct loans. It's a step that even a conservative estimate predicts will save tens of billions of tax dollars over the next 10 years. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the money we could save by cutting out the middleman would pay for 95 percent of our plan to guarantee growing Pell grants. This would help ensure that every American everywhere in this country can outcompete any worker anywhere in the world. <p>In the end, this is not about growing the size of Government or relying on the free market, because it's not a free market when we have a student loan system that's rigged to reward private lenders without any risk. It's about whether we want to give tens of billions of tax dollars to special interests or whether we want to make college more affordable for 8 1/2 million more students. I think most of us would agree on what the right answer is. <p>Now, some of you have probably seen how this proposal was greeted by the special interests. The banks and the lenders who have reaped a windfall from these subsidies have mobilized an army of lobbyists to try to keep things the way they are. They are gearing up for battle; so am I. They will fight for their special interests. I will fight for Stephanie and other American students and their families. And for those who care about America's future, this is a battle we can't afford to lose. <p>So I am looking forward to having this debate in the days and weeks ahead. And I am confident that if all of us here in Washington do what's in the best interests of the people we represent and reinvest not only in opening the doors of college, but making sure students can walk through them, then we will help deliver the change that the American people sent us here to make. We will help Americans fulfill their promise as individuals, and we will help America fulfill its promise as a nation. <p>So thank you very much. And thank you, Stephanie, and thank you, Stephanie's mom. <p>All right. Thanks, guys.\" "
"112" "\"Good morning. Over the last 3 months, my administration has taken aggressive action to confront a historic economic crisis. As we do everything that we can to create jobs and get our economy moving, we're also building a new foundation for lasting prosperity, a foundation that invests in quality education, lowers health care costs, and develops new sources of energy powered by new jobs and industries. <p>One of the pillars of that foundation must be fiscal discipline. We came into office facing a budget deficit of $1.3 trillion for this year alone, and the cost of confronting our economic crisis is high. But we can't settle for a future of rising deficits and debt that our children can't pay. All across America, families are tightening their belts and making hard choices. Now, Washington must show that same sense of responsibility. That's why we've identified $2 trillion in deficit reductions over the next decade, while taking on the special interest spending that doesn't advance the peoples' interests. <p>But we must also recognize that we cannot meet the challenges of today with old habits and stale thinking. So much of our Government was built to deal with different challenges from a different era. Too often, the result is wasteful spending, bloated programs, and inefficient results. It's time to fundamentally change the way that we do business in Washington. To help build a new foundation for the 21st century, we need to reform our Government so that it is more efficient, more transparent, and more creative. That will demand new thinking and a new sense of responsibility for every dollar that is spent. <p>Earlier this week, I held my first Cabinet meeting and sent a clear message: Cut what doesn't work. Already, we've identified substantial savings. And in the days and weeks ahead, we will continue going through the budget line by line, and we'll identify more than 100 programs that will be cut or eliminated. <p>But we can't stop there. We need to go further, and we need an all-hands-on-deck approach to reforming Government. That's why I'm announcing several steps that my administration will take in the weeks ahead to restore fiscal discipline while making our Government work better. <p>First, we need to adhere to the basic principle that new tax or entitlement policies should be paid for. This principle, known as pay-go, helped transform large deficits into surpluses in the 1990s. Now we must restore that sense of fiscal discipline. And that's why I'm calling for Congress to pass pay-go legislation like a bill that will be introduced by Congressman Baron Hill, so that Government acts the same way any responsible family does in setting its budget. <p>Second, we'll create new incentives to reduce wasteful spending and to invest in what works. We don't want agencies to protect bloated budgets; we want them to promote effective programs. So the idea is simple: Agencies that identify savings will get to keep a portion of those savings to invest in programs that work. The result will be a smaller budget and a more effective Government. <p>Third, we'll look for ideas from the bottom up. After all, Americans across the country know that the best ideas often come from workers, not just management. And that's why we'll establish a process through which every Government worker can submit their ideas for how their agency can save money and perform better. We'll put the suggestions that work into practice. And later this year, I will meet with those who come up with the best ideas to hear firsthand about how they would make your Government more efficient and effective. <p>And finally, we will reach beyond the halls of Government. Many businesses have innovative ways of using technology to save money, and many experts have new ideas to make Government work more efficiently. Government can, and must, learn from them. So later this year, we will host a forum on reforming Government for the 21st century, so that we're also guided by voices that come from outside of Washington. <p>We can't sustain deficits that mortgage our children's future, nor tolerate wasteful inefficiency. Government has a responsibility to spend the peoples' money wisely and to serve the people effectively. I will work every single day that I am President to live up to that responsibility and to transform our Government so that it is held to a higher standard of performance on behalf of the American people. <p>Thanks.\" "
"113" "\"Well, thank you so much for the wonderful welcome. To President Cicerone, thank you very much for your leadership and for hosting us today. To John Holdren, thanks, John, for the outstanding work that you are doing. <p>I was just informed backstage that Ralph and John both are 1965 graduates of MIT, same class. And so I'm not sure this is the perfectly prescribed scientific method, but they're sort of a control group--[<i>laughter</i>]--who ages faster: The President's science adviser or the president of the academy? [<i>Laughter</i>] And we'll check in, in a couple of years. But it is wonderful to see them. <p>To all of you, to my Cabinet Secretaries and team who are here, thank you. It is a great privilege to address the distinguished members of the National Academy of Sciences, as well as the leaders of the National Academy of Engineering and the Institute of Medicine who've gathered here this morning. <p>And I'd like to begin today with a story of a previous visitor who also addressed this august body. In April of 1921, Albert Einstein visited the United States for the first time. And his international credibility was growing as scientists around the world began to understand and accept the vast implications of his theories of special and general relativity. And he attended this annual meeting, and after sitting through a series of long speeches by others, he reportedly said, \\"I have just got a new theory of eternity.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] So I will do my best to heed this cautionary tale. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>The very founding of this institution stands as a testament to the restless curiosity, the boundless hope so essential not just to the scientific enterprise, but to this experiment we call America. A few months after a devastating defeat at Fredericksburg, before Gettysburg would be won, before Richmond would fall, before the fate of the Union would be at all certain, President Abraham Lincoln signed into law an act creating the National Academy of Sciences, in the midst of civil war. <p>Lincoln refused to accept that our Nation's sole purpose was mere survival. He created this academy, founded the land-grant colleges, and began the work of the transcontinental railroad, believing that we must add, and I quote, \\"the fuel of interest to the fire of genius in the discovery of new and useful things.\\" <p>This is America's story. Even in the hardest times, against the toughest odds, we've never given in to pessimism; we've never surrendered our fates to chance; we have endured; we have worked hard; we sought out new frontiers. <p>Today, of course, we face more complex challenges than we have ever faced before: a medical system that holds the promise of unlocking new cures and treatments, attached to a health care system that holds the potential for bankruptcy to families and businesses; a system of energy that powers our economy, but simultaneously endangers our planet; threats to our security that seek to exploit the very interconnectedness and openness so essential to our prosperity; and challenges in a global marketplace which links the derivative trader on Wall Street to the homeowner on Main Street, the office worker in America to the factory worker in China, a marketplace in which we all share in opportunity, but also in crisis. <p>At such a difficult moment, there are those who say we cannot afford to invest in science, that support for research is somehow a luxury at moments defined by necessities. I fundamentally disagree. Science is more essential for our prosperity, our security, our health, our environment, and our quality of life than it has ever been before. <p>And if there was ever a day that reminded us of our shared stake in science and research, it's today. We are closely monitoring the emerging cases of swine flu in the United States. And this is obviously a cause for concern and requires a heightened state of alert. But it's not a cause for alarm. The Department of Health and Human Services has declared a public health emergency as a precautionary tool to ensure that we have the resources we need at our disposal to respond quickly and effectively. And I'm getting regular updates on the situation from the responsible agencies. And the Department of Health and Human Services as well as the Centers for Disease Control will be offering regular updates to the American people. And Secretary Napolitano will be offering regular updates to the American people, as well, so that they know what steps are being taken and what steps they may need to take. <p>But one thing is clear: Our capacity to deal with a public health challenge of this sort rests heavily on the work of our scientific and medical community. And this is one more example of why we can't allow our Nation to fall behind. <p>Unfortunately, that's exactly what's happened. Federal funding in the physical sciences as a portion of our gross domestic product has fallen by nearly half over the past quarter century. Time and again we've allowed the research and experimentation tax credit, which helps businesses grow and innovate, to lapse. <p>Our schools continue to trail other developed countries and, in some cases, developing countries. Our students are outperformed in math and science by their peers in Singapore, Japan, England, the Netherlands, Hong Kong, and Korea, among others. Another assessment shows American 15-year-olds ranked 25th in math and 21st in science when compared to nations around the world. And we have watched as scientific integrity has been undermined and scientific research politicized in an effort to advance predetermined ideological agendas. <p>We know that our country is better than this. A half century ago, this Nation made a commitment to lead the world in scientific and technological innovation; to invest in education, in research, in engineering; to set a goal of reaching space and engaging every citizen in that historic mission. That was the high water mark of America's investment in research and development. And since then our investments have steadily declined as a share of our national income. As a result, other countries are now beginning to pull ahead in the pursuit of this generation's great discoveries. <p>Now, I believe it is not in our character, the American character, to follow; it's our character to lead. And it is time for us to lead once again. So I am here today to set this goal: We will devote more than 3 percent of our GDP to research and development. We will not just meet, but we will exceed the level achieved at the height of the space race, through policies that invest in basic and applied research, create new incentives for private innovation, promote breakthroughs in energy and medicine, and improve education in math and science. <p>This represents the largest commitment to scientific research and innovation in American history. Just think what this will allow us to accomplish: solar cells as cheap as paint; green buildings that produce all the energy they consume; learning software as effective as a personal tutor; prosthetics so advanced that you could play the piano again; an expansion of the frontiers of human knowledge about ourselves and world the around us. We can do this. <p>The pursuit of discovery half a century ago fueled our prosperity and our success as a nation in the half century that followed. The commitment I am making today will fuel our success for another 50 years. That's how we will ensure that our children and their children will look back on this generation's work as that which defined the progress and delivered the prosperity of the 21st century. <p>This work begins with a historic commitment to basic science and applied research, from the labs of renowned universities to the proving grounds of innovative companies. Through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, and with the support of Congress, my administration is already providing the largest single boost to investment in basic research in American history. That's already happened. <p>This is important right now, as public and private colleges and universities across the country reckon with shrinking endowments and tightening budgets. But this is also incredibly important for our future. As Vannevar Bush, who served as scientific adviser to President Franklin Roosevelt, famously said: \\"Basic scientific research is scientific capital.\\" <p>The fact is an investigation into a particular physical, chemical, or biological process might not pay off for a year, or a decade, or at all. And when it does, the rewards are often broadly shared, enjoyed by those who bore its costs but also by those who did not. And that's why the private sector generally under-invests in basic science, and why the public sector must invest in this kind of research, because while the risks may be large, so are the rewards for our economy and our society. <p>No one can predict what new applications will be born of basic research: new treatments in our hospitals, or new sources of efficient energy; new building materials; new kinds of crops more resistant to heat and to drought. It was basic research in the photoelectric field--in the photoelectric effect that would one day lead to solar panels. It was basic research in physics that would eventually produce the CAT scan. The calculations of today's GPS satellites are based on the equations that Einstein put to paper more than a century ago. <p>In addition to the investments in the Recovery Act, the budget I've proposed, and versions have now passed both the House and the Senate, builds on the historic investments in research contained in the recovery plan. <p>So we double the budget of key agencies, including the National Science Foundation, a primary source of funding for academic research; and the National Institute of Standards and Technology, which supports a wide range of pursuits from improving health information technology to measuring carbon pollution, from testing smart grid designs to developing advanced manufacturing processes. <p>And my budget doubles funding for the Department of Energy's Office of Science, which builds and operates accelerators, colliders, supercomputers, high-energy light sources, and facilities for making nano-materials, because we know that a nation's potential for scientific discovery is defined by the tools that it makes available to its researchers. <p>But the renewed commitment of our Nation will not be driven by Government investment alone. It's a commitment that extends from the laboratory to the marketplace. And that's why my budget makes the research and experimentation tax credit permanent. This is a tax credit that returns $2 to the economy for every dollar we spend, by helping companies afford the often high costs of developing new ideas, new technologies, and new products. Yet, at times, we've allowed it to lapse or only renewed it year to year. I've heard this time and again from entrepreneurs across this country: By making this credit permanent we make it possible for businesses to plan the kinds of projects that create jobs and economic growth. <p>Second, in no area will innovation be more important than in the development of new technologies to produce, use, and save energy, which is why my administration has made an unprecedented commitment to developing a 21st century clean energy economy, and why we put a scientist in charge of the Department of Energy. <p>Our future on this planet depends on our willingness to address the challenge posed by carbon pollution. And our future as a nation depends upon our willingness to embrace this challenge as an opportunity to lead the world in pursuit of new discovery. <p>When the Soviet Union launched Sputnik a little more than a half century ago, Americans were stunned. The Russians had beaten us to space. And we had to make a choice: We could accept defeat or we could accept the challenge. And as always, we chose to accept the challenge. <p>President Eisenhower signed legislation to create NASA and to invest in science and math education, from grade school to graduate school. And just a few years later, a month after his address to the 1961 annual meeting of the National Academy of Sciences, President Kennedy boldly declared before a joint session of Congress that the United States would send a man to the Moon and return him safely to the Earth. <p>The scientific community rallied behind this goal and set about achieving it. And it would not only lead to those first steps on the Moon, it would lead to giant leaps in our understanding here at home. That Apollo program produced technologies that have improved kidney dialysis and water purification systems, sensors to test for hazardous gasses, energy-saving building materials, fire-resistant fabrics used by firefighters and soldiers. More broadly, the enormous investment in that era--in science and technology, in education and research funding--produced a great outpouring of curiosity and creativity, the benefits of which have been incalculable. There are those of you in this audience who became scientists because of that commitment. We have to replicate that. <p>There will be no single Sputnik moment for this generation's challenges to break our dependence on fossil fuels. In many ways, this makes the challenge even tougher to solve, and makes it all the more important to keep our eyes fixed on the work ahead. <p>But energy is our great project--this generation's great project. And that's why I've set a goal for our Nation that we will reduce our carbon pollution by more than 80 percent by 2050. And that is why I'm pursuing, in concert with Congress, the policies that will help meet us--help us meet this goal. <p>My recovery plan provides the incentives to double our Nation's capacity to generate renewable energy over the next few years, extending the production tax credit, providing loan guarantees, and offering grants to spur investment. Just take one example: Federally funded research and development has dropped the cost of solar panels by tenfold over the last three decades. Our renewed efforts will ensure that solar and other clean energy technologies will be competitive. <p>My budget includes $150 billion over 10 years to invest in sources of renewable energy as well as energy efficiency. It supports efforts at NASA, recommended as a priority by the National Research Council, to develop new space-based capabilities to help us better understand our changing climate. <p>And today I'm also announcing that for the first time, we are funding an initiative, recommended by this organization, called the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Energy, or ARPA-E. This is based, not surprisingly, on DARPA, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, which was created during the Eisenhower administration in response to Sputnik. It has been charged throughout its history with conducting high-risk, high-reward research. And the precursor to the Internet, known as ARPANET, stealth technology, the Global Positioning System all owe a debt to the work of DARPA. <p>So ARPA-E seeks to do the same kind of high-risk, high-reward research. My administration will pursue, as well, comprehensive legislation to place a market-based cap on carbon emissions. We will make renewable energy the profitable kind of energy. We will put in place the resources so that scientists can focus on this critical area. And I am confident that we will find a wellspring of creativity just waiting to be tapped by researchers in this room and entrepreneurs across our country. We can solve this problem. <p>Now, the nation that leads the world in 21st century clean energy will be the nation that leads in the 21st century global economy. I believe America can and must be that nation. But in order to lead in the global economy and to ensure that our businesses can grow and innovate, and our families can thrive, we're also going to have to address the shortcomings of our health care system. <p>The Recovery Act will support the long overdue step of computerizing America's medical records, to reduce the duplication, waste, and errors that cost billions of dollars and thousands of lives. But it's important to note, these records also hold the potential of offering patients the chance to be more active participants in the prevention and treatment of their diseases. We must maintain patient control over these records and respect their privacy. At the same time, we have the opportunity to offer billions and billions of anonymous data points to medical researchers who may find in this information evidence that can help us better understand disease. <p>History also teaches us the greatest advances in medicine have come from scientific breakthroughs, whether the discovery of antibiotics, or improved public health practices, vaccines for smallpox and polio and many other infectious diseases, antiretroviral drugs that can return AIDS patients to productive lives, pills that can control certain types of blood cancers, so many others. <p>Because of recent progress--not just in biology, genetics, and medicine, but also in physics, chemistry, computer science, and engineering--we have the potential to make enormous progress against diseases in the coming decades. And that's why my administration is committed to increasing funding for the National Institutes of Health, including $6 billion to support cancer research, part of a sustained, multiyear plan to double cancer research in our country. <p>Next, we are restoring science to its rightful place. On March 9th, I signed an executive memorandum with a clear message: Under my administration, the days of science taking a back seat to ideology are over. Our progress as a nation--and our values as a nation--are rooted in free and open inquiry. To undermine scientific integrity is to undermine our democracy. It is contrary to our way of life. <p>That's why I've charged John Holdren and the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy with leading a new effort to ensure that Federal policies are based on the best and most unbiased scientific information. I want to be sure that facts are driving scientific decisions, and not the other way around. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>As part of this effort, we've already launched a web site that allows individuals to not only make recommendations to achieve this goal, but to collaborate on those recommendations. It's a small step, but one that's creating a more transparent, participatory, and democratic Government. <p>We also need to engage the scientific community directly in the work of public policy. And that's why, today, I am announcing the appointment--we are filling out the President's Council of Advisers on Science and Technology, known as PCAST, and I intend to work with them closely. Our Cochairs have already been introduced, Dr. Varmus and Dr. Lander, along with John. And this council represents leaders from many scientific disciplines who will bring a diversity of experiences and views. And I will charge PCAST with advising me about national strategies to nurture and sustain a culture of scientific innovation. <p>In addition to John--sorry, the--I just noticed that I jumped the gun here--go ahead and move it up. [<i>Laughter</i>] I had already introduced all you guys. <p>In biomedicine, just to give you an example of what PCAST can do, we can harness the historic convergence between life sciences and physical sciences that's underway today; undertaking public projects, in the spirit of the Human Genome Project, to create data and capabilities that fuel discoveries in tens of thousands of laboratories; and identifying and overcoming scientific and bureaucratic barriers to rapidly translating scientific breakthroughs into diagnostics and therapeutics that serve patients. <p>In environmental science, it will require strengthening our weather forecasting, our Earth observation from space, the management of our Nation's land, water and forests, and the stewardship of our coastal zones and ocean fisheries. <p>We also need to work with our friends around the world. Science, technology, and innovation proceed more rapidly and more cost-effectively when insights, costs, and risks are shared; and so many of the challenges that science and technology will help us meet are global in character. This is true of our dependence on oil, the consequences of climate change, the threat of epidemic disease, and the spread of nuclear weapons. <p>And that's why my administration is ramping up participation in--and our commitment to--international science and technology cooperation across the many areas where it is clearly in our interest to do so. In fact, this week, my administration is gathering the leaders of the world's major economies to begin the work of addressing our common energy challenges together. <p>Fifth, since we know that the progress and prosperity of future generations will depend on what we do now to educate the next generation, today I'm announcing a renewed commitment to education in mathematics and science. This is something I care deeply about. Through this commitment, American students will move from the middle of the top--from the middle to the top of the pack in science and math over the next decade, for we know that the nation that out-educates us today will outcompete us tomorrow. And I don't intend to have us out-educated. <p>We can't start soon enough. We know that the quality of math and science teachers is the most influential single factor in determining whether a student will succeed or fail in these subjects. Yet in high school more than 20 percent of students in math and more than 60 percent of students in chemistry and physics are taught by teachers without expertise in these fields. And this problem is only going to get worse. There is a projected shortfall of more than 280,000 math and science teachers across the country by 2015. And that's why I'm announcing today that States making strong commitments and progress in math and science education will be eligible to compete later this fall for additional funds under the Secretary of Education's $5 billion Race to the Top program. <p>And I'm challenging States to dramatically improve achievement in math and science by raising standards, modernizing science labs, upgrading curriculum, and forging partnerships to improve the use of science and technology in our classrooms. I'm challenging States, as well, to enhance teacher preparation and training, and to attract new and qualified math and science teachers to better engage students and reinvigorate those subjects in our schools. <p>And in this endeavor, we will work to support inventive approaches. Let's create systems that retain and reward effective teachers, and let's create new pathways for experienced professionals to go into the classroom. There are, right now, chemists who could teach chemistry, physicists who could teach physics, statisticians who could teach mathematics. But we need to create a way to bring the expertise and the enthusiasm of these folks--folks like you--into the classroom. <p>There are States, for example, doing innovative work. I'm pleased to announce that Governor Ed Rendell of Pennsylvania will lead an effort with the National Governors Association to increase the number of States that are making science, technology, engineering, and mathematics education a top priority. Six States are currently participating in the initiative, including Pennsylvania, which has launched an effective program to ensure that the State has the skilled workforce in place to draw the jobs of the 21st century. And I want every State, all 50 States, to participate. <p>But as you know, our work does not end with a high school diploma. For decades, we led the world in educational attainment, and as a consequence we led the world in economic growth. The GI bill, for example, helps send a generation to college. But in this new economy, we've come to trail other nations in graduation rates, in educational achievement, and in the production of scientists and engineers. <p>That's why my administration has set a goal that will greatly enhance our ability to compete for the high-wage, high-tech jobs of the future, and to foster the next generation of scientists and engineers. In the next decade, by 2020, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. That is a goal that we are going to set. And we've provided tax credits and grants to make a college education more affordable. <p>My budget also triples the number of National Science Foundation graduate research fellowships. This program was created as part of the space race five decades ago. In the decades since, it's remained largely the same size, even as the numbers of students who seek these fellowships has skyrocketed. We ought to be supporting these young people who are pursuing scientific careers, not putting obstacles in their path. <p>So this is how we will lead the world in new discoveries in this new century. But I think all of you understand it will take far more than the work of Government. It will take all of us. It will take all of you. And so today I want to challenge you to use your love and knowledge of science to spark the same sense of wonder and excitement in a new generation. <p>America's young people will rise to the challenge if given the opportunity, if called upon to join a cause larger than themselves. We've got evidence. You know, the average age in NASA's mission control during the Apollo 17 mission was just 26. I know that young people today are just as ready to tackle the grand challenges of this century. <p>So I want to persuade you to spend time in the classroom, talking and showing young people what it is that your work can mean, and what it means to you. I want to encourage you to participate in programs to allow students to get a degree in science fields and a teaching certificate at the same time. I want us all to think about new and creative ways to engage young people in science and engineering, whether it's science festivals, robotics competitions, fairs that encourage young people to create and build and invent, to be makers of things, not just consumers of things. <p>I want you to know that I'm going to be working alongside you. I'm going to participate in a public awareness and outreach campaign to encourage students to consider careers in science and mathematics and engineering, because our future depends on it. And the Department of Energy and the National Science Foundation will be launching a joint initiative to inspire tens of thousands of American students to pursue these very same careers, particularly in clean energy. <p>It will support an educational campaign to capture the imagination of young people who can help us meet the energy challenge, and will create research opportunities for undergraduates and educational opportunities for women and minorities who too often have been underrepresented in scientific and technological fields, but are no less capable of inventing the solutions that will help us grow our economy and save our planet. <p>And it will support fellowships and interdisciplinary graduate programs and partnerships between academic institutions and innovative companies to prepare a generation of Americans to meet this generational challenge. For we must always remember that somewhere in America there's an entrepreneur seeking a loan to start a business that could transform an industry, but she hasn't secured it yet. There's a researcher with an idea for an experiment that might offer a new cancer treatment, but he hasn't found the funding yet. There's a child with an inquisitive mind staring up at the night sky. And maybe she has the potential to change our world, but she doesn't know it yet. <p>As you know, scientific discovery takes far more than the occasional flash of brilliance, as important as that can be. Usually, it takes time and hard work and patience; it takes training; it requires the support of a nation. But it holds a promise like no other area of human endeavor. <p>In 1968, a year defined by loss and conflict and tumult, Apollo 8 carried into space the first human beings ever to slip beyond Earth's gravity, and the ship would circle the Moon 10 times before returning home. But on its fourth orbit, the capsule rotated and for the first time Earth became visible through the windows. Bill Anders, one of the astronauts aboard Apollo 8, scrambled for a camera, and he took a photo that showed the Earth coming up over the Moon's horizon. It was the first ever taken from so distant a vantage point, and it soon became known as \\"Earthrise.\\" <p>Anders would say that the moment forever changed him, to see our world, this pale blue sphere, without borders, without divisions, at once so tranquil and beautiful and alone. \\"We came all this way to explore the Moon,\\" he said, \\"and the most important thing is that we discovered the Earth.\\" <p>Yes, scientific innovation offers us a chance to achieve prosperity. It has offered us benefits that have improved our health and our lives, improvements we take too easily for granted. But it gives us something more. At root, science forces us to reckon with the truth as best as we can ascertain it. <p>And some truths fill us with awe. Others force us to question long-held views. Science can't answer every question, and indeed, it seems at times the more we plumb the mysteries of the physical world, the more humble we must be. Science cannot supplant our ethics or our values, our principles or our faith. But science can inform those things and help put those values--these moral sentiments, that faith--can put those things to work, to feed a child or to heal the sick, to be good stewards of this Earth. <p>We are reminded that with each new discovery and the new power it brings comes new responsibility; that the fragility, the sheer specialness of life requires us to move past our differences and to address our common problems, to endure and continue humanity's strivings for a better world. <p>As President Kennedy said when he addressed the National Academy of Sciences more than 45 years ago: \\"The challenge, in short, may be our salvation.\\" <p>Thank you all for all your past, present, and future discoveries. May God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"114" "\"Hello, everybody. Please have a seat. Have a seat--except you guys. You guys can't sit. [<i>Laughter</i>] It is just wonderful to be here on this beautiful day. Congratulations to Coach Geno on just the incredible season that took place as a consequence of these extraordinary young women. <p>I want to just say that it is a thrill. This is one of my favorite things about the job. I am a big fan. I want to congratulate everybody who runs the UCONN program, from the assistants to the trainers, to the students to the ticket-takers, and of course, the UCONN fans everywhere, you should all be extraordinarily proud. <p>And I want to thank again Coach, and his wife Kathy, for being here. Congratulations also on being coach of the year, although when you win by an average of 30 points, it's not that hard of a selection to make. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we are thrilled that you're going to be coaching the women's basketball team in the 2012 Olympics. You're going to do a great job. <p>Under Coach Auriemma's leadership, this Huskies program has redefined excellence again and again: six of the last 15 NCAA titles; five undefeated regular seasons; three undefeated championship seasons; two 39 and 0 seasons. But for this team, an undefeated season just wasn't enough, they became the first team in NCAA history, men or women's, to win every single game by double digits, which is just an unbelievable statistic. <p>I want to congratulate also Maya, who is here--Maya Moore--there you are. Raise your hand. Naismith Award, National Player of the Year, and an equally impressive achievement--Maya was one of only five players chosen nationwide as first-team Academic All-American. So give it up for Maya. <p>Renee Montgomery--where's Renee? There you are, Renee, holding the ball--for winning the Honda Sports Award that recognizes the top women's player in the country not just for athletics, but also academics, leadership, and willingness to give back to her community; and to all the players who make a true team. <p>It's clear these women have a competitive streak, that's from what I understand, they have trouble sometimes turning off that competitive streak. I've heard that \\"Movie Pictionary\\" gets pretty fierce among the women here. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But Coach Geno and each of these women also understands that being champion doesn't stop when you step off the court. Just last week, these ladies were recognized by the NCAA for top academic performance as a team. And over the course of 24 seasons, Coach Geno's teams have a 100-percent graduation rate. That is worthy of some applause. <p>They also spend time off the court in service to others. \\"Geno's Cancer Team\\"--and I'm wearing a bracelet that I just got, right here, I want to show it off--raises money to fight cancer. And these young women visit pediatric patients, mentor at-risk youth to show they can make something of themselves, and give their time to folks in the communities who need it most. <p>All of this makes the Storrs community stronger; it makes the State of Connecticut stronger; it makes our country stronger, and I know this team gets a lot out of it in return. <p>I also want to say something as a father. You know, it was this program in the mid-1990s as much as anything that helped propel women's basketball into the national consciousness. And thanks to players like each of these women and those who came before them, our young women today look at themselves differently, especially tall young women, like my daughters. My girls look at the TV when I'm watching SportsCenter and they see women staring back. That shows them that they can be champions too. And so, as a father, I want to thank all of you. Thank you to all the NCAA female athletes who work hard day in, day out to set a positive example to which our daughters can all aspire, to be healthy and active, to be part of a team. <p>Finally, I understand that Coach Geno has promised to go 40 and 0 next season. [<i>Laughter</i>] So, Coach, if that happens, I guarantee you that you will be welcome back at the White House. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>All right, give them a big round of applause.\" "
"115" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. Well, it is a good excuse for you to be outside on a nice day. And it is a great honor to be here with the men and women of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Now, I am grateful to the FBI for the T-shirts, for the teddy bear for the girls; even though we've kept our promise on the dog, I wouldn't want to come home emptyhanded. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I want to thank your outstanding Director, Robert Mueller--[<i>applause</i>]--not just for the introduction, but because Bob has led the Bureau during incredibly challenging times. He became only the sixth Director of the FBI just 1 week before the 9/11 attacks, and since then he has worked as hard as anybody to prevent additional attacks and to carry out the FBI's enormous responsibilities. So I appreciate him, and I appreciate all of you. Thank you. <p>So last summer, the FBI celebrated its 100th anniversary. I think it's safe to say that it has been an eventful century for the Bureau. Back in 1908--oh, did somebody faint? Do we have a EMT here? Right down here. Just give him a little bit of space. This happened during my political campaign all the time. I was talking too long, people would be falling out every which way. [<i>Laughter</i>] They're usually fine, they just need a little bit of air and a little bit of water. Right down here, right in the middle. Not you--[<i>laughter</i>]--you're doing fine. Right in here. All right, I think they'll be all right. <p>So back in 1908 there were just 34 Special Agents reporting to Theodore Roosevelt's Attorney General. Today, there are over 30,000 men and women who work for the FBI. Back in 1908, those agents worked out of one building here in Washington. And today, you work here at FBI headquarters and at field offices across America and in countries around the world. <p>So much has changed in the last 100 years. Thank God for change. And part of what makes the FBI so unique is its ability to adapt to an ever-changing world. Back in 1908, even the most imaginative of minds would have struggled to anticipate all of the challenges that would confront the Bureau: from bank robbers to bootleggers, from hate crimes to white-collar criminals, from public corruption to counterintelligence, from international terrorism to cyber threats. <p>The challenges of the 21st century have called on us to think anew, and to act anew. And in recent years, the Bureau has undergone a profound transformation to keep pace. With the attacks of 9/11, your mission became focused more than ever before on prevention, so that we have the capacity to uncover terrorist plots before they take hold. With the spread of new technologies, you increasingly confront adversaries in unconventional areas, from transnational networks to cyber crimes and espionage. And through it all, you must continue to stay one step ahead of all who step outside of the law. <p>And I know that change means much more than moving around some boxes on an organizational chart. You've set new priorities. You've developed new capabilities. You're working to use new technologies and teach new skills. And because these challenges cross borders, both seen and unseen, you've developed new partnerships abroad, while sharing information more effectively with law enforcement here at home. <p>This is a tough business, but it is essential to protecting our country. Because in the end, it's your hard work that makes the difference: your decisions, your analysis, your action. Because of you, the men and women of the FBI , the American people are safer, and our country is stronger. For that, you have my personal gratitude, but you also have the thanks of a grateful nation. <p>So I know that much has changed in the last 100 years. But as your Director said, I know that some things have remained constant. That starts with the values that we have sworn to uphold: liberty and equality, opportunity, and the rule of law. That's the foundation upon which America is built. That's the purpose that has always guided our power. And that is why we must always reject as the false--as false choices the choice between our security and our ideals. <p>In so many ways, the FBI is a unique institution. You're unique because the FBI is both an intelligence agency and a law enforcement agency. You must both prevent danger and help us pursue those who carry it out. You protect us and you protect the civil liberties that we cherish. <p>But after all, that is why America is unique, because of that fundamental belief that we are committed both to our security and to the rule of law, because of that hard-earned truth that we are always stronger when we act in concert with our most deeply held values. <p>I have no illusions that this is simple or easy. Many of you made enormous sacrifices and are incredibly dedicated. Living our values means that we must hold ourselves to higher standard than our enemies. We face a long struggle against a determined adversary. We know that Al Qaida is not constrained by a constitution or by allegiance to anything other than a hateful ideology and a determination to kill as many innocents as possible. But what makes the United States of America so special is precisely the fact that we are willing to uphold our values and our ideals not just when it's easy, but when it's hard. We've been called to serve in such a time. <p>And I have to say that I am heartened but what I see here today. Each of you has made the decision to serve your country, and you are dong so at a critical time. And you know, none of us can know with certain what the future will hold. But I do know that the FBI can and will continue to adapt to new dangers, that you will be critical in leading the way in keeping this country safe. And we are counting on you. <p>There's much to celebrate from the FBI's first 100 days [years].<A CLASS=\\"footnote\\" actuate=\\"user\\" href=\\" id(pgfId-3062033)\\" show=\\"replace\\" xml:link=\\"simple\\">8</A> We remember notorious criminals who have been caught, and public corruption that has been ended, and civil rights that have been protected, and terrorist plots that have been uncovered. None of that would have been possible without the work of men and women like you, and we're calling on you again. <p>Behind me is the motto that you carry forward and that your Director alluded to: \\"Fidelity, Bravery, and Integrity.\\" These are more than words etched into a building; they're a signal of the character of the men and women who work here. And I am confident that if you stay true to those words, no matter what challenge may come our way, we'll be able to look back a hundred years from now with the satisfaction that you advanced the cause of America's security and America's ideals in your time. What an enormous gift that is to give back to your country. <p>Thank you, God Bless you, and God Bless the United States of America.\""
"116" "\"Please, everybody, have a seat on this beautiful day. Welcome. This is our first official Rose Garden ceremony--a place where so many--yes, that's worth applause, sure, why not--[<i>laughter</i>]--this is place where so many Presidents have honored so many citizens who've made extraordinary contributions to the life of our Nation. <p>Before I get to the main event, I want to make sure that we acknowledge, first of all, somebody who I think will end up being written up as one of the greatest Secretaries of Education we've ever had, please give a round of applause to Arne Duncan; an outstanding educator in her own right, Dr. Jill Biden. And I want to give credit to Representative Jim Himes, who's here, and he represents the Fourth District of Connecticut, which includes Mr. Mullen's school district. So, Jim--[<i>applause</i>]. <p>You know, we've got a lot of teachers here today, and I'm a big fan of teachers because every single day in classrooms all across America, you are making a difference. You <FOOTNOTES> <FOOTNOTE> <Footnote> <A ID=\\"pgfId-3062033\\"/> White House correction.</Footnote> </FOOTNOTE> </FOOTNOTES> don't always get the recognition that you deserve. We don't always value the teaching profession like we should. But every once in a while, I think people start to understand, not just in their own lives but in the lives of the Nation, how important the teaching profession is and how we've got to do a better job of lifting it up. In a global economy where the greatest job qualification isn't what you can do but what you know, our teachers are the key to our Nation's success; to whether America will lead the world in the discoveries and the innovations and economic prosperity of this new century. <p>And that's why as President I'm committed to doing everything I can to support the work of teachers. That's why we're working to create better standards and assessments that teachers can use in their classroom. That's why we're promoting innovation in teaching and learning, making critical investments in early childhood education, and helping more Americans walk through the door of higher education. <p>And it's why we're taking groundbreaking steps to recruit, prepare, support, and reward outstanding teachers, to encourage our best and brightest young people to follow in the footsteps of folks just like you. This is especially critical right now, as so many teachers from the baby boom generation are preparing to retire--although, they all look pretty young back here--[<i>laughter</i>]--we're not worried about that. And recent evaluations of student performance show that while we're making progress, we still have a long way to go. <p>I know, personally, Michelle knows that what teachers do is not easy. My sister, Maya, is a teacher; Jill Biden, a teacher. We know how hard teachers work. And I know what all of you do by staying past that last bell, staying up late grading those papers, putting together lesson plans, spending your own money on books and supplies, and going beyond the call of duty. You do it because you know that's what will make a difference, because you believe that there's no such thing as a child that can't learn; that every child has their own gifts, and it's up to us to discover them, and it's up to us to see in our children what they can't yet see in themselves. <p>And for you, those teachers who are in attendance today and for so many of your colleagues across this country, teaching is not just about a paycheck, it's a passion and it's a calling. <p>Now, nobody, I think, exhibits that more than our honoree today, our Teacher of the Year, Tony Mullen. You know, Tony knew early on in life that he wanted to be a teacher. But his parents passed away when he was young, and he had to find work, first at a factory, then at the New York Police Department, where he rose from police officer all the way to captain. <p>But Tony never lost sight of his dream, attending college while he worked, becoming the first in his family to get a degree, and going on to get a master's degree in education. <p>And during his time on the force, Tony saw a lot of young people who'd gotten themselves in trouble, and he knew he wanted to give kids like that a second chance. So when he left the NYPD, Tony actively searched for a job description that included phrases like \\"working with students with severe behavioral and emotional problems,\\" kids whom others might see as difficult or impossible or lost causes. Tony didn't see them as lost causes. As his superintendent put it, Tony \\"considers working with these students an honor and a privilege.\\" <p>In his application for this award, Tony emphasized the importance of passion which, as he puts it, \\"ignites a flame too bright to be ignored by students.\\" That is the passion Tony brings to his classroom every day, striving to engage every student, connecting with those no one else can reach, spending hours counseling students individually, listening compassionately, giving them his fullest attention. <p>And that's just the beginning. In his spare time, Tony mentors fellow teachers, he leads a program to provide academic support to students who've been expelled, and he's the volunteer commissioner for a youth baseball league that grew from 200 to 1,000 children under his leadership, giving so many young people the self-confidence and teamwork skills they need to succeed. <p>Tony doesn't ask for anything in return. As he put it, \\"A teacher can receive no greater reward than the knowledge that he or she helped recover a lost student.\\" <p>Each of us carries with us in life the love and wisdom of people like Tony, the special few who were there for us when we needed it most: who pushed us when we were afraid; who pulled us back when we were headed in the wrong direction; who refused to give up on us, no matter how difficult we were. I know that's certainly true for me. I was telling Tony and his family in the office, Michelle and I don't come from a fancy background. The only reason that we're here is because at some point there were people like Tony who helped steer us in the right direction. <p>In recognizing Tony and all of you today, we're also recognizing countless others who make the lives of our young people a little bit better. And for that, we honor you, we thank you, today and every single day. <p>So Tony Mullen, God bless you and God bless the United States of America. Give Tony a big round of applause. <p>[<i>At this point, Mr. Mullen made brief remarks.</i>] <p>Well, thank you everybody. And with that, enjoy the day. I'm going to shake a few hands, and I'm sure the First Lady will as well.\" "
"117" "\"<i>The President.</i> Congratulations, Madam Secretary. <p><i>Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius.</i> Thank you, sir. <p><i>The President. </i>Here we go. We're just going to make a brief statement. I am thrilled to have Kathleen Sebelius as my new Secretary of Health and Human Services. <p>Obviously, we have a lot to do to make sure that health care is affordable for the American people, to deal with critical issues like food safety. But we wanted to swear her in right away because we've got a significant public health challenge that requires her immediate attention, and that is the H1N1 flu outbreak that we've seen initially in Mexico and we now see over a dozen cases here in the United States. <p>It is something that we have to monitor very carefully. The officials who have been in charge, including the Acting Director at the CDC, those at Department of Homeland Security, have done an outstanding job, a superb job, in managing the situation up to this point. <p>But we need all hands on deck, and so I am thrilled that we have Secretary Sebelius taking the reins. She is going to be immediately briefed on the issues that we're working on right now. I expect her to hit the ground running, and I have every confidence that given her experience as a Governor who's managed crises before, who's worked on public health issues since she's been in public life, she is the right person at the right time for the job. <p>So congratulations. We are thrilled, and you are going to do a great job. <p><i>Secretary Sebelius.</i> Thank you, sir. Honored to serve. <p><i>The President.</i> Thank you. <p>All right, thanks, guys.\" "
"118" "\"Hey, guys. I know you haven't seen enough of me lately, so--[<i>laughter</i>]. <p>One month ago, I spoke about some of the problems that have led to the crisis in the auto industry and about what would be required to ensure that General Motors and Chrysler emerged from their current troubles stronger and more competitive. <p>My team will continue working with General Motors as they strengthen their business plan and move towards restructuring that's consistent with the principles that I've laid out. And today, after consulting with my Auto Task Force, I can report that the necessary steps have been taken to give one of America's most storied automakers, Chrysler, a new lease on life. <p>This is a company that has a particular claim on our American identity. It's a company founded in the early years of the American automobile industry, a company that helped make the 20th century an American Century and that came to embody, along with the two other members of the Big Three, the ingenuity, the industriousness, and the indomitable spirit of the American people. <p>Chrysler has not only been an icon of America's auto industry and a source of pride for generations of American workers, it's been responsible for helping build our middle class, giving countless Americans the chance to provide for their families, sending their kids to college, saving for a secure retirement. It's what hundreds of thousands of autoworkers and suppliers and dealers and their families rely on to pay their bills in communities across our industrial Midwest and across the country. <p>It's been a pillar of our industrial economy, but, frankly, a pillar that's been weakened by papering over tough problems and avoiding hard choices. For too long, Chrysler moved too slowly to adapt to the future, designing and building cars that were less popular, less reliable, and less fuel-efficient than foreign competitors. That's part of what has brought us to a point where they sought taxpayer assistance. <p>But as I've said from the start, we simply cannot keep this company, or any company, afloat on an endless supply of tax dollars. My job as President is to ensure that if tax dollars are being put on the line, they are being invested in a real fix that will make Chrysler more competitive. <p>That's why I rejected the original restructuring plan that Chrysler offered last month. It was clear that if we put tax dollars in that plan, it would be a bad deal for American taxpayers and would not put the company on a viable path. But it's also clear that if Chrysler was able to form a partnership with the international car company Fiat, there was a chance Chrysler could have a bright future. <p>After consulting with my Auto Task Force, industry experts, and financial advisers, I decided to give Chrysler and Fiat 30 days to reach an agreement. And the standard I set was high. I challenged them to design a plan that would protect American jobs, American taxpayers, and the future of a great American car company. But over the past month, seemingly insurmountable obstacles have been overcome, and Chrysler's most important stakeholders, from the United Auto Workers to Chrysler's largest lenders, from its own--from its former owners to its suppliers, have agreed to make major sacrifices. <p>So today I am pleased to announce that Chrysler and Fiat have formed a partnership that has a strong chance of success. It's a partnership that will save more than 30,000 jobs at Chrysler and tens of thousands of jobs at suppliers, dealers, and other businesses that rely on this company. <p>It's a partnership that the Federal Government will support by making additional loans that are consistent with what I outlined last month. As part of their agreement, every dime of new taxpayer money will be repaid before Fiat can take a majority ownership stake in Chrysler. In addition, considering Chrysler's extensive operations in Canada, the Government of Canada is also committing resources to ensure that Chrysler has a chance to succeed, and we're working closely with them. <p>It's a partnership that will give Chrysler a chance not only to survive, but to thrive in a global auto industry. Fiat has demonstrated that it can build the clean, fuel-efficient cars that are the future of the industry, and as part of this agreement, Fiat has already agreed to transfer billions of dollars in cutting-edge technology to Chrysler to help them do the same. Fiat has also committed to working with Chrysler to build new fuel-efficient cars and engines right here in America. <p>Now, this partnership was only possible because of unprecedented sacrifices on the part of Chrysler's stakeholders, who are willing to give something up so that this company and all the men and women whose livelihoods depend on it might see a better day. Chrysler's management, and in particular, its CEO, Robert Nardelli, have played a positive and constructive role throughout this process. The United Auto Workers, who had already made painful concessions, agreed to further cuts in wages and benefits, cuts that will help Chrysler survive, making it possible for so many workers to keep their jobs and about 170,000 retirees and their families to keep their health care. <p>Several major financial institutions, led by J.P. Morgan, agreed to reduce their debt to less than one-third of its face value to help free Chrysler from its crushing obligations. The German automaker, Daimler, agreed to give up its stake in Chrysler and contribute to the company's pension plan, further easing Chrysler's financial burden. And countless Americans across our country will be making major sacrifices as well, as a result of plans to consolidate dealers, brands, and product lines. <p>And while many stakeholders made sacrifices and worked constructively, I have to tell you some did not. In particular, a group of investment firms and hedge funds decided to hold out for the prospect of an unjustified taxpayer-funded bailout. They were hoping that everybody else would make sacrifices and they would have to make none. Some demanded twice the return that other lenders were getting. I don't stand with them. I stand with Chrysler's employees and their families and communities. I stand with Chrysler's management, its dealers, and its suppliers. I stand with the millions of Americans who own and want to buy Chrysler cars. I don't stand with those who held out when everybody else is making sacrifices. And that's why I'm supporting Chrysler's plans to use our bankruptcy laws to clear away its remaining obligations so the company can get back on its feet and onto a path of success. <p>Now, no one should be confused about what a bankruptcy process means. This is not a sign of weakness, but rather one more step on a clearly charted path to Chrysler's revival. Because of the fact that the UAW and many of the banks, the biggest stakeholders in this whole process, have already aligned, have already agreed, this process will be quick. It will be efficient. It's designed to deal with those last few holdouts, and it will be controlled. It will not disrupt the lives of the people who work at Chrysler or live in communities that depend on it, and it will not affect the ability of American consumers to buy a Chrysler or to get it serviced and repaired. It's a process that has the full support of Chrysler's key stakeholders and the full backing of the United States Government. And I have every confidence that Chrysler will emerge from this process stronger and more competitive. <p>I know that there are some who will insist that bankruptcy, even for these limited purposes, is a step that should not have been taken. But it was unsustainable to let enormous liabilities remain on Chrysler's books, and it was unacceptable to let a small group of speculators endanger Chrysler's future by refusing to sacrifice like everyone else. So I recognize that the path we're taking is hard. But as is often the case, the hard path is the right one. <p>The path we're taking also involves steps to shore up financing, because we cannot have viable car companies without strong car financing companies. It's now clear that Chrysler Financial, the institution that finances Chrysler's cars and dealers, would on its own require an unacceptably large stream of taxpayer money to remain viable. That's something I refuse to provide. And that is why, as part of this agreement, GMAC, an independent bank holding company that finances General Motors, has agreed to finance new Chrysler sales. We will be providing additional capital to GMAC to help unlock our frozen credit markets and free up lending so that consumers can get auto loans and dealers can finance their inventories, a measure that will help stabilize not only our auto market, but the broader economy as well. And tomorrow the Small Business Administration will be announcing it is expanding eligibility for some loans to include more suppliers and dealers, including RV dealers. <p>So these are some of the steps that we're taking to make it easier for Americans to buy a car. If you are considering buying a car, I hope it will be an American car. I want to remind you that if you decide to buy a Chrysler, your warranty will be safe, because it is backed by the United States Government. And to further boost demand for autos, we are working to accelerate the purchase of a Federal fleet, and we're also working with Congress on fleet modernization legislation that can provide a credit to consumers who turn in old cars and purchase cleaner, more fuel-efficient cars. <p>As pleased as I am about today's announcement and about the opportunity Chrysler has to remake itself, we know that far too many Americans in far too many communities are still struggling, as a result of layoffs not only at plants that produce cars, but at the businesses that produce the parts that go into them and at the dealers that sell and repair them. And that's why, as I discussed the last time we gathered here to talk about autos, I've named Ed Montgomery to be the Director of Recovery for Auto Communities and Workers. Ed will be traveling to Michigan next week with representatives from all the key Government agencies represented here, reaching out to our hardest hit areas, cutting through redtape, ensuring that the full resources of the Federal Government are getting to the workers, the families, and communities that need it the most. <p>Now, these are challenging times for America's auto industry and for the American people. But I am confident that if we as a nation can act with the same sense of shared sacrifice and shared purpose that's been shown by so many of Chrysler's stakeholders, if we can embrace the idea that we're all in it together, from the union hall to the boardroom to the Halls of Congress, then we will succeed not only with Chrysler, we will not only see our American auto industry rise again, but we will rebuild our entire economy and make the 21st century another American Century. <p>We have made great progress. We can make great American cars. Chrysler and GM are going to come back. And I am very confident that we're going to be able to make once again the U.S. auto industry the best auto industry in the world. And I want to thank my entire auto team who worked so diligently on what I consider to be a much better outcome than it looked like we were going to see 30 days ago. <p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"119" "\"Well, the main thing that I wanted to do was to thank the four leaders who are here, Congressman Skelton and McHugh and Senators Levin and McCain. <p>The GAO last year looked at 95 major acquisitions in the Defense Department and found that we had $295 billion worth of overruns and wasteful spending--$295 billion. And as Secretary Gates has said, every dollar that's wasted because of inappropriate no-bid contracts and waste and abuse, that's a dollar that could be going to help our--protect our troops, advance our national security, keep the American people safe. <p>These four leaders have put together a procurement reform package that is long overdue. They've shown extraordinary courage and extraordinary leadership in moving it forward. It's fully bipartisan. It has the support of the Department of Defense, and it has my full support. <p>And so I'm eager to get this legislation on my desk before Memorial Day, so that we can start getting on track to spending all our money wisely, not just in the Defense Department, but as I've said, if we can crack this nut, as tough as it is, it gives us further momentum to continue to make the changes in our budget that can start assuring taxpayers that their money is being well spent. And in the process, it means that we're going to be spending our money in ways that are more likely to keep the American people safe. <p>So I just want to thank these legislators. They have the full support of the White House moving forward. And as part of this, I also just want to mention I think that Secretary Gates has done a tremendous job with the budget that he's crafted going forward in reflecting some of the same principles, that we spend our money where it's needed based on national security interests and not based on politics. And I'm going to be urging everybody to take a hard, close look at the reforms that Secretary Gates has proposed. I think it's part and parcel of the overall attempt at gaining efficiency and improving out national security. <p>So thank you, gentlemen, for the great work you're doing. Okay, thank you, guys.\" "
"120" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. It's good weather for a race, it's not too hot. <p>Thank you, Secretary Gates, for your introduction and, more importantly, for the extraordinary job that you are doing as our Secretary of Defense. I want to thank Secretary Shinseki, who served our country with extraordinary valor and courage, who was wounded in Vietnam, and who's leading our efforts to create a 21st century VA. <p>And I want to thank my friend, Tammy Duckworth, who lost her legs in Iraq and never stopped serving her country when she came home. I got to know Tammy in my home State of Illinois, and I know that she is going to be a great Assistant Secretary of the VA. And thanks to all of those at Walter Reed and National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, the VA, and the Pentagon who have joined us today--and for all that you do for our wounded warriors. Welcome to the White House. <p>There are heroes among us today, men and women who served their country without falter, without fail; men and women who selflessly risked their lives on behalf of others, so that others might live. Soldiers like Sergeant Jeremiah Church, who was shot while defending his unit from an ambush in Iraq, but kept fighting until he lost consciousness. Soldiers like Sergeant First Class Rashe Hall, who, despite being badly wounded by a rocket-propelled grenade, repeatedly charged a Taliban ambush in Afghanistan so that his men might get to safety, then returned to give them first aid before receiving his own. <p>And soldiers like Staff Sergeant Dillon Behr from my home State of Illinois. While in Afghanistan last year, his unit came under heavy fire. Despite sustaining not one, but two life-threatening injuries, he held his position and fought for 6 1/2 hours until he could no longer hold a weapon, all so that American and Afghan troops might move to safety. Today, he's undergoing rehab at Walter Reed, and he's going to college as he pursues the next chapter in his life of service. <p>These men served with extraordinary bravery. They saved lives. And these men were awarded the Silver Star for Valor. They were there for their brothers and sisters in the United States Armed Forces no matter what, and that's the idea behind the Soldier Ride we're kicking off today. <p>Now, like a lot of great ideas, this one was conceived in a bar. [<i>Laughter</i>] A young bartender on Long Island named Chris Carney began talking about biking across the country to raise funds and awareness for returning troops and wounded warriors. And his boss said to him, \\"If you don't do it, I'll find somebody who will.\\" <p>So Chris hopped on his bike for what became the first annual Soldier Ride. The next year, a couple of wounded warriors joined him, a year later, even more. Civilians started to ride along. Grateful Americans began lining the streets to cheer and show their support. More rides were added, and more money was raised. <p>And 5 years after that first ride, I'm honored to have 40 wounded warriors gathered here on the South Lawn to kick off the third annual \\"White House to the Lighthouse\\" challenge. Over the next 3 days, these men and women, along with family and supporters, will ride from here to Annapolis on bicycles and in wheelchairs, raising money and awareness for others returning from Iraq and Afghanistan with serious injuries. <p>Now, keep in mind that today's riders once faced down the possibility that they might never have an active lifestyle again. Some are missing limbs, coping with nerve damage, living with traumatic brain injury or blindness. Some have endured painful rehabilitation, some still are, and some have battles yet to come. <p>And, these wounded warriors didn't get to choose the direction their lives would take the instant they were injured. But now they choose to prove that life after injury isn't about what you can't do, it's about what you can. They choose to keep their faith with the future. They choose to keep fighting for their brothers and sisters and show them that they're not alone. <p>We also remember that so many are supported by spouses and children, parents and siblings who suffered the absence of a loved one and then stood by their side through their recovery. These military families are heroes too. And they are a top priority of Michelle and me, and they will always have our support. <p>To anyone who's along their route this weekend, I ask you to go out there and cheer, salute, say thank you. And we'll do our part to support our troops, their families, and all who have worn the uniform of the United States of America, because when it comes to their service and sacrifice, warm words and gestures are more than warranted, but they're not nearly enough. <p>Our veterans deserve the care they were promised and the benefits that they have earned. And as long as I'm Commander in Chief, that's what they'll get. Just as these wounded warriors are there for one another, this country is going to be there for them. <p>And now I'm going to blow a horn and get this thing started. So who has got the horn? <p><i>Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric K. Shinseki.</i> Right here, Mr. President. <p><i>The President.</i> Oh, this is the official horn? <p><i>Secretary Shinseki.</i> Hair trigger, white button. <p><i>The President.</i> Hair trigger, white button--all right. [<i>Laughter</i>] Everybody--let's make sure everybody is lined up properly. Everybody all set? I don't want to catch anybody off guard here. <p>All right, on your mark, get set, go.\" "
"121" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. Thank you so much. This is a lot of fun. This makes so much of the hard work we do worth it, to see this ceremony here today. It is my honor and my personal pleasure to be the first to address you as my fellow Americans. And welcome to your White House. Now, I know this day carries a lot of meaning not only for you, but for your family members and your fellow servicemembers who join you today. <p>Each of you has a unique story to tell about the journey that led you here. You hail from every corner of the Earth, from Southeast Asia to Central Europe, from West Africa to South America. Some of you came to this country as young children, because your parents wanted to give you a better life in the land of opportunity. Others traveled here as adults, enduring hardship and sacrifice to provide for your own families. But all of you have one thing in common: You're here because you have not merely chosen to live in this country, you've chosen to serve this country. <p>You're here for the same reason that Jeonathan Zapata is here. Jeonathan recently returned from serving as part of our efforts in Afghanistan. He actually helped man the 400,000th aircraft landing aboard the USS <i>Kitty Hawk</i>. And Jeonathan wanted to serve the country he considers his own, even though he was not yet a citizen, because America had been so good to him from the time he came here from Nicaragua as a child. \\"By serving in the military,\\" Jeonathan says, \\"I can also give back to the U.S.\\" <p>So, Jeonathan, I'd like you to stand. <p>You're here for the same reason--you can sit down now, Jeonathan--[<i>laughter</i>]. You're here for the same reason that Chryshann Pierre is here. Chryshann, where are you? There you are. Chryshann is an Army Specialist returning from service in Iraq late last year. Originally, she joined the military because she wanted to provide stability for her three children. But then she discovered something she did not expect: She loves being in the Army. [<i>Laughter</i>] In fact, she even said that she loved basic training. Chryshann, you've got to be pretty tough to love basic training. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>You all have your own stories--you can sit down, Chryshann--[<i>applause</i>]. You all have your own stories of how you came to this country. And you all have your own personal reasons for why you joined the military. But in the service that you render, in the sacrifices that each of you have made and will continue to make, in the commitment you've shown to your adopted nation, you're part of a larger story, America's story. <p>For more than two centuries, this Nation has been a beacon of hope and opportunity, a place that has drawn enterprising men and women from around the world who have sought to build a life as good as their talents and their hard work would allow. And generation after generation of immigrants have come to these shores because they believe that in America all things are possible. <p>So you are not only living examples of that promise, you're also serving to defend that promise for future generations. And your service reminds all of us that much of the strength of this country is drawn from those who have chosen to call it home. It's not lost on me or anybody here today that at a time when we face an economic crisis born in many ways of irresponsibility, there are those who are actively pursuing greater responsibility. <p>And one person here today who fits that description well enough is Jeanne Ebongue Tapo--right here. She grew up in a poor family in Gabon, Africa, the daughter of a single mother raising five children by herself. And Jeanne immigrated to the United States to provide for her family and to pursue her dream of becoming a dentist. And that's why she joined the Navy. And she hoped she'd have the opportunity to work and see the world and also earn her education. <p>And that's exactly what she has been able to do. She has started college; she's had the chance to travel. And even though she's had to make sacrifices to be apart from her loved ones, the people she's met in the Navy have become like a family away from home. And she's had the chance to be a part of what it feels like--what feels like a small community and, at the same time, to be part of something much larger than herself. So Jeanne, thank you. <p>Despite all the--all that she's faced, despite all the obstacles that she's overcome, Jeanne has made it her mission to serve others. \\"At the end of the day,\\" she said, \\"the only thing that matters is that I helped.\\" <p>As our newest Americans, all of you remind us just how precious our citizenship is, of how much it's worth and why it's worth protecting. You all remind us that citizenship is not just a collection of rights, it's also a set of responsibilities; that America's success is not a gift, it is hard won. It depends on each of us doing our part. So thank you all for your service. I am extraordinarily proud of you. And your nation is grateful to you. <p>So now it is also my privilege to present a distinguished American with an award in recognition of the many contributions of naturalized citizens like all of you. It's called the Outstanding American by Choice award. It's given to--it's given by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, and it is my honor to award it to Peter Lemon. And let me tell you a little bit about Peter. Peter was just 19 years old, and a citizen for just 7 years, when he and his platoon came under fire in the Tay Ninh Province of Vietnam. <p>Wounded by shrapnel from a mortar that exploded near his foxhole, Specialist Lemon kept fighting to protect his position against wave after wave of attack. The battle raged for hours. He was wounded a second time, and then a third. But he refused to give up, even leaving his foxhole and exposing himself to enemy fire in order to continue to defend his fellow Rangers. <p>In fact, once the fight was over, Specialist Lemon refused to be evacuated until others had been taken to a field hospital. And Pete would spend a month in the hospital himself to recover from his injuries. Soon after he returned home, he would be presented with the Medal of Honor by President Nixon. <p>Today, Peter Lemon is a proud father and a proud veteran, as well as an author and a filmmaker. And he has devoted his time and energies to talking about what his own experiences have meant to him and what he has learned, to encourage each and every one of us that the way to make the most of our talents is to make a difference in the lives of others. <p>Now, his experience is a testament to the men and women who have come to this country to build a better life for themselves and their families, and who have, by their commitment and contribution, made America a much better place as well. <p>So it is my honor to present this Outstanding American by Choice award to Peter Lemon. Peter, will you please come here? <p>[<i>At this point, the President presented the award.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> One of you might win this someday. You're already well on the way. <p>Are you going to lead the Pledge of Allegiance? <p><i>Peter Lemon.</i> Yes. <p>Would everybody please stand, and we're going to say the Pledge of Allegiance for our great Nation. <p>[<i>Mr. Lemon then led a recital of the Pledge of Allegiance.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> Thank you so much, Peter. <p>Thank you, everybody. With that, the ceremony comes to an end. We are extraordinarily grateful for our fellow citizens and all the service that they have rendered. Give them one more big round of applause.\" "
"122" "\"I just got off the telephone with Justice Souter, and so I would like to say a few words about his decision to retire from the Supreme Court. <p>Throughout his two decades on the Supreme Court, Justice Souter has shown what it means to be a fair-minded and independent judge. He came to the bench with no particular ideology. He never sought to promote a political agenda, and he consistently defied labels and rejected absolutes, focusing instead on just one task: reaching a just result in the case that was before him. <p>He approached judging as he approaches life, with a feverish work ethic and a good sense of humor, with integrity, equanimity, and compassion, the hallmark of not just being a good judge, but of being a good person. <p>I am incredibly grateful for his dedicated service. I told him as much when we spoke. I spoke on behalf of the American people, thanking him for his service. And I wish him safe travels on his journey home to his beloved New Hampshire and on the road ahead. <p>Now, the process of selecting someone to replace Justice Souter is among my most serious responsibilities as President, so I will seek somebody with a sharp and independent mind and a record of excellence and integrity. I will seek someone who understands that justice isn't about some abstract legal theory or footnote in a casebook; it is also about how our laws affect the daily realities of people's lives, whether they can make a living and care for their families, whether they feel safe in their homes and welcomed in their own nation. <p>I view that quality of empathy, of understanding and identifying with people's hopes and struggles, as an essential ingredient for arriving as just decisions and outcomes. I will seek somebody who is dedicated to the rule of law, who honors our constitutional traditions, who respects the integrity of the judicial process and the appropriate limits of the judicial role. I will seek somebody who shares my respect for constitutional values on which this Nation was founded and who brings a thoughtful understanding of how to apply them in our time. <p>As I make this decision, I intend to consult with members of both parties across the political spectrum. And it is my hope that we can swear in our new Supreme Court Justice in time for him or her to be seated by the first Monday in October when the Court's new term begins.\" "
"123" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. Please, everybody have a seat. This is a big family here-- [<i>laughter</i>]--feel a bit like a wedding, you know. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We're here this afternoon to formally fill out my Cabinet with my new Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius, and my Secretary of Commerce, Gary Locke. Secretary Sebelius and Secretary Locke were actually sworn-in before today, but around here, we like to make sure we get it right. [<i>Laughter</i>] I had to do it twice, and so now we make everybody do it twice. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>When I announced Kathleen as my choice for HHS Secretary, I said that one of her responsibilities would be to make certain our Nation is prepared for a pandemic. What I didn't expect was that a serious H1N1 flu outbreak would be her first assignment. But it is, and that's why on Tuesday, only hours after being confirmed by the Senate, she was sworn-in by my side in the Oval Office and then went straight to the Situation Room to get to work dealing with this emergency. <p>But managing crises is nothing new for Kathleen. She has plenty of experience doing just that as Governor of Kansas, and that expertise has enabled her to hit the ground running. She's been closely monitoring and carefully managing the situation, along with her Acting Director at the CDC, Dr. Richard Besser, and Secretary Janet Napolitano. They're making sure all Federal agencies are coordinating their efforts, and they'll keep the American people updated over the days ahead. <p>Experts tell us this is a unique virus with the potential to have a great impact, and as long as it remains a potentially grave threat, we're going to take it very seriously. And obviously, we hope the precautions we're taking prove unnecessary, but better safe than sorry. We will take every appropriate action to make sure that the American people are safe. <p>And if the flu outbreak isn't enough, Secretary Sebelius has a lot of other challenges on her plate, from guaranteeing the safety of our Nation's food and drug supply, to keeping America at the forefront of medical research, to helping to lead our effort to ensure that every American has access to quality, affordable health care. <p>As a former State insurance commissioner and Governor, Kathleen has been on the frontlines of our health care crisis. And she shares my belief that if we're going to cut costs for families and businesses, maintain quality, and improve the long-term economic health of our Nation, we must realize that fixing what's wrong with our health care system is no longer just a moral imperative; it's an economic and fiscal imperative. If we want to make companies more competitive and reduce our budget deficits in the future, we need to tackle health care reform right now. <p>The reform we're talking about won't focus on Democratic ideas or Republican ideas, but on ideas that work. And that's precisely the kind of commitment to bipartisan accomplishment that Kathleen embodies. She is, after all, the daughter of a Democratic Governor and the daughter-in-law of a Republican Congressman. Her father, who is here, former Ohio Governor John Gilligan--I just want to acknowledge him--where did he go? There he is, right in front. Give him a big round of applause. [<i>Applause</i>] He and Kathleen make up the first father-daughter pair of Governors in the United States. <p>But Kathleen has a--forged a reputation for bipartisan problem-solving in her own right. Time and again, she bridged the partisan divide and worked with a Republican legislature to get things done for the people of Kansas. <p>And Kathleen possesses the patience and understanding honed by nearly 35 years of marriage to her husband Gary Sebelius--[<i>laughter</i>]--the former first dude of Kansas--[<i>laughter</i>]--the grace and good humor required to raise sons like Ned and John, and the kind of pragmatic wisdom you tend to find in a Kansan. She's already a tremendous asset to my Cabinet. She has hit the ground running. I look forward to working with her in the years to come. <p>Now, when I chose Gary Locke for my Commerce Secretary, I mentioned his own remarkable story. More than 100 years ago, Gary's grandfather left China on a steamship bound for America and found work as a domestic servant in Washington State. He raised a son, Gary's father Jimmy, who would go on to fight in World War II, return home and open a grocery store, and later raise a family of his own. <p>Gary worked his way through Yale with the help of scholarships and student loans, earned his law degree, and returned to Washington State to devote his life to public service. And when he took the oath of office as Governor of Washington, he did so in the State capitol building not 1 mile from the home where his grandfather worked as a servant all those years ago. And that's how I know Gary shares my deep, abiding belief in the American Dream, because he's lived it too. <p>He's since proceeded to honor the family's legacy with years of distinguished service as one of the Nation's most able and forward-thinking Governors. He worked to promote economic development and attract businesses to Washington that would create the jobs of the 21st century, jobs in science and technology, agriculture and clean energy. And I'm proud of what he and his team at the Department of Commerce are doing to help create conditions in which our workers can prosper, our businesses can compete and thrive, and our economy can grow. <p>I want to thank his lovely wife, Mona, their adorable children, Emily, Dylan, and Madeline, for being here--thank you, guys--and for the sacrifices they've made to send Gary from one Washington to another, especially Emily, because I know it's harder when you're older. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I'm grateful to Gary for his service, because I know how hard it is to be away from your family. <p>And my Cabinet is now full of energetic innovators like Kathleen and Gary, a team of leaders who push the envelope every day because they know that whether the wind is in our face or at our backs, America does not settle; we always march forward. I am thrilled to have them by my side as we continue the work of turning our economy around and laying a new foundation for growth that delivers on the change the American people asked for and the promise of a new and better day ahead. <p>So with that, I'm going to turn it over to another extraordinary member of my team, my Vice President, Joe Biden, to administer the oaths. <p>Joe. <p><i>Vice President Joe Biden. </i>Thank you, Mr. President. <p>[<i>At this point, the Vice President administered the oath.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> Thank you, everybody. Have a great weekend.\" "
"124" "\"Over the last week, my administration has taken several precautions to address the challenge posed by the 2009 H1N1 flu virus. Today I'd like to take a few minutes to explain why. <p>This is a new strain of the flu virus, and because we haven't developed an immunity to it, it has more potential to cause us harm. Unlike the various strains of animal flu that have emerged in the past, it's a flu that's spreading from human to human. This creates the potential for a pandemic, which is why we are acting quickly and aggressively. <p>This H1N1 flu has had its biggest impact in Mexico, where it's claimed a number of lives and infected hundreds more. Thus far, the strain in this country, that has infected people in at least 19 States, has not been as potent or as deadly. We can't know for certain why that is, which is why we are taking all necessary precautions in the event that the virus does turn into something worse. <p>This is also why the Centers for Disease Control has recommended that schools and childcare facilities with confirmed cases of the virus close for up to 14 days. This is why we urge employers to allow infected employees to take as many sick days as necessary. If more schools are forced to close, we've also recommended that both parents and businesses think about contingency plans if children do have to stay home. We've asked every American to take the same steps you would take to prevent any other flu: keep your hands washed, cover your mouth when you cough, stay home from work if you're sick, and keep your children home from school if they're sick. <p>The White House has launched pages in Facebook, MySpace, and Twitter to support the ongoing efforts by the CDC to update the public as quickly and effectively as possible. And as our scientists and researchers learn more information about this virus every day, the guidance we offer will likely change. What will not change is the fact that we'll be making every recommendation based on the best science possible. <p>We will also continue investing in every resource necessary to treat this virus and prevent a wider outbreak. The good news is that the current strain of H1N1 can be defeated by a course of antiviral treatment that we already have on hand. We began this week with 50 million courses of this treatment in the Strategic National Stockpile. Over the course of the last few days, we have delivered one-quarter of that stockpile to States so that they are prepared to treat anyone who is infected with this virus. We then purchased an additional 13 million treatments to refill our strategic stockpile. <p>Out of an abundance of caution, I have also asked Congress for $1.5 billion, if it's needed, to purchase additional antivirals, emergency equipment, and the development of a vaccine that can prevent this virus as we prepare for the next flu season in the fall. <p>The Recovery Act that Congress enacted in February also included expansions of community health centers, a dramatic increase in the training of health care workers and nurses, and $300 million for the development and deployment of vaccines, all of which will help us meet this threat. <p>Finally, thanks to the work that the last administration and Congress did to prepare for a possible avian flu pandemic in 2005, States and the Federal Government have fully operable influenza readiness plans and are better prepared to deal with such a challenge than ever before. <p>It is my greatest hope and prayer that all of these precautions and preparations prove unnecessary. But because we have it within our power to limit the potential damage of this virus, we have a solemn and urgent responsibility to take the necessary steps. I would sooner take action now than hesitate and face graver consequences later. I have no higher priority as President of the United States than the safety and security of the American people, and I will do whatever is necessary to protect this country. So I want to thank every American for their patience and understanding during this developing challenge, and I promise that this Government will continue speaking clearly and honestly about the steps we're taking to meet it. <p>Thank you.\" "
"125" "\"All right. Good morning, everybody. I hope you all had a good weekend. <p>Let's begin with a simple premise: Nobody likes paying taxes, particularly in times of economic stress. But most Americans meet their responsibilities because they understand that it's an obligation of citizenship, necessary to pay the costs of our common defense and our mutual well-being. <p>And yet, even as most American citizens and businesses meet these responsibilities, there are others who are shirking theirs. And many are aided and abetted by a broken tax system, written by well-connected lobbyists on behalf of well-heeled interests and individuals. It's a Tax Code full of corporate loopholes that makes it perfectly legal for companies to avoid paying their fair share. It's a Tax Code that makes it all too easy for a number--a small number of individuals and companies to abuse overseas tax havens to avoid paying any taxes at all. And it's a Tax Code that says you should pay lower taxes if you create a job in Bangalore, India, than if you create one in Buffalo, New York. <p>Now, understand, one of the strengths of our economy is the global reach of our businesses. And I want to see our companies remain the most competitive in the world. But the way to make sure that happens is not to reward our companies for moving jobs off our shores or transferring profits to overseas tax havens. This is something that I talked about again and again during the course of the campaign. The way we make our businesses competitive is not to reward American companies operating overseas with a roughly 2-percent tax rate on foreign profits, a rate that costs tens--that costs taxpayers tens of billions of dollars a year. The way to make American businesses competitive is not to let some citizens and businesses dodge their responsibilities while ordinary Americans pick up the slack. <p>Unfortunately, that's exactly what we're doing. These problems have been highlighted by Chairmen Charlie Rangel and Max Baucus, by leaders like Senator Carl Levin and Congressman Lloyd Doggett. And now is the time to finally do something about them. And that's why today I'm announcing a set of proposals to crack down on illegal overseas tax evasion, close loopholes, and make it more profitable for companies to create jobs here in the United States. <p>For years, we've talked about ending tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas and giving tax breaks to companies that create jobs here in America. That's what our budget will finally do. We will stop letting American companies that create jobs overseas take deductions on their expenses when they do not pay any American taxes on their profits. And we will use the savings to give tax cuts to companies that are investing in research and development here at home, so that we can jump-start job creation, foster innovation, and enhance America's competitiveness. <p>For years, we've talked about shutting down overseas tax havens that let companies setup operations to avoid paying taxes in America. That's what our budget will finally do. On the campaign, I used to talk about the outrage of a building in the Cayman Islands that had over 12,000 businesses claim this building as their headquarters. And I've said before, either this is the largest building in the world or the largest tax scam in the world. And I think the American people know which it is. It's the kind of tax scam that we need to end. <p>And that's why we are closing one of our biggest tax loopholes. It's a loophole that lets subsidiaries of some of our largest companies tell the IRS that they're paying taxes abroad, tell foreign governments that they're paying taxes elsewhere, and avoid paying taxes anywhere. And closing this single loophole will save taxpayers tens of billions of dollars, money that can be spent on reinvesting in America. And it will restore fairness to our Tax Code by helping ensure that all our citizens and all our companies are paying what they should. <p>Now, for years, we've talked about stopping Americans from illegally hiding their money overseas and getting tough with the financial institutions that let them get away with it. The Treasury Department and the IRS, under Secretary Geithner's leadership and Commissioner Shulman's, are already taking far-reaching steps to catch overseas tax cheats, but they need more support. <p>And that's why I'm asking Congress to pass some commonsense measures. One of these measures would let the IRS know how much income Americans are generating in overseas accounts by requiring overseas banks to provide 1099s for their American clients, just like Americans have to do for their bank accounts here in this country. If financial institutions won't cooperate with us, we will assume that they are sheltering money in tax havens and act accordingly. And to ensure that the IRS has the tools it needs to enforce our laws, we're seeking to hire nearly 800 more IRS agents to detect and pursue American tax evaders abroad. <p>So all in all, these and other reforms will save American taxpayers $210 billion over the next 10 years, savings we can use to reduce the deficit, cut taxes for American businesses that are playing by the rules, and provide meaningful relief for hard-working families. That's what we're doing. We're putting a middle class tax cut in the pockets of 95 percent of working families, and we're providing a two--$2,500 annual tax credit to put the dream of a college degree or advanced training within the reach for more students. We're providing a tax credit worth up to $8,000 for first-time homebuyers to help more Americans own a piece of the American Dream and to strengthen the housing market. <p>So the steps I am announcing today will help us deal with some of the most egregious examples of what's wrong with our Tax Code and will help us strengthen some of these other efforts. It's a downpayment on the larger tax reform we need to make our tax system simpler and fairer and more efficient for individuals and corporations. <p>Now, it will take time to undo the damage of distorted provisions that were slipped into our Tax Code by lobbyists and special interests, but with the steps I'm announcing today, we are beginning to crack down on Americans who are bending or breaking the rules, and we're helping to ensure that all Americans are contributing their fair share. <p>In other words, we're beginning to restore fairness and balance to our Tax Code. That's what I promised I would do during the campaign, that's what I'm committed to doing as President, and that is what I will work with members of my administration and Members of Congress to accomplish in the months and years to come. <p>Thanks very much, guys.\" "
"126" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello. <i>Gracias</i>. <p><i>Audience member.</i> <i>De nada</i>. <i>Bienvenidos</i>. <p><i>The President.</i> <i>Bienvenidos.</i> Welcome to <i>cinco de quatro</i>--[<i>laughter</i>]--Cinco de Mayo at the White House. We are a day early, but we always like to get a head start here at the Obama White House. <p>Cinco de Mayo marks a singular moment in Mexican history. Nearly 150 years ago, a ragtag band of soldiers and citizens, badly outnumbered and facing impossible odds, held their ground on a muddy hill to defend their nation from what was at the time the most fearsome fighting force in the world. That decisive victory at what became known as the Battle of Puebla ignited a pride in country and culture that Mexican Americans feel to this day. <p>And tomorrow, on both sides of our border, we'll pay tribute to our shared heritage by celebrating with friends and family, with love and laughter. We'll remember that America is a richer and more vibrant place thanks to the contributions of Mexican Americans. Contributions--[<i>applause</i>]. <p><i>Audience member.</i> Yeah! <p><i>The President.</i> I knew that was Manny over there--\\"Yeah!\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Pat, do something about Manny. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We'll remember that the contributions of commerce and culture, in language and literature, in faith, and in food have all made America a better place. And we will honor the service of Mexican Americans who have worn the uniform of the United States. We'll also recommit to advancing the ambitions and the dreams of generations of Mexican Americans and all Latinos who have had an immeasurable impact on the life of this Nation. <p>But even as we mark this joyous and festive occasion, we do so mindful of the fact that this is a difficult time for Mexico. The pain our global economic downturn has inflicted has only been deepened by the outbreak of the H1N1 flu, as well as the drug-related violence that has robbed so many of their future. <p>One thing we know: Good neighbors work together when faced with common challenges. And that's why we're working closely with the Mexican Government to identify and treat illnesses that are caused by this new flu strain. I spoke to President Calderon on Saturday about this joint approach. That's why we're working in an urgent and coordinated fashion to end the drug wars. That's why we'll continue to stand side by side with the Mexican people in pursuit of our common security and our common prosperity. <p>So I know this is a tough time on both sides of the border. I know some of tomorrow's celebrations have been downsized or canceled out of an abundance of caution, from Puebla to Mexico City to my hometown of Chicago. And while we hope and pray that all these precautions and preparations will prove unnecessary, I applaud the Mexican Government and all the leaders who are taking responsibility and appropriate steps in order to keep the people safe. <p>As we honor our heritage and our heroes tomorrow, I also know this: Mexicans, Americans, and Mexican Americans are all a people who've known trial and persevered in the face of incredible odds. We're a people of revolution; who value hard work and sacrifice; who forever look forward to the future with a deep and abiding faith that the dream of opportunity is still real and alive in our time. <p>And when one of my predecessors once visited Mexico City, he said that \\"while geography has made us neighbors, tradition has made us friends. Economics has made us partners. And necessity has made us allies . . . two great and independent nations, united by hope instead of fear.\\" <p>John F. Kennedy's message nearly a half century ago is my message now. And when I made my first trip to Mexico as President, not just 3 weeks ago, I was greeted by the children of both our nations waving flags of both our nations, a powerful reminder that in the end, everything we do is done to guarantee a better future for our children and our grandchildren. <p>And while I was there, I found it impossible not to be touched by the warmth, the vigor, and the forceful vitality of the Mexican people, a love of life I've seen in Mexican American communities throughout this Nation. And that's what we'll celebrate tomorrow, that's what we celebrate tonight, and that's what we will celebrate in the future. <p>So <i>feliz Cinco de Mayo</i>. Thank you very much for being here, and party on. Thank you. <p>Oh, I also want to--I want to make sure that--everybody knows the Bidens, but I want to make sure to acknowledge my good friend and a great friend of the United States, Ambassador Arturo Sarukhan, and his lovely wife, Valencia, who are here. <p>[<i>At this point, the President descended from the podium and greeted members of the audience. He then returned to the podium and continued as follows.</i>] <p><i>The President. </i>Hey, wait. In an incredible breach of protocol, I introduced my good friend, the Ambassador, but it--he has greetings from the people of Mexico. And so I take complete responsibility for that; I apologize. Will everybody please settle down, and let's hear from our Ambassador from Mexico. <p>[<i>Mexico's Ambassador to the U.S. Arturo Sarukhan Casamitjana made brief remarks.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> All right, now you can go party. Thank you.\" "
"127" "\"Well, thank you, everybody. We're going to be making formal remarks over there, but we just wanted to say that we've had an extraordinarily productive day. And what is represented around the table is not just three Presidents but rather it's ministers, agency heads at every level, and that reflects the kind of concrete cooperation and detail that is going to, ultimately, make a difference in improving opportunity and democracy and stability in Pakistan and in Afghanistan. So we'll see you guys over there. <p>Thank you.\" "
"128" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. We just finished an important trilateral meeting among the United States, Afghanistan, and Pakistan. And earlier today I was pleased to have wide-ranging bilateral discussions with both President Karzai of Afghanistan and President Zardari of Pakistan. <p>We meet today as three sovereign nations joined by a common goal: to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat Al Qaida and its extremist allies in Pakistan and Afghanistan, and to prevent their ability to operate in either country in the future. And to achieve that goal, we must deny them the space to threaten the Pakistani, Afghan, or American people. And we must also advance security and opportunity, so that Pakistanis and Afghans can pursue the promise of a better life. <p>And just over a month ago, I announced a new strategy to achieve these objectives after consultation with Pakistan, Afghanistan, and our other friends and allies. Our strategy reflects a fundamental truth: The security of Pakistan, Afghanistan, and the United States are linked. In the weeks that have followed, that truth has only been reinforced. Al Qaida and its allies have taken more lives in Pakistan and Afghanistan, and have continued to challenge the democratically elected Governments of the two Presidents standing here today. Meanwhile, Al Qaida plots against the American people--and people around the world--from their safe haven along the border. <p>I'm pleased that these two men, elected leaders of Afghanistan and Pakistan, fully appreciate the seriousness of the threat that we face, and have reaffirmed their commitment to confronting it. And I'm pleased that we have advanced unprecedented cooperation between Afghanistan and Pakistan on a bilateral basis--and among Afghanistan, Pakistan, and the United States--which will benefit all of our people. <p>Today's meeting is the second in the trilateral dialogs among our countries, and these meetings will coordinate our efforts in a broad range of areas, across all levels of government. To give you a sense of the scope of this effort, Secretary Clinton, Attorney General Holder, Secretary Vilsack, Director Panetta, Director Mueller, and Deputy Secretary Lew will all host separate meetings with their Pakistani and Afghan counterparts. And these trilateral meetings build on efforts being made in the region and in the United States, and they will continue on a regular basis. <p>Now there's much to be done. Along the border where insurgents often move freely, we must work together with a renewed sense of partnership to share intelligence, and to coordinate our efforts to isolate, target, and take out our common enemy. But we must also meet the threat of extremism with a positive program of growth and opportunity. And that's why my administration is working with Members of Congress to create opportunity zones to spark development. That's why I'm proud that we've helped advance negotiations towards landmark transit-trade agreements to open Afghanistan and Pakistan borders to more commerce. <p>Within Afghanistan, we must help grow the economy, while developing alternatives to the drug trade by tapping the resilience and the ingenuity of the Afghan people. We must support free and open national elections later this fall, while helping to protect the hard-earned rights of all Afghans. And we must support the capacity of local governments, and stand up to corruption that blocks progress. I also made it clear that the United States will work with our Afghan and international partners to make every effort to avoid civilian casualties as we help the Afghan Government combat our common enemy. <p>And within Pakistan, we must provide lasting support to democratic institutions, while helping the Government confront the insurgents who are the single greatest threat to the Pakistani state. And we must do more than stand against those who would destroy Pakistan; we must stand with those who want to build Pakistan. And that is why I've asked Congress for sustained funding, to build schools and roads and hospitals. I want the Pakistani people to understand that America is not simply against terrorism, we are on the side of their hopes and their aspirations, because we know that the future of Pakistan must be determined by the talent, innovation, and intelligence of its people. <p>I have long said that we cannot meet these challenges in isolation, nor delay the action, nor deny the resources necessary to get the job done. And that's why we have a comprehensive strategy for the region, with civilian and military components, led by Ambassador Richard Holbrooke and General David Petraeus. And for the first time, this strategy will be matched by the resources that it demands. <p>U.S. troops are serving courageously and capably, in a vital mission in Afghanistan, alongside our Afghan and international partners. But to combat an enemy that is on the offensive, we need more troops, training, and assistance. And that's why we are deploying 21,000 troops to Afghanistan, and increasing our efforts to train Afghan security forces. And I'm also pleased that our NATO allies and partners are providing resources to support our strategy. And that is why we are helping Pakistan combat the insurgency within its borders, including $400 million in immediate assistance that we are seeking from Congress, which will help the Government as it steps up its efforts against the extremists. <p>And to advance security, opportunity, and justice for the people of Afghanistan and Pakistan, we are dramatically increasing our civilian support for both countries. We were pleased that these efforts were recently amplified through the $5.5 billion that was pledged for Pakistan at an international donors conference in Tokyo; resources that will help meet the basic needs of the Pakistani people. <p>The road ahead will be difficult. There will be more violence, and there will be setbacks. But let me be clear: The United States has made a lasting commitment to defeat Al Qaida, but also, to support the democratically elected sovereign Governments of both Pakistan and Afghanistan. That commitment will not waiver, and that support will be sustained. <p>Every day, we see evidence of the future that Al Qaida and its allies offer. It's a future filled with violence and despair. It's a future without opportunity or hope. That's not what the people of Pakistan and Afghanistan want, and it's not what they deserve. The United States has a stake in the future of these two countries. We have learned, time and again, that our security is shared. It is a lesson that we learned most painfully on 9/11, and it is a lesson that we will not forget. <p>So we are here today in the midst of a great challenge. But no matter what happens, we will not be deterred. The aspirations of all our people--for security, for opportunity, and for justice--are far more powerful than any enemy. Those are the hopes that we hold in common for all of our children. So we will sustain our cooperation. And we will work for the day when our nations are linked, not by a common enemy, but by a shared peace and prosperity, mutual interests and mutual respect, not only among governments, but among our people. <p>I want to thank President Zardari and President Karzai for joining me here today. I look forward to continuing this close cooperation between our Governments in the months and years ahead. Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"129" "\"Good morning, everybody. All across this country, Americans are responding to difficult economic times by tightening their belts and making tough decisions about where they need to spend and where they need to save. And the question the American people are asking is whether Washington is prepared to act with the same sense of responsibility. <p>I believe we can and must do exactly that. Over the course of our first hundred days in office, my administration has taken aggressive action to confront a historic economic crisis. We're doing everything that we can to create jobs and to get our economy moving while building a new foundation for lasting prosperity, a foundation that invests in quality education, lowers health care costs, and develops new sources of energy powered by new jobs and industries. <p>But one of the pillars of this foundation is fiscal responsibility. We can no longer afford to spend as if deficits don't matter and waste is not our problem. We can no longer afford to leave the hard choices for the next budget, the next administration, or the next generation. <p>And that's why I've charged the Office of Management and Budget, led by Peter Orszag and Rob Nabors, who are standing behind me today, with going through the budget, program by program, item by item, line by line, looking for areas where we can save taxpayer dollars. Today the budget office is releasing the first report in this process, a list of more than 100 programs slated to be reduced or eliminated altogether. And the process is ongoing. <p>Now, I want to be clear: There are many, many people doing valuable work for our Government across the country and around the world. And it's important that we support these folks, people who don't draw big paycheck or earn a lot of praise but who do tough, thankless jobs on our behalf in our Government. So this is not a criticism of them. At the same time, we have to admit that there is a lot of money that's being spent inefficiently, ineffectively, and, in some cases, in ways that are actually pretty stunning. <p>Some programs may have made sense in the past, but are no longer needed in the present. Other programs never made any sense; the end result of a special interest's successful lobbying campaign. Still other programs perform functions that can be conducted more efficiently or are already carried out more effectively elsewhere in the Government. <p>One example of a program we will cut is a long-range radio navigation system which costs taxpayers $35 million a year. Now, this system once made a lot of sense, before there were satellites to help us navigate. Now there's GPS. And yet, year after year, this obsolete technology has continued to be funded, even though it serves no Government function and very few people are left who still actually use it. <p>Another example is the National Institute for Literacy. Now, I strongly support initiatives that promote literacy--it's critical--but I oppose programs that do it badly. Last year, nearly half of the funding in this program was spent on overhead. So we've proposed cutting the $6 million for this program in favor of supporting literacy efforts within the Department of Education which use tax dollars more effectively and wisely. <p>We're also closing an office maintained by the Department of Education in Paris. This is an office that costs hundreds of thousands of dollars to employ one person as a representative to United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, or UNESCO. Now, participation in UNESCO is very important, but we can save this money and still participate, using e-mail and teleconferencing and a small travel budget. <p>In addition, we're going to save money by eliminating unnecessary defense programs that do nothing to keep us safe, but rather prevent us from spending money on what does keep us safe. One example is a $465 million program to build an alternate engine for the Joint Strike Fighter. The Defense Department is already pleased with the engine it has; the engine it has works. The Pentagon does not want and does not plan to use the alternative version. That's why the Pentagon stopped requesting this funding 2 years ago. Yet it's still being funded. <p>And these are just a few examples. But the point to remember is that there are consequences for this kind of spending. It makes the development of new tools for our military, like the Joint Strike Fighter, more expensive, even prohibitively so, and crowds out money that we could be using, for example, to improve our troops' quality of life and their safety and security. It makes Government less effective. It makes our Nation less resilient and less able to address immediate concerns and long-term challenges, and it leaves behind a massive burden for our children and grandchildren. <p>Now, some of the cuts we're putting forward today are more painful than others; some are larger than others. In fact, a few of the programs we eliminate will produce less than a million dollars in savings. And in Washington, I guess that's considered trivial. Outside of Washington, that's still considered a lot of money. <p>But these savings, large and small, add up. The 121 budget cuts we are announcing today will save taxpayers nearly $17 billion next year alone. And even by Washington standards, that should be considered real money. To put this in perspective, this $17 billion is more than enough savings to pay for a $2,500 tuition tax credit for millions of students as well as a larger Pell grant, with enough money left over to pay for everything we do to pay for--to protect the national parks. And this is just one aspect of the budget reforms and savings we're seeking. <p>I've signed a Presidential memorandum to end unnecessary no-bid contracts and dramatically reform the way Government contracts are awarded, reform that will save the American people up to $40 billion each year. <p>Secretary Gates has proposed the elimination of expensive weapons systems ill-suited for the threats of the 21st century and a sweeping overhaul of a defense contracting system which has been riddled with hundreds of billions of dollars in waste and cost overruns. A proposal to accomplish these kinds of reforms, sponsored by Senators John McCain and Carl Levin in the Senate and Representatives Ike Skelton and John McHugh in the House, is advancing through Congress as we speak. <p>We're also going to eliminate the subsidies we provide to the health insurance companies through Medicare, saving roughly $22 billion each year starting in 2012, as part of a broader effort to reduce health care costs--essential to putting our Nation on a more secure fiscal footing. <p>All told, by the end of my first term, we will have cut the deficit in half. Over the next decade, we'll bring nondefense discretionary spending to its lowest level as a share of Gross Domestic Product since 1962. We will also continue to look for ways we can save taxpayer money. And I know there are many in both parties in Congress committed to cutting spending and eager to work with us. <p>And one important step is restoring the pay-as-you-go rule, and I've called on Congress to do exactly that. This rule says, very simply, that Congress can only spend a dollar if it saves a dollar elsewhere. This is the principle that guides responsible families managing a budget. This is the principle that helped transform large deficits into surpluses in the 1990s. <p>I've also asked my Cabinet to continue to scour their budgets looking for savings and to report their findings back to me. And I've proposed other creative ways to control spending. For example, we don't want agencies to protect bloated budgets; we want them to promote effective programs. So we'll allow agencies that identify savings to keep a portion of those savings to invest in programs that work within their agencies. <p>We're also making it possible for Government employees to submit their ideas for how their agency can save money and perform better. And we're going to reach beyond the halls of Government. Many businesses have innovative ways of using technology to save money; many experts have new ideas to make Government work more efficiently. Government can, and must, learn from them. <p>Finally, while these steps will help us cut our deficit in half over the next 4 years, we recognize that there remain looming challenges to our fiscal health beyond that, challenges that will require us to make health care more affordable and to work on a bipartisan basis to address programs like Social Security. So what we're proposing today does not replace the need for large changes in nondiscretionary spending. <p>It is important, though, for all of you as you're writing up these stories to recognize that $17 billion taken out of our discretionary nondefense budget as well as portions of our defense budget are significant; they mean something. Now, none of this will be easy. For every dollar we seek to save there will be those who have an interest in seeing it spent. That's how unnecessary programs survive year after year. That's how budgets swell. That's how the people's interest is slowly overtaken by the special interests. But at this moment, at this difficult time for our Nation, we can't accept business as usual. We can't accept anything less than a government ready to meet the challenges of our time. <p>We must build a government of the 21st century: a government that is more efficient and more effective; a government that does what we need to do it and nothing that we don't; a government that invests in our future without leaving behind enormous financial burdens that put our future in jeopardy. And today we've taken an important step, albeit just a first step, towards building this kind of government, not just for this generation of Americans, but for the sake of generations to come. <p>Thank you, everybody.\" "
"130" "\"Hello, everybody. <i>Hola</i>. Thank you. Please, everybody have a seat. <i>Muchas gracias</i>. Thank you very much. Now, please, everybody have a seat. Now, I don't want to take up too much time. I just wanted to stop by and let you know how important I think this is. <p>Obviously, all of us are concerned about the health of our families and our children. And our experience with the H1N1 virus over the last couple of weeks is a sobering reminder of how vital it is that we all recognize we're all in this together. We're one country; we're one community. When one person gets sick, that has the potential of making us all sick. And when we help to make everybody well--one person well, then everybody has the potential to get well. We can't be divided by communities. <p>And that means that Government at every level has to make sure that good information is getting out to every part of the broader American community. And that's part of the reason why we wanted to do this today. It's our first step in making sure that whenever we have a public health issue that has to be addressed, that everybody is on the same page. <p>So I want to ensure everybody that we're seeing that the virus may not have been as virulent as we at first feared, but we're not out of the woods yet, and we still have to take precautions. Many of you are community leaders; obviously, those who are viewing this on television are going to be able to give information to your friends and family about washing your hands, about covering your mouths, staying home if you're sick, keeping children home from school if they're sick. That kind of commonsense approach can make all the difference in the world. <p>And so I just want to thank the Center for Disease Control. They've been vigilant on this issue. They believe that we're going to have to keep on taking some precautions, and we may have to prepare for even worse flu season sometime in the fall. This H1N1 flu, obviously, has hit Mexico much more badly than it's hit us so far. And I've been working very closely--I spoke to President Calderon last weekend to ensure that we were providing Mexico with the assistance that it needed, because one of the things that we have to understand is public health issues like this--not only is it important for all communities within the United States to be working together, it's also important to be working internationally together. <p>So I'm very proud of this first White House town hall meeting conducted entirely in Spanish. I am grateful--except for my part. [<i>Laughter</i>] You know, I'm kind of messing up the whole thing. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm grateful for Univision for hosting us, and I'm happy to see that we've got officials from many different departments, including my Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis. <p>So I want to let you continue with your conversation. I hope you've learned something. Please ask questions--these folks are extraordinarily well informed--and then distribute the information that you've learned from this town hall throughout your communities. And this is just the first of many, I hope, mechanisms for outreach that will improve the quality of service that the White House provides to the American people. <p>So <i>muchas gracias</i>. Thank you.\" "
"131" "\"Good morning, everybody. This morning we learned that our economy lost another 539,000 jobs in the month of April. And while it's somewhat encouraging that this number is lower than it's been in each of the past 6 months, it's still a sobering toll. The unemployment rate is at its highest point in 25 years. It underscores the point that we're still in the midst of a recession that was years in the making and will be months or even years in the unmaking. And we should expect further job losses in the months to come. <p>Although we have a long way to go before we can put this recession behind us, the gears of our economic engine do appear to slowly--to be slowly turning once again. Consumer spending and home sales are stabilizing; construction spending is up for the first time in 6 months. So step by step, we're beginning to make progress. <p>Of course, that's no solace to those who've lost their jobs or to the small-business owners whose hearts break at letting long-time employees go. It's no relief for those who continue to send out resume after resume and then wait for a call. And it's of little comfort to the families who wake up wondering how they're going to pay their bills, stay in their homes, or put food on the table, the Americans I've met in towns across this country or whose letters I read every night. <p>They're letters of struggle, but they're also of service to others. They're stories of heartbreak, but they're also stories of hope. It's the story of the small-business owner in California who wrote that as long as her employees depend on her, \\"I will not give up.\\" That's what she said. The veteran in Oklahoma who wrote: \\"We've all got a long way to go, but we'll stick together and get through this.\\" Or the mother in Michigan who wrote that she and her husband can't make ends meet, but as long as they have their jobs, they'll work 24 hours a day to send their children to college. This woman ended her letter by saying: \\"I'm not writing to tell you about my troubles. I'm writing to please ask you to act quickly to help all the people like me.\\" <p>Such hard-working Americans are why I ran for President. They're the reason we've been working swiftly and aggressively across all fronts to turn this economy around, to jump-start spending and hiring and create jobs where we can with steps like the Recovery Act. And because of this plan, cops are still on the beat and teachers are still in the classroom, shovels are breaking ground and cranes dot the sky, and new life has been breathed into private companies like Sharon Arnold's. And already, 95 percent of working Americans are seeing a tax cut that we promised would show up in their paychecks. <p>We're moving forward because now is not the time for small plans. It's not a time to pause or to be passive or to wait around for our problems to somehow fix themselves. Now is the time to put a new foundation for growth in place, to rebuild our economy, to retrain our workforce, and reequip the American people. And now is the time to change unemployment from a period of wait-and-see to a chance for our workers to train and seek the next opportunity, so when that new and better day does come around, our people, our industry, and our entire country are ready to make the most of it. <p>Now, if we want to come out of this recession stronger than before, we need to make sure that our workforce is better prepared than ever before. Right now, someone who doesn't have a college degree is more than twice as likely to be unemployed as someone who does. And so many of the Americans who have lost their jobs can't find new ones because they simply don't have the skills and the training they need for the jobs they want. <p>In a 21st century economy where the most valuable skill you can sell is your knowledge, education is the single best bet we can make, not just for our individual success, but for the success of the Nation as a whole. The average college graduate earns 80 percent more than those who stopped after high school. So if we want to help people not only get back on their feet today but prosper tomorrow, we need to take a rigorous new approach to higher education and technical training. And that starts by changing senseless rules that discourage displaced workers from getting the education and training they need to find and fill the jobs of the future. <p>So today I'm announcing new steps we are taking to do exactly that, to give people across America who have lost their jobs the chance to go back to school today to get retrained for the jobs and industries of tomorrow. The idea here is to fundamentally change our approach to unemployment in this country so that it's no longer just a time to look for a new job but is also a time to prepare yourself for a better job. That's what our unemployment system should be, not just a safety net, but a stepping stone to a new future. It should offer folks educational opportunities they wouldn't otherwise have, giving them the measurable and differentiated skills they need just--not just to get through hard times, but to get ahead when the economy comes back. <p>And that's what Maureen Pike did. Maureen lost her job as a physician's receptionist, but she didn't lose hope. She took it as an opportunity to upgrade her skills and earned an associate's degree in nursing from a community college. As a consequence, today, she works as a registered nurse. <p>The only reason she could afford to do that while supporting her twins was because the State of Maine allowed her to keep her unemployment benefits and study with the help from a Pell grant. Pell grants cover tuition at almost every community college in the country, and unemployment benefits can help those studying to gain new skills to support their families at the same time. <p>But today, far too many Americans are denied that opportunity. Let me just give you an example. Say an unemployed factory worker wants to upgrade his skills to become a mechanic or a technician. In many States, that worker might lose temporary financial support if he enrolls in a training program. And to make matters worse, unemployment might mean he can't afford higher education, and he likely won't qualify for Federal help simply because he may have made a decent salary a year ago, before he was laid off. <p>Well, that doesn't make much sense for our economy or our country. So we're going to change it. First, we'll open new doors to higher education and job training programs to recently laid-off workers who are receiving unemployment benefits. And if those displaced workers need help paying for their education, they should get it, and that's why the next step is to make it easier for them to receive Pell grants of the sort that Maureen used. <p>I've asked my Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan, and my Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis, to work closely with States and our institutions of higher learning and encourage them not only to allow these changes but to inform all workers receiving unemployment benefits of the training programs and financial support open to them. And together, the Department of Education and the Department of Labor have created a new web site called opportunity.gov--I'll repeat that, opportunity.gov--to help workers discover and take advantage of these opportunities. <p>And together, these changes will increase access to education and opportunity for hundreds of thousands of workers who've been stung by this recession, people just like Maureen. And like her, many may take advantage of one of America's underappreciated assets, and that's our community colleges. And these schools offer practical education and technical training, and they're increasingly important centers of learning where Americans can prepare for the jobs of the future. <p>And that's also why I'm asking Dr. Jill Biden, a community college professor who's devoted her entire life to education--and who happens to be married to the Vice President--to lead a national effort to raise awareness about what we're doing to open the doors to our community colleges. <p>So I think this is one more piece of the puzzle. It's a good start. It is only a start, though. These steps are just a short-term downpayment on our larger goal of ensuring that all Americans get the skills and education they need to succeed in today's economy. And to that end, I have asked, once again, every American to commit to at least 1 year or more of higher education or career training. It can be community college or a 4-year school, vocational training or an apprenticeship, but whatever the training may be, every American will need to get more than a high school diploma. And we will be backing up that effort with the support necessary. And we will ensure that by 2020, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. <p>In the weeks to come, I will also lay out a fundamental rethinking of our job training, vocational education, and community college programs. It's time to move beyond the idea that we need several different programs to address several different problems. We need one comprehensive policy that addresses our comprehensive challenges. <p>And that's how we'll open the doors of opportunity and lay a new foundation for our economic growth, by investing in our citizens. That's how we've always emerged from tough times stronger than before, because of the hard work and determination and ingenuity of the American people. And I am confident that if we summon that spirit once again, we will get through this; we will see our Nation recover; and together, along with folks like Maureen and Sharon, we're going to put America on the path to shared and lasting prosperity once again. <p>Thank you very much everybody. Have a great weekend.\" "
"132" "\"Good morning. I want to briefly share some news about our economy and talk about the work that we're doing both to protect American consumers and to put our economy back on a path to growth and prosperity. <p>This week, we saw some signs that the gears of America's economic engine are slowly beginning to turn. Consumer spending and home sales are stabilizing. Unemployment claims are dropping and job losses are beginning to slow. But these trends are far from satisfactory. The unemployment rate is at its highest point in 25 years. We're still in the midst of a deep recession that was years in the making, and it will take time to fully turn this economy around. <p>We cannot rest until our work is done, not when Americans continue to lose their jobs and struggle to pay their bills, not when we are wrestling with record deficits and an overburdened middle class. And that's why every action that my administration is taking is focused on clearing away the wreckage of this recession and building a new foundation for job creation and long-term growth. <p>This past week, we acted on several fronts. To restart the flow of credit that businesses and individuals depend upon, we completed an unprecedented review of the conditions of our Nation's largest banks to determine what additional steps are necessary to get our economy moving. To restore fiscal discipline, we identified 121 programs to eliminate from our budget. And to restore a sense of fairness to our Tax Code and common sense to our economy, I have asked Congress to work with me in closing the loopholes that let companies ship jobs and stash profits overseas, reforms that will help save $210 billion over the next 10 years. <p>These important steps are just one part of a broad effort to get government, businesses, and banks to act more responsibly, so that we're creating good jobs and making sound investments instead of spending recklessly and padding false profits, because American institutions must act with the same sense of responsibility and fairness that the American people aspire to in their own lives. <p>Nowhere is this more apparent than in our credit card industry. Americans know that they have a responsibility to live within their means and pay what they owe. But they also have a right not to get ripped off by the sudden rate hikes, unfair penalties, and hidden fees that have become all too common in our credit card industry. You shouldn't have to fear that any new credit card is going to come with strings attached, nor should you need a magnifying glass and a reference book to read a credit card application. And the abuses in our credit card industry have only multiplied in the midst of this recession, when Americans can least afford to bear an extra burden. <p>It is past time for rules that are fair and transparent. And that's why I've called for a set of new principles to reform our credit card industry. Instead of an anything-goes approach, we need strong and reliable protections for consumers. Instead of fine print that hides the truth, we need credit card forms and statements that have plain language in plain sight, and we need to give people the tools they need to find a credit card that meets their needs. And instead of abuse that goes unpunished, we need to strengthen monitoring, enforcement, and penalties for credit card companies that take advantage of ordinary Americans. <p>The House has taken important steps towards putting these principles into law, and the Senate is poised to do the same next week. Now, I'm calling on Congress to take final action to pass a credit card reform bill that protects American consumers so that I can sign it into law by Memorial Day. There's no time for delay. We need a durable and successful flow of credit in our economy, but we can't tolerate profits that depend on misleading working families. Those days are over. <p>Now, this economic crisis has reminded us that we are all in this together. We can't prosper by putting off hard choices or by protecting the profits of the few at the expense of the middle class. We're making steady progress towards recovery, but we must ensure that the legacy of this recession is an American economy that rewards work and innovation, that's guided by fairness and responsibility, and that grows steadily into the future. <p>Thanks.\" "
"133" "\"Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Good evening. You know, I had an entire speech prepared for this wonderful occasion, but now that I'm here, I think I'm going to try something a little different. Tonight I want to speak from the heart; I'm going to speak off the cuff. <p>[<i>At this point, two teleprompters appeared, followed by laughter and applause.</i>] <p>Good evening. [<i>Laughter</i>] Pause for laughter. [<i>Laughter</i>] Wait a minute. This may not be working as well as I--[<i>laughter</i>]. Let me try that again. <p>Good evening, everybody. I would like to welcome you all to the 10-day anniversary of my first 100 days. [<i>Laughter</i>] I am Barack Obama. Most of you covered me; all of you voted for me. [<i>Laughter</i>] Apologies to the FOX table. [<i>Laughter</i>] They're--where are they? I have to confess, I really did not want to be here tonight, but I knew I had to come--just one more problem that I've inherited from George W. Bush. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But now that I'm here, it's great to be here. It's great to see all of you. Michelle Obama is here, First Lady of the United States. Hasn't she been an outstanding First Lady? She's even begun to bridge the differences that have divided us for so long, because no matter which party you belong to, we can all agree that Michelle has the right to bear arms. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, Sasha and Malia aren't here tonight because they're grounded. You can't just take Air Force One on a joy ride to Manhattan. [<i>Laughter</i>] I don't care whose kids you are. [<i>Laughter</i>] We've been setting some ground rules here. They're starting to get a little carried away. <p>And--now, speaking--when I think about children, obviously, I think about Michelle, and it reminds me that tomorrow is Mother's Day. Happy Mother's Day to all the mothers in the audience. I do have to say, though, that this is a tough holiday for Rahm Emanuel because he's not used to saying the word \\"day\\" after \\"mother.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] That's true. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>David Axelrod is here. You know, David and I have been together for a long time. I can still remember--I got to sort of--I tear up a little bit when I think back to that day that I called Ax so many years ago and said, \\"You and I can do wonderful things together.\\" And he said to me the same thing that partners all across America are saying to one another right now: \\"Let's go to Iowa and make it official.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Michael Steele is in the house tonight, or as he would say, \\"in the heezy.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] What's up? [<i>Laughter</i>] Where is Michael? Is he--Michael, for the last time, the Republican Party does not qualify for a bailout. [<i>Laughter</i>] Rush Limbaugh does not count as a troubled asset, I'm sorry. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Dick Cheney was supposed to be here, but he is very busy working on his memoirs, tentatively titled, \\"How to Shoot Friends and Interrogate People.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>You know, it's been a whirlwind of activity these first 100 days. We've enacted a major economic recovery package; we passed a budget; we forged a new path in Iraq; and no President in history has ever named three Commerce Secretaries this quickly. [<i>Laughter</i>] Which reminds me, if Judd Gregg is here, your business cards are ready now. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>On top of that, I've also reversed the ban on stem cell research, signed an expansion of the children's health insurance. And just last week, Car and Driver named me auto executive of the year. [<i>Laughter</i>] Something I'm very proud of. <p>We've also begun to change the culture in Washington. We've even made the White House a place where people can learn and can grow. Just recently, Larry Summers asked if he could chair the White House Council on Women and Girls. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I do appreciate that Larry is here tonight because it is 7 hours past his bedtime. [<i>Laughter</i>] Gibbs liked that one. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>In the last 100 days, we've also grown the Democratic Party by infusing it with new energy and bringing in fresh, young faces like Arlen Specter. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, Joe Biden rightly deserves a lot of credit for convincing Arlen to make the switch, but Secretary Clinton actually had a lot to do with it too. One day she just pulled him aside, and she said, \\"Arlen, you know what I always say: 'If you can't beat them, join them.' \\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Which brings me to another thing that's changed in this new, warmer, fuzzier White House, and that's my relationship with Hillary. You know, we had been rivals during the campaign, but these days we could not be closer. In fact, the second she got back from Mexico she pulled me into a hug and gave me a big kiss. [<i>Laughter</i>] Told me I'd better get down there myself--[<i>laughter</i>]--which I really appreciated. I mean, it was nice. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And of course, we've also begun to change America's image in the world. We talked about this during this campaign, and we're starting to execute. We've renewed alliances with important partners and friends. <p>[<i>A photo was shown.</i>] <p>If you look on the screen there, there I am with Japanese Prime Minister Taro Aso. <p>[<i>A second photo was shown.</i>] <p>There I am with Gordon Brown. <p>But as I said during the campaign, we can't just talk to our friends. As hard as it is, we also have to talk to our enemies, and I've begun to do exactly that. <p>[<i>A third photo was shown of President Obama talking to a pirate.</i>] <p>Take a look at the monitor there. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, let me be clear: Just because he handed me a copy of \\"Peter Pan\\" does not mean that I'm going to read it--[<i>laughter</i>]--but it's good diplomatic practice to just accept these gifts. <p>All this change hasn't been easy. Change never is. So I've cut the tension by bringing a new friend to the White House. He's warm; he's cuddly, loyal, enthusiastic. You just have to keep him on a tight leash. Every once in a while he goes charging off in the wrong direction and gets himself into trouble, but enough about Joe Biden. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>All in all, we're proud of the change we've brought to Washington in these first 100 days, but we've got a lot of work left to do, as all of you know. So I'd like to talk a little bit about what my administration plans to achieve in the next 100 days. <p>During the second 100 days, we will design, build, and open a library dedicated to my first 100 days. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's going to be big, folks. [<i>Laughter</i>] In the next 100 days, I will learn to go off the prompter and Joe Biden will learn to stay on the prompter. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>In the next 100 days, our bipartisan outreach will be so successful that even John Boehner will consider becoming a Democrat. After all, we have a lot in common. He is a person of color--[<i>laughter</i>]--although not a color that appears in the natural world. [<i>Laughter</i>] What's up, John? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>In the next 100 days, I will meet with a leader who rules over millions with an iron fist, who owns the airwaves, and uses his power to crush all who would challenge his authority at the ballot box. It's good to see you, Mayor Bloomberg. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>In the next 100 days, we will housetrain our dog, Bo, because the last thing Tim Geithner needs is someone else treating him like a fire hydrant. [<i>Laughter</i>] In the next 100 days, I will strongly consider losing my cool. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Finally, I believe that my next 100 days will be so successful I will be able to complete them in 72 days. [<i>Laughter</i>] And on the 73d day, I will rest. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I just--I want to end by saying a few words about the men and women in this room whose job it is to inform the public and pursue the truth. You know, we meet tonight at a moment of extraordinary challenge for this Nation and for the world, but it's also a time of real hardship for the field of journalism. And like so many other businesses in this global age, you've seen sweeping changes and technology and communications that lead to a sense of uncertainty and anxiety about what the future will hold. <p>Across the country, there are extraordinary, hard-working journalists who have lost their jobs in recent days, recent weeks, recent months. And I know that each newspaper and media outlet is wrestling with how to respond to these changes, and some are struggling simply to stay open. And it won't be easy. Not every ending will be a happy one. <p>But it's also true that your ultimate success as an industry is essential to the success of our democracy. It's what makes this thing work. You know, Thomas Jefferson once said that if he had the choice between a government without newspapers, or newspapers without a government, he would not hesitate to choose the latter. <p>And clearly, Thomas Jefferson never had cable news to contend with--[<i>laughter</i>]--but his central point remains: A government without newspapers, a government without a tough and vibrant media of all sorts, is not an option for the United States of America. <p>So I may not agree with everything you write or report. I may even complain, or more likely Gibbs will complain, from time to time about how you do your jobs, but I do so with the knowledge that when you are at your best, then you help me be at my best. You help all of us who serve at the pleasure of the American people do our jobs better by holding us accountable, by demanding honesty, by preventing us from taking shortcuts and falling into easy political games that people are so desperately weary of. <p>And that kind of reporting is worth preserving, not just for your sake, but for the public's. We count on you to help us make sense of a complex world and tell the stories of our lives the way they happen, and we look for you for truth, even if it's always an approximation, even if--[<i>laughter</i>]. <p>This is a season of renewal and reinvention. That is what government must learn to do; that's what businesses must learn to do; and that's what journalism is in the process of doing. And when I look out at this room and think about the dedicated men and women whose questions I've answered over the last few years, I know that for all the challenges this industry faces, it's not short on talent or creativity or passion or commitment. It's not short of young people who are eager to break news or the not-so-young who still manage to ask the tough ones time and time again. These qualities alone will not solve all your problems, but they certainly prove that the problems are worth solving. And that is a good place as any to begin. <p>So I offer you my thanks, I offer you my support, and I look forward to working with you and answering to you and the American people as we seek a more perfect union in the months and years ahead. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"134" "\"Hello, everyone. All right, well, I just concluded a extraordinarily productive meeting with organizations and associations that are going to be essential to the work of health care reform in this country, groups that represent everyone from union members to insurance companies, from doctors and hospitals to pharmaceutical companies. It was a meeting that focused largely on one of the central challenges that we must confront as we seek to achieve comprehensive reform and lay a new foundation for our economy, and that is the spiraling cost of health care in this country. <p>They're here because they recognize one clear, indisputable fact: When it comes to health care spending, we are on an unsustainable course that threatens the financial stability of families, businesses, and government itself. This is not news to the American people, who, over the last decade, have seen their out-of-pocket expenses soar, health care costs rise, and premiums double at a rate four times faster than their wages. <p>Today, half of all personal bankruptcies stem from medical expenses. And too many Americans are skipping that checkup they know they should get, or going without that prescription that would make them feel better, or finding some other way to scrimp and save on their health care expenses. <p>What is a growing crisis for the American people is also becoming an untenable burden for American businesses. Rising health care costs are commanding more and more of the money that our companies could be using to innovate and to grow, making it harder for them to compete around the world. These costs are leading the small businesses that are responsible for half of all private sector jobs to drop coverage for their workers at an alarming rate. <p>And, finally, the explosion in health care costs has put our Federal budget on a disastrous path. This is largely due to what we're spending on Medicare and Medicaid, entitlement programs whose costs are expected to continue climbing in the years ahead as baby boomers grow older and come to rely more and more on our health care system. That's why I've said repeatedly that getting health care costs under control is essential to reducing budget deficits, restoring fiscal discipline, and putting our economy on a path towards sustainable growth and shared prosperity. <p>We as a nation are now spending a far larger share of our national wealth on health care than we were a generation ago. At the rate we're going, we are expected to spend one fifth of our economy on health care within a decade. And yet, we're getting less for our money. In fact, we're spending more on health care than any other nation on Earth, even though millions of Americans don't have the affordable, quality care they deserve, and nearly 46 million Americans don't have any health insurance at all. <p>This problem didn't just appear overnight. For decades, Washington has debated what to do about this. For decades, we've talked about reducing costs, improving care, and providing coverage to uninsured Americans. But all too often, efforts at reform have fallen victim to special interest lobbying aimed at keeping things the way they are, to political point-scoring that sees health care not as a moral issue or an economic issue but as a wedge issue, and to a failure on all sides to come together on behalf of the American people. <p>And that's what makes today's meeting so remarkable, because it's a meeting that might not have been held just a few years ago. The groups who are here today represent different constituencies with different sets of interests. They've not always seen eye to eye with each other or with our Government on what needs to be done to reform health care in this country. In fact, some of these groups were among the strongest critics of past plans for comprehensive reform. <p>But what's brought us all together today is a recognition that we can't continue down the same dangerous road we've been traveling for so many years, that costs are out of control, and that reform is not a luxury that can be postponed, but a necessity that cannot wait. It's a recognition that the fictional television couple, Harry and Louise, who became the iconic faces of those who opposed health care reform in the nineties desperately need health care reform in 2009. And so does America. <p>And that's why these groups are voluntarily coming together to make an unprecedented commitment. Over the next 10 years, from 2010 to 2019, they are pledging to cut the rate of growth of national health care spending by 1.5 percentage points each year, an amount that's equal to over $2 trillion--$2 trillion. <p>Their efforts will help us take the next and most important step, comprehensive health care reform, so that we can do what I pledged to do as a candidate and save a typical family an average of $2,500 on their health care costs in the coming years. Let me repeat that point: What they're doing is complementary to and is going to be completely compatible with a strong, aggressive effort to move health care reform through here in Washington with an ultimate result of saving health care costs for families, businesses, and the Government. That's how we can finally make health care affordable, while putting more money into the pockets of hard-working families each month. These savings can be achieved by standardizing quality care, incentivizing efficiency, investing in proven ways not only to treat illness but to prevent them. <p>This is a historic day, a watershed event in the long and elusive quest for health care reform. And as these groups take the steps they are outlining, and as we work with Congress on health care reform legislation, my administration will continue working to reduce health care costs to achieve similar savings. By curbing waste, fraud, and abuse and preventing avoidable hospital readmissions and taking a whole host of other cost-saving steps, we can save billions of dollars, while delivering better care to the American people. <p>Now, none of these steps can be taken by our Federal Government or our health care community acting alone. They'll require all of us coming together, as we are today, around a common purpose: workers, executives, hospitals, nurses, doctors, drug companies, insurance companies, Members of Congress. It's the kind of broad coalition, everybody with a seat at the table that I talked about during the campaign, that is required to achieve meaningful health care reform and that is the kind of coalition which--to which I am committed. <p>So the steps that are being announced today are significant. But the only way these steps will have an enduring impact is if they are taken not in isolation, but as part of a broader effort to reform our entire health care system. We've already begun making a downpayment on that kind of comprehensive reform. We're extending quality health care to millions of children of working families who lack coverage, which means we're going to be preventing long-term problems that are even more expensive to treat down the road. We're providing a COBRA subsidy to make health care affordable for 7 million Americans who lose their jobs. And because much of every health care dollar is spent on billing, overhead, and administration, we are computerizing medical records in a way that will protect our privacy, and that's a step that will not only eliminate waste and reduce medical errors that cost lives, but also let doctors spend less time doing administrative work and more time caring for patients. <p>But there's so much more to do. In the coming weeks and months, Congress will be engaged in the difficult issue of how best to reform health care in America. I'm committed to building a transparent process where all views are welcome. But I'm also committed to ensuring that whatever plan we design upholds three basic principles. First, the rising cost of health care must be brought down. Second, Americans must have the freedom to keep whatever doctor and health care plan they have or to choose a new doctor or health care plan if they want it. And third, all Americans must have quality, affordable health care. <p>These are principles that I expect to see upheld in any comprehensive health care reform bill that's sent to my desk; I mentioned it to the groups that were here today. It's reform that is an imperative for America's economic future, and reform that is a pillar of the new foundation we seek to build for our economy, reform that we can, must, and will achieve by the end of this year. <p>Now, ultimately, the debate about reducing costs--and the larger debate about health care reform itself--is not just about numbers; it's not just about forms or systems; it's about our own lives and the lives of our loved ones. And I understand that. As I've mentioned before during the course of the campaign, my mother passed away from ovarian cancer a little over a decade ago. And in the last weeks of her life, when she was coming to grips with her own mortality and showing extraordinary courage just to get through each day, she was spending too much time worrying about whether her health insurance would cover her bills. So I know what it's like to see a loved one who is suffering, but also having to deal with a broken health care system. I know that pain is shared by millions of Americans all across this country. <p>And that's why I was committed to health care reform as a Presidential candidate, that's why health care reform is a key priority to this Presidency, that's why I will not rest until the dream of health care reform is finally achieved in the United States of America. And that's why I'm thrilled to have such a broad, diverse group of individuals from all across the health care spectrum representing every constituency and every political predisposition who feel that same sense of urgency and are committing themselves to work diligently to bring down costs so we can achieve the reforms that we seek. <p>So thank you very much to all of you for being here. Thank you very much everybody.\" "
"135" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello. Well, thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. We're not in the Dean Dome here, you don't need to stay standing the whole time. [<i>Laughter</i>] I want to, first of all, just acknowledge that we've got a few special guests in the audience. We've got the outstanding new Senator from North Carolina, Kay Hagan. We've got some outstanding Members of the House of Representatives, G.K. Butterfield--[<i>applause</i>]--G.K. Brad Miller; Mike McIntyre--[<i>applause</i>]--with his Tar Heels cap on. And we've also got Mr. Roy Cooper, North Carolina attorney general, and a Tar Heel alum. Where is Roy? He's over there? As well as Kevin Foy, the mayor of Chapel Hill. There he is, right over there. <p>Well, welcome to the White House, everybody, and congratulations on bringing Carolina its fifth national championship. And more importantly, thanks for salvaging my bracket-- [<i>laughter</i>]--and vindicating me before the entire Nation. That first round was rough on me. [<i>Laughter</i>] But Andy Katz knows that I came through in the end because of you guys. And I want to congratulate everybody who makes this program run, from the assistants to the trainers, the students to the ticket takers, and Tar Heel fans everywhere--you should all be very proud. And by the way, I have a few Tar Heel fans on my staff. I see a couple of them standing right here. <p>I want to offer special congratulations to the seven seniors who graduated yesterday: Mike Copeland, Bobby Frasor, Danny Green, Tyler Hansbrough, Patrick Moody, J.B. Tanner, and Jack Wooten. I am proud of all of you. Give them a big round of applause. <p>I have to tell you, everybody on my staff was really excited about the team coming, except my assistant, Reggie Love. [<i>Laughter</i>] Reggie did win his own national championship ring while playing at Duke. And at some point he wants to scrimmage with you guys, so we'll arrange for that. <p>But I want to thank Coach Roy Williams, and his wife Wanda, who is extraordinarily gracious, and I just had a wonderful time visiting with them. What makes Coach Williams one of the great coaches isn't just his extraordinary record, but his dedication to his players. He's just as serious about making these guys into men and into leaders as he is into making them champions. <p>Now, I did have a chance to play ball with this crew just over a year ago when I visited Chapel Hill. And I'm not sure whose luck rubbed off on who. I think there was just a good vibe going on there, because they're now national champions, and I'm now President. And I remember congratulating Tyler on choosing to forego the NBA draft and coming back to get that ring. And after winning the 2008 National Player of the Year and getting a championship ring, I think it worked out pretty well for him. So congratulations to you again, Tyler. Thank you. We're proud of you. <p>Now, when we played, everybody went out of their way to pass me the ball, set screens for me, let me take a shot. Tyler chose not to block my shot--of course, I was so intimidated by him being near me that I missed it. [<i>Laughter</i>] There was one exception, though: Jack Wooten. He stole the ball from me; he blocked my shot; he fouled me once. Coach Williams had to remind him that there were a bunch of guys with guns around. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But just to show that there are no hard feelings, Jack, I want to congratulate you. He made Phi Beta Kappa this year, that's worth applauding. To achieve academic excellence as part of a national championship team is extraordinary. And I know that Jack is interested in public service, and we need more young people like him to be willing to serve our country. So, Jack, anytime you're ready. [<i>Laughter</i>] Come on board. <p>I know Coach Williams instills the importance of academics into all these guys, which is why they didn't just plow through the tournament field; they also had the highest graduation rate of anybody in the Final Four. And what they understood is that being a champion doesn't stop when you step off the court. In fact, they spend a remarkable amount of their time off the court in service to others. <p>They hold a Special Olympics clinic every year in which they scrimmage with Special Olympians and teach them basketball skills. Coach Williams has raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for North Carolina charities. Every Christmas these guys compete with one another to see who can get the most creative Christmas gifts for underprivileged children who need a little bit of hope. All of this makes the Chapel Hill community stronger, it makes the State of North Carolina stronger, it makes our country stronger, and I know this team gets a lot of--a lot out of it as well. <p>So it's all a reflection on the great character of the program, but also the great character of the coach, just one of my favorite people and one of the most gracious individuals you'd ever care to meet. I want to congratulate you, Coach Williams. I want to congratulate all you guys for an outstanding season. And I got to say also, brother Lawson, you had an unbelievable series, so congratulations--playing a little gimpy and still just tearing it up. [<i>Laughter</i>] So we're very proud of you. <p>So thank you, everybody. Give these guys a big round of applause. And good luck next season. <p><i>Head Coach Roy Williams.</i> I coached the national championship game in front of I think 79 thousand--I think--two hundred twenty-two people, and I was not nervous at all. And I'm scared to death right now. [<i>Laughter</i>] But on behalf of Chancellor Holden Thorp, our director of athletics, Dick Baddour, and the 2009 national championship North Carolina basketball team, we would like to present to you, Mr. President, your own jersey---- <p><i>The President.</i> That's what I'm talking about. Let's step out here--we don't want to block it from the cameras. All right, thank you so much. Thank you. <p><i>Mr. Williams</i>. And our seniors will also present a plaque that shows that Mr. President---- <p><i>The President.</i> Commemorates. <p><i>Mr. Williams.</i> ----did actually participate that morning. <p><i>The President. </i>Participates--that's a nice way of putting it. [<i>Laughter</i>] Oh, look at that. <p><i>Mr. Williams.</i> These are our five senior scholarship players that make this presentation to Mr. President. <p><i>The President.</i> Well, thank you so much, guys. I appreciate that. Look at that. Barely broke a sweat. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's a beautiful picture. Thank you so much, guys. Thank you. Now, if somebody could just present me a jump shot. [<i>Laughter</i>] I need one of those. <p>Thank you, Coach. Thank you, everybody. Have a wonderful rest of your visit here at the White House. Appreciate it.\" "
"136" "\"Thank you, everybody. Thank you so much. Please, everybody, be seated. It is a great pleasure to welcome all of you to the White House for an evening of music and poetry and spoken word from some of our Nation's most gifted performers, both distinguished veterans and up-and-coming young talents. <p>Now, we're here tonight not just to enjoy the works of these artists, but also to highlight the importance of the arts in our life and in our Nation, in our Nation's history. We're here to celebrate the power of words and music to help us appreciate beauty, but also to understand pain, to inspire us to action and to spur us on when we start to lose hope, to lift us up out of our daily existence, even if it's just for a few moments, and return us with hearts that are a little bit bigger and fuller than they were before. <p>The great jazz musician, Louis Armstrong, once said simply, \\"What we play is life.\\" What we play is life, and that is what these artists do. They express the joys and hardships of life and remind us how much all of us have in common. It's a great gift and a great responsibility, and we're honored to host them here at the White House tonight. <p>I now have the privilege of introducing the star of the show, somebody who brings a lot of poetry to my own life, the First Lady, Michelle Obama.\" "
"137" "\"Well, thank you, Joe, for the wonderful introduction. Welcome, all of you, to the White House, and joining us on this beautiful spring day. It is an extraordinary privilege to celebrate these top cops, who have traveled here to be recognized for incredible acts of courage and quick thinking, which prevented harm and saved lives. <p>Before I speak more about these outstanding officers, there're just a few wonderful Members of Congress that I want to introduce. Representative John Conyers, one of the deans of the House of Representatives; Representative Emanuel Cleaver from Kansas City; and Representative Lucille Roybal-Allard, great to see you. Thank you so much. Please give them a big round of applause. <p>Now, I don't know if you guys are aware that we have a nickname for Joe Biden around here in the White House. Joe's been overseeing the way funds are being used under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to ensure tax dollars are going towards the intended purposes of creating jobs and aren't being wasted. So we've taken to calling him \\"the sheriff,\\" because nobody messes with Joe. <p>And I want you to know that he is making sure that money is getting on the ground helping local communities, including making sure that money is going to allow local communities to hire more police officers and make sure that they've got the equipment and the training they need to succeed. <p>I also want to thank Attorney General Eric Holder for being here and for his leadership at the Department of Justice, which oversees much of the funding in the recovery plan and the budget that will be providing local law enforcement the resources they need. <p>And finally, I want to give a particular welcome to the leaders of the National Association of Police Organizations, including their outstanding president, Tom Nee. Thank you so much for being here. <p>This is an event that we are glad, as Joe mentioned, to bring back to the White House, after a period of absence, in honor of these fine officers and the folks across the country they represent: the men and women who walk the beat, who answer the call, and do the difficult work of keeping our neighborhoods safe. And it's no surprise that many police officers, including many of you, have served in our military or are still serving as members of the Reserve. <p>Of course, it's not a difficult thing for a President, or a Vice President, or anyone one of us to praise you. You deserve it. You've rescued hostages held at gunpoint. You've ended violent standoffs. You've taken on gunmen in the face of grave danger, refusing to give up or back down even after suffering serious injuries. You've reacted quickly in crisis to protect the innocent. You've reacted with compassion for those that were in need. And you've literally walked through the fire to help your neighbors escape disaster. <p>Now, that's what police officers do. You step into harm's way to form--officer by officer, block by block, neighborhood by neighborhood--the line between safety and violence, calm and chaos, hope and despair. And for that it's not difficult to offer our praise. But, you deserve more than just praise, for it's far more important that we actually support you; that we match these words, which come so easily, with the work that can and must follow. <p>Right now, for example, at this moment of economic challenge, one of the greatest concerns is that we'll see State and local governments forced to lay off police officers, even though we know that crime has a tendency to go up when the economy is in dire straits. We've seen that in my own hometown of Chicago and in many other cities. <p>So we can't back down, because the job of every American depends on the job you do and the resources that enable you to do that job well. Police officers know better than anyone: A neighborhood that isn't safe is a neighborhood that isn't growing, that won't see old businesses hiring new workers or new businesses opening their doors. You know how devastating crime can be, how it can shatter lives and undermine whole communities. <p>And that's why the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act includes $1 billion to save or create about 5,500 jobs through the COPS program. And there's another $2 billion in grants which will help keep police officers on the beat and on the job. In fact, in March, I went to Columbus, Ohio, to speak at their police academy's graduation ceremony, and these new officers are now protecting the streets of Columbus because of those grants. And there are similar stories being told in precincts all over America. <p>The budget we've passed builds on the recovery plan, providing additional funding for the COPS program as well as for Justice Assistance Grants, also known as the Byrne-JAG program. Taken together, we're making a significant downpayment towards my administration's goal of adding 50,000 police officers across this country. And that's only part of what we're doing to provide law enforcement with the tools and resources necessary to keep people safe. <p>As you know, this is a difficult moment for our Nation. But at a time when we face economic crisis born partially from irresponsibility on Wall Street and in Washington, I'm heartened by the folks who are standing behind me today who've demonstrated, with acts of selflessness and bravery, what it means to be responsible; what it means to be a problem-solver, a mediator, an investigator, and protector all wrapped into one; what it means to wave goodbye to your families and start another shift unsure of how it will end; and what it means to put your life on the line for a partner or a stranger in order--in other words, what it means to serve. <p>So I want to thank all of you for this extraordinary service. I am honored to welcome you to the White House. I'm proud to offer my congratulations, my appreciation, and most importantly, my administration's unwavering support. <p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you, all, for joining us here today. Thank you.\" "
"138" "\"Hello, everybody. We just had a wonderful conversation that is a corollary to the discussion that I had yesterday, and you may be seeing a theme. This was--we're doing some stuff on health care because I think the country is geared up, businesses are geared up, families are geared up, to go ahead and start solving some of our extraordinary health care system problems. <p>Yesterday we focused a lot on cost. One element of cost is that where companies are able to take initiatives to make their employees healthier, to give them incentives and mechanisms to improve their wellness and to prevent disease, companies see their bottom lines improve. And so what we've done is to gather together a group, today, of some of the best practitioners of prevention and wellness programs in the private sector. <p>You have companies like Safeway that have been able to hold their costs flat for their employees at a time when other companies are seeing double-digit inflation in their health care. You've got terrific innovations at companies like Microsoft, where they actually have used home visits of doctors to reduce the utilization of emergency room care and are saving themselves millions of dollars. <p>We've got the hotel employees union that has been taking data and working individually with providers as well as their membership, working with the employer and the employee as well as the providers, and seeing huge reductions in some of the costs related to chronic illnesses. <p>Johnson &amp; Johnson's has been a leader in this area since 1978. Pitney Bowes has been taking similar approaches and seeing millions of dollars in savings to their bottom line. The Ohio Department of Public Health has been doing terrific work with respect to their State employees as well as spreading the message across the State. <p>And then REI, which has to be fit since they're a fitness company, has been doing work that allows them to provide health care coverage--health insurance, not only to their full-time employees, but also their part-time employees. Every single employee is covered, but part of the reason they're able to do it is because they put a big emphasis on prevention and wellness. <p>So what you--what we've done here today is to gather together some of these stories and best practices to make sure that they are going to be informing the health care reform discussions that take place here in Washington. There's no quick fix; there's no silver bullet. When you hear what Safeway or Johnson &amp; Johnson or any of these other companies have done, what you've seen is sustained experimentation over many years and a shift in incentive structures so that employees see concrete benefits as a consequence of them stopping smoking or losing weight or getting exercise, working with providers so that the provider incentives are aligned with the employee incentives as well, and changing the culture of the company. <p>Now, if we can do that in individual companies, there's no reason why we can't do that for a country as a whole. Part of what we want to do here, starting here today, is to lift up these best practices so other companies can identify and potentially implement them; but also to make sure that when we think about how we're going to reform the health care system as a whole, when we think about things like Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements, when we think about how we can make the system more efficient, that we're not just doing this in the abstract, but we're actually taking proven measures that have been applied in the private sector and seeing how we can apply those, for example, to Federal employees and our employee health care system. All this designed to save taxpayers money, save businesses money, and, ultimately, make the American people healthier and happier and make sure that we're getting a better bang for our health care dollar. <p>So it's been a terrific conversation. This will be a part of the ongoing process that we're developing over the next several months, and I appreciate all of you for participating in a wonderful conversation. <p>All right. Thank you, guys. Thank you, everybody.\" "
"139" "\"Well, thank you. Thank you, President Crow, for that extremely generous introduction, for your inspired leadership as well here at ASU. And I want to thank the entire ASU community for the honor of attaching my name to a scholarship program that will help open the doors of higher education to students from every background. What a wonderful gift. Thank you. That notion of opening doors of opportunity to everybody, that is the core mission of this school; it's the core mission of my Presidency. And I hope this program will serve as a model for universities across this country. So thank you so much. <p>I want to, obviously, congratulate the class of 2009 for your unbelievable achievement. I want to thank the parents, the uncles, the grandpas, the grandmas, cousins--calabash cousins--everybody who was involved in helping these extraordinary young people arrive at this moment. I also want to apologize to the entire State of Arizona for stealing away your wonderful former Governor, Janet Napolitano. But you've got a fine Governor here, and I also know that Janet is now applying her extraordinary talents to serve our entire country as the Secretary of Homeland Security, keeping America safe. And she's doing a great job. <p>Now, before I begin, I'd just like to clear the air about that little controversy everybody was talking about a few weeks back. I have to tell you, I really thought this was much ado about nothing, but I do think we all learned an important lesson. I learned never again to pick another team over the Sun Devils in my NCAA brackets. [<i>Laughter</i>] It won't happen again. President Crow and the board of regents will soon learn all about being audited by the IRS. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, in all seriousness, I come here not to dispute the suggestion that I haven't yet achieved enough in my life. [<i>Laughter</i>] First of all, Michelle concurs with that assessment. [<i>Laughter</i>] She has a long list of things that I have not yet done waiting for me when I get home. But more than that, I come to embrace the notion that I haven't done enough in my life; I heartily concur. I come to affirm that one's title, even a title like President of the United States, says very little about how well one's life has been led; that no matter how much you've done or how successful you've been, there's always more to do, always more to learn, and always more to achieve. <p>And I want to say to you today, graduates, class of 2009, that despite having achieved a remarkable milestone in your life, despite the fact that you and your families are so rightfully proud, you too cannot rest on your laurels. Not even some of those remarkable young people who were introduced earlier, not even that young lady who's got four degrees--getting today. You can't rest. Your own body of work is also yet to come. <p>Now, some graduating classes have marched into this stadium in easy times, times of peace and stability, when we call on our graduates simply to keep things going and don't screw it up. [<i>Laughter</i>] Other classes have received their diplomas in times of trial and upheaval, when the very foundations of our lives, the old order, has been shaken, the old ideas and institutions have crumbled, and a new generation is called upon to remake the world. <p>It should be clear to you by now the category into which all of you fall, for we gather here tonight in times of extraordinary difficulty for the Nation and for the world. The economy remains in the midst of a historic recession , the worst we've seen since the Great Depression; the result, in part, of greed and irresponsibility that rippled out from Wall Street and Washington, as we spent beyond our means and failed to make hard choices. We're engaged in two wars and a struggle against terrorism. The threats of climate change, nuclear proliferation, and pandemic defy national boundaries and easy solutions. <p>For many of you, these challenges are also felt in more personal terms. Perhaps you're still looking for a job or struggling to figure out what career path makes sense in this disrupted economy. Maybe you've got student loans--no, you definitely have student loans--or credit card debts, and you're wondering how you'll ever pay them off. Maybe you've got a family to raise, and you're wondering how you'll ensure that your children have the same opportunities you've had to get an education and pursue their dreams. <p>Now, in the face of these challenges, it may be tempting to fall back on the formulas for success that have been pedaled so frequently in recent years. It goes something like this: You're taught to chase after all the usual brass rings; you try to be on this who's who list or that top 100 list; you chase after the big money and you figure out how big your corner office is; you worry about whether you have a fancy enough title or a fancy enough car. That's the message that's sent each and every day, or has been in our culture for far too long, that through material possessions, through a ruthless competition pursued only on your own behalf, that's how you will measure success. <p>Now, you can take that road, and it may work for some. But at this critical juncture in our Nation's history, at this difficult time, let me suggest that such an approach won't get you where you want to go. It displays a poverty of ambition, that--in fact, the elevation of appearance over substance, of celebrity over character, of short-term gains over lasting achievement is precisely what your generation needs to help end. <p>Now, ASU, I want to highlight two main problems with that old, tired, me-first approach to life. First of all, it distracts you from what's truly important, and it may lead you to compromise your values and your principles and commitments. Think about it. It's in chasing titles and status, in worrying about the next election rather than the national interest and the interests of those who you're supposed to represent that politicians so often lose their ways in Washington. They spend time thinking about polls but not about principle. It was in pursuit of gaudy, short-term profits and the bonuses that came with them that so many folks lost their way on Wall Street, engaging in extraordinary risks with other people's money. <p>In contrast, the leaders we revere, the businesses and institutions that last, they are not generally the result of a narrow pursuit of popularity or personal advancement, but of devotion to some bigger purpose: the preservation of the Union or the determination to lift a country out of a depression; the creation of a quality product; a commitment to your customers, your workers, your shareholders, and your community; a commitment to make sure that an institution like ASU is inclusive and diverse and giving opportunity to all. That's the hallmark of real success. <p>That other stuff, the trappings of success may be a byproduct of this larger mission, but it can't be the central thing--just ask Bernie Madoff. That's the first problem with the old attitude. <p>The second problem with the old approach to success is that a relentless focus on the outward markers of success can lead to complacency. It can make you lazy. We too often let the external, the material things, serve as indicators that we're doing well, even though something inside us tells us that we're not doing our best; that we're avoiding that which is hard but also necessary; that we're shrinking from, rather than rising to the challenges of the age. And the thing is, in this new, hyper-competitive age, none of us--none of us can afford to be complacent. <p>That's true whatever profession you choose. Professors might earn the distinction of tenure, but that doesn't guarantee that they'll keep putting in the long hours and late nights and have the passion and the drive to be great educators. The same principle is true in your personal life. Being a parent is not just a matter of paying the bills, doing the bare minimum; it's not just bringing a child into the world that matters, but the acts of love and sacrifice it takes to raise and educate that child and give them opportunity. It can happen to Presidents as well. If you think about it, Abraham Lincoln and Millard Fillmore had the very same title, they were both Presidents of the United States, but their tenure in office and their legacy could not be more different. <p>And this is not just true for individuals; it's also true for this Nation. In recent years, in many ways, we've become enamored with our own past success, lulled into complacency by the glitter of our own achievements. We've become accustomed to the title of \\"military superpower,\\" forgetting the qualities that got us there, not just the power of our weapons, but the discipline and valor and the code of conduct of our men and women in uniform. The Marshall plan and the Peace Corps and all those initiatives that show our commitment to working with other nations to pursue the ideals of opportunity and equality and freedom that have made us who we are, that's what made us a superpower. <p>We've become accustomed to our economic dominance in the world, forgetting that it wasn't reckless deals and get-rich-quick schemes that got us where we are, but hard work and smart ideas, quality products and wise investments. We started taking shortcuts. We started living on credit instead of building up savings. We saw businesses focus more on rebranding and repackaging than innovating and developing new ideas that improve our lives. <p>All the while, the rest of the world has grown hungrier, more restless, in constant motion to build and to discover, not content with where they are right now, determined to strive for more. They're coming. <p>So graduates, it's now abundantly clear that we need to start doing things a little bit different. In your own lives, you'll need to continuously adapt to a continuously changing economy. You'll end up having more than one job and more than one career over the course of your life. You'll have to keep on gaining new skills, possibly even new degrees. And you'll have to keep on taking risks as new opportunities arise. <p>And as a nation, we'll need a fundamental change of perspective and attitude. It's clear that we need to build a new foundation, a stronger foundation, for our economy and our prosperity, rethinking how we grow our economy, how we use energy, how we educate our children, how we care for our sick, how we treat our environment. <p>Many of our current challenges are unprecedented. There are no standard remedies, no go-to fixes this time around. And class of 2009, that's why we're going to need your help. We need young people like you to step up. We need your daring; we need your enthusiasm; we need your energy; we need your imagination. <p>And let me be clear, when I say \\"young,\\" I'm not just referring to the date of your birth certificate. I'm talking about an approach to life, a quality of mind and quality of heart; a willingness to follow your passions, regardless of whether they lead to fortune and fame; a willingness to question conventional wisdom and rethink old dogmas; a lack of regard for all the traditional markers of status and prestige, and a commitment instead to doing what's meaningful to you, what helps others, what makes a difference in this world. <p>That's the spirit that led a band of patriots not much older than most of you to take on an empire, to start this experiment in democracy we call America. It's what drove young pioneers West to Arizona and beyond. It's what drove young women to reach for the ballot, what inspired a 30-year-old escaped slave to run an underground railroad to freedom, what inspired a young man named Cesar to go out and help farm workers, what inspired a 26-year-old preacher to lead a bus boycott for justice. It's what led firefighters and police officers in the prime of their lives up the stairs of those burning towers and young people across this country to drop what they were doing and come to the aid of a flooded New Orleans. It's what led two guys in a garage--named Hewlett and Packard--to form a company that would change the way we live and work, what led scientists in laboratories and novelists in coffee shops to labor in obscurity until they finally succeeded in changing the way we see the world. <p>That's the great American story: Young people just like you, following their passions, determined to meet the times on their own terms. They weren't doing it for the money. Their titles weren't fancy: ex-slave, minister, student, citizen. A whole bunch of them didn't get honorary degrees. But they changed the course of history, and so can you ASU, so can you class of 2009. So can you. <p>With a degree from this outstanding institution, you have everything you need to get started. You've got no excuses. You have no excuses not to change the world. Did you study business? Go start a company. Or why not help a struggling non-for-profit find better, more effective ways to serve folks in need. You study nursing? Understaffed clinics and hospitals across this country are desperate for your help. You study education? Teach in a high-need school where the kids really need you; give a chance to kids who can't get everything they need, maybe in their neighborhood, maybe not even in their home. But we can't afford to give up on--prepare them to compete for any job anywhere in the world. You study engineering? Help us lead a green revolution, developing new sources of clean energy that will power our economy and preserve our planet. <p>But you can also make your mark in smaller, more individual ways. That's what so many of you have already done during your time here at ASU, tutoring children, registering voters, doing your own small part to fight hunger and homelessness, AIDS and cancer. One student said it best when she spoke about her senior engineering project building medical devices for people with disabilities in a village in Africa. Her professor showed a video of the folks they'd been helping, and she said: \\"When we saw the people on the videos, we began to feel a connection to them. It made us want to be successful for them.\\" Think about that: \\"It made us want to be successful for them.\\" <p>That's a great motto for all of us: Find somebody to be successful for; raise their hopes; rise to their needs. As you think about life after graduation, as you look into the mirror tonight after the partying is done--[<i>applause</i>]--that shouldn't get such a big cheer--[<i>laughter</i>]--you may look in the mirror tonight, and you may see somebody who's not really sure what to do with their lives. That's what you may see, but a troubled child might look at you and see a mentor, a homebound senior citizen might see a lifeline, the folks at your local homeless shelter might see a friend. None of them care how much money is in your bank account or whether you're important at work or whether you're famous around town; they just know that you're somebody who cares, somebody who makes a difference in their lives. <p>So class of 2009, that's what building a body of work is all about. It's about the daily labor, the many individual acts, the choices large and small that add up over time, over a lifetime, to a lasting legacy. That's what you want on your tombstone. It's about not being satisfied with the latest achievement, the latest gold star, because the one thing I know about a body of work is that it's never finished. It's cumulative; it deepens and expands with each day that you give your best, each day that you give back and contribute to the life of your community and your nation. You may have setbacks, and you may have failures, but you're not done; you're not even getting started, not by a long shot. <p>And if you ever forget that, just look to history. Thomas Paine was a failed corset maker, a failed teacher, and a failed tax collector before he made his mark on history with a little book called \\"Common Sense\\" that helped ignite a revolution. Julia Child didn't publish her first cookbook until she was almost 50. Colonel Sanders didn't open up his first Kentucky Fried Chicken till he was in his sixties. Winston Churchill was dismissed as little more than a has-been who enjoyed scotch a little bit too much, before he took over as Prime Minister and saw Great Britain through its finest hour. No one thought a former football player stocking shelves at the local supermarket would return to the game he loved, become a Super Bowl MVP, and then come here to Arizona and lead your Cardinals to their first Super Bowl. Your body of work is never done. <p>Each of them, at one point in their life, didn't have any title or much status to speak of. But they had passion, a commitment to following that passion wherever it would lead and to working hard every step along the way. And that's not just how you'll ensure that your own life is well-lived; it's how you'll make a difference in the life of our Nation. <p>I talked earlier about the selfishness and irresponsibility on Wall Street and Washington that rippled out and led to so many of the problems that we face today. I talked about the focus on outward markers of success that can help lead us astray. But here's the thing, class of 2009: It works the other way around too. <p>Acts of sacrifice and decency without regard to what's in it for you, that also creates ripple effects, ones that lift up families and communities; that spread opportunity and boost our economy; that reach folks in the forgotten corners of the world who, in committed young people like you, see the true face of America: our strength, our goodness, our diversity, our enduring power, our ideals. <p>I know starting your careers in troubled times is a challenge, but it is also a privilege. Because it's moments like these that force us to try harder and dig deeper and to discover gifts we never knew we had, to find the greatness that lies within each of us. So don't ever shy away from that endeavor. Don't stop adding to your body of work. I can promise that you will be the better for that continued effort, as will this Nation that we all love. <p>Congratulations, class of 2009, on your graduation. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"140" "\"<i>Situation in Sri Lanka</i> <p>Hello, everybody. Sorry to keep you guys waiting. Good to see you. I want to take a few moments at the top to talk about something that, with all the big issues going on, hasn't received much attention, but I think is worth talking about briefly. <p>As some of you know, we have a humanitarian crisis that's taking place in Sri Lanka, and I've been increasingly saddened by the desperate news in recent days. Tens of thousands of innocent civilians are trapped between the warring Government forces and the Tamil Tigers in Sri Lanka with no means of escape, little access to food, water, shelter, and medicine. This has led to widespread suffering and the loss of hundreds if not thousands of lives. <p>Without urgent action, this humanitarian crisis could turn into a catastrophe. Now is the time, I believe, to put aside some of the political issues that are involved and to put the lives of the men and women and children who are innocently caught in the crossfire--to put them first. <p>So I urge the Tamil Tigers to lay down their arms and let civilians go. Their forced recruitment of civilians and their use of civilians as human shields is deplorable. These tactics will only serve to alienate all those who carry them out. <p>I'm also calling on the Sri Lankan Government to take several steps to alleviate this humanitarian crisis. First, the Government should stop the indiscriminate shelling that has taken hundreds of innocent lives, including several hospitals. The Government should live up to its commitment to not use heavy weapons in the conflict zone. <p>Second, the Government should give United Nations humanitarian teams access to the civilians who are trapped between the warring parties so that they can receive the immediate assistance necessary to save lives. <p>Third, the Government should also allow the United Nations and the International Committee of the Red Cross access to nearly 190,000 displaced people within Sri Lanka so that they can receive additional support that they need. <p>The United States stands ready to work with the international community to support the people of Sri Lanka in this time of suffering. I don't believe that we can delay. Now is the time for all of us to work together to avert further humanitarian suffering. <p>Going forward, Sri Lanka must seek a peace that is secure and lasting and grounded in respect for all of its citizens. More civilian casualties and inadequate care for those caught in resettlement camps will only make it more difficult to achieve the peace that the people of Sri Lanka deserve. <p><i> Release of Detainee Interrogation Photos</i> <p>Now, let me also say a few words about an issue that I know you asked Robert Gibbs about quite a bit today, and that's my decision to argue against the release of additional detainee photos. Understand, these photos are associated with closed investigations of the alleged abuse of detainees in our ongoing war effort. <p>And I want to emphasize that these photos that were requested in this case are not particularly sensational, especially when compared to the painful images that we remember from Abu Ghraib, but they do represent conduct that did not conform with the Army Manual. That's precisely why they were investigated--and, I might add, investigated long before I took office--and, where appropriate, sanctions have been applied. <p>In other words, this is not a situation in which the Pentagon has concealed or sought to justify inappropriate action. Rather, it has gone through the appropriate and regular processes. And the individuals who were involved have been identified, and appropriate actions have been taken. <p>It's therefore my belief that the publication of these photos would not add any additional benefit to our understanding of what was carried out in the past by a small number of individuals. In fact, the most direct consequence of releasing them, I believe, would be to further inflame anti-American opinion and to put our troops in greater danger. <p>Moreover, I fear the publication of these photos may only have a chilling effect on future investigations of detainee abuse. And obviously, the thing that is most important in my mind is making sure that we are abiding by the Army Manual, and that we are swiftly investigating any instances in which individuals have not acted appropriately, and that they are appropriately sanctioned. That's my aim, and I do not believe that the release of these photos at this time would further that goal. <p>Now, let me be clear: I am concerned about how the release of these photos would be--would impact on the safety of our troops. I have made it very clear to all who are within the chain of command, however, of the United States Armed Forces that the abuse of detainees in our custody is prohibited and will not be tolerated. I have repeated that since I've been in office. Secretary Gates understands that; Admiral Mullen understands that; and that has been communicated across the chain of command. <p>Any abuse of detainees is unacceptable. It is against our values. It endangers our security. It will not be tolerated. <p>All right. Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"141" "\"Thank you, Madam Speaker. Good morning, everybody. This is a gorgeous day and an encouraging day, because we just wrapped up, as the Speaker said, a extremely productive meeting with the chairmen of the relevant committees, as well as the Majority Leader and Vice President Biden, to discuss one of the key pillars of a new foundation for our economy, and that is affordable, accessible, high-quality health care for all Americans. <p>I want to take a moment before I start talking about health care just to congratulate Chairman Waxman and the Energy and Commerce Committee Democrats, who've made such extraordinary progress in reaching a deal on comprehensive energy reform and climate legislation. This is a major step forward in building the kind of clean energy economy that will reduce America's dependence on foreign oil. And I once again call on Congress to send me legislation that places a market-based cap on carbon pollution, which will then drive incent for the kind of innovation and dynamic, new clean energy economy that can create jobs and new businesses all across America. <p>So this is an example of the extraordinary productivity that we're seeing over in the House right now. On health care, as Speaker Pelosi just mentioned, the House is working to pass a comprehensive health care reform bill by July 31st, before they head out for the August recess. And that's the kind of urgency and determination that we need to achieve what I believe will be historic legislation. <p>As I've said before, and as all Americans know, our health care system is broken. It's unsustainable for families, for businesses. It is unsustainable for the Federal Government and State governments. <p>We've had a lot of discussions in this town about deficits, and people across the political spectrum like to throw barbs back and forth about debt and deficits. The fact of the matter is, the most significant driver by far of our long-term debt and our long-term deficits is ever-escalating health care costs. And if we don't reform how health care is delivered in this country, then we are not going to be able to get a handle on that. <p>Now, in addition to the implications for the Federal budget, obviously, we're also thinking about the millions of American families out there who are struggling to pay premiums that have doubled over the last decade--rising four times the rate of their wages--and 46 million Americans who don't have any health insurance at all. <p>Businesses are using money to pay their rising health care costs that could be going to innovation and growth and new hiring. Far too many small businesses are dropping health care altogether. In fact, you've got small-business owners who can't afford health care for themselves, much less for their employees. And as we learned yesterday, pressures on Medicare are growing, which only underscores the need for reform. <p>That's why we've got to get this done. We've got to get it done this year. We've got to get it done this year, both in the House and in the Senate. And we don't have any excuses; the stars are aligned. <p>Now, the problems in our health care system didn't emerge overnight. We've debated about what to do about them for decades, but too often efforts at comprehensive reform have fallen apart due to special-interest lobbying and petty politics and the failure of all sides to come together. What's been so encouraging this week is you're starting to see a shift in these patterns. <p>On Monday, I met with representatives of the insurance and the drug companies, doctors and hospitals, and labor unions, groups that included some of the strongest critics of past comprehensive reform proposals. We discussed how they're pledging to do their part to reduce our Nation's health care spending by 1.5 percent per year. Coupled with comprehensive reform, this could result in our Nation saving over $2 trillion over the next 10 years, and that could save families $2,500 in the coming years, $2,500 per family. <p>Yesterday I met with CEOs from some of America's leading corporations who are finding innovative ways to cut their own health care costs by improving the health of their workers through prevention and wellness programs. <p>In the coming weeks and months, I believe that the House and Senate will be engaged in a difficult issue, and I'm committed to building a transparent process to get this moving. But whatever plans emerge, both from the House and the Senate, I do believe that they've got to uphold three basic principles: first, that the rising costs of health care have to be brought down; second, that Americans have to be able to choose their own doctor and their own plan; and third, all Americans have to have quality, affordable health care. <p>These are the principles to which I'm committed. These are the principles to which the chairmen and the Speaker and the Majority Leader, my Vice President are committed. We're seeing now that traditional opponents of health care reform are embracing these ideas. They recognize that the time is now. <p>And so I am just deeply encouraged. And I want the message to go out all across America, we are not going to rest until we've delivered the kind of health care reform that's going to bring down costs for families, and improve quality, affordability, accessibility for all Americans. <p>So thank you very much, and enjoy this wonderful weather.\" "
"142" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat. Welcome to the White House, and congratulations to the world champion Philadelphia Phillies. <p>We originally planned to do this last month, but we postponed it after the loss of the legendary voice so familiar to any sports fan, the Hall of Fame announcer, the great Harry Kalas. <p>And Harry left us as he lived, in the ballpark, preparing to call another game for his beloved Phillies. And I know a season without the warm comfort of his voice is difficult, but I also know this, that Harry is here with us in spirit today, and he is proud of all of you. <p>He waited 28 years to call another World Series championship run, and what an unbelievable run it was, full of come-from-behind wins by an underdog team that loved to prove the prognosticators wrong. And so we share something in common there, because nobody thought I was going to win either. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>This is a team that never gave up. You weren't supposed to win your division. You weren't supposed to win postseason series against the Dodgers or the Rays. And even though the stretch between the top and the bottom of the sixth inning in game five took 2 full days of rain, you came out before the toughest fans in sports to win Philadelphia's first major championship since 1983. <p>And so this was truly a victory for both young folks, but also the young at heart, those who waited nearly three decades, and a new generation of fans that had been waiting their entire lives. It also, as I mentioned to the team back here, was not just a victory for the people of Philadelphia, but for some long-time fans like Joe Biden, and my campaign manager, David Plouffe, who--I'm not sure whether he cared more about my victory or the Phillies's victory--[<i>laughter</i>]--but it was a close call--as well as folks from the entire Delaware Valley. <p>This is a team made up of guys who don't quit: Cole Hamels, the unbelievable playoff ace; Chase Utley, a throwback who plays hurt and plays hard and never complains; Brad Lidge, who came to the Philly organization looking for a fresh start, and who went a perfect 48 for 48 in save opportunities all season long, and who wiped away 28 years of near-misses and heartbreak with that final strikeout. <p>And guys like our manager here, Charlie Manuel, who lost his mother during the playoffs. And I know how tough that is. I lost my grandmother in the middle of my election. And, Charlie, I admired your perseverance during those trying times. I know how hard that must have been on you. <p>Also guys like Shane Victorino--Shane, we don't get that many baseball players from Hawaii in the Majors. Where did Shane go? He was around here somewhere. He was pointing out the Hawaiian flag on the carpet in there, saying \\"<i>shaka</i>\\"--local boy. But that means that there are a lot of folks looking out for you. And then Jimmy Rollins, who, I have to say, made some telephone calls on behalf of our campaign before the election, and I couldn't be more grateful to him for that. <p>You know, I remember giving a campaign speech in Chester, just outside of Philadelphia, 1 week before the election. And it was the day after rain had suspended the Series game, and it was still raining. And I told my staff, if they can suspend the World Series in the middle of a game, then the least you could do is find an indoor location for my speech. [<i>Laughter</i>] That was the coldest I may have ever been. Do you remember that, Plouffe? I mean, it was cold. But true to form, thousands of Philadelphians showed up to brave the rain and my speech, just like they had shown up to watch their beloved Phillies play. And so like this team, I tried to give them my best. <p>I also know how it felt for the Phillies to get this weight off their back, because my beloved White Sox finally did it 3 years ago after nearly 90 years of waiting. So, Cubs fans out there, take heart. [<i>Laughter</i>] Anything is possible. <p>I also want to point out the example that each and every one of these guys, their wives, and the entire organization set with their time and efforts off the field. Chase works on behalf of pediatric hospitals. Brad supports our wounded warriors. Cole helps those suffering with HIV/AIDS in Africa. Ryan Howard is a national face for the Boys and Girls Clubs, participates in Make-A-Wish Foundation, and takes an active role in mentoring inner-city students, and on and on. <p>And just as the number of African American kids taking up baseball is in severe decline, the impact of having role models like Ryan and Jimmy to look up to just can't be measured. You know, Jimmy likes to say that nothing comes easy in Philly, and that's why I think that so many Americans found themselves rooting for this extraordinary team. As Americans, we know a little something about being underdogs. We know a little something about coming together when times are tough. And like this team, we remember a simple truth, which is that we rise and fall together, and no one individual is bigger than the team. <p>So, Phillies, congratulations not only for a great season but doing it the right way. And, Manager---- <p><i>Charlie Manuel</i>. Thank you. <p><i>The President.</i> ----great job. Thank you.\" "
"143" "\"Good morning. Over the past few months, as we've put in place a plan to speed our economic recovery, I've spoken repeatedly of the need to lay a new foundation for lasting prosperity, a foundation that will support good jobs and rising incomes, a foundation for economic growth where we no longer rely on excessive debt and reckless risk, but instead rely on skilled workers and sound investments to lead the world in the industries of the 21st century. <p>Two pillars of this new foundation are clean energy and health care. And while there remains a great deal of difficult work ahead, I'm heartened by what we've seen these past few days: a willingness of those with different points of view and disparate interests to come together around common goals, to embrace a shared sense of responsibility and make historic progress. <p>Chairman Henry Waxman and members of the Energy and Commerce Committee brought together stakeholders from all corners of the country and every sector of our economy to reach a historic agreement on comprehensive energy legislation. It's another promising sign of progress, as longtime opponents are sitting together at the same table to help solve one of America's most serious challenges. <p>For the first time, utility companies and corporate leaders are joining rather than opposing environmental advocates and labor leaders to create a new system of clean energy initiatives that will help unleash a new era of growth and prosperity. <p>It's a plan that will finally reduce our dangerous dependence on foreign oil and cap the carbon pollution that threatens our health and our climate. Most important, it's a plan that will trigger the creation of millions of new jobs for Americans, who will produce the wind turbines and solar panels and develop the alternative fuels to power the future. Because this we know: The nation that leads in 21st century clean energy is the nation that will lead the 21st century global economy. America can and must be that nation, and this agreement is a major step toward this goal. <p>But we know that our families, our economy, and our Nation itself will not succeed in the 21st century if we continue to be held down by the weight of rapidly rising health care costs and a broken health care system. That's why I met with representatives of insurance and drug companies, doctors and hospitals, and labor unions who are pledging to do their part to reduce health care costs. These are some of the groups who've been among the fiercest critics of past comprehensive health care reform plans. But today, they too are recognizing that we must act. Our businesses will not be able to compete, our families will not be able to save or spend, our budgets will remain unsustainable, unless we get health care costs under control. <p>These groups have pledged to do their part to reduce the annual health care spending growth rate by 1.5 percentage points. Coupled with comprehensive reform, their efforts could help to save our Nation more than $2 trillion in the next 10 years and save hard-working families $2,500 each in those coming years. <p>This week, I also invited Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, and other congressional leaders to the White House to discuss comprehensive health reform legislation. The House is working to pass a bill by the end of July, before they head out for their August recess. That's the kind of urgency and determination we need to achieve comprehensive reform by the end of this year. And the reductions in spending the health care community has pledged will help make this reform possible. <p>I've always believed that it is better to talk than not to talk, that it's far more productive to reach over a divide than to shake your fists across it. This has been an alien notion in Washington for far too long, but we're seeing that the ways of Washington are beginning to change. For the calling of this moment is too loud and too urgent to ignore. Our success as a nation, the future of our children and grandchildren depend upon our willingness to cast aside old arguments, overcome stubborn divisions, and march forward as one people and one nation. <p>This is how progress has always been made. This is how a new foundation will be built. We cannot assume that interests will always align or that fragile partnerships will not fray. There will be setbacks; there will be difficult days. But we're off to a good start. And I am confident that we will, in the weeks, months, and years ahead, build on what we've already achieved and lay this foundation, which will not only bring about prosperity for this generation, but for generations to come. <p>Thanks so much.\" "
"144" "\"<i>The President.</i> Well, first of all, congratulations, class of 2009. Congratulations to all the parents, the cousins, the aunts, the uncles, the--all the people who helped to bring you to the point that you are here today. Thank you so much to Father Jenkins for that extraordinary introduction, even though you said what I want to say much more elegantly. [<i>Laughter</i>] You are doing an extraordinary job as president of this extraordinary institution. Your continued and courageous--and contagious--commitment to honest, thoughtful dialog is an inspiration to us all. <p>So good afternoon. To Father Hesburgh, to Notre Dame trustees, to faculty, to family: I am honored to be here today. And I am grateful to all of you for allowing me to be a part of your graduation. <p>And I also want to thank you for the honorary degree that I received. I know it has not been without controversy. I don't know if you're aware of this, but these honorary degrees are apparently pretty hard to come by. [<i>Laughter</i>] So far I'm only 1 for 2 as President. [<i>Laughter</i>] Father Hesburgh is 150 for 150. [<i>Laughter</i>] I guess that's better. [<i>Laughter</i>] So, Father Ted, after the ceremony, maybe you can give me some pointers to boost my average. <p>I also want to congratulate the class of 2009 for all your accomplishments. And since this is Notre Dame---- <p>[<i>At this point, there was a disturbance in the audience.</i>] <p><i>Audience members. </i>Boo! <p><i>The President.</i> That's all right. And since---- <p><i>Audience members. </i>We are ND! We are ND! <p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes we can! Yes we can! <p><i>The President.</i> We're fine, everybody. We're following Brennan's adage that we don't do things easily. [<i>Laughter</i>] We want to--we're not going to shy away from things that are uncomfortable sometimes. <p>Now, since this is Notre Dame, I think we should talk not only about your accomplishments in the classroom, but also in the competitive arena. [<i>Laughter</i>] No, don't worry, I'm not going to talk about that. [<i>Laughter</i>] We all know about this university's proud and storied football team, but I also hear that Notre Dame holds the largest outdoor 5-on-5 basketball tournament in the world, Bookstore Basketball. <p>Now, this excites me. [<i>Laughter</i>] I want to congratulate the winners of this year's tournament, a team by the name of \\"Hallelujah Holla Back.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Congratulations, well done. Though I have to say, I am personally disappointed that the \\"Barack O'Ballers\\" did not pull it out this year. [<i>Laughter</i>] So next year, if you need a 6'2\\" forward with a decent jumper, you know where I live. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, every one of you should be proud of what you have achieved at this institution. One hundred and sixty-three classes of Notre Dame graduates have sat where you sit today. Some were here during years that simply rolled into the next without much notice or fanfare, periods of relative peace and prosperity that required little by way of sacrifice or struggle. <p>You, however, are not getting off that easy. You have a different deal. Your class has come of age at a moment of great consequence for our Nation and for the world, a rare inflection point in history where the size and scope of the challenges before us require that we remake our world to renew its promise, that we align our deepest values and commitments to the demands of a new age. It's a privilege and a responsibility afforded to few generations and a task that you're now called to fulfill. <p>This generation, your generation, is the one that must find a path back to prosperity and decide how we respond to a global economy that left millions behind even before the most recent crisis hit, an economy where greed and short-term thinking were too often rewarded at the expense of fairness and diligence and an honest day's work. <p>Your generation must decide how to save God's creation from a changing climate that threatens to destroy it. Your generation must seek peace at a time when there are those who will stop at nothing to do us harm, and when weapons in the hands of a few can destroy the many. And we must find a way to reconcile our ever-shrinking world with its ever-growing diversity: diversity of thought, diversity of culture, and diversity of belief. In short, we must find a way to live together as one human family. <p>And it's this last challenge that I'd like to talk about today, despite the fact that Father John stole all my best lines. [<i>Laughter</i>] For the major threats we face in the 21st century--whether it's global recession or violent extremism, the spread of nuclear weapons or pandemic disease--these things do not discriminate. They do not recognize borders. They do not see color. They do not target specific ethnic groups. <p>Moreover, no one person or religion or nation can meet these challenges alone. Our very survival has never required greater cooperation and greater understanding among all people from all places than at this moment in history. <p>Unfortunately, finding that common ground, recognizing that our fates are tied up, as Dr. King said, in a \\"single garment of destiny,\\" is not easy. And part of the problem, of course, lies in the imperfections of man: our selfishness, our pride, our stubbornness, our acquisitiveness, our insecurities, our egos, all the cruelties large and small that those of us in the Christian tradition understand to be rooted in original sin. We too often seek advantage over others. We cling to outworn prejudice and fear those who are unfamiliar. Too many of us view life only through the lens of immediate self-interest and crass materialism, in which the world is necessarily a zero-sum game. The strong too often dominate the weak, and too many of those with wealth and with power find all manner of justification for their own privilege in the face of poverty and injustice. And so, for all our technological and scientific advances, we see here in this country and around the globe violence and want and strife that would seem sadly familiar to those in ancient times. <p>We know these things, and hopefully, one of the benefits of the wonderful education that you've received here at Notre Dame is that you've had time to consider these wrongs in the world, perhaps recognized impulses in yourself that you want to leave behind. You've grown determined, each in your own way, to right them. And yet, one of the vexing things for those of us interested in promoting greater understanding and cooperation among people is the discovery that even bringing together persons of good will, bringing together men and women of principle and purpose, even accomplishing that can be difficult. <p>The soldier and the lawyer may both love this country with equal passion, and yet reach very different conclusions on the specific steps needed to protect us from harm. The gay activist and the evangelical pastor may both deplore the ravages of HIV/AIDS, but find themselves unable to bridge the cultural divide that might unite their efforts. Those who speak out against stem cell research may be rooted in an admirable conviction about the sacredness of life, but so are the parents of a child with juvenile diabetes who are convinced that their son's or daughter's hardships might be relieved. <p>The question then is, how do we work through these conflicts? Is it possible for us to join hands in common effort? As citizens of a vibrant and varied democracy, how do we engage in vigorous debate? How does each of us remain firm in our principles and fight for what we consider right, without, as Father John said, \\"demonizing those with just as strongly held convictions on the other side\\"? <p>And of course, nowhere do these questions come up more powerfully than on the issue of abortion. As I considered the controversy surrounding my visit here, I was reminded of an encounter I had during my Senate campaign, one that I describe in a book I wrote called \\"The Audacity of Hope.\\" And a few days after the Democratic nomination, I received an e-mail from a doctor who told me that while he voted for me in the Illinois primary, he had a serious concern that might prevent him from voting for me in the general election. He described himself as a Christian who was strongly pro-life, but that was not what was preventing him, potentially, from voting for me. <p>What bothered the doctor was an entry that my campaign staff had posted on my web site, an entry that said I would fight, quote, \\"right-wing ideologues who want to take away a woman's right to choose,\\" unquote. The doctor said he had assumed I was a reasonable person, he supported my policy initiatives to help the poor and to lift up our educational system, but that if I truly believed that every pro-life individual was simply an ideologue who wanted to inflict suffering on women, then I was not very reasonable. He wrote, \\"I do not ask at this point that you oppose abortion, only that you speak about this issue in fair-minded words\\"--fair-minded words. <p>After I read the doctor's letter, I wrote back to him, and I thanked him. And I didn't change my underlying position, but I did tell my staff to change the words on my web site. And I said a prayer that night that I might extend the same presumption of good faith to others that the doctor had extended to me. Because when we do that, when we open up our hearts and our minds to those who may not think precisely like we do or believe precisely what we believe, that's when we discover at least the possibility of common ground. <p>That's when we begin to say, maybe we won't agree on abortion, but we can still agree that this heart-wrenching decision for any woman is not made casually, that it has both moral and spiritual dimensions. <p>So let us work together to reduce the number of women seeking abortions; let's reduce unintended pregnancies. Let's make adoption more available. Let's provide care and support for women who do carry their children to term. Let's honor the conscience of those who disagree with abortion, and draft a sensible conscience clause, and make sure that all of our health care policies are grounded not only in sound science, but also in clear ethics, as well as respect for the equality of women. Those are things we can do. <p>Now, understand, class of 2009, I do not suggest that the debate surrounding abortion can or should go away. Because no matter how much we may want to fudge it--indeed, while we know that the views of most Americans on the subject are complex and even contradictory--the fact is that at some level, the views of the two camps are irreconcilable. Each side will continue to make its case to the public with passion and conviction. But surely we can do so without reducing those with differing views to caricature. <p>Open hearts, open minds, fair-minded words, it's a way of life that has always been the Notre Dame tradition. Father Hesburgh has long spoken of this institution as both a lighthouse and a crossroads, a lighthouse that stands apart, shining with the wisdom of the Catholic tradition, while the crossroads is where \\"differences of culture and religion and conviction can coexist with friendship, civility, hospitality, and especially love.\\" And I want to join him and Father John in saying how inspired I am by the maturity and responsibility with which this class has approached the debate surrounding today's ceremony. You are an example of what Notre Dame is about. <p>Now, this tradition of cooperation and understanding is one that I learned in my own life many years ago--also with the help of the Catholic Church. You see, I was not raised in a particularly religious household, but my mother instilled in me a sense of service and empathy that eventually led me to become a community organizer after I graduated college. And a group of Catholic churches in Chicago helped fund an organization known as the Developing Communities Project, and we worked to lift up south side neighborhoods that had been devastated when the local steel plant closed. <p>And it was quite an eclectic crew--Catholic and Protestant churches, Jewish and African American organizers, working class black, white, and Hispanic residents--all of us with different experiences, all of us with different beliefs. But all of us learned to work side by side, because all of us saw in these neighborhoods other human beings who needed our help to find jobs and improve schools. We were bound together in the service of others. <p>And something else happened during the time I spent in these neighborhoods, perhaps because the church folks I worked with were so welcoming and understanding; perhaps because they invited me to their services and sang with me from their hymnals; perhaps because I was really broke and they fed me. [<i>Laughter</i>] Perhaps because I witnessed all of the good works their faith inspired them to perform, I found myself drawn not just to the work with the church, I was drawn to be in the church. It was through this service that I was brought to Christ. <p>And at the time, Cardinal Joseph Bernardin was the Archbishop of Chicago. And for those of you too young to have known him or known of him, he was a kind and good and wise man, a saintly man. I can still remember him speaking at one of the first organizing meetings I attended on the south side. He stood as both a lighthouse and a crossroads, unafraid to speak his mind on moral issues ranging from poverty and AIDS and abortion to the death penalty and nuclear war. And yet, he was congenial and gentle in his persuasion, always trying to bring people together, always trying to find common ground. And just before he died, a reporter asked Cardinal Bernardin about this approach to his ministry. And he said, \\"You can't really get on with preaching the Gospel until you've touched hearts and minds.\\" <p>My heart and mind were touched by him. They were touched by the words and deeds of the men and women I worked alongside in parishes across Chicago. And I'd like to think that we touched the hearts and minds of the neighborhood families whose lives we helped change. For this, I believe, is our highest calling. <p>Now, you, class of 2009, are about to enter the next phase of your life at a time of great uncertainty. You'll be called to help restore a free market that's also fair to all who are willing to work. You'll be called to seek new sources of energy that can save our planet, to give future generations the same chance that you had to receive an extraordinary education. And whether as a person drawn to public service or simply someone who insists on being an active citizen, you will be exposed to more opinions and ideas broadcast through more means of communication than ever existed before. You'll hear talking heads scream on cable, and you'll read blogs that claim definitive knowledge, and you will watch politicians pretend they know what they're talking about. [<i>Laughter</i>] Occasionally, you may have the great fortune of actually seeing important issues debated by people who do know what they're talking about, by well-intentioned people with brilliant minds and mastery of the facts. In fact, I suspect that some of you will be among those brightest stars. <p>And in this world of competing claims about what is right and what is true, have confidence in the values with which you've been raised and educated. Be unafraid to speak your mind when those values are at stake. Hold firm to your faith and allow it to guide you on your journey. In other words, stand as a lighthouse. <p>But remember, too, that you can be a crossroads. Remember, too, that the ultimate irony of faith is that it necessarily admits doubt. It's the belief in things not seen. It's beyond our capacity as human beings to know with certainty what God has planned for us or what He asks of us. And those of us who believe must trust that His wisdom is greater than our own. <p>And this doubt should not push us away our faith. But it should humble us. It should temper our passions, cause us to be wary of too much self-righteousness. It should compel us to remain open and curious and eager to continue the spiritual and moral debate that began for so many of you within the walls of Notre Dame. And within our vast democracy, this doubt should remind us even as we cling to our faith to persuade through reason, through an appeal whenever we can to universal rather than parochial principles, and most of all, through an abiding example of good works and charity and kindness and service that moves hearts and minds. <p>For if there is one law that we can be most certain of, it is the law that binds people of all faiths and no faith together. It's no coincidence that it exists in Christianity and Judaism, in Islam and Hinduism, in Buddhism and humanism. It is, of course, the Golden Rule: the call to treat one another as we wish to be treated, the call to love, the call to serve, to do what we can to make a difference in the lives of those with whom we share the same brief moment on this Earth. <p>So many of you at Notre Dame--by the last count, upwards of 80 percent--have lived this law of love through the service you've performed at schools and hospitals, international relief agencies and local charities. Brennan is just one example of what your class has accomplished. That's incredibly impressive, a powerful testament to this institution. <p>Now you must carry the tradition forward. Make it a way of life. Because when you serve, it doesn't just improve your community, it makes you a part of your community. It breaks down walls. It fosters cooperation. And when that happens, when people set aside their differences, even for a moment, to work in common effort toward a common goal, when they struggle together, and sacrifice together, and learn from one another, then all things are possible. <p>After all, I stand here today, as President and as an African American, on the 55th anniversary of the day that the Supreme Court handed down the decision in <i>Brown </i>v.<i> Board of Education. </i>Now,<i> Brown</i> was, of course, the first major step in dismantling the \\"separate but equal\\" doctrine, but it would take a number of years and a nationwide movement to fully realize the dream of civil rights for all of God's children. There were freedom rides and lunch counters and billy clubs; there was also a Civil Rights Commission appointed by President Eisenhower. It was the 12 resolutions recommended by this commission that would ultimately become law in the Civil Rights Act of 1964. <p>There were six members of this commission. It included five whites and one African American, Democrats and Republicans: two southern Governors, the dean of a southern law school, a midwestern university president, and your own Father Ted Hesburgh, president of Notre Dame. So they worked for 2 years, and at times, President Eisenhower had to intervene personally since no hotel or restaurant in the South would serve the black and white members of the commission together. And finally, when they reached an impasse in Louisiana, Father Ted flew them all to Notre Dame's retreat in Land O'Lakes, Wisconsin, where they eventually overcame their differences and hammered out a final deal. <p>And years later, President Eisenhower asked Father Ted how on Earth he was able to broker an agreement between men of such different backgrounds and beliefs. And Father Ted simply said that during their first dinner in Wisconsin, they discovered they were all fishermen. [<i>Laughter</i>] And so he quickly readied a boat for a twilight trip out on the lake. And they fished, and they talked, and they changed the course of history. <p>Now, I will not pretend that the challenges we face will be easy, or that the answers will come quickly, or that all our differences and divisions will fade happily away, because life is not that simple. It never has been. <p>But as you leave here today, remember the lessons of Cardinal Bernardin, of Father Hesburgh, of movements for change both large and small. Remember that each of us, endowed with the dignity possessed by all children of God, has the grace to recognize ourselves in one another, to understand that we all seek the same love of family, the same fulfillment of a life well lived. Remember that in the end, in some way, we are all fishermen. <p>If nothing else, that knowledge should give us faith that through our collective labor, and God's providence, and our willingness to shoulder each other's burdens, America will continue on its precious journey towards that more perfect Union. <p>Congratulations, class of 2009. May God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"145" "\"Hello, Indiana. It's good to see you guys. It's good to see you. Hello, hello, hello. It is good to be here. And it's a pleasure to be with your outstanding representatives in Congress, Andre Carson, Joe Donnelly, Brad Ellsworth, Baron Hill; give it up for these outstanding Members of Congress. We're here to make sure they can stay right where they belong, in the United States Congress, representing your hopes, representing your dreams, carrying your voices to Washington, DC. <p>It's good to be back in Indiana. We spent a little time in Indiana. It reminds me of why I like getting out of Washington so much. People are friendly. [<i>Laughter</i>] It brings back a lot of memories from all those days out here on the campaign trail. So I want to start out tonight by saying thank you, thank you to all of you here in Indiana. I know that I'm here tonight because of you, and folks like you across this country who made the phone calls, and knocked on the doors, and registered voters, and dug deep and gave whatever you could, because you were hungry for new ideas and new leadership and a new kind of politics. And that's what we are trying to deliver right now in Washington. <p>You believed that after an era of selfishness and greed, we could reclaim a sense of responsibility from Main Street to Wall Street to Washington. You believed that instead of huge inequalities and bubbles that bust, we could restore a sense of fairness and stability to our economy and build a new foundation for lasting growth and prosperity. You believed that at a time of war and turmoil, we could stand strong against our enemies, stand strong for our ideals, and show a new face of American leadership around the world. That's the change you believed in, that's the trust you placed in me, that's something that I will never forget. <p>But we know that winning that election was just the beginning of our work. It wasn't the end, it was just the start, it was the end of the beginning. That victory alone was not the change that we sought, it was just the opportunity to make the change. And I don't know about you, but I think it's fair to say that over these past 4 months, we have seized this opportunity. <p>To jump-start job creation and get our economy moving again, we passed the most ambitious economic recovery package in our Nation's history. We gave tax cuts to 95 percent of working Americans and put back people to work modernizing our health care system, and rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges and transit systems, and investing in renewable energy that could help boost our economy and preserve our planet. <p>We launched plans to stabilize our housing market and unfreeze our credit markets and to ensure the survival of our auto industry in this new century. We passed a budget that will cut our deficit in half while making investments to spur long-term growth. <p>We lifted the ban on Federal funding for stem cell research. We expanded the Children's Health Insurance Program to cover 11 million children in need. We passed a national service bill to create hundreds of thousands of opportunities to serve. We passed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, the first bill I signed into law, because we believe in equal pay for equal work. <p>So we're making progress. And I'm pleased with how far we've come, but I'm not satisfied. I'm confident in the future, but I am not content, not when there's still workers who are out of a job and families who can't pay the bills, not when too many Americans can't afford health care and so many of our kids are being left behind, not when our Nation has failed to lead the world in developing 21st century energy. We've come a long way, we can see some light on the horizon, but we've got a much longer journey ahead. <p>That's why all of you are here tonight. That's why you're digging deep again, even when times are a little tight, why I know you're going to make those calls and knock on those doors and get to the polls again next November, because we've got to make sure these four leaders continue their devoted service to Indiana and to America. <p>And that's why I'm here tonight. That's why I'm here, because I can't bring the change I promised all by myself. I can't rebuild our economy, and reform our health care system and our education system, and preserve our environment, and keep our Nation safe if I'm all alone in the Oval Office. That's not how our democracy works. <p>I need partners in Congress, people who are going to work hard every day to move this country forward. That's why I'm supporting these gentlemen. That's why I believe in Andre Carson and Joe Donnelly and Brad Ellsworth and Baron Hill. They serve their constituents and this Nation with dedication and intelligence and compassion and pride. They're determined to make a difference for the people they represent. <p>More than ever before, we need their help; America needs their help. We need their help to build schools that meet high standards, and close achievement gaps, and prepare our children for the 21st century challenges that they'll confront, where we reward teachers for performance and give them new pathways for advancement. And we need their help to reach the goal that I've set for higher education in this country, that by the year 2020, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. We used to have that distinction; we don't anymore. We are going to get it back with the help of these four gentlemen right here. <p>We need their help to pass a comprehensive energy plan and climate bill that will finally reduce our dependence on foreign oil, cap carbon pollution that threatens our health and our climate, a plan that will create millions of new jobs producing wind turbines and solar panels and the alternative fuels that will power the future. Because we know that the nation that leads on energy, on clean energy in the 21st century, that's the nation that will lead economically, and America can and must be that nation. <p>I need these gentlemen's help to create a 21st century health care system that's cutting costs for families and businesses. I've already met with representatives from the insurance and drug companies, from doctors and hospitals and labor unions. These groups, some of them used to be fierce critics of health care reform back in 1993, but today, they've pledged to do their part to reduce the annual health care spending growth rate by 1.5 percent, and coupled with comprehensive reform, that could save us up to $2 trillion--$2,500 per family every year. And working with these Congressmen, we're going to do everything we can to achieve comprehensive health care reform by the end of this year. Are we going to get it done, gentlemen? This is the year to get it done. <p>And we need these gentlemen to help give working people in this country a fair shake again. To make sure our workers can be paid fairly and treated fairly for the work that they do. I've got to say a few words about where we're gathered tonight. It's a fine establishment. But there are workers here from Indianapolis hotels who are seeking to unionize, including some right here at the Westin. And I want to recognize these workers and offer my support for their efforts. Where are they? Raise your hands, guys--right here. We appreciate you. <p>In these difficult times, our country will be stronger if management and workers come together to resolve disputes and work together to provide quality service. And workers should never be punished for demanding the right to collectively bargain. That's not right; we won't stand for it. <p>And finally, we need these four leaders to help us restore fiscal discipline in Washington so we don't leave our children and grandchildren with a mountain of debt. These are some of the leaders in trying to get Washington to take those responsibilities seriously. Already, my administration has identified more than 100 Government programs that we can reduce or eliminate, save $17 billion next year alone. We're going line by line through the budget, page by page, looking for even more cuts. <p>I've personally asked the leadership in Congress to reinstate the pay-as-you-go rule that we followed during the 1990s, a rule that will help start, a rule that helped us start this new century with a $236 billion surplus. You remember that? The idea is very simple: You don't spend what you don't have. If you want to spend, you need to find someplace else to cut. That's the rule that families across this country follow every single day, and there's no reason why their Government shouldn't do the same. <p>So look, Indiana, we're living through some extraordinary times. We didn't ask for the challenges we face, but we're determined to answer the call to meet them, to cast aside the old arguments, overcome the stubborn divisions, to move forward as one people. <p>It won't be easy, and there's going to be setbacks. It's going to take time. This is going to be a hard year, and next year is not going to be so easy either. But I promise you that we will get through this. I'll always tell you the truth about the challenges we face and the steps that we're taking, and I'll continue to measure my progress by the progress the American people are seeing in their own everyday lives. <p>And if you stand with me, if you stand with Andre Carson and Joe Donnelly and Brad Ellsworth and Baron Hill--[<i>applause</i>]--then I know we will look back on this moment, at the time that we came together to reclaim America's future, to write the next great chapter in the American story. <p>Thank you, everybody. God bless you. God bless America.\" "
"146" "\"<i>The President.</i> Well, thank you very much. Good afternoon, everybody. <p><i>Audience members. </i>Good afternoon. <p><i>The President.</i> And thank you, Lisa. I think you can see that she's pretty good at making a pitch. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we're grateful for sharing your story and your enthusiasm with all of us, and congratulations to you and everybody who is being honored here today as some of America's most outstanding business owners and lenders and counselors and coaches. <p>I want, also, all of you to know that I am so pleased with my selection as SBA Administrator. Karen Mills is somebody who is passionate about small business; she understands the ins and outs of it, the nuances of it. She is fighting for bringing SBA into the 21st century. And so I think you'll find just an outstanding partner in her, please give her a big round of applause. <p>Running a successful small business is impressive in any year, but it's especially impressive this year, at this moment when we're facing the most serious economic downturn in generations. And I know what you do isn't easy. I know that for every contract you've won, every sale that you've made and job you've created, you've had plenty of setbacks and false starts and late nights wondering how on Earth you're going to keep everything together and why you decided to take this path in the first place. <p>But you kept going. You scrimped and you saved and you borrowed and you improvised. And your failures didn't discourage you, they educated you and they motivated you to succeed the next time around. And today we honor that courage and determination and daring just as much as we honor the success that it ultimately brought you. <p>And that's the spirit that led Lisa, a single mom, a former hairstylist--you know, the hair looks good, so you--[<i>laughter</i>]---- <p><i>Lisa Anne Pineiro.</i> I'm good. I'm good. I cut hair in the back room. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> In the back room, while she's scooping ice cream--[<i>laughter</i>]---- <p><i>Ms. Pineiro.</i> Running the construction company. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> ----running the construction company, she's been doing her hair. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Ms. Pineiro.</i> I do. <p><i>The President.</i> I think there was a song about you, wasn't there? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Ms. Pineiro</i>. \\"She works hard for the money\\"--[<i>laughter</i>]. <p><i>The President.</i> To set out a little over a year ago--a little over 10 years ago with nothing but a loan from her parents and a big idea, and her company now has 78 employees; it's grossed nearly $4 million in sales last year. <p>It's what led Tom Masterson--where's Tom? Tom's right here. Tom, after working for 30 years in the electrical industry, to cofound T.E.M. Electric, funded it entirely on his own and working out of his living room until he won his first major contract. Today, the company employs 75 people and has over $12 million in revenues. <p>It's what led Andy Wells, a member of the Red Lake Ojibwa Tribe, to invest $1,300 back in 1989--where's Andy? Right here--$1,300 back in 1989 to found Wells Technology, manufacturing industrial tools and fasteners and creating jobs near reservations in Minnesota, where he lives. In 2008, his company generated $54 million in revenues, and his customers included Coca-Cola and Boeing and Oshkosh. <p>So small businesses like these are driving our economy. You're the job creators, responsible for half of all private sector jobs. You're innovators, producing 13 times more patents per employee than large companies. You're the starting point for the products and brands that have redefined the market. After all, Google started out as a small business; that was a research project. Hewlett-Packard began with two guys in a garage. The first Apple computers were built by hand, one at a time. McDonald's started with just one restaurant. <p>And small businesses don't just strengthen our economy, they also strengthen our communities. Your customers aren't just anonymous folks who buy what you sell, they're your friends, they're your neighbors. The place where you set up shop often isn't just your business address, but it's also your hometown, and sometimes it's your home. And I know what you do to give back: sponsoring sports leagues and service projects; serving on boards; donating to charities; mentoring other small-business owners to help them be as successful as you are. <p>So with all that you do for this Nation, I think our Nation's Government should be there to support you, to help you grow and expand and succeed. So I'm pleased that nearly all of you have benefited from SBA's services, from SBA loans, programs, advice, counseling. And I'm pleased about that, but I'm not satisfied. I think we can do more. We can do more to help small-business owners, especially right now. <p>And that's why our recovery plan raises the guarantees on SBA loans to 90 percent, eliminates costly fees for borrowers and lenders, and includes a series of tax cuts for small businesses, as well as incentives to encourage investment in small businesses. And that's why my proposed budget reduces the capital gains tax for investments in smaller startup businesses to zero--zero capital gains tax. <p>That's why I intend to pass comprehensive health care reform this year, so we can lower costs, raise quality, and make it easier for many of you to not only get health care for your employees, but also for yourselves. <p>And that's why we're announcing a new SBA loan program, the America's Recovery Capital, or ARC, program. And this new program will provide up to $35,000 to help struggling, but still creditworthy, small businesses pay off non-SBA debts, money they can use to pay suppliers and vendors, or pay down credit card debts. And the loans will be guaranteed 100 percent by the SBA, and they'll be available starting June 15th. And I believe they will be a lifeline to help viable small businesses through these difficult times. <p>So all of this is a good start, but it's only a start. We still have much work ahead to support our small businesses and restore our economy. It won't be easy. We'll need to be bold and creative and take risks, just like all of you have done. But that's always been the American story, that belief that all things are possible, that we are limited only by our willingness to take a chance and work hard to achieve our dreams. I'm confident that we will do exactly that. Together, we are going to meet the challenges of our times. <p>So congratulations again to all of you for what you have succeeded. And please make sure to keep feeding us good ideas, so that we can help you help the American economy and the American people. Thank you very much.\" "
"147" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. I just had a wonderful discussion with four of the most preeminent national security thinkers that we have, a bipartisan group of George Shultz, Henry Kissinger, Bill Perry, and Sam Nunn, all who've come together and helped inspire policies of this administration in a speech that I gave to Prague, which set forward a long-term vision of a world without nuclear weapons. <p>I don't think anybody would accuse these four gentlemen of being dreamers. They're hard-headed, tough defenders of American interests and American security. But what they have come together to help galvanize is a recognition that we do not want a world of continued nuclear proliferation, and that in order for us to meet the security challenges of the future, America has to take leadership in this area. <p>This is particularly true at a time when countries like North Korea and Iran are in the process of developing nuclear weapons capacity, at a time when we see a country like Pakistan with a large nuclear arsenal on the other side of a long-running conflict in the subcontinent with India, at a time when terrorist organizations like Al Qaida are trying to seek fissile material. It is absolutely imperative that America takes leadership, working with not just our Russian counterparts, but countries all around the world, to reduce and ultimately eliminate the dangers that are posed by nuclear weapons. <p>And we can take some very specific steps in order to do this. We can revitalize our Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. We can work with the Russians, as the two countries with by far the largest nuclear stockpiles, to continue to reduce our dependence on nuclear weapons. We can move forward on a comprehensive test ban treaty. It's going to require more work, but I think that we can get something accomplished there and we can lock down loose nuclear weapons that could fall into the hands of terrorists. <p>We are going to be pushing this as one of our highest priorities, to take specific steps, measurable steps, verifiable steps, to make progress on this issue, even as we keep a long-term perspective and a long-term vision about what can be achieved. And we can think of no better advisers, counselors, and partners in this process than the four gentlemen who joined us here today. <p>We also think this is a reminder of the long tradition of bipartisan foreign policy that has been the hallmark of America at moments of greatest need, and that's the kind of spirit that we hope will be reflected in our administration. <p>So with that, let me just allow George to make a brief statement on behalf of the group. <p><i>Former Secretary of State George Schultz.</i> All four of us support enthusiastically what the President is doing, as expressed eloquently in his speech in Prague. First of all, we all noted on your White House web site that the first sentence was: \\"We will work for a world free of nuclear weapons.\\" That's the vision we all support. <p>The second sentence is: \\"As long as nuclear weapons are around, we will be sure we have a strong deterrent ourselves.\\" So we support that notion that we must be conscious of our national security all the way along to zero. <p>Then we were really impressed to see that you had such a constructive meeting with the President of Russia. And there the two of you, the countries with most of the--over 90 percent of the nuclear weapons, pledged together to seek a world free of nuclear weapons. <p>And in your Prague speech, you linked the vision to steps, and you identified a few of the steps. And we think that's just the way to proceed, that there is an interaction between the vision, which you need, which requires you to think of the steps and know where you're going and the steps which need to be taken to show that the vision has a reality to it, and we're getting there. <p>So all four of us, Mr. President, support what you're doing. I would only have one word of slight disagreement. You said that you welcome the fact that this is bipartisan. And, well, it is. At the same time, I think all of us have said, when people have told that to us, that it's really nonpartisan. This is a subject that ought to somehow get up above trying to get a partisan advantage. And it's of such importance that we need to take it on its own merits. And that's the way we've proceeded. And that's the way, at least it seems to us, you've proceeded. <p><i>The President.</i> Thank you so much, George. And thank you all, gentlemen, for joining us. This is going to be an ongoing collaboration. We're very grateful to them. And we're grateful to you guys for taking time to listen. <p>Thanks a lot.\" "
"148" "\"Thank you very much. Thank you. Please, everybody have a seat. What an extraordinary day. The sun is out because good things are happening. Before I get started, just some preliminary introductions, I'll probably repeat them in my formal remarks, but I want to make sure that I acknowledge some people who have been critical to this effort and critical to so many efforts at the State and Federal levels. <p>First of all, Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who has just been cracking the whip and, you know, making Congress so productive over these last several days; we are grateful for her. My wonderful Secretary of Transportation, Ray LaHood, is in the house; Lisa Jackson, the outstanding Administrator of EPA. Some of the finest Governors in the country are here. Let me take them in order of good looks--sorry, Arnold--[<i>laughter</i>]--Jennifer Granholm of Michigan, Governor Deval Patrick of Massachusetts, and Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger of California. <p>Barbara Boxer just had to leave--but the head of the Environment Committee in the Senate, who's done just outstanding work. And Senators Feinstein, Levin, and Stabenow couldn't be here because they're busy voting on credit card legislation that we're going to get done before Memorial Day. And we've got two outstanding Members of the House of Representatives: John Dingell--where's John?--right here--the dean of the House and--who's done so much extraordinary work around these issues and Sandy Levin. Please give them a round of applause. <p>I also want to mention Ron Gettelfinger of the UAW, our president, who's just been a great leader during some very trying times in the auto industry, and Carol Browner, who helped to make this all happen today. Please give Carol Browner a big round of applause. <p>Since I'm acknowledging everybody--I'm in a voluble mood today--[<i>laughter</i>]--let me go ahead and acknowledge my other members of the Cabinet who are here who are part of our energy green team and do just outstanding work on an ongoing basis: first of all, my Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis; the guy who's just cleaning up the Department of Interior and doing an extraordinary job, Ken Salazar; our head of HUD, Shaun Donovan; and our Commerce Secretary, Gary Locke. <p>Now, thank you all for coming to the White House today and for coming together around what I consider to be a historic agreement to help America break its dependence on oil, reduce harmful pollution, and begin the transition to a clean energy economy. <p>This is an extraordinary gathering. Here we have today standing behind me, along with Ron Gettelfinger and leadership of the UAW, we have 10 of the world's largest auto manufacturers; we have environmental advocates as well as elected officials from all across the country. <p>And this gathering is all the more extraordinary for what these diverse groups, despite disparate interests and previous disagreements, have worked together to achieve. For the first time in history, we have set in motion a national policy aimed at both increasing gas mileage and decreasing greenhouse gas pollution for all new trucks and cars sold in the United States of America. And I want to applaud the leadership of the folks at the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Transportation, and the White House Office of Energy and Climate Change, who've worked around the clock on this proposal which has now been embraced by so many. <p>Now, in the past, an agreement such as this would have been considered impossible. It's no secret that these are folks who've occasionally been at odds for years, even decades. [<i>Laughter</i>] In fact, some of the groups here have been embroiled in lawsuits against one another. So that gives you a sense of how impressive and significant it is that these leaders from across the country are willing to set aside the past for the sake of the future. <p>For what everyone here believes, even as views differ on many important issues, is that the status quo is no longer acceptable. While the United States makes up less than 5 percent of the world's population, we create roughly a quarter of the world's demand for oil. And this appetite comes at a tremendous price, a price measured by our vulnerability to volatile oil markets, which send gas prices soaring and families scrambling. It's measured by a trade deficit where as much as 20 percent of what we spend on imports is spent on oil. It's measured in billions of dollars sent to oil-exporting nations, many that we do not choose to support, if we had a choice. It's measured in a changing climate, as sea levels rise and droughts spread, forests burns and storms rage. <p>And what is all the more tragic is that we've known about these costs in one way or another since the gas shortages of the 1970s. And yet all too little has been done. Calls for action rise and fall with the price of a barrel of oil. Worn arguments are traded across entrenched divides, urgency fades, complacency grows, and time passes. <p>As a result, we have done little to increase the fuel efficiency of America's cars and trucks for decades. Think about this. Consider how much has changed all around us. Think of how much faster our computers have become. Think about how much more productive our workers are. Think about how everything has been transformed by our capacity to see the world as it is, but also to imagine a world as it could be. <p>And that's what's been missing in this debate for too long, and that's why this announcement is so important, for it represents not only a change in policy in Washington, but the harbinger of a change in the ways business is done in Washington. No longer will we accept the notion that our politics are too small, our Nation too divided, our people too weary of broken promises and lost opportunities to take up a historic calling. No longer will we accept anything less than a common effort made in good faith to solve our toughest problems. And this is what this agreement seeks to achieve. <p>Right now the rules governing fuel economy in this country are inadequate, uncertain, and in flux. First, there is the standard for fuel economy administered by the Department of Transportation. On top of that, the Environmental Protection Agency, in response to a decision by the Supreme Court, may have to set limits on greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles, establishing another standard. California has sought permission under the Clean Air Act to require that vehicles sold in California meet yet another, even stricter emission rule. And 13 States and the District of Columbia have agreed to adopt California greenhouse gas reductions if the permission, called a waiver, is granted. <p>Now, car companies might then face three different sets of overlapping requirements, one administered by the Department of Transportation, one administered by the EPA, and still a third administered by California and 13 other States. This proposed national policy, under the leadership of two agencies and bringing together 14 States, 10 companies, as well as auto workers and environmental groups, changes all that. The goal is to set one national standard that will rapidly increase fuel efficiency, without compromising safety, by an average of 5 percent each year between 2012 and 2016, building on the 2011 standard my administration set shortly after taking office. <p>A series of major lawsuits will be dropped in support of this new national standard. The State of California has also agreed to support this standard, and I want to applaud California and Governor Schwarzenegger and the entire California delegation for their extraordinary leadership. They have led the way on this, as they have in so many other efforts to protect the environment. In addition, because the Department of Transportation and EPA will adopt the same rule, we will avoid an inefficient and ineffective system of regulations that separately govern the fuel economy of autos and the carbon emissions they produce. <p>And at a time of historic crisis in our auto industry, when domestic auto manufacturers are making painful choices and restructuring their businesses to be viable in the future, this rule provides the clear certainty that will allow these companies to plan for a future in which they are building the cars of the 21st century. <p>Yes, it costs money to develop these vehicles, but even as the price to build these cars and trucks goes up, the cost of driving these vehicles will go down as drivers save money at the pump. And this is a point I want to emphasize: If you buy a car, your investment in a more fuel-efficient vehicle, as a result of this standard, will pay off in just 3 years. In 3 years time, you will have paid off the additional investment required. So this is a winning proposition for folks looking to buy a car. In fact, over the life of a vehicle, the trip--typical driver would save about $2,800 by getting better gas mileage. <p>And the fact is, everyone wins. Consumers pay less for fuel, which means less money going overseas and more money to save or spend here at home. The economy as a whole runs more efficiently by using less oil and producing less pollution. And companies like those here today have new incentives to create the technologies and the jobs that will provide smarter ways to power our vehicles. <p>And that's why, in the next 5 years, we're seeking to raise fuel-economy standards to an industry average of 35.5 miles per gallon in 2016, an increase of more than 8 miles per gallon per vehicle. That's an unprecedented change, exceeding the demands of Congress and meeting the most stringent requirements sought by many of the environmental advocates represented here today. <p>As a result, we will save 1.8 billion barrels of oil over the lifetime of the vehicles sold in the next 5 years. Just to give you a sense of magnitude, that's more oil than we imported last year from Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, Libya, and Nigeria combined. Here's another way of looking at it: This is the projected equivalent of taking 58 million cars off the road for an entire year. <p>I also want to note that the agreement we have announced today is part of a far larger effort. In fact, on the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, Henry Waxman is chairing a meeting of the Energy and Commerce Committee, which is working on an equally historic energy bill that will not only help our dependence on foreign oil, prevent the worst consequences of climate change, and build a clean energy economy but will provide more than $15 billion to help build the cars and trucks of the future right here in America. <p>And the recovery plan we've put in place, as well as the budget that builds on it, makes historic investments in a clean energy economy, doubling our capacity to generate renewable energy like wind and solar, investing in new battery technologies for plug-in hybrids, and building a smarter, stronger grid on which the homes, businesses, and vehicles of the future will run. <p>Now, too often lost in the back-and-forth of Washington politics, absent in arguments where the facts opponents use depend on the conclusions they've already reached, absent all that is this: Ending our dependence on oil, indeed, ending our dependence on fossil fuels represents perhaps the most difficult challenge we have ever faced, not as a party, not as a set of separate interests, but as a people. <p>We have, over the course of decades, slowly built an economy that runs on oil. It has given us much of what we have, for good, but also for ill. It has transformed the way we live and work, but it's also wreaked havoc on our climate. It has helped create gains in prosperity unprecedented in history, but it also places our future in jeopardy. <p>Ending this dependence will take time. It will take an incredible effort. It will take a historic investment in innovation. But more than anything, it will take a willingness to look past our differences, to act in good faith, to refuse to continue the failures of the past, and to take on this challenge together, for the benefit not just of this generation, but generations to come. <p>All the people who have gathered here today, all the auto executives, all our outstanding elected officials and appointees, Ron Gettelfinger, Members of Congress, Governors, all these folks here today have demonstrated that this kind of common effort is possible. They've created the template for more progress in the months and years to come. Everything is possible when we're working together, and we're off to a great start. <p>So thank you everybody. Appreciate it. <p>[<i>At this point, the President greeted participants of the event on stage. He then returned to the podium and continued as follows.</i>] <p>By the way, I just want to mention, I think I still have my Ford parked in Chicago. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's a Ford hybrid--runs great. You guys should take a look. [<i>Laughter</i>] But there are also some outstanding hybrids and energy-independent cars represented up here, so I didn't want to just advertise for one. [<i>Laughter</i>]\" "
"149" "\"Good morning, everybody--good afternoon. Please, everybody, have a seat. Everybody have a seat. It is wonderful to see all of you. Four months ago today, we took office amidst unprecedented economic turmoil. And ever since that day, we've worked aggressively across all fronts to end this crisis and to build a new foundation for our lasting prosperity. Step by step, I believe we're moving in the right direction. <p>I know my administration will be judged by various markers. But there's only one measure of progress that matters to me, and that's the progress that the American people see in their own lives, day to day, because right now, despite progress, too many Americans are hurting. They're Americans desperate to find a job or unable to make ends meet despite working multiple jobs, Americans who pay their bills on time but can't keep their heads above water, Americans living in fear that they're one illness or one accident away from losing their home, hard-working Americans who did all the right things, met all of their responsibilities, yet still find the American Dream slipping out of reach. <p>Now, much of what caused this crisis was an era of recklessness, where short-term gains were too often prized over long-term prosperity. And too often in our Nation's Capital, we said the right words, we patted ourselves on the back, but ultimately, failed to do what we were actually sent here to do. And that is to stand up to the special interests and stand up for the American people. <p>Well, standing up for the American people is exactly what we're doing here today with two bills that I'm about to sign, the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act and the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act. These landmark pieces of legislation will protect hard-working Americans, crack down on those who seek to take advantage of them, and ensure that the problems that led us to this crisis never happen again. <p>Thanks in large part to some of the men and women here, both onstage as well as in the audience, each bill passed by overwhelmingly bipartisan majorities. But we wouldn't be here without the leadership of my good friend, Chris Dodd. And I want to thank him and Senator Richard Shelby. Now, Chris and Richard Shelby over on the Senate side, and then on the House side, Chairman Barney Frank and Representative Maxine Waters have done a great job. And I want to thank Senators Patrick Leahy and Chuck Grassley, as well as Representatives Conyers and Bobby Scott, for leading the way on the fraud enforcement bill. <p>Now, these two laws, together with the comprehensive credit card reforms that I hope to sign later this week, represent fundamental change that will help ensure a fair shake for hard-working Americans. And I think it's important for people to understand the significance of this week. This has been one of the most productive congressional work periods in some time. And I am grateful to have Harry Reid here, as well as Nancy Pelosi who could not be here, and the other key Members of Congress for assigning these measures the urgency that they deserve and that the times demand. <p>Let me talk a little bit about the housing bill. The Helping Families Save Their Homes Act advances the goals of our existing housing plan by providing assistance to responsible homeowners and preventing avoidable foreclosures. Now, last summer, Congress passed the HOPE for Homeowners Act to help families who found themselves underwater as a result of declining home values, families who owed more on their mortgages than their homes are worth. But too many administrative and technical hurdles made it very difficult to navigate, and most borrowers didn't even bother to try. <p>This bill removes those hurdles, getting folks into sustainable and affordable mortgages, and more importantly, keeping them in their homes. And it expands the reach of our existing housing plan for homeowners with FHA or USDA rural housing loans, providing them with new opportunities to modify or refinance their mortgages to more affordable levels. <p>Because many responsible renters are being unfairly evicted from homes that go through foreclosure because the owners haven't been paying their mortgages, it requires banks to honor existing leases or provide at least 90 days notice for renters on month-to-month leases. <p>And because far too many Americans go homeless on any given night, this bill provides comprehensive new resources for homeless Americans, focusing specifically on families with children, the fastest growing segment of the homeless population. <p>So altogether, it's a bill that builds on the housing plan we already put into action to stabilize the housing market and stem foreclosures. And because of that plan, all of you should know that interest rates are down, refinancings are up, and Americans who participate can save up to $2,000 a year--in effect, a $2,000 pay cut per family--tax cut, excuse me. They don't need pay cuts. [<i>Laughter</i>] That wouldn't be a good bill. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Any American who wants to learn more about this plan should visit makinghomeaffordable.gov. And thanks to the efforts of the men and women gathered up here, more families will stay in their homes, more neighborhoods will remain vibrant and whole, more dreams will be defended, and America will take another step from recession to recovery. <p>So what I'm going to do now is, I'm going to sign the housing bill, and then I'll talk a little bit about the antifraud bill. All right. <p>[<i>At this point, the President signed the bill.</i>] <p>Let's get the rest of this crew up here. <p>The other bill that I'm signing today gives prosecutors and regulators new tools to crack down on what's helped cause this crisis in the first place, and that's the twin scourges of mortgage fraud and predatory lending. <p>Now, last year, the Treasury Department received 62,000 reports of mortgage fraud, more than 5,000 each month. The number of criminal mortgage fraud investigations opened by the FBI has more than doubled over the past 3 years. And yet, the Federal Government's ability to investigate and prosecute these frauds is severely hindered by outdated laws and a lack of resources. <p>And that's why this bill nearly doubles the FBI's mortgage and financial fraud program, allowing it to better target fraud in hard-hit areas. And that's why it provides the resources necessary for other law enforcement and Federal agencies, from the Department of Justice to the SEC to the Secret Service, to pursue these criminals, bring them to justice, and protect hard-working Americans affected most by these crimes. It's also why it expands DOJ's authority to prosecute fraud that takes place in many of the private institutions not covered under current Federal bank fraud criminal statutes, institutions where more than half of all subprime mortgages came from as recently as 4 years ago. <p>And furthermore, it allows DOJ to prosecute anyone who fraudulently obtains Recovery Act or TARP funds, precious taxpayer dollars we've carefully invested in order to turn this crisis around. And finally, it creates a bipartisan Financial Markets Commission to investigate the financial practices that brought us to this point, so that we make sure a crisis like this never happens again. <p>Our current troubles were born of eroding home values and portfolio values, but also an erosion of our common values. So if we want to fully dig ourselves out of this crisis, we're going to need to do more than just change policy. We need all of us to live up to our responsibilities. Government must set the rules of the road that are fair and fairly enforced. Banks and lenders must end the practices that added to this mess. Individuals must take responsibility for their own actions. And all of us must learn to live within our means again. <p>I believe we're moving in the right direction. But I want to remind everybody that it took many years and many failures to get us here, and it's going to take some time to get us out. The stock market will rise and fall. The job market has taken a beating and won't be back immediately. The housing market still has a long way to go. But I'm confident we will get there. And if we keep at it, if we all do our part to usher in a new era of responsibility, then I'm convinced that we will recover from this recession, and we're going to come out on the other side stronger and more prosperous as a nation and as a people. <p>So with that, I'm going to sign the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act along with these extraordinary legislators who helped to make it happen. Give them a big round of applause. <p>[<i>The President signed the bill.</i>] <p>All right. There we go.\" "
"150" "\"<i>The President.</i> Everybody please have a seat. I apologize we're starting late. It's Rahm's fault. Where's Rahm? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Q. </i>Still late. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> Right, exactly. It is good to see all of you again. I know that many of you have been busy working with Paul and others on some of the financial issues that we continue to confront in the economy. We're pleased that we've seen some progress, that there is some return to normalcy in certain aspects of the financial markets. We think that that will be helpful overall. <p>But obviously, one of the things that I've been concerned about since I took office is looking beyond the immediate crisis in front of us to find out what is a sustainable economic model post-bubble and bust. How do we create sound fundamentals on issues like education, on health care, and the topic that we're going to discuss today, energy, as well as all the innovation that's required around these various areas, so that moving forward, we don't find ourselves in a unsustainable economic model? <p>And we have seen this week some fairly extraordinary steps being taken around energy, which are promising. Yesterday I stood out in the Rose Garden and announced that the automakers, the unions, State and local officials, as well as the Federal Government, were coming up with a uniform national fuel efficiency standard that will provide certainty to the automakers and take a real bite out of our level of oil dependence and over time reduce our dependency on foreign oil. <p>At the same time, you've got an Energy Committee in the House of Representatives which is making more progress than we would have ever expected around the issue of greenhouse gases and carbon pollution. <p>So you're seeing industry, labor, and government working together more cooperatively, in a better spirit, than we've seen in a very long time. But this is a huge, complicated, difficult issue. I know that sometimes the slogans about clean energy and green energy may be a little more forward-leaning than the realities of the numbers of jobs that are currently being produced or the technologies that are currently available. <p>And so one of the roles that I thought we could play today is to try to flesh out a little bit: what can we get done; where are immediate opportunities that we should be taking advantage of; what are some major challenges; how realistic are some of our projections around clean energy and how much of them are dependent on technological breakthroughs that we don't yet foresee; and how does this affect those who are not in the energy sectors but have, nevertheless, a significant interest in how this will affect overall economic growth. <p>So I wanted to start with John Doerr, who's done as much work on this as anybody as a venture capitalist, but somebody who sort of digs in and gets his hands dirty on these issues and understands the technology behind a lot of these questions. <p>And, John, why don't you share with us sort of more broadly how you're thinking about some of these issues? <p>[<i>At this point, John Doerr, partner, Kleimer Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers, made brief remarks, concluding as follows.</i>] <p><i>Mr. Doerr.</i> I want to close with my views on an optimistic note, and that is that we are seeing breakthroughs in the technology that not only can get us where we need to be, but that can make sure that America is the worldwide leader in developing the jobs and the businesses and the wealth from this industry as it was the case with the Internet. <p><i>The President.</i> Jeff, do you want to talk about this from a big manufacturing company that both uses energy, but also works on the technologies that might save in energy usage? <p>[<i>Jeffrey R. Immelt, chairman and chief executive officer, General Electric Company, made brief remarks, concluding as follows.</i>] <p><i>Mr. Immelt</i>. I would say these 50,000 jobs in this brutal recession are the most robust jobs we have. We're shipping products around the world. We ship about 150 heavy-duty gas turbines. Three will go to the U.S.; 147 go to the rest of the world. So we're doing well. <p><i>The President.</i> So this is actually an area--this is an area where we could develop a strong export market if we're---- <p><i>Mr. Immelt</i>. I think we have to think about it that way, Mr. President. We've got to move on. Other countries around the world are doing the same things, and there's no reason why we should cede leadership to other people. <p><i>The President.</i> How far behind are we technologically to other countries, Jeff, John? <p><i>Mr. Immelt.</i> Look, I would say that innovation exists here. You know, Europe's at 10 percent renewables; we're at 2 or 3 percent. Other nations of the world, like China, Finland, France, are building nuclear power. We haven't started yet. We're doing the first whole gasification plant in 25 years in Indiana. So the brains exist in this country. I think what we have to use is our domain to really build cost positions and competitiveness that can be globally competitive. But they're the types of products, Mr. President, that we can build great export industries around. <p><i>The President.</i> Rich, the--I know from a labor perspective, one of the biggest concerns you guys have is the decline in manufacturing. <p><i>Richard L. Trumka.</i> Absolutely. <p><i>The President.</i> And the--and we've actually got a task force that's working up some ideas about stabilizing and then growing our manufacturing base. This is one area where we're seeing some potential. I'm wondering if you just wanted to touch on sort of how the AFL-CIO is thinking about clean energy and its potential for creating solid middle class jobs. <p>[<i>Mr. Trumka, secretary-treasurer, AFL-CIO, made brief remarks, concluding as follows.</i>] <p><i>Mr. Trumka.</i> Our members are excited. We've already started creating the training programs and the jobs. They're already starting to help green the country, and we think it's a win-win-win for this country and for the people of this country. And we applaud your leadership in the area. <p><i>The President.</i> I want to open it up with--Martin, I'd be interested in your views on this. I mean, this is one of those areas where you can have some pretty fierce economic debates around the efficacy of a cap and trade versus a carbon tax, whether the Government getting involved in this area helps in significantly sparking a clean energy revolution, or whether this is going to happen due to innovation in the private sector without Government catalyzing it. <p>And so to the extent that there's any skepticism in the room, and you're always good for that--[<i>laughter</i>]--I wanted to make sure that that got put on the table and that we had a realistic conversation about some of these policies. <p>[<i>Martin Feldstein, president emeritus, National Bureau of Economics Research, made brief remarks, concluding as follows.</i>] <p><i>Mr. Feldstein</i>. The other point is about whether you auction or give away some of these permits. The price has to go up by the same amount. The cost to the consumer has to go up by the same amount, whether you auction it off or you give it away. <p><i>The President.</i> Right. <p><i>Mr. Feldstein</i>. So I have a hard time understanding the giveaway strategy, because it seems to me that just says we'll take some of the money that would otherwise be collected by the Government, that revenue, and give it to some of these firms that win this lottery to get some of these---- <p><i>The President.</i> Well, as you know, during the campaign, my original proposal was a 100 percent auction so that you didn't have the potential for political considerations or gaming of the system. The way I think that the Waxman-Markey bill is trying to address this is you've got regional differences that have to be accommodated; some of it has to do with how do you, if not hold the consumers harmless, then assure that the rebates or the allocations that are awarded are leveling out the cost to consumers. <p>So it may not--it ends up not being as arbitrary as, I think, it might seem in the abstract. In the particulars, there are just some regions in the country, particularly in the Midwest and the South, where their options for ramping up energy efficiencies quickly are very different from California or some of the northeast cities. And so you want them to make adjustments. On the other hand, if the adjustments are too onerous, too quick, not only is it brutal on those States, which are already having trouble, but politically it ends up being pretty difficult. <p><i>Mr. Feldstein.</i> So this is for regulated electricity, basically? <p><i>The President.</i> Mostly around the electricity issue. <p><i>Mr. Feldstein.</i> Because for gasoline and other products---- <p><i>The President.</i> For gasoline that makes less sense. Now, I haven't seen all the details of the bill yet. Carol, you may end up having a better sense. Larry, do you want to chime in on this one? <p><i>National Economic Council Director Lawrence H. Summers.</i> If we had--I'm having a cluck out of you--ask a student, Marty. I understood your--I understood very well the---- <p><i>The President.</i> Marty really doesn't like to admit to that, by the way. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Mr. Feldstein.</i> No, I take great pride in my students, Larry high on that list. <p>[<i>Director Summers made brief remarks, followed by brief remarks by Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Carol M. Browner.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> Jim, you've got some thoughts as a big manufacturer that operates internationally. You probably see some of these as opportunities, but I know you may see some risk as well, so I'm putting you in a competitive disadvantage. <p>[<i>James W. Owens, chairman and chief executive officer, Caterpillar, Inc., made brief remarks, concluding as follows.</i>] <p><i>Mr. Owens. </i>Our concern and one of the things we've been very engaged with the U.S. cap initiative discussing is, we need to approach this in an international context. I think if we move unilaterally as the United States, with a significant cap and trade program that drives up the cost of carbon here significantly, and our international competitors, their countries don't move with us, it's going to create competitive problems for the core--let's call it the base industries: steel, aluminum, cement--the core feeder stock, if you will, for the manufacturing industry in this country. <p>But I think if we take that leadership role, as you've articulated it, and go to the--Copenhagen with that in hand as showing our commitment to move forward, I think there's a good chance that we'll find the Indians and the Chinese, for example, the two largest emerging markets--and big growth markets, by the way, for U.S. exports--likely to want to work with us. And I think there's more opportunity for collaboration on the international scale than some people are giving us credit for here. <p><i>The President.</i> That's what we've been seeing. <p><i>Mr. Owens.</i> I think there's--it's out there. <p><i>The President.</i> Yes, well, I want to bring maybe some of the finance guys, because you crunch the numbers, you're looking for opportunities where it makes sense to invest, where it doesn't. Mark, how is this looking from a investor perspective, from a---- <p>[<i>Mark T. Gallogly, founder and managing partner, Centerbridge Partners, L.P., made brief remarks, concluding as follows.</i>] <p><i>Mr. Gallogly.</i> The second thing I think that could really impact this is whether you have a national standard or not. I know the administration supports a national standard, a national energy standard for alternatives. There's a real--there's been real success on a State-by-State basis, but many States, as you pointed out earlier, don't have alternatives, don't have the ability to produce alternatives. In the southeast there's not a lot of--if you're in the southeast, not a lot of wind, there's not a lot of real sun power, so you're not going to see much alternative generation there. <p>And energy moves across States, and so you've got to figure out a way, just as you're thinking through emissions for auto on a national basis, to think about a national standard for energy. I think if you did those two things, in addition to a carbon, then you have a realistic likelihood of achieving the goals. If you don't have those three coming together, I think the likelihood is less--materially less. <p><i>The President.</i> Anything to add to that, Roger? <p>[<i>Roger W. Ferguson, Jr., president and chief executive officer, TIAA-CREF, made brief remarks.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> Now, one of the things that when our energy team gets together we talk about is that the lowest hanging fruit, the area where technology's already available, is on the efficiency side. We don't need breakthroughs as much as we just need the proper incentives to take advantage of that. <p>And so I wanted to maybe just talk about that for a moment. And I'd be interested, Penny, from a real estate perspective, because buildings, it turns out, alongside cars, is the area where there is just enormous waste. On the other hand, the real estate industry as a whole, residential and commercial, are obviously under--feeling enormous pressure right now. <p>And so the question is whether there is an appetite for retrofitting old buildings, dealing with energy efficiency in what is already a difficult economic environment. And are there some additional things that we need to do if in fact we're going to move in that direction? <p>[<i>Penny Pritzker, chairman and founder, Pritzker Realty Group, made brief remarks, concluding as follows.</i>] <p><i>Ms. Pritzker.</i> So I think incentives are enormously--I think you could put a lot of people to work doing this, because it's not only for the residential but also large commercial buildings. There's enormous work to be done. <p><i>The President.</i> Thanks. Carol, do you want to talk to us briefly about some of the steps that we're already taking on the efficiency front, and are there questions for this group that we're still puzzling over? <p>[<i>Assistant Browner made brief remarks, concluding as follows.</i>] <p><i>Assistant Browner.</i> One of the things we've been interested in is, are there other steps we can take. Yesterday the President exercised his executive authority in pressing his national car standards to an historic level of reduction. Are there things we could do on the efficiency side? We understand some of the appliance things we can do, but there are other things you all are aware of where we have some executive authorities that the President could exercise that would be helpful to know. <p><i>The President.</i> John, did you want to comment on this? <p><i>Mr. Doerr.</i> There's two thoughts. And I think the most powerful one would be somehow to use your bully pulpit to get the Nation's utilities to be rewarded just as much or more from saving electrons as they're now rewarded for producing electrons. <p><i>The President.</i> And the California utilities have done some interesting work on that. <p><i>Mr. Doerr.</i> The California experience with this has been terrific. <p><i>The President.</i> Do you want to just describe that real quickly in case people aren't familiar with what they've done. <p>[<i>Mr. Doerr made brief remarks.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> Let me bring in some of the folks who I haven't had the chance to hear from--Robert, any thoughts on this from a banking perspective? <p>[<i>Robert Wolf, chairman and chief executive officer, UBS Group Americas, made brief remarks, concluding as follows.</i>] <p><i>Mr. Wolf.</i> So I would just say we have to be--I think we shouldn't--we should fast-forward it because of the importance, but I do think we should make sure that we understand what we're going to be trading and who are the participants, because, as we know from what--the industry I'm in, once we see something that's an openly traded free market, we will have many more participants than we thought. And I think we have to be very careful on it, therefore. And I know that we're going to add that to some of the language in something we're going to be sending you soon. <p><i>The President.</i> That's important. <p>Larry, we've been talking about how we--mechanisms--the--avoid some of the problems that Robert was discussing. <p><i>Director Summers.</i> Absolutely, yes. We've been working very much to have the right kind of framework in so that the markets function in the right--function in the right way, yes. <p><i>The President.</i> David, have you got anything to add on this? <p>[<i>David F. Swenson, chief information officer, Yale University, made brief remarks, followed by brief remarks by Mr. Immelt, concluding as follows.</i>] <p><i>Mr. Immelt</i>. I think that's the way to accelerate some of these projects, is to get the financing for big projects going forward. And I think not in a stimulus way, in terms of just purely Government, but taking an energy bank, quote, unquote, and allowing private business to invest side by side on these projects, whether it's smart grid or wind power or any of those. I think that could be a stimulative impact to get that going. I know some of those discussions have been going on with the Department of Energy. <p>And then beyond that, just ramping up the Ex-Im to get behind some of these products as we globalize. I think that's another tool that we've got to get things going faster. <p><i>The President.</i> Right. <p>Monica, do you want to talk about this from a small-business perspective? Are you seeing an interest among small businesses and--on the energy front? I've seen some small businesses that are starting to do--take advantage of some of the retrofitting and weatherization opportunities. <p>[<i>Monica C. Lozano, publisher and chief executive officer, La Opinion, made brief remarks.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> What I'd like to do, I think--how much time do we have? I think we have probably about 10 minutes--10, 15 minutes. What I'd like to do is broaden the conversation a little bit. I want to make sure that Charles and Anna, Laura--I haven't heard from you guys, so feel free to--Bill--feel free to talk about energy. <p>But this--Monica offers, actually, a pretty good segue. One of the things that we're wrestling with is how do we deal with job creation and employment. We expect that--and I'm not making any predictions here, because this is being web-streamed--[<i>laughter</i>]--we expect that there's going to be some stabilizing of the economy, that the contraction will end and begin--the engines of the economy will start to turn again. <p>But as all of you know, employment is a lagging indicator. We have shed a huge number of jobs during this deleveraging period. And the concern that we have is, even in a stabilized situation, there is the prospect of higher unemployment for some time to come. And so I've been really pushing my economic team around the issue of job creation and, alongside the issue of job creation, being able to create career paths for people so that they're upgrading their jobs and upgrading their incomes, because one of the problems that we saw during the nineties, even with very low unemployment and robust job creation, what you weren't seeing was significant increases in real incomes. <p>So those are two areas that we're spending a lot of time thinking about. Clean energy is, obviously, a huge opportunity for job creation. We've talked about that, but if people want to broaden it to some other areas or give us suggestions of things we should be looking at that you haven't been seeing us look at or pay as much attention to, that would be helpful. <p>So, Charles, do you want to--start with you? <p>[<i>Charles E. Phillips, Jr., president, Oracle Corporation, made brief remarks, concluding as follows.</i>] <p><i>Mr. Phillips</i>. But no one talked about this 5 years ago, and now every single conversation, before people can decide where to build a data center, they want to know how they can get the power. <p><i>The President.</i> So it's not just my 10-year-old daughter, keeping her iPod plugged in and not taking it out of the socket. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's just one small manifestation of the larger problem. <p><i>Mr. Phillips</i>. Right, and ours have to stay on 24/7, so we consume a lot of power. And so if we can get alternative sources, I think it actually opens up roads for our industry. <p><i>The President.</i> That's interesting. <p>Anna. <p>[<i>Anna Burger, secretary-treasurer, Service Employees International Union, made brief remarks, concluding as follows.</i>] <p><i>Ms. Burger.</i> The partnership that's gone on between the environmental communities, the truck drivers with the Teamsters, and the larger, broader community has really come up with a new model that will have energy efficient trucks, which will be good for the workers, good for the community---- <p><i>The President.</i> Energy efficient trucks that aren't just sitting there idling. <p><i>Ms. Burger. </i>And so a change in the whole mechanism of how you do it is important. <p>[<i>Ms. Burger made further brief remarks, concluding as follows.</i>] <p><i>Ms. Burger. </i>I think that there are lots of ways if people--public workers can get together and talk a lot about what they could do to retrofit their buildings, to have better energy practices, to really think about greening it. So I think that this partnership opportunity is here because you're leading it. And I think that if we all got to come together, we can actually move this forward. <p><i>The President.</i> Good. Bill, any thoughts on some of the general questions that we've been asking? You have, obviously, experience in regulating big markets. We're looking at creating a market here. Robert raised some questions about the potential problems involved. I'd be interested in your views on that. <p>[<i>William H. Donaldson, former Chairman, Securities and Exchange Commission, made brief remarks, followed by brief remarks by Mr. Immelt.</i>] <p><i>Mr. Feldstein. </i>For those of us who work in the service industries, like education or health care, we don't want to knock that too much. <p><i>Mr. Immelt</i>. No, no, no---- <p><i>Mr. Feldstein.</i> That's been the only thing that's provided jobs---- <p><i>Mr. Immelt.</i> I just think there's going to have to be some balance---- <p>[<i>Mr. Wolf made brief remarks.</i>] <p><i>Mr. Immelt.</i> When I came to work for GE in 1982---- <p><i>President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board Chairman Paul A. Volcker</i>.Increase our productivity rating---- <p><i>The President.</i> Well, I think the fact that some really good math whiz kids are going into engineering as opposed to derivatives is not a terrible thing. <p><i>Chairman Volcker.</i> Fewer financial engineers and more real engineers. <p><i>The President.</i> But I think that there's no doubt that manufacturing is not going to return to the share of the economy that it was in the 1950s, regardless of what our policies are, just because our manufacturing is extraordinarily efficient compared to what it was. <p>On the other hand, what is true is that if we are going to at least have a larger element of exports, for example, as a proportion of our economy, which I think we're going to need--we've had this idea that we can just be the consumers of everything and not--and borrow and spend. And at some point, we've got to start selling something. Some of that is going to have to be top-notch products. <p>Some of it will be services and that helps our current economy as well. But if on energy, for example, we're just importing Spanish windmills or wind turbines, as opposed to some that are made here in the United States, that would be a shame, and I think we need to take advantage of that. <p>Penny, you wanted to jump in. <p><i>Ms. Pritzker.</i> I just wanted to underscore something Anna said. We've had some of the best innovation, in terms of clean activities, in our hotels coming from our employees, and it's come from the bottom up. We challenged our employee base to come up with creative ideas of how to do cleaning without using chemicals, how to better recycle, how to use less. <p>And so I think there's a really interesting opportunity to use the bully pulpit and to highlight how the partnerships are working at the local level in some very major---- <p><i>The President.</i> Telling some good stories, yes. <p><i>Ms. Pritzker.</i> ----and to really celebrate that and raise the pride as to this is really an important endeavor in our country. <p><i>The President.</i> Okay. <p>Laura, I wanted to get you in here and the--you're a wonderful generalist, as well as a specialist. One thing I was interested in is how this fits into what you're seeing internationally, because there is a concern voiced by Rich, but I suspect Jim and others are going to be concerned about it, we're moving in an area where, as Marty said, there are going to be some increased costs related to this. And if we don't see some concerted action on the other side, we're going to be placed at a disadvantage. <p>[<i>Laura D'Andrea Tyson, dean, Haas School of Business, University of California at Berkeley, made brief remarks.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> We're out of time. Jim, you want to jump in right quick; Mark, you want to jump in, and then Paul, I'll let you wrap up. <p>[<i>Mr. Owens made brief remarks, concluding as follows.</i>] <p><i>Mr. Owens. </i>You asked about what do we have to do structurally different going forward. That's one of the reset buttons we've got to hit, and that's a tough one. It's tough for political leaders to help bring about that change, and I think the business community has got to be part of helping the public understand. We've got to save more, invest more, and grow our international competitiveness as a key to our future success. <p><i>The President.</i> Mark. <p><i>Mr. Gallogly.</i> I was just going to add something to follow up on what Laura said. If you think about the competitive dynamic internationally for green, since other parts of the world are just growing their demand for energy just much faster than we are--so China is high single digits, low double digits--and because they have a centralized authority that can allow for, for example, a smart grid being put in place much faster than we can, those two things will naturally result in them developing better technologies faster, because their whole market actually has more demand. So we're fighting a fight that will require us to be more on our game than we have to be in a general sense because they have a natural, clear advantage, but governmentally and demand-wise. <p><i>The President.</i> Okay. Paul. <p>[<i>Chairman Volcker made brief remarks, concluding as follows.</i>] <p><i>Mr. Volcker. </i>The only other point I'd make, all the time this is discussed, and the cost, there isn't enough emphasis, it seems to me, on the cost of what happens if we don't do anything. If any of these projections are halfway correct, it's going to cost amounts of money that make this stuff we're talking about trivial. And I don't think that that's impressed enough upon--I know it's out in the distance so it's hard politically, but there it is. And I just don't---- <p><i>The President.</i> I haven't found anything that was easy politically yet. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Chairman Volcker.</i> We'll produce that at the next meeting. <p>[<i>Austan Goolsbee, Staff Director and Chief Economist, President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board, made brief remarks.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> Well, you guys have done a terrific job. Obviously, there have been a bunch of smaller groups that are working intensively with our economic team. <p><i>Chairman Volcker</i>. We've got five or six things---- <p><i>The President.</i> They've got five or six things already on the plate. This has been extraordinarily helpful. I appreciate all of you coming in. <p>If you can keep your seats just for a moment, we're going to bring a pool spray in just to record who it is that was in the meeting, although we've had some press folks in here taking assiduous notes, I'm sure. <p>Go ahead. <p>[<i>The White House press pool entered the room.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. Well, you will have a record of everything that was said here, so we don't need to repeat it. <p>I just want to publicly thank this group, chaired by Paul Volcker, staffed by Austan Goolsbee. They are doing extraordinary work, separate and apart from meetings with me, on a whole range of issues. We talked about energy today, but they are helping to advise us in our approach to the financial regulations regulatory regime that we are looking to put before Congress this year. They are helping us in thinking about employment, manufacturing. There is a whole host of issues that this group is providing wonderful expertise for. <p>And interestingly enough, as Paul mentioned at the end of this discussion, there is impressive consensus, not perfect consensus, but an impressive overlap of views about the importance of us getting out front on energy; the enormous job-creation potential that exists; the requirements to create a more efficient energy system in order for us to remain competitive. <p>And I'm excited about the opportunity. We've seen some great progress this week. We're going to see more because of the contributions that are made around this table. <p>So thank you very much, everybody. Thank you, guys.\" "
"151" "\"Good morning, everybody. Please be seated. Thank you all for being here. Let me just acknowledge the presence of some of my outstanding Cabinet members and advisers. We've got our Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton. We have our CIA Director, Leon Panetta. We have our Secretary of Defense, William [Robert]<A CLASS=\\"footnote\\" actuate=\\"user\\" href=\\" id(pgfId-3062905)\\" show=\\"replace\\" xml:link=\\"simple\\">9</A> Gates; Secretary Napolitano of Department of Homeland Security; Attorney General Eric Holder; my National Security Adviser, Jim Jones. And I want to especially thank our Acting Archivist of the United States, Adrienne Thomas. <p>I also want to acknowledge several Members of the House who have great interest in intelligence matters. I want to thank Congressman Reyes, Congressman Hoekstra, Congressman King, as well as Congressman Thompson for being here today. Thank you so much. <p>These are extraordinary times for our country. We're confronting a historic economic crisis. We're fighting two wars. We face a range of challenges that will define the way that Americans will live in the 21st century. So there's no shortage of work to be done or responsibilities to bear. <p>And we've begun to make progress. Just this week, we've taken steps to protect American consumers and homeowners and to reform our system of Government contracting so that we better protect our people while spending our money more wisely. The--it's a good bill. [<i>Laughter</i>] The engines of our economy are slowly beginning to turn, and we're working towards historic reform on health care and on energy. And I want to say to the Members of Congress, I welcome all the extraordinary work that has been done over these last 4 months on these and other issues. <p>In the midst of all these challenges, however, my single most important responsibility as President is to keep the American people safe. It's the first thing that I think about when I wake up in the morning. It's the last thing that I think about when I go to sleep at night. <p>And this responsibility is only magnified in an era when an extremist ideology threatens our people and technology gives a handful of terrorists the potential to do us great harm. We are less than 8 years removed from the deadliest attack on American soil in our history. We know that Al Qaida is actively planning to attack us again. We know that this threat will be with us for a long time, and that we must use all elements of our power to defeat it. <p>Already, we've taken several steps to achieve that goal. For the first time since 2002, we're providing the necessary resources and strategic direction to take the fight to the extremists who attacked us on 9/11, in Afghanistan and Pakistan. We're investing in the 21st century military and intelligence capabilities that will allow us to stay one step ahead of a nimble enemy. We have reenergized a global nonproliferation regime to deny the world's most dangerous people access to the world's deadliest weapons. And we've launched an effort to secure all loose nuclear materials within 4 years. We're better protecting our border and increasing our preparedness for any future attack or natural disaster. We're building new partnerships around the world to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat Al Qaida and its affiliates. And we have renewed American diplomacy so that we once again have the strength and standing to truly lead the world. <p>And these steps are all critical to keeping America secure. But I believe with every fiber of my being that in the long run we also cannot keep this country safe unless we enlist the power of our most fundamental values. The documents that we hold in this very hall, the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, the Bill of Rights, these are not simply words written into aging parchment. They are the foundation of liberty and justice in this country and a light that shines for all who seek freedom, fairness, equality, and dignity around the world. <p>I stand here today as someone whose own life was made possible by these documents. My father came to these shores in search of the promise that they offered. My mother made me rise before dawn to learn their truths when I lived as a child in a foreign land. My own American journey was paved by generations of citizens who gave meaning to those simple words: \\"to form a more perfect union.\\" I've studied the Constitution as a student; I've taught it as a teacher; I've been bound by it as <FOOTNOTES> <FOOTNOTE> <Footnote> <A ID=\\"pgfId-3062905\\"/> White House correction.</Footnote> </FOOTNOTE> </FOOTNOTES> a lawyer and a legislator. I took an oath to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution as Commander in Chief. And as a citizen, I know that we must never, ever, turn our back on its enduring principles for expedience sake. <p>I make this claim not simply as a matter of idealism. We uphold our most cherished values not only because doing so is right, but because it strengthens our country and it keeps us safe. Time and again, our values have been our best national security asset in war and peace, in times of ease and in eras of upheaval. <p>Fidelity to our values is the reason why the United States of America grew from a small string of colonies under the writ of an empire to the strongest nation in the world. It's the reason why enemy soldiers have surrendered to us in battle, knowing they'd receive better treatment from America's Armed Forces than from their own government. It's the reason why America has benefited from strong alliances that amplified our power and drawn a sharp, moral contrast with our adversaries. It's the reason why we've been able to overpower the iron fist of fascism and outlast the Iron Curtain of communism and enlist free nations and free peoples everywhere in the common cause and common effort of liberty. <p>From Europe to the Pacific, we've been the nation that has shut down torture chambers and replaced tyranny with the rule of law. That is who we are. And where terrorists offer only the injustice of disorder and destruction, America must demonstrate that our values and our institutions are more resilient than a hateful ideology. <p>After 9/11, we knew that we had entered a new era; that enemies who did not abide by any law of war would present new challenges to our application of the law; that our Government would need new tools to protect the American people, and that these tools would have to allow us to prevent attacks instead of simply prosecuting those who tried to carry them out. <p>Unfortunately, faced with an uncertain threat, our Government made a series of hasty decisions. I believe that many of these decisions were motivated by a sincere desire to protect the American people. But I also believe that all too often, our Government made decisions based on fear rather than foresight; that all too often, our Government trimmed facts and evidence to fit ideological predispositions. Instead of strategically applying our power and our principles, too often we set those principles aside as luxuries that we could no longer afford. And during this season of fear, too many of us--Democrats and Republicans, politicians, journalists, and citizens--fell silent. <p>In other words, we went off course. And this is not my assessment alone. It was an assessment that was shared by the American people, who nominated candidates for President from both major parties who, despite our many differences, called for a new approach, one that rejected torture and one that recognized the imperative of closing the prison at Guantanamo Bay. <p>Now let me be clear: We are indeed at war with Al Qaida and its affiliates. We do need to update our institutions to deal with this threat. But we must do so with an abiding confidence in the rule of law and due process, in checks and balances and accountability. For reasons that I will explain, the decisions that were made over the last 8 years established an ad hoc legal approach for fighting terrorism that was neither effective nor sustainable, a framework that failed to rely on our legal traditions and time-tested institutions and that failed to use our values as a compass. And that's why I took several steps upon taking office to better protect the American people. <p>First, I banned the use of so-called enhanced interrogation techniques by the United States of America. Now, I know some have argued that brutal methods like waterboarding were necessary to keep us safe. I could not disagree more. As Commander in Chief, I see the intelligence; I bear the responsibility for keeping this country safe. And I categorically reject the assertion that these are the most effective means of interrogation. What's more, they undermine the rule of law. They alienate us in the world. They serve as a recruitment tool for terrorists and increase the will of our enemies to fight us, while decreasing the will of others to work with America. They risk the lives of our troops by making it less likely that others will surrender to them in battle and more likely that Americans will be mistreated if they are captured. In short, they did not advance our war and counterterrorism efforts; they undermined them. And that is why I ended them once and for all. <p>Now, I should add, the arguments against these techniques did not originate from my administration. As Senator McCain once said, torture \\"serves as a great propaganda tool for those who recruit people to fight against us.\\" And even under President Bush, there was recognition among members of his own administration--including a Secretary of State, other senior officials, and many in the military and intelligence community--that those who argued for these tactics were on the wrong side of the debate and the wrong side of history. That's why we must leave these methods where they belong, in the past. They are not who we are, and they are not America. <p>Now, the second decision that I made was to order the closing of the prison camp at Guantanamo Bay. For over 7 years, we have detained hundreds of people at Guantanamo. During that time, the system of military commissions that were in place at Guantanamo succeeded in convicting a grand total of three suspected terrorists. Let me repeat that: three convictions in over 7 years. Instead of bringing terrorists to justice, efforts at prosecution met setback after setback, cases lingered on, and in 2006, the Supreme Court invalidated the entire system. Meanwhile, over 525 detainees were released from Guantanamo under not my administration, under the previous administration. Let me repeat that: Two-thirds of the detainees were released before I took office and ordered the closure of Guantanamo. <p>There is also no question that Guantanamo set back the moral authority that is America's strongest currency in the world. Instead of building a durable framework for the struggle against Al Qaida that drew upon our deeply held values and traditions, our Government was defending positions that undermined the rule of law. In fact, part of the rationale for establishing Guantanamo in the first place was the misplaced notion that a prison there would be beyond the law, a proposition that the Supreme Court soundly rejected. Meanwhile, instead of serving as a tool to counter terrorism, Guantanamo became a symbol that helped Al Qaida recruit terrorists to its cause. Indeed, the existence of Guantanamo likely created more terrorists around the world than it ever detained. <p>So the record is clear. Rather than keeping us safer, the prison at Guantanamo has weakened American national security. It is a rallying cry for our enemies. It sets back the willingness of our allies to work with us in fighting an enemy that operates in scores of countries. By any measure, the costs of keeping it open far exceed the complications involved in closing it. That's why I argued that it should be closed throughout my campaign, and that is why I ordered it closed within 1 year. <p>And the third decision that I made was to order a review of all pending cases at Guantanamo. I knew when I ordered Guantanamo closed that it would be difficult and complex. There are 240 people there who have now spent years in legal limbo. In dealing with this situation, we don't have the luxury of starting from scratch. We're cleaning up something that is, quite simply, a mess, a misguided experiment that has left in its wake a flood of legal challenges that my administration is forced to deal with on a constant, almost daily basis, and it consumes the time of Government officials whose time should be spent on better protecting our country. <p>Indeed, the legal challenges that have sparked so much debate in recent weeks here in Washington would be taking place whether or not I decided to close Guantanamo. For example, the court order to release 17 Uighurs--17 Uighur detainees took place last fall, when George Bush was President. The Supreme Court that invalidated the system of prosecution at Guantanamo in 2006 was overwhelmingly appointed by Republican Presidents, not wild-eyed liberals. In other words, the problem of what to do with Guantanamo detainees was not caused by my decision to close the facility; the problem exists because of the decision to open Guantanamo in the first place. <p>So--now let me be blunt: There are no neat or easy answers here. I wish there were. But I can tell you that the wrong answer is to pretend like this problem will go away if we maintain an unsustainable status quo. As President, I refuse to allow this problem to fester; I refuse to pass it on to somebody else. It is my responsibility to solve the problem. Our security interests will not permit us to delay. Our courts won't allow it, and neither should our conscience. <p>Now, over the last several weeks, we've seen a return of the politicization of these issues that have characterized the last several years. I'm an elected official; I understand these problems around--arouse passions and concerns. They should. We're confronting some of the most complicated questions that a democracy can face. But I have no interest in spending all of our time relitigating the policies of the last 8 years. I'll leave that to others. I want to solve these problems, and I want to solve them together as Americans. <p>And we will be ill-served by some of the fear-mongering that emerges whenever we discuss this issue. Listening to the recent debate, I've heard words that, frankly, are calculated to scare people rather than educate them, words that have more to do with politics than protecting our country. So I want to take this opportunity to lay out what we are doing and how we intend to resolve these outstanding issues. I will explain how each action that we are taking will help build a framework that protects both the American people and the values that we hold most dear. And I'll focus on two broad areas: first, issues relating to Guantanamo and our detention policy; but, second, I also want to discuss issues relating to security and transparency. <p>Now, let me begin by disposing of one argument as plainly as I can. We are not going to release anyone if it would endanger our national security, nor will we release detainees within the United States who endanger the American people. Where demanded by justice and national security, we will seek to transfer some detainees to the same type of facilities in which we hold all manner of dangerous and violent criminals within our borders, namely highly secure prisons that ensure the public safety. <p>As we make these decisions, bear in mind the following fact: Nobody has ever escaped from one of our Federal super-max prisons, which hold hundreds of convicted terrorists. As Republican Senator Lindsey Graham said, \\"The idea that we cannot find a place to securely house 250-plus detainees within the United States is not rational.\\" <p>Now, we are currently in the process of reviewing each of the detainee cases at Guantanamo to determine the appropriate policy for dealing with them. And as we do so, we are acutely aware that under the last administration, detainees were released and, in some cases, returned to the battlefield. That's why we are doing away with the poorly planned, haphazard approach that led those detainees go in the past. Instead, we are treating these cases with the care and attention that the law requires and that our security demands. Now, going forward, these cases will fall into five distinct categories. <p>First, whenever feasible, we will try those who have violated American criminal laws in Federal courts, courts provided for by the United States Constitution. Some have derided our Federal courts as incapable of handling the trials of terrorists. They are wrong. Our courts and our juries, our citizens, are tough enough to convict terrorists. The record makes that clear. Ramzi Yousef tried to blow up the World Trade Center. He was convicted in our courts and is serving a life sentence in U.S. prisons. Zacarias Moussaoui has been identified as the 20th 9/11 hijacker. He was convicted in our courts, and he too is serving a life sentence in prison. If we can try those terrorists in our courts and hold them in our prisons, then we can do the same with detainees from Guantanamo. <p>Now, recently we prosecuted and received a guilty plea from a detainee, al-Marri, in Federal court after years of legal confusion. We're preparing to transfer another detainee to the Southern District Court of New York, where he will face trial on charges related to the 1998 bombings of our Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, bombings that killed over 200 people. Preventing this detainee from coming to our shores would prevent his trial and conviction. And after over a decade, it is time to finally see that justice is served, and that is what we intend to do. <p>The second category of cases involves detainees who violate the laws of war and are therefore best tried through military commissions. Now, military commissions have a history in the United States dating back to George Washington and the Revolutionary War. They are an appropriate venue for trying detainees for violations of the laws of war. They allow for the protection of sensitive sources and methods of intelligence gathering; they allow for the safety and security of participants and for the presentation of evidence gathered from the battlefield that cannot always be effectively presented in Federal courts. <p>Now, some have suggested that this represents a reversal on my part. They should look at the record. In 2006, I did strongly oppose legislation proposed by the Bush administration and passed by the Congress because it failed to establish a legitimate legal framework with the kind of meaningful due process, rights for the accused, that could stand up on appeal. <p>I said at that time, however, that I supported the use of military commissions to try detainees, provided there were several reforms, and, in fact, there were some bipartisan efforts to achieve those reforms. Those are the reforms that we are now making. Instead of using the flawed commissions of the last 7 years, my administration is bringing our commissions in line with the rule of law. We will no longer permit the use of evidence--as evidence, statements that have been obtained using cruel, inhuman, or degrading interrogation methods. We will no longer place the burden to prove that hearsay is unreliable on the opponent of the hearsay. And we will give detainees greater latitude in selecting their own counsel and more protections if they refuse to testify. These reforms, among others, will make our military commissions a more credible and effective means of administering justice, and I will work with Congress and members of both parties, as well as legal authorities across the political spectrum, on legislation to ensure that these commissions are fair, legitimate, and effective. <p>The third category of detainees includes those who have been ordered released by the courts. Now let me repeat what I said earlier: This has nothing to do with my decision to close Guantanamo; it has to do with the rule of law. The courts have spoken. They have found that there's no legitimate reason to hold 21 of the people currently held at Guantanamo. Nineteen of these findings took place before I was sworn into office. I cannot ignore these rulings because as President, I too am bound by the law. The United States is a nation of laws, and so we must abide by these rulings. <p>The fourth category of cases involves detainees who we have determined can be transferred safely to another country. So far, our review team has approved 50 detainees for transfer. And my administration is in ongoing discussions with a number of other countries about the transfer of detainees to their soil for detention and rehabilitation. <p>Now, finally, there remains the question of detainees at Guantanamo who cannot be prosecuted yet who pose a clear danger to the American people. And I have to be honest here: This is the toughest single issue that we will face. We're going to exhaust every avenue that we have to prosecute those at Guantanamo who pose a danger to our country. But even when this process is complete, there may be a number of people who cannot be prosecuted for past crimes, in some cases because evidence may be tainted, but who, nonetheless, pose a threat to the security of the United States. Examples of that threat include people who've received extensive explosives training at Al Qaida training camps, or commanded Taliban troops in battle, or expressed their allegiance to Usama bin Laden, or otherwise made it clear that they want to kill Americans. These are people who, in effect, remain at war with the United States. <p>Let me repeat: I am not going to release individuals who endanger the American people. Al Qaida terrorists and their affiliates are at war with the United States, and those that we capture, like other prisoners of war, must be prevented from attacking us again. Now, having said that, we must recognize that these detention policies cannot be unbounded; they can't be based simply on what I or the executive branch decide alone. And that's why my administration has begun to reshape the standards that apply to ensure that they are in line with the rule of law. We must have clear, defensible, and lawful standards for those who fall into this category. We must have fair procedures so that we don't make mistakes. We must have a thorough process of periodic review so that any prolonged detention is carefully evaluated and justified. <p>I know that creating such a system poses unique challenges. And other countries have grappled with this question; now, so must we. But I want to be very clear that our goal is to construct a legitimate legal framework for the remaining Guantanamo detainees that cannot be transferred. Our goal is not to avoid a legitimate legal framework. In our constitutional system, prolonged detention should not be the decision of any one man. If and when we determine that the United States must hold individuals to keep them from carrying out an act of war, we will do so within a system that involves judicial and congressional oversight. And so, going forward, my administration will work with Congress to develop an appropriate legal regime so that our efforts are consistent with our values and our Constitution. <p>Now, as our efforts to close Guantanamo move forward, I know that the politics in Congress will be difficult. These are issues that are fodder for 30-second commercials. You can almost picture the direct mail pieces that emerge from any vote on this issue, designed to frighten the population. I get it. But if we continue to make decisions within a climate of fear, we will make more mistakes. And if we refuse to deal with these issues today, then I guarantee you that they will be an albatross around our efforts to combat terrorism in the future. <p>I have confidence that the American people are more interested in doing what is right to protect this country than in political posturing. I am not the only person in this city who swore an oath to uphold the Constitution; so did each and every Member of Congress. And together we have a responsibility to enlist our values in the effort to secure our people and to leave behind the legacy that makes it easier for future Presidents to keep this country safe. <p>Now let me touch on a second set of issues that relate to security and transparency. National security requires a delicate balance. One the one hand, our democracy depends on transparency. On the other hand, some information must be protected from public disclosure for the sake of our security, for instance, the movement of our troops, our intelligence gathering, or the information we have about a terrorist organization and its affiliates. In these and other cases, lives are at stake. <p>Now, several weeks ago, as part of an ongoing court case, I released memos issued by the previous administration's Office of Legal Counsel. I did not do this because I disagreed with the enhanced interrogation techniques that those memos authorized, and I didn't release the documents because I rejected their legal rationales, although I do on both counts. I released the memos because the existence of that approach to interrogation was already widely known, the Bush administration had acknowledged its existence, and I had already banned those methods. The argument that somehow by releasing those memos we are providing terrorists with information about how they will be interrogated makes no sense. We will not be interrogating terrorists using that approach. That approach is now prohibited. <p>In short, I released these memos because there was no overriding reason to protect them. And the ensuing debate has helped the American people better understand how these interrogation methods came to be authorized and used. <p>On the other hand, I recently opposed the release of certain photographs that were taken of detainees by U.S. personnel between 2002 and 2004. Individuals who violated standards of behavior in these photos have been investigated, and they have been held accountable. There was and is no debate as to whether what is reflected in those photos is wrong. Nothing has been concealed to absolve perpetrators of crimes. However, it was my judgment, informed by my national security team, that releasing these photos would inflame anti-American opinion and allow our enemies to paint U.S. troops with a broad, damning, and inaccurate brush, thereby endangering them in theaters of war. <p>In short, there is a clear and compelling reason to not release these particular photos. There are nearly 200,000 Americans who are serving in harm's way, and I have a solemn responsibility for their safety as Commander in Chief. Nothing would be gained by the release of these photos that matters more than the lives of our young men and women serving in harm's way. <p>Now, in the press's mind and in some of the public's mind, these two cases are contradictory. They are not to me. In each of these cases, I had to strike the right balance between transparency and national security. And this balance brings with it a precious responsibility. There's no doubt that the American people have seen this balance tested over the last several years. In the images from Abu Ghraib and the brutal interrogation techniques made public long before I was President, the American people learned of actions taken in their name that bear no resemblance to the ideals that generations of Americans have fought for. And whether it was the runup to the Iraq war or the revelation of secret programs, Americans often felt like part of the story had been unnecessarily withheld from them. And that caused suspicion to build up, and that leads to a thirst for accountability. <p>I understand that. I ran for President promising transparency, and I meant what I said. And that's why, whenever possible, my administration will make all information available to the American people, so that they can make informed judgments and hold us accountable. But I have never argued, and I never will, that our most sensitive national security matters should simply be an open book. I will never abandon and will vigorously defend the necessity of classification to defend our troops at war, to protect sources and methods, and to safeguard confidential actions that keep the American people safe. Here's the difference, though: Whenever we cannot release certain information to the public for valid national security reasons, I will insist that there is oversight of my actions by Congress or by the courts. <p>We're currently launching a review of current policies by all those agencies responsible for the classification of documents to determine where reforms are possible and to assure that the other branches of Government will be in a position to review executive branch decisions on these matters, because in our systems of checks and balances, someone must always watch over the watchers, especially when it comes to sensitive administration--information. <p>Now, along these same lines, my administration is also confronting challenges to what is known as the state secrets privilege. This is a doctrine that allows the Government to challenge legal cases involving secret programs. It's been used by many past Presidents--Republican and Democrat--for many decades. And while this principle is absolutely necessary in some circumstances to protect national security, I am concerned that it has been overused. It is also currently the subject of a wide range of lawsuits. So let me lay out some principles here. We must not protect information merely because it reveals the violation of a law or embarrassment to the Government. And that's why my administration is nearing completion of a thorough review of this practice. <p>And we plan to embrace several principles for reform. We will apply a stricter legal test to material that can be protected under the state secrets privilege. We will not assert the privilege in court without first following our own formal process, including review by a Justice Department committee and the personal approval of the Attorney General. And each year, we will voluntarily report to Congress when we have invoked the privilege and why, because, as I said before, there must be proper oversight over our actions. <p>On all these matters related to the disclosure of sensitive information, I wish I could say that there was some simple formula out there to be had. There is not. These often involve tough calls, involve competing concerns, and they require a surgical approach. But the common thread that runs through all of my decisions is simple. We will safeguard what we must to protect the American people, but we will also ensure the accountability and oversight that is the hallmark of our constitutional system. I will never hide the truth because it's uncomfortable. I will deal with Congress and the courts as coequal branches of Government. I will tell the American people what I know and don't know, and when I release something publicly or keep something secret, I will tell you why. <p>Now, in all the areas that I've discussed today, the policies that I've proposed represent a new direction from the last 8 years. To protect the American people and our values, we've banned enhanced interrogation techniques. We are closing the prison at Guantanamo. We are reforming military commissions, and we will pursue a new legal regime to detain terrorists. We are declassifying more information and embracing more oversight of our actions, and we're narrowing our use of the state secrets privilege. These are dramatic changes that will put our approach to national security on a surer, safer, and more sustainable footing. Their implementation will take time, but they will get done. <p>There's a core principle that we will apply to all of our actions. Even as we clean up the mess at Guantanamo, we will constantly reevaluate our approach, subject our decisions to review from other branches of Government as well as the public. We seek the strongest and most sustainable legal framework for addressing these issues in the long term, not to serve immediate politics, but to do what's right over the long term. By doing that, we can leave behind a legacy that outlasts my administration, my Presidency, that endures for the next President and the President after that, a legacy that protects the American people and enjoys a broad legitimacy at home and abroad. <p>Now, this is what I mean when I say that we need to focus on the future. I recognize that many still have a strong desire to focus on the past. When it comes to actions of the last 8 years, passions are high. Some Americans are angry; others want to refight debates that have been settled, in some cases, debates that they have lost. And I know that these debates lead directly, in some cases, to a call for a fuller accounting, perhaps through an independent commission. <p>Now, I've opposed the creation of such a commission because I believe that our existing democratic institutions are strong enough to deliver accountability. The Congress can review abuses of our values, and there are ongoing inquiries by the Congress into matters like enhanced interrogation techniques. The Department of Justice and our courts can work through and punish any violations of our laws or miscarriages of justice. <p>It's no secret there is a tendency in Washington to spend our time pointing fingers at one another. And it's no secret that our media culture feeds the impulse that leads to a good fight and good copy. But nothing will contribute more than that than a extended relitigation of the last 8 years. Already, we've seen how that kind of effort only leads those in Washington to different sides, to laying blame. It can distract us from focusing our time, our efforts, and our politics on the challenges of the future. <p>We see that, above all, in the recent debate--how the recent debate has obscured the truth and sent people into opposite and absolutist ends. On the one side of the spectrum, there are those who make little allowance for the unique challenges posed by terrorism and would almost never put national security over transparency. And on the other end of the spectrum, there are those who embrace a view that can be summarized in two words: \\"Anything goes.\\" Their arguments suggest that the ends of fighting terrorism can be used to justify any means, and that the President should have blanket authority to do whatever he wants, provided it is a President with whom they agree. <p>Now, both sides may be sincere in their views, but neither side is right. The American people are not absolutist, and they don't elect us to impose a rigid ideology on our problems. They know that we need not sacrifice our security for our values, nor sacrifice our values for our security, so long as we approach difficult questions with honesty and care and a dose of common sense. That, after all, is the unique genius of America. That's the challenge laid down by our Constitution. That has been the source of our strength through the ages. That's what makes the United States of America different as a nation. <p>I can stand here today, as President of the United States, and say without exception or equivocation that we do not torture, and that we will vigorously protect our people while forging a strong and durable framework that allows us to fight terrorism while abiding by the rule of law. Make no mistake: If we fail to turn the page on the approach that was taken over the past several years, then I will not be able to say that as President. And if we cannot stand for our core values, then we are not keeping faith with the documents that are enshrined in this hall. <p>The Framers who drafted the Constitution could not have foreseen the challenges that have unfolded over the last 222 years. But our Constitution has endured through secession and civil rights, through world war and cold war, because it provides a foundation of principles that can be applied pragmatically; it provides a compass that can help us find our way. It hasn't always been easy. We are an imperfect people. Every now and then, there are those who think that America's safety and success requires us to walk away from the sacred principles enshrined in this building. And we hear such voices today. But over the long haul, the American people have resisted that temptation. And though we've made our share of mistakes, required some course corrections, ultimately, we have held fast to the principles that have been the source of our strength and a beacon to the world. <p>Now this generation faces a great test in the specter of terrorism. And unlike the Civil War or World War II, we can't count on a surrender ceremony to bring this journey to an end. Right now, in distant training camps and in crowded cities, there are people plotting to take American lives. That will be the case a year from now, 5 years from now, and in all probability, 10 years from now. Neither I nor anyone can stand here today and say that there will not be another terrorist attack that takes American lives. But I can say with certainty that my administration, along with our extraordinary troops and the patriotic men and women who defend our national security, will do everything in our power to keep the American people safe. And I do know with certainty that we can and will defeat Al Qaida. Because the terrorists can only succeed if they swell their ranks and alienate America from our allies, and they will never be able to do that if we stay true to who we are, if we forge tough and durable approaches to fighting terrorism that are anchored in our timeless ideals. This must be our common purpose. <p>I ran for President because I believe that we cannot solve the challenges of our time unless we solve them together. We will not be safe if we see national security as a wedge that divides America. It can and must be a cause that unites us as one people and as one nation. We've done so before in times that were more perilous than ours; we will do so once again. <p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\""
"152" "\"Hello, everybody. I first of all want to just acknowledge a few people that are here. First of all, some of my Cabinet members: Secretary of Agriculture, Tom Vilsack, who grew up as a maniacal Pittsburgh Steeler fan, he is here; Secretary of the Veterans Administration, Eric Shinseki, a war hero and somebody that is doing an outstanding job on behalf of our veterans; we have the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Admiral Mullen--Mike Mullen, as well as his lovely wife are here. Please give them a big round of applause. We've got some Pennsylvania folks around here: Senator Bob Casey; Senator Arlen Specter; Teresa Heinz Kerry; Representatives Tim Murphy, Mike Doyle, Glenn Thompson, Tom Rooney, and Charlie Wilson. Give them all a big round of applause. <p>Welcome to the White House, everybody. Before we begin, I want to offer a special welcome to the wounded warriors who have joined us today from Walter Reed and from the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda. Thank you for your service. <p>And welcome back Dan Rooney and the entire Rooney family. For nearly five decades, Dan has been a tremendous ambassador for pro football and for the city of Pittsburgh. And in the years to come, all Americans will be fortunate to have his service as our United States Ambassador to Ireland. <p>Just a personal Note: I had occasion of meeting a lot of people during the course of my campaign for the Presidency. I can tell you that I don't know anybody who is more of a gentleman, who is more loyal, who is more committed to excellence than Mr. Rooney. And he and his family have just been such an extraordinary pillar for the city of Pittsburgh. I'd like everybody to give them a big round of applause one more time. And he's humble. [<i>Laughter</i>] This kind of attention embarrasses him, but he has no choice. <p>Congratulations to the Super Bowl champion Pittsburgh Steelers for the NFL-record, sixth Lombardi Trophy. Some are calling it \\"Sixburgh\\" these days. [<i>Laughter</i>] Congratulations to all the fans of the Steeler Nation, who wave that Terrible Towel every Sunday. <p>Now, I already told these guys, no matter how big they are, I am a Bears fan. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it's no secret that I was pulling for the Steelers during the Super Bowl last year, and that's part of the reason why this is so much fun for me. This isn't me trying to have it both ways. Everybody knows I'm pretty serious about my sports teams, but growing up in Hawaii when I was a kid, we didn't have a local football team. And when I started playing, and I started paying attention to football, it was guys like Terry Bradshaw and Franco Harris and the Steel Curtain and Mean Joe Greene, who is here. Where's Mean Joe? There he is, right there. Those were the guys that were playing, and so I became a Steelers fan. <p>And last March, I actually got to hang out with Franco and \\"The Bus,\\" Jerome Bettis, at an event in Pittsburgh. And Jerome even joined me when we went to meet some steelworkers on a shift change. And I got my own Terrible Towel. <p>But this is a new team for a new era. And that's embodied by Coach Tomlin, who's here with his lovely wife. And I want everybody to give Coach Tomlin a huge round of applause. He didn't just win the Super Bowl; he also happened to be NFL Coach of the Year, the youngest coach ever to win a Super Bowl. <p>And then there's the new Steel Curtain, the NFL's best defense last year, thanks to Dick LeBeau, who I think everybody acknowledges is one of the greatest defensive coordinators of all time--so where's Dick? There he is over there. <p>We've got the team captains up here: Big Ben Roethlisberger--give him--come on, give Big Ben a round of applause here; James Farrior, a Pro Bowler who made 133 tackles this season; Jeff Reed, who was clutch in the Super Bowl; Hines Ward, who was the Super Bowl MVP 4 years ago, who's always the happiest man in football. Hines is always happy. <p>And we've got this year's Super Bowl MVP, Santonio Holmes, who made one of the greatest touchdown catches I've ever seen. That means two of the last four Super Bowl MVPs hail from the Pittsburgh wide-receiving corps. <p>Now, I pointed out that that was a heck of a pass that Ben threw. But then one of the linemen pointed out that was some blocking on that play. [<i>Laughter</i>] So that just reminds you, that's what Steeler football is all about, it's a team effort. And this is a team that entered the season facing the most difficult schedule in the league. But guys like these thrive on that. They plowed through the regular season; they won every game in the AFC North; they took down the Chargers and the Ravens in the playoffs. <p>And I can't remember a more exciting Super Bowl. Arizona took the lead with 3 minutes left; Pittsburgh comes back with just 2 with that winning touchdown. Santonio had 73 of those yards on that drive, including the incredible game-winning, touchdown catch. And now they're champs. So obviously, these are guys who take their responsibilities on the football field seriously. But they take them just as seriously off the field. They're generous with their time for charity and for their communities. So that explains why we're doing something a little bit different here today than when sports champions usually come to visit the White House. These guys have agreed to stick around for a while, and we're going to team them up, not to run some plays, but to serve others. <p>I often say that the beauty of serving others is that anyone can do it. You don't have to be President, and you don't have to be a pro football player. All you need to do is to have a desire to make a difference, to give back to your community, and to contribute to your nation. And that's what we're going to do right here. We're going to work with the USO to put together 3,000 care packages for our troops serving in harm's way. <p>We're going to give back to those who've given so much for us. And I find that fitting and proper, a good way to kick off a weekend that serves to honor all the men and women who have worn the proud uniform of this country that we love. <p>So congratulations, again, Steelers, for a extraordinary season. Good luck next year, and thank you again for your willingness to go above and beyond and not just come here for a photo op, but to join the men and women who protect this country to make sure that we are safe. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. Thank you.\" "
"153" "\"Hello, everybody. Please, have a seat--I'm sorry. It is a great pleasure to have all of you here at the White House on this gorgeous, sunny day. The sun is shining, the birds are singing; change is in the air. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>This has been a historic week, a week in which we've cast aside some old divisions and put in place new reforms that will reduce our dependence on foreign oil, prevent fraud against homeowners, and save taxpayers money by preventing wasteful Government contracts, a week that marks significant progress in the difficult work of changing our policies and transforming our politics. <p>But the real test of change, ultimately, is whether it makes a difference in the lives of the American people. That's what matters to me. That's what matters to my administration. That's what matters to the extraordinary collection of Members of Congress that are standing with me here, but also who are in the audience. And we're here today because of a bill that will make a big difference, the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure Act. <p>I want to thank all the Members of Congress who were involved in this historic legislation, but I want to give a special shout-out to Chris Dodd, who has been a relentless fighter to get this done. Chris wouldn't give up until he got this legislation passed. He's spent an entire career fighting against special interests and fighting for ordinary people, and this is just the latest example. <p>I want to thank his partner in crime, Senator Richard Shelby; on the House side, Representatives Barney Frank, Carolyn Maloney, and Luis Gutierrez, for their outstanding work. And I want to also thank all the consumer advocates who are here today who fought long and hard for these kinds of reforms. <p>You know, most Americans use credit cards all the time. In the majority of cases, this is a convenience or a temporary, occasional crutch, a means to make life a little easier, to make the rare, large, or unexpected purchase that's paid off as quickly as possible. <p>We've also seen credit cards become for a minority of customers part of an uneasy, unstable dependence. Some end up in trouble because of reckless spending or wishful thinking. Some get in over their heads by not using their heads. And I want to be clear: We do not excuse or condone folks who've acted irresponsibly. We don't excuse irresponsibility. <p>But the reason this legislation is so important is because there are many others--many who have written me letters, or grabbed my arm along rope lines, or shared their stories while choking back tears--who have relied on credit cards not because they were avoiding responsibilities, but precisely because they wanted to meet their responsibilities and got trapped. <p>These are hard-working people whose hours were cut, or the factory closed, who turned to a credit card to get through a rough month, which turned into 2 or 3 or 6 months without a job. These are parents who found, to their surprise, that their health insurance didn't cover a child's expensive procedure and had to pay the hospital bill, families who saw their mortgage payments jump and used the credit card more often to make up the difference. <p>These are borrowers who discovered that credit card debt is all too easily a one-way street: It's easy to get in, but almost impossible to get out. It's also, by the way, a lot of small-business owners who have helped to finance their dream through credit cards and suddenly, in this economic downturn, find themselves getting hammered. <p>Part of this is the broader economy, but part of it is the practices of credit card companies. Contracts are drafted not to inform, but to confuse. Mysterious fees appear on statements, payment deadlines shift, terms change, interest rates rise. And suddenly, a credit card becomes less of a lifeline and more of an anchor. <p>That's what happened to Janet Hard of Freeland, Michigan, who's here today. Where's Janet? Right here. Janet is a nurse. Her husband is a pipefitter. They've got two boys. Janet and her husband have tried to be responsible; she's made her payments on time. But despite this, Janet's interest rate was increased to 24 percent. And that 24 percent applied not just for new purchases, but retroactively to her entire balance. And so, despite making steady payments, totaling $2,400 one year, her debt went down only by $350 that year. <p>And Janet's family is not alone. Over the past decade, credit card debt has increased by 25 percent in our country. Nearly half of all Americans carry a balance on their cards. Those who do, carry an average balance of more than $7,000. And as our economic situation worsened--and many defaulted on their debt as a result of a lost job, for example--a vicious cycle ensued. Borrowers couldn't pay their bills, and so lenders raised rates. As rates went up, more borrowers couldn't pay. <p>Millions of cardholders have seen their interest rates jump in just the past 6 months. One in five Americans carry a balance that has been charged interest rates above 20 percent--one in five. <p>Now, I also want to emphasize, these are costs that often hit responsible credit card users. Interest can be charged even if you pay your bill on time. Rates can be increased on outstanding balances even if you aren't late with a payment. And if you sit--if you start to pay down your balance, which is the right thing to do, a company can require you to pay down the debt with the lowest interest rate first, instead of the highest, which makes it much harder to ever get out of the red. <p>So we're here to put a change to all that. With this bill, we're putting in place some commonsense reforms designed to protect consumers like Janet. I want to be clear about this: Credit card companies provide a valuable service; we don't begrudge them turning a profit. We just want to make sure that they do so while upholding basic standards of fairness, transparency, and accountability. Just as we demand credit card users to act responsibly, we demand that credit card companies act responsibly too. And that's not too much to ask. <p>And that's why, because of this new law, statements will be required to tell credit card holders how long it will take to pay off a balance and what it will cost in interest if they only make the minimum monthly payments. We also put a stop to retroactive rate hikes that appear on a bill suddenly with no rhyme or reason. <p>Every card company will have to post its credit card agreements online, and we'll monitor those agreements to see if new protections are needed. Consumers will have more time to understand their statements as well. Companies will have to mail them 21 days before payment is due, not 14. And this law ends the practice of shifting payment dates. This always used to bug me, when you'd get like--suddenly, it was due on the 19th when it had been the 31st. <p>Lastly, among many other provisions, there will be no more sudden charges--changes to terms and conditions. We require at least 45 days notice if the credit card company is going to change terms and conditions. <p>So we're not going to give people a free pass, and we expect consumers to live within their means and pay what they owe. But we also expect financial institutions to act with the same sense of responsibility that the American people aspire to in their own lives. <p>And this is a difficult time for our country, born in many ways of our collective failure to live up to our obligations to ourselves and to one another. And the fact is, it took a long time to dig ourselves into this economic hole; it's going to take some time to dig ourselves out. <p>But I'm heartened by what I'm seeing, by the willingness of old adversaries to seek out new partnerships, by the progress we've made these past months to address many of our toughest challenges. And I'm confident that as a nation we will learn the lessons of our recent past and that we will elevate again those values at the heart of our success as a people: hard work over the easy buck, responsibility over recklessness, and, yes, moderation over extravagance. <p>This work has already begun, and now it continues. I thank the Members of Congress for putting their shoulder to the wheel in a bipartisan fashion and getting this piece of legislation done. Congratulations to all of you. The least I can do for you is to sign the thing. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>[<i>At this point, the President signed the bill.</i>] <p>All right, everybody. Thank you. Have a great weekend.\" "
"154" "\"Thank you. Thank you very much. Please, be seated. Governor O'Malley, thank you for your generous introduction and for your leadership here in Maryland; Vice Admiral Fowler and faculty; distinguished guests, parents, family, and friends; the Brigade of Midshipmen; and most importantly, the graduates of the class of 2009, 756 Navy and, I am told, the largest number of marines in Naval Academy history. <p>Now, I know it's customary at graduation for guests to bring a gift, and I have. All midshipmen on restriction for minor conduct offenses are hereby officially absolved. I did say \\"minor.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Midshipmen, I'm told that the extra ribbon on your chest is for the honor you earned, for only the second time in the storied history of the Naval Academy, the Navy's Meritorious Unit Commendation Award. So I've consulted with Admiral Fowler, and I can make this announcement: For all you midshipmen returning next fall, I hereby grant you something extra, an extra weekend. [<i>Applause</i>] I should stop now. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I am extraordinarily honored to be with you today, because of all the privileges of serving as President, I have no greater honor than serving as your Commander in Chief. <p>Every day I count on Naval Academy graduates like Admiral Mike Mullen, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; the CNO, Admiral Gary Roughead; and my Director of National Intelligence, Admiral Dennis Blair. I'll also be counting on Ray Mabus, the--a former surface warfare officer, as our new Secretary of the Navy. <p>Every day, I rely on former sailors and marines on my staff, young men who serve as intelligence officers in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the 32d Commandant of the Marine Corps, Supreme Allied Commander, and now my National Security Adviser, General Jim Jones. <p>I've admired your prowess on the football field. At the White House last month, I was proud to present the team and Coach Ken with the Commander in Chief Trophy, which you won for the sixth straight time. And I know you beat Army seven straight times. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But most of all, most of all I've admired the spirit of your service, because it's not the strength of our arms or the power of our technology that gives the United States our military dominance, it's our people. It's our sailors and marines, soldiers and airmen and coast guardsmen who perform brilliantly in every mission we give them. <p>Class of 2009, today is your day. It's your day to reflect on all you've achieved, or should I say, all that you endured: the madness of \\"I Day\\" that began your transformation from civilians to sailors and marines; that endless plebe summer when you were pushed to new levels, new heights, physically, mentally, morally. And speaking of new heights, I'm told that one of your proudest achievements still stands, one of the fastest times for the Herndon climb. Congratulations on that. <p>And families, today is your day too. It's the latest in a line of proud firsts: the first time you saw your son or daughter with that Navy haircut, that first time you saw them in their summer whites, and today the first time you'll see them as officers. So to all of you moms and dads, brothers and sisters, aunts and uncles, grandmas and grandpas, all the local sponsor families who opened your homes to these midshipmen, thank you for your support and for your patriotism. We are grateful. <p>This class is about to become the latest link in a long, unbroken chain of heroism and victory, a chain forged in battles whose names are etched in the stone of this stadium: from Coral Sea to Midway to Guadalcanal; from Iwo Jima to Inchon; from the Mekong Delta to Desert Storm. For some among us, these are not just places on a map. They're the stories of their lives. And we honor all of our veterans here today. <p>This chain of service calls to mind words that were spoken here in Annapolis on another spring day a century ago. The crowds assembled, the bands played, the cannons roared. As John Paul Jones's body was carried to the Yard, President Teddy Roosevelt spoke to the midshipmen gathered there that day. \\"Remember,\\" he said, \\"our words of admiration are but as sounding brass and tinkling symbols if we do not . . . prepare to emulate their deeds.\\" <p>Emulate their deeds. That is what you are called upon to do. And in doing so these past 4 years, you've not only given meaning to your own lives, you serve as a reminder and a challenge to your fellow Americans to fulfill the true meaning of citizenship. <p>America, look at these young men and women. Look at these sailors and marines. Here are the values that we cherish. Here are the ideals that endure. In an era when too few citizens answer the call to service, to community or to country, these Americans choose to serve. They did so in a time of war, knowing they might be called upon to make the ultimate sacrifice. <p>Indeed, as we near Memorial Day, we pay tribute to all those who have given their lives so that we might live free, including those aboard that Navy helicopter who were lost this week in the waters off California. We send our prayers to their families and to all who loved them. <p>In a culture where so many chase the outward markers of success that can so often lead us astray--the titles and status, the materialism and money, the fame and popularity--these Americans have embraced the virtues that we need most right now: self-discipline over self-interest, work over comfort, and character over celebrity. <p>After an era when so many institutions and individuals acted with such greed and recklessness, it's no wonder that our military remains the most trusted institution in our Nation. And in a world when so many forces and voices seek to divide us, it inspires us that this class came together and succeeded together, from every State and every corner of the world. By building an institution that's more diverse than ever--more women, more Hispanics, more African Americans--the Naval Academy has reaffirmed a fundamental American truth: that out of many, we are one. <p>We see these values in every one of these sailors and marines, including those who've already served their country, the dozens among you with prior enlisted service. It's the perseverance of Elvin Vasquez, a marine supply chief in Iraq who finally got into the Naval Academy on his third try, who never gave up trying, because he says, \\"there's just something about being a marine.\\" It's the example of Carlos Carballo who left the tough streets of L.A. to serve on a destroyer in the Pacific and who has used his time here to mentor others, because he's the oldest midshipman--the old man--at the age of 26. It's the patriotism of Sade Holder who came to America as a child from Trinidad, enlisted in the Navy, and then earned the titles she values most: \\"U.S. citizen\\" and \\"Navy midshipman\\" and today, \\"ensign.\\" And it's the reverence for tradition shown by James P. Heg, a communications maintenance marine in Iraq who today is joined by the man who first urged him to sign up, his grandfather, returning six decades after he was a midshipman, a submariner from World War II, 89-year-old Captain James E. Heg. <p>Honor, courage, commitment, these are the values that have defined your years in the Yard and that you'll need in the years ahead as you join the fleet, and as you join and lead the Marines, as you confront the ever-changing threats of an ever-changing world. For history teaches us that the nations that grow comfortable with the old ways and complacent in the face of new threats, those nations do not long endure. And in the 21st century, we do not have the luxury of deciding which challenges to prepare for and which to ignore. We must overcome the full spectrum of threats, the conventional and the unconventional; the nation-state and the terrorist network; the spread of deadly technologies and the spread of hateful ideologies; 18th century-style piracy and 21st century cyber threats. <p>So SEALs and special operations forces, we need you for those short-notice missions in the dark of night. But we'll also need you for the long-term training of foreign militaries, so they can take responsibility for their own security. Marines, we need you to defeat the insurgent and the extremist. But we also need you to work with the tribal sheikh and local leaders from Anbar to Kandahar who want to build a better future for their people. Naval aviators and flight officers, we need you to dominate the airspace in times of conflict, but also to deliver food and medicine in times of humanitarian crisis. And surface warfare officers and submariners, we need you to project American power across the vast oceans, but also to protect American principles and values when you pull into that foreign port, because for so many people around the world, you are the face of America. <p>These great opportunities come with great responsibilities. Indeed, midshipmen and Presidents swear a similar oath, not only to protect and defend the American people, but the Constitution of the United States. <p>Yesterday, I visited the National Archives and the halls that holds our Constitution, our Declaration of Independence, and our Bill of Rights. I went there because, as our national debate on how to deal with the security challenge that we face proceeds, we must remember this enduring truth: The values and ideals in those documents are not simply words written into aging parchment, they are the bedrock of our liberty and our security. We uphold our fundamental principles and values not just because we choose to, but because we swear to, not because they feel good, but because they help keep us safe and keep us true to who we are. <p>Because when America strays from our values, it not only undermines the rule of law, it alienates us from our allies, it energizes our adversaries, and it endangers our national security and the lives of our troops. So as Americans, we reject the false choice between our security and our ideals. We can and we must and we will protect both. And that is just what you will pledge to do in a few moments when you raise your right hand and take your oath. <p>But that simple act--by that simple act, you will accept a life of great sacrifice, long deployments, separation from loved ones, tests and trials that most Americans can't imagine. But that is the oath you take, the life you choose, the promise you make to America. <p>And today, this is the promise I make to you. It's a promise that as long as I am your Commander in Chief, I will only send you into harm's way when it is absolutely necessary, and with the strategy and the well-defined goals, the equipment and the support that you need to get the job done. This includes the job of bringing the Iraq war to a responsible end and pursuing a new comprehensive strategy to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat Al Qaida and its allies in Afghanistan and Pakistan. <p>And to get you the support you need, we're enlisting all elements of our national power--our diplomacy and development, our economic might and our moral suasion--so that you and the rest of our military do not bear the burden of our security alone. We'll also ensure you can meet the missions of today, which is why we've halted reductions in Navy personnel and increased the size of the Marine Corps. And we will ensure you can meet the missions of tomorrow, which is why we're investing in the capabilities and technologies of tomorrow--the littoral combat ships, the most advanced submarines and fighter aircraft--so that you have what you need to succeed. In short, we will maintain America's military dominance and keep you the finest fighting force the world has ever seen. <p>Now, as you advance through the ranks and start families of your own, know that we will be with you every step of the way, increasing your pay, increasing childcare, and helping families deal with the stress and separation of war, because as my wife Michelle has come to see in her visits with military families across the country, when a loved one is deployed, the whole family goes to war. <p>And, finally, whether you're 26 years old or 89, if you've worn the uniform and taken care of America, then America will take care of you with a modern VA that keeps faith with our veterans and wounded warriors, with a 21st century GI bill that gives our veterans and their families the chance to live out their dreams. This is America's covenant with you, a solemn commitment to all those who serve. And while our Nation has not always fulfilled its duties to its Armed Forces, let there be no doubt, America's men and women in uniform have always fulfilled theirs. <p>And that's exactly what America's Navy did just last month in the seas off Somalia. I will not recount the full story of those 5 days in April; much of it is already known; some of it will never be known, and that's how it should be. But here, on this day, at this institution, it must be said: The extraordinary precision and professionalism displayed that day was made possible, in no small measure, by the training, the discipline, and the leadership skills that so many of those officers learned at the United States Naval Academy. <p>And after that operation, after Captain Phillips was freed, I spoke to one of the Navy SEALs who was there and with the skipper of the USS <i>Bainbridge</i>, Commander Frank Castellano, Naval Academy class of 1990. And I can tell you, as they would, that the success of that day belongs not only to a single commander or a small team of SEALs, it belongs to the many. <p>It belongs to all the sailors, officers and enlisted, not on one ship, but several, who diligently stood their watch. It belongs to the pilots and airmen who gave cover overhead, to the intelligence specialists and negotiators and translators, to all the people who worked day after night on the scene and in command centers half a world away to save one man they knew only as a fellow American. <p>And we recall that in those moments of danger and decision, these Americans did what they were trained to do. They remembered their skills. They did their duty. They performed their job. They stood their watch. They took their time and then they took their shot. And they brought that captain home. <p>And as Commander Castellano said later of his sailors, \\"Every citizen in the country should be happy and thankful that they're there.\\" And I told him that we are. <p>So, class of 2009, months or years or decades from now, should you find yourself in a moment of danger, a moment of decision, should you wonder, \\"What is expected of me? \\"What should I do?\\" Just look at that ring on your finger. Remember your days on the bank of the Severn. Remember all you achieved here and all that you learned here: \\"Devotion to Honor, Strength from Courage.\\" <p>Live these values, live these virtues. Emulate the deeds of those who have gone before you. Do this and you will not only distinguish yourselves as sailors and marines, you will be in the lead as we write the next proud chapter in the story of this country that we love. <p>Congratulations, class of 2009. God bless the Navy. God bless the Marine Corps. And God bless the United States of America.\" "
"155" "\"Good morning, everybody. Please have a seat. Well, long before I took office, I argued that meeting our greatest challenges would require not only changing policies in Washington, but changing the way we do business in Washington. It would require reforming a culture where the influence of lobbyists too often trumps the will of the people, rethinking government so that it works as effectively and efficiently as possible, and renewing our sense of common purpose so that we can bring people together in common effort. <p>That's exactly what we've done this week. On Tuesday, we brought auto executives, labor unions, environmental groups, Democrats, and Republicans together to set a national fuel efficiency standard for our cars and trucks for the first time in history. On Wednesday, I signed bipartisan legislation to help homeowners and to crack down on the predatory lenders who seek to take advantage of them. And later this afternoon, I'll sign bipartisan legislation that protects consumers from the unfair rate hikes and abusive fees levied by many credit card companies. <p>And this morning, I'm proud to join Democratic and Republican Members of Congress for the signing of a bill that will eliminate some of the waste and inefficiency in our defense projects, reforms that will better protect our Nation, better protect our troops, and save taxpayers tens of billions of dollars. <p>Now, let me be clear: As Commander in Chief, I will do whatever it takes to defend the American people, which is why I've increased funding for the best military in the history of the world. We'll continue to make new investments in 21st century capabilities to meet new challenges. And we will always give our men and women in uniform the equipment and the support that they need to get the job done. <p>But I reject the notion that we have to waste billions of taxpayer dollars to keep this Nation secure. When it comes to purchasing weapons systems and developing defense projects, the choice we face is between investments that are designed to keep the American people safe and those that are simply designed to make a defense company or a contractor rich. <p>Last year, the Government Accountability Office, or the GAO, looked into 95 major defense projects and found cost overruns that totaled $295 billion. Wasteful spending comes from exotic requirements, lack of oversight, and indefensible no-bid contracts that don't make our troops or our country any safer. To put this in perspective, these cost overruns would have paid our troops' salaries and provided benefits for their families for more than a year. <p>At a time when we're fighting two wars and facing a serious deficit, this is unexcusable and unconscionable. As Secretary Gates has said, \\"One dollar of waste in our defense budget is a dollar we can't spend to support our troops, or prepare for future threats, or protect the American people.\\" Well, it's finally time to end this waste and inefficiency. <p>Already, I've announced reform that will greatly reduce no-bid defense contracts and save the Government billions of dollars. And Secretary Gates, working with our military leadership, has also proposed a courageous set of reforms in our defense budget that will target waste and strengthen our military for the future. In taking on this enormously difficult task, he's done a tremendous job, and I want to publicly commend Secretary Gates for that. <p>The bill I'm signing today, known as the Weapons System Acquisition Reforms Act, represents an important next step in this procurement reform process. It reforms a system where taxpayers are charged too much for weapons systems that too often arrive late, a system that suffers from spending on unproven technologies, outdated weapons, and a general lack of oversight. <p>And the purpose of this law will be to limit cost overruns before they spiral out of control. It will strengthen oversight and accountability by appointing officials who will be charged with closely monitoring the weapons systems we're purchasing to ensure that costs are controlled. If the costs of certain defense projects continue to grow year after year, those projects will be closely reviewed, and if they don't provide the value we need, they will be terminated. This law will also enhance competition and end conflicts of interest in the weapons acquisitions process so that American taxpayers and the American military can get the best weapons at the lowest cost. <p>And this legislation is long overdue, and it's been a long time coming. But we're finally signing it into law because of the dedication and commitment of a few key Members of Congress who've been fighting for years for this reform: Senators Carl Levin and John McCain; Representatives Ike Skelton, John McHugh, Rob Andrews, and Mike Conaway. I'm very proud of the extraordinary work that all these gentlemen have done who are standing behind me today. Senator McCain couldn't be here today because he's making sure he has a good seat to watch his son graduate from the Naval Academy in a few hours, and that's where I'm headed as soon as I catch my ride over here. <p>But I will tell you that defense procurement reform was one of the issues that John McCain and I discussed in our first meeting after the election. And we pledged to work together to get it done, and today I'm extraordinarily proud to stand here and sign a bill that passed with unanimous support from both parties at every step of the way. <p>What all the gentlemen standing behind me, as well as Senator McCain, knows, what Secretary Gates knows, what all Members of Congress who have worked on this legislation understand, is that we have no greater responsibility than to ensure that our men and women in uniform have everything they need to do their jobs. And every penny we waste on this effort because of no-bid contracts or cost overruns is not only an affront to American taxpayers, it's an affront to our military. And while we have a long way to go to end this waste once and for all, the legislation I'm about to sign is a very important step in creating a Government that is more efficient, more accountable, and more responsible in keeping the public's trust. <p>So once again, I want to thank all these Members of Congress who did extraordinary work, not only to pass the bill but to get it here on time. I'm proud of them. I'm proud of Congress for sending me this legislation. That's why I'm going to go sign it right now. Thank you very much.\" "
"156" "\"This Memorial Day weekend, Americans will gather on lawns and porches, fire up the grill, and enjoy the company of family, friends, and neighbors. But this is not only a time for celebration, it's also a time to reflect on what this holiday is all about, to pay tribute to our fallen heroes, and to remember the service men and women who cannot be with us this year because they are standing post far from home in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world. <p>On Friday, I traveled to Annapolis, where I spoke at the commencement of the United States Naval Academy. It was an honor to address some of America's newest sailors and marines as their Commander in Chief. Looking out at all of those young men and women, I was reminded of the extraordinary service that they are rendering to our country. And I was reminded too of all of the sacrifices that their parents, siblings, and loved ones make each day on their behalf and on our behalf. <p>Our fighting men and women and the military families who love them embody what's best in America. And we have a responsibility to serve all of them as well as they served us. And yet all too often in recent years and decades, we as a nation have failed to live up to that responsibility. We failed to give them the support they need or pay them the respect they deserve. That's a betrayal of the sacred trust that America has with all who wear and all who have worn the proud uniform of our country. <p>And that is a sacred trust I am committed to keeping as President of the United States. That's why I will send our service men and women into harm's way only when it's necessary and ensure that they have the training and equipment they need when they enter the theater of war. <p>That's why we are building a 21st century Department of Veterans Affairs with the largest single-year funding increase in three decades. It's a commitment that will help us provide our veterans with the support and benefits they have earned and expand quality health care to a half million more veterans. <p>That's why, this week, I signed a bill that will eliminate some of the waste and inefficiency in our defense projects, reform that will better protect our Nation, better protect our troops, and save taxpayers tens of billions of dollars. <p>And that's why we are laying a new foundation for our economy, so that when our troops return home and take off the uniform, they can find a good job, provide for their families, and earn a college degree on a post-9/11 GI bill that will offer them the same opportunity to live out their dreams that was afforded our greatest generation. <p>These are some of the ways we can, must, and will honor the service of our troops and the sacrifices of their families. But we must also do our part, not only as a nation, but as individuals, for those Americans who are bearing the burden of wars being fought on our behalf. That can mean sending a letter or a care package to our troops overseas. It can mean volunteering at a clinic where a wounded warrior is being treated or bringing supplies to a homeless veterans' center. Or it can mean something as simple as saying thank you to a veteran you pass on the street. <p>That's what Memorial Day is all about. It's about doing all we can to repay the debt we owe to those men and women who have answered our Nation's call by fighting under its flag. It's about recognizing that we, as a people, did not get here by accident or good fortune alone. It's about remembering the hard winter of 1776, when our fragile American experiment seemed doomed to fail, and the early battles of 1861, when a union victory was anything but certain, and the summer of 1944, when the fate of a world rested on a perilous landing unlike any ever attempted. <p>It's about remembering each and every one of those moments when our survival as a nation came down not simply to the wisdom of our leaders or the resilience of our people, but to the courage and valor of our fighting men and women. For it's only by remembering these moments that we can truly appreciate a simple lesson of American life: That what makes all we are and all we aspire to be possible are the sacrifices of an unbroken line of Americans that stretches back to our Nation's founding. <p>That's the meaning of this holiday. That's a truth at the heart of our history. And that is a lesson I hope all Americans will carry with them this Memorial Day weekend and beyond. <p>Thank you.\" "
"157" "\"Good morning, everybody. We are on our way to Arlington to remember the fallen and those who have served America with extraordinary valor. But before I go there, I wanted to say a few words about North Korea's announcement that it has conducted a nuclear test, as well as its decision to attempt a short-range missile launch. <p>North Korea's nuclear and ballistic missile programs pose a great threat to the peace and security of the world, and I strongly condemn their reckless action. North Korea's actions endanger the people of Northeast Asia, they are a blatant violation of international law, and they contradict North Korea's own prior commitments. <p>Now, the United States and the international community must take action in response. The record is clear. North Korea has previously committed to abandoning its nuclear program. Instead of following through on that commitment, it has chosen to ignore that commitment. Its actions have also flown in the face of United Nations resolutions. As a result, North Korea is not only deepening its own isolation, it's also inviting stronger international pressure. That's evident overnight, as Russia and China as well as our traditional allies of South Korea and Japan have all come to the same conclusion: North Korea will not find security and respect through threats and illegal weapons. <p>And we will work with our friends and allies to stand up to this behavior, and we will redouble our efforts toward a more robust international nonproliferation regime that all countries have responsibilities to meet. In this effort, the United States will never waiver from our determination to protect our people and the peace and security of the world. <p>Thank you, guys.\" "
"158" "\"Thank you. Please be seated. Thank you. Thank you, Admiral Mullen, for that generous introduction and for your sterling service to our country. To members of our Armed Forces, to our veterans, to honored guests, and families of the fallen: I am deeply honored to be with you on Memorial Day. <p>Thank you to the superintendent, John Metzler, Jr., who cares for these grounds just as his father did before him. To the 3d Infantry Regiment who, regardless of weather or hour, guard the sanctity of this hallowed ground with the reverence it deserves, we are grateful to you. To servicemembers from every branch of the military who, each Memorial Day, place an American flag before every single stone in this cemetery, we thank you as well. We are indebted to all who tend to this sacred place. <p>Here lie Presidents and privates, Supreme Court Justices and slaves, generals familiar to history and unknown soldiers known only to God. <p>A few moments ago, I laid a wreath at their tomb to pay tribute to all who have given their lives for this country. As a nation, we have gathered here to repeat this ritual in moments of peace, when we pay our respects to the fallen and give thanks for their sacrifice. And we've gathered here in moments of war, when the somber notes of \\"Taps\\" echo through the trees and fresh grief lingers in the air. <p>Today is one of those moments where we pay tribute to those who forged our history, but hold closely the memory of those so recently lost. And even as we gather here this morning, all across America, people are pausing to remember, to mourn, and to pray. <p>Old soldiers are pulling themselves a little straighter to salute brothers lost a long time ago. Children are running their fingers over colorful ribbons that they know signify something of great consequence, even if they don't know exactly why. Mothers are re-reading final letters home, clutching photos of smiling sons or daughters, as youthful and vibrant as they always will be. <p>They, and we, are the legacies of an unbroken chain of proud men and women who served their country with honor, who waged war so that we might know peace, who braved hardship so that we might know opportunity, who paid the ultimate price so that we might know freedom. <p>Those who rest in these fields fought in every American war. They overthrew an empire and gave birth to Revolution. They strained to hold a young union together. They rolled back the creeping tide of tyranny and stood post through a long twilight struggle, and they took on the terror and extremism that threatens our world's stability. <p>Their stories are the American story. More than seven generations of them are chronicled here at Arlington. They're etched into stone, recounted by family and friends and silently observed by the mighty oaks that have stood over burial after burial. <p>To walk these grounds then is to walk through that history. Not far from here, appropriately just across a bridge connecting Lincoln to Lee, Union and Confederate soldiers share the same land in perpetuity. <p>Just down the sweeping hill behind me rest those we lost in World War II, fresh-faced GIs who rose to the moment by unleashing a fury that saved the world. Next week, I'll visit Normandy, the place where our fate hung on an operation unlike any ever attempted, where it will be my tremendous honor to address some of the brave men who stormed those beaches 65 years ago. <p>And tucked in a quiet corner to our north are thousands of those we lost in Vietnam. We know for many the casualties of that war endure. Right now, there are veterans suffering and families tracing their fingers over black granite not 2 miles from here. They are why we pledge anew to remember their service and revere their sacrifice and honor them as they deserve. <p>This cemetery is, in and of itself, a testament to the price our Nation has paid for freedom. A quarter of a million marble headstones dot these rolling hills in perfect military order, worthy of the dignity of those who rest here. It can seem overwhelming. But for the families of the fallen, just one stone stands out, one stone that requires no map to find. <p>Today, some of those stones are found at the bottom of this hill in Section 60, where the fallen from Iraq and Afghanistan rest. The wounds of war are fresh in Section 60. A steady stream of visitors leaves reminders of life: photos, teddy bears, favorite magazines. Friends place small stones as a sign they stopped by. Combat units leave bottles of beer or stamp cigarettes into the ground as a salute to those they rode in battle with. Perfect strangers visit in their free time, compelled to tend to these heroes, to leave flowers, to read poetry, to make sure they don't get lonely. <p>If the fallen could speak to us, what would they say? Would they console us? Perhaps they might say that while they could not know they'd be called upon to storm a beach through a hail of gunfire, they were willing to give up everything for the defense of our freedom; that while they could not know they'd be called upon to jump into the mountains of Afghanistan and seek an elusive enemy, they were willing to sacrifice all for their country; that while they couldn't possibly know they would be called to leave this world for another, they were willing to take that chance to save the lives of their brothers and sisters in arms. <p>What is this thing--this sense of duty? What tugs at a person until he or she says, \\"Send me\\"? Why, in an age when so many have acted only in pursuit of the narrowest self interest, have the soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines of this generation volunteered all that they have on behalf of others? Why have they been willing to bear the heaviest burden? <p>Whatever it is, they felt some tug; they answered a call; they said, \\"I'll go.\\" That is why they are the best of America, and that is what separates them from those who've not served in uniform: Their extraordinary willingness to risk their lives for people they never met. <p>And my grandfather served in Patton's army in World War II, but I cannot know what it is like to walk into battle. I'm the father of two young girls, but I can't imagine what it's like to lose a child. These are things I cannot know. But I do know this: I am humbled to be the Commander in Chief of the finest fighting force in the history of the world. <p>I know that there is nothing I will not do to keep our country safe, even as I face no harder decision than sending our men and women to war, and no moment more difficult than writing a letter to the families of the fallen. And that's why as long as I am President, I will only send our troops into harm's way when it is absolutely necessary, and I will always provide them with the equipment and support they need to get the job done. <p>I know that military families sacrifice more than we can understand and feel an absence greater than we can comprehend. And that's why Michelle and I are committed to easing their burden. <p>And I know what a grateful nation owes to those who serve under its proud flag. And that's why I promise all our service men and women that when the guns fall silent and you do return home, it will be to an America that is forever here for you, just as you've been there for us. <p>With each death, we are heartbroken. With each death, we grow more determined. This bustling graveyard can be a restless place for the living, where solace sometimes comes only from meeting others who know similar grief. But it reminds us all the meaning of valor. It reminds us all of our own obligations to one another. It recounts that most precious aspect of our history and tells us that we will only rise or fall together. <p>So on this day of silent remembrance and solemn prayer, I ask all Americans, wherever you are, whoever you're with, whatever you're doing, to pause in national unity at 3 o'clock this afternoon. I ask you to ring a bell or offer a prayer; say a silent thank you. And commit to give something back to this Nation, something lasting, in their memory, to affirm in our own lives and advance around the world those enduring ideals of justice, equality, and opportunity for which they and so many generations of Americans have given that last full measure of devotion. <p>God bless you, God bless the fallen, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"159" "\"Thank you so much. It is good to be back in Vegas. I was telling people, I am back in Caesars. That was the hotel where we stayed at when we were campaigning here in Nevada. I thought I had a pretty nice room. [<i>Laughter</i>] But now that I'm President, they upgraded me. I got the upgrade. And it's a really nice room now, man. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It is good to see all of you. How about Bette Midler? Right? Sheryl Crow, Rachael Yamagata, Rita Rudner, and Clint Holmes, give it up for our outstanding performers. <p>I want to thank all of the hard-working elected officials in Nevada, many of whom are here tonight. But there are a handful that I've got to give a special shout-out to: first of all, Congresswoman Shelley Berkley; our new Congresswoman Dina Titus; a great friend of mine, our--of my earliest supporters, cochair for Nevadans for Obama, Steven Horsford. And although she's not here tonight, she's doing a great job on behalf of everybody here in Vegas, the Nevada assembly speaker, Barbara Buckley. Please give her a big round of applause. <p>It is a pleasure to be here tonight on behalf of my good friend, your Senator, this Nation's Senate majority leader, Harry Reid. The last few years, Harry has done an extraordinary job as the leader of the U.S. Senate. And that's not easy, by the way. One of the last majority leaders wrote a book--titled it \\"Herding Cats.\\" And that's what dealing with the Senate is all about. It is not easy. But Harry is somebody who has consistently fought on those issues that matter not just to Democrats but to middle class families all across America: good jobs, affordable health care, clean energy, world-class schools. This is a man who still makes his decisions and chooses battles based on the values that he was raised with in Searchlight, Nevada. [<i>Applause</i>] Are you from Searchlight? [<i>Laughter</i>] We got some Searchlight folks here. And that's why we need to keep Harry Reid exactly where he belongs, as the leader of the U.S. Senate, as somebody who carries the voices and the values of Searchlight and Nevada, all the small towns across America that have been forgotten for so long. He gives voice to forgotten people in Washington, DC. <p>Now, being back here with all of you in Nevada tonight reminds me of why I like getting out of Washington every so often. [<i>Laughter</i>] Because it brings back a lot of memories of all those days that I spent here on the campaign trail. And I want to start tonight by saying thank you, because I know that I'm here because of so many people like you, people all across the country who made calls and knocked on doors and registered voters and dug deep and gave what they could, because you were hungry for new leadership and new ideas and a new kind of politics. And working with Harry Reid, that's what I'm delivering right now. <p>You believed that after an era of selfishness and greed, we can reclaim a sense of responsibility, from Main Street to Wall Street to Washington. You believed that instead of huge inequalities, we can restore a sense of fairness to our economy, building a new foundation for lasting growth and prosperity. You believed that in a time of war and turmoil, we can stand strong against our enemies and stand firmly for our ideals and show a new face of American leadership to the world. <p>That's the change you believed in, that's the trust you placed in me, and that's something I'll never forget. But we all know that winning the election was just the beginning of our work. That victory alone wasn't the change that we sought. It was just the opportunity to make change. And I don't know about you, but I think it's fair to say that over these past 4 months, we've done a pretty good job of seizing that opportunity. <p>To jump-start job creation, get our economy moving again, we helped with--we passed, with the help of Harry Reid and both Houses of Congress, the most ambitious economic recovery package in our Nation's history, gave tax cuts to 95 percent of working families, put people back to work modernizing our health care system, rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges, investing in renewable energy that will help boost our economy and preserve our planet. <p>We launched plans to stabilize our housing market, unfreeze our credit markets, and ensure the survival of our auto industry in this new century. We passed a budget that will cut our deficit in half while making investments to spur long-term growth. We lifted the ban on Federal funding for stem cell research. We expanded the Children's Health Insurance Program to cover 11 million children in need. We passed a national service bill to create hundreds of thousands of opportunities for people to serve in their communities. We passed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act--the first bill I signed into law--because we should have equal pay for equal work. And just last week we passed a series of reforms that won't just change policies in Washington, they'll change the way business is done in Washington. <p>Last Tuesday, we brought auto executives, labor unions, environmental groups, Democrats, and Republicans together to set a national fuel efficiency standard for our cars and trucks for the first time in history, weaning ourselves off of Middle Eastern oil, but also saving our planet in the process. On Wednesday, I signed bipartisan legislation to help homeowners and crack down on predatory lenders who seek to take advantage of them. On Friday, I signed two laws, one that will protect consumers from unfair rate hikes and abusive fees levied by credit card companies, another that will eliminate waste in our defense budget and save taxpayers billions of dollars. And today I nominated a brilliant individual to serve on the United States Supreme Court, Judge Sonia Sotomayor. <p>Let me just tell you a little bit about this woman. This is a woman who will bring more experience on the bench than anyone currently serving on the Supreme Court had when they were appointed: She graduated the top of her class at Princeton; editor of the Law Journal at Yale; prosecutor in the Manhattan DA's office; corporate litigator; 6 years as a trial judge on the U.S. District Court; her 11th year on the U.S. Court of Appeals, the second highest court in the land. Nobody can say she's not qualified to be on the Supreme Court. <p>But as impressive and meaningful as Judge Sotomayor's sterling credentials in the law are, her extraordinary life journey is even more exceptional. Born in the South Bronx--[<i>applause</i>]--raised in a--hey, South Bronx. We got everybody here. We got Searchlight, we got South Bronx. [<i>Laughter</i>] All right, I'm not going to shout out everybody's--[<i>applause</i>]. Where was I? [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm talking about the next Supreme Court Justice, born in the South Bronx, raised in a housing project by parents who came to New York from Puerto Rico during the Second World War. Father was a factory worker with a third grade education, didn't speak English. When Sonia was just 9, her father passed away. Her mother worked 6 days a week as a nurse to provide for Sonia and her brother, buying the only encyclopedias in the neighborhood, sending their children to Catholic school out of a belief that with a good education here in America all things are possible. <p>Sonia Sotomayor's life is proof that all things are possible. And when she ascends those marble steps to assume her seat on the highest court of the land, America will take another important step towards realizing the ideal that's chiseled above its entrance: Equal justice under the law. <p>So I'm inspired by her. I'm honored to nominate her. And I know that Harry Reid and others in the Senate will make sure that she is confirmed as our next Supreme Court Justice. <p>And I know that because Harry has just as improbable a story. And so do I. And that's what politics should be about, remembering that, for a whole lot of folks, life isn't easy. They're not born into advantage. But what sets America apart is the fact that we can make of our lives what we will. Yes we can. And that's what we're doing in Washington every day, figuring out how can we give a helping hand to ordinary Americans like Sonia Sotomayor's mother, like a young Harry Reid who needs a scholarship, maybe, like a Barack Obama who might need that inspiring teacher in a school. <p>And all in all, we're making progress on the important issues of the day, the issues that are going to matter not just for this generation but for the next generation. I'm pleased with how far we've come, but I'm not satisfied. I'm confident in the future, but I'm not content, not when there are workers out there still out of a job and families who still can't pay their bills, not when there are too many Americans who can't afford health care and so many of our kids being left behind, not when we're not leading the world in developing the new energy sources of the 21st century. We have come a long way. We can see the light on the horizon, but we've got a much longer journey ahead. <p>And that's why all of you are here tonight. That's why you're digging deep. That's why I know you're going to make those phone calls and knock on those doors and get to the polls again next November so that we make sure that Harry Reid continues his devoted service to this great State. <p>And that's why I'm here tonight, because I can't bring the change I promised all by myself. I can't rebuild an economy by myself. I can't reform our health care system and education systems and preserve our environment and keep our Nation safe all alone. That's not how it works. I need partners in Congress, leaders who are determined to make a difference for the folks they represent. And right now, more than ever before, we need their help. America needs their help. We need their help to build schools that meet high standards and close the achievement gap and prepare our kids for the challenges of the 21st century, reward teachers for performance and give them new pathways for advancement. <p>We need their help to reach the goal I've set for our education in this country that by 2020, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. We need their help to pass a comprehensive energy and climate bill that will finally reduce our dangerous dependence on foreign oil, offer new energy incentives to reduce the pollution that threatens our health and our climate. <p>We need a plan that will create millions of new jobs, producing wind turbines and solar panels, like you're doing right here in Nevada. Because the nation that leads the 21st century in clean energy, that nation will lead in the global economy. America can and must be that nation. <p>We need help to create a 21st century health care system to cut costs for families and businesses across America. And working with Harry Reid and other Members of Congress, we are going to do everything we can to achieve comprehensive health care reform by the end of this year. We've been waiting too long. We're going to make it happen this year. <p>And finally, even as we do all this, we need to restore fiscal discipline in Washington so we don't leave our children and grandchildren with a mountain of debt. Already, my administration has identified more than 100 Government programs that we can reduce or eliminate. They're not working the way they should. That will save taxpayers nearly $17 billion next year alone. We're going through the budget line by line looking for more places where we can shift dollars from things that don't work to things that do. <p>We're living through extraordinary times. We didn't ask for the challenges that we face, but we are determined to answer the call to meet those challenges, to cast aside the old arguments and overcome the stubborn divisions and move forward as one people and one nation. It won't be easy, Nevada. There will be setbacks, Las Vegas. It will take time but I promise you, I promise you, I'll always tell you the truth about the challenges we face. I'll always tell you the truth about the steps we're taking to meet them. I will continue to measure my progress by the progress that the American people see in their own lives. <p>And so if you stand with me, if you stand with Harry Reid, I know that years from now we will look back on this time, at this moment and say, that's when the American people came together to reclaim their future to write the next great chapter of the American story. <p>We can only do it with Harry Reid, and I can only do it with you, the people of Las Vegas, the people of Nevada, the people of America. Thank you. God bless you. May God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"160" "\"Thank you so much. Everybody please have a seat. Thank you so much. I've got some special acknowledgments that I have to make. First of all, we've got some members of the congressional delegation Nevada who are doing outstanding jobs not only for Nevada but also for the men and women in uniform. And so please give a warm welcome to Congresswoman Shelley Berkley, Congresswoman Dina Titus. And we're in his district, he couldn't be here, but Congressman Dean Heller, please give him a big round of applause. <p>I also want to thank the State controller, Kim Wallin, for her great work; the Nevada secretary of State, Ross Miller; Nevada State treasurer, Kate Marshall. I want to thank the Brigadier General, Stanley Kresge, for the wonderful, outstanding work that he does, as well as Colonel Dave Belote, who just gave me an outstanding tour of the solar panel facility out here. But mainly I want to thank all of you, the men and women in uniform, for your service to our country. We're grateful to you. Thank you. <p>I just spoke to a handful of your commanders here. I know some are about to be deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan, many have just come back. The fact that you serve each and every day to keep us safe is something that every American is grateful for. And so if I don't do anything else as your Commander in Chief, I'm going to make sure that we're there for you just as you've been there for us. So thank you very much. <p>Finally, let me acknowledge Senator Harry Reid, not just for the generous introduction, not only because he's been a great friend, not only because he's been an outstanding Majority Leader, but also because of everything that he's done for the people of Nevada and for the armed services. He is somebody who has never forgotten his roots. After all these years, he still brings the voices and values of Searchlight, Nevada to the Nation's most important debates in Washington, DC, and we are better off because he does. So please give Harry Reid a big round of applause. <p>You know, it's always a pleasure to get out of Washington a little bit. Washington is okay, but it's nice taking some time to talk to Americans of every walk of life outside of the Nation's Capital. And there's nothing like a quick trip to Vegas in the middle of the week. Like millions of other Americans, we come to this beautiful city for the sights and for the sounds. And today we come for the sun, because right now, we're standing near the largest solar electric plant of its kind in the entire Western Hemisphere--the entire Western Hemisphere. More than 72,000 solar panels built on part of an old landfill provide 25 percent of the electricity for the 12,000 people who live and work here at Nellis, that's the equivalent of powering about 13,200 homes during the day. <p>It's a project that took about half a year to complete, created 200 jobs, and will save the United States Air Force, which is the largest consumer of energy in the Federal Government, nearly $1 million a year. It will also reduce harmful carbon pollution by 24,000 tons per year, which is the equivalent of removing 4,000 cars from our roads. And most importantly, this base serves as a shining example of what's possible when we harness the power of clean, renewable energy to build a new, firmer foundation for economic growth. <p>Now, that's the kind of foundation we're trying to build all across America. One hundred days ago, in the midst of the worst economic crisis in half a century, we passed the most sweeping economic recovery act in history, a plan designed to save jobs, create new ones, and put money in people's pockets. It's a plan designed not only to revive the economy in the short term, but to rebuild the economy over the long term. It's a plan that we passed thanks to the tireless efforts of Harry Reid and Congresswoman Berkley and Congresswoman Titus and all the other outstanding public servants in Washington. <p>But if it hadn't been for Harry Reid--because the Senate is tough--moving this Recovery Act through Congress with the skill and tenacity and urgency of somebody who knows the struggles that millions of people are going through, we would have not gotten it done. So I am eternally grateful to him and the other members of the congressional delegation for helping to pass this plan. <p>And 100 days later, we're already seeing results. And today we're releasing a report that details the progress that we've made in every region of the country. In these last few months, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act has saved or created nearly 150,000 jobs, jobs building solar panels and wind turbines, making homes and buildings more energy efficient. They're the jobs of teachers and police officers and nurses who have not been laid off as a consequence of this Recovery Act. They're the jobs fixing roads and bridges, jobs at startups and small businesses, and jobs that will put thousands of young Americans to work this summer. <p>Also in the Recovery Act, by the way, is all sorts of construction taking place on bases just like Nellis to support military families, and I know that that is something that Michelle Obama has taken a lot of time looking into; that's something that I'm spending a lot of time thinking about. We want to make sure that our bases and our facilities are the best in the world for our best troops. <p>Ninety-five percent of all working families saw their take-home pay increase because of the tax cut that we provided in the Recovery Act. Fifty-four million seniors received $250 extra in their Social Security checks. Laid-off workers have received greater unemployment benefits and paid less for their health care. For the thousands of families whose homes have been made more energy efficient, it's also saved them about $350 on their energy bills. Other Americans saved thousands by taking advantage of the tax credits the Recovery Act has provided for the purchase of a new home, or a new fuel-efficient car, or energy efficient cooling and heating systems, windows, and insulation. And all of this has helped to fuel demand that is helping businesses put more Americans back to work. <p>But this is just the beginning. There are still too many Americans out of work and too many who still worry that their job may be next. There are still too many families struggling to pay the bills, and too many businesses struggling to keep their doors open. And that's why we will continue to implement the Recovery Act as quickly and effectively as possible over the next 2 years. We're just at the start of this Recovery Act. We are going to keep on going through this year and into next year, because we are going to make sure that not only are we putting people back to work, but we're laying the foundation for a better economy. And that's why my administration will continue an unrelenting, day-by-day effort to fight for economic recovery on all fronts. <p>Now, I just want to emphasize, even as we clear away some of the wreckage and debris of this extraordinary recession, I've also said that our next task is making sure that this doesn't happen again. We can't return to the same bubble-and-bust, borrow-and-spend economy based on maxed-out credit cards and overleveraged banks and financial profits that were only real on paper--see, that young lady agrees with me. [<i>Laughter</i>] We have to lay a new foundation for prosperity, a foundation constructed on the pillars that will grow our economy and help America compete in the 21st century. <p>And a renewable energy revolution is one of those pillars. We know the cost of our oil addiction all too well. It's the cost measured by the billions of dollars we send to nations with unstable or unfriendly regimes. We help to fund both sides of the war on terror because of our addiction to oil. It's the cost of our vulnerability to the volatility of the oil markets. It's the cost we feel in shifting weather patterns that are already causing unprecedented droughts and more intense storms. It's a cost we can't bear any longer. <p>Today, projects like the one at Nellis are still the exception to the rule, unfortunately. America produces less than 3 percent of our electricity through renewable sources of energy like wind and solar--less than 3 percent. In contrast, Denmark produces 20 percent of their electricity through wind. We pioneered solar technology, but we've fallen behind countries like Germany and Japan in generating it, even though they get less sun than we do. They certainly get less sun than Nevada. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So we've got a choice: We can remain the world's leading importer of oil, sending our money and our wealth away, or we can become the world's leading exporter of clean energy. We can hand over the jobs of the future to our competitors, or we can confront what they've already recognized as the great opportunity of our time: The nation that leads the world in creating new sources of clean energy will be the nation that leads the 21st century global economy. And that's the nation I want America to be, and I know that's the nation you want America to be. <p>Already, we've made more progress on this front in the last 4 months than we have in the last three decades. Last week, I brought auto executives, labor unions, environmental groups, Democrats, and Republicans together to set the toughest ever national fuel efficiency standard for our cars and trucks, a standard that will save 1.8 billion barrels of oil over the lifetime of the vehicles sold in the next 5 years. <p>In Congress, leaders like Harry Reid are also working to pass a historic energy plan that will help end our dependence on foreign oil while preventing the worst consequences of climate change. It's a system--it's a plan that will create a system of clean energy incentives that will create good, American jobs and crack down on polluters who pollute the air we breathe and the water we drink. <p>Finally, by the end of the next 2 years, the Recovery Act will have enabled the--a doubling of our Nation's capacity to generate renewable energy by investing in projects just like the one on this Air Force base. And today I'm announcing the availability of funding for two Recovery Act programs that will help us reach that goal. <p>The first is a solar energy technologies program that will help replicate the success of the Nellis project in cities and States across America, because in this case, what happens in Vegas should not stay in Vegas. [<i>Laughter</i>] We want everybody to know what we're doing here in Vegas. We'll invest in the development and deployment of solar technology wherever it can thrive, and we'll find the best ways to integrate solar power into our electric grid. <p>The second program I'm announcing will help develop the use of geothermal energy in America. As many of you in Nevada know, geothermal energy is literally defined as \\"heat from the Earth.\\" This heat can then be harnessed as a clean, affordable, and reliable source of energy. And already, Nevada has 17 industrial scale geothermal plants, and your capacity to generate this type of power is expected to increase in the next few years. The program we're announcing will help accelerate this process here and across America. So this is something that we expect will--[<i>applause</i>]--this will create more jobs, it will create more businesses, and more affordable electricity for the American people. <p>Now, from where we stand today, the road to economic recovery is still long. We've got a lot of work to do. There are a lot of folks who are still hurting out there. And the road to a new, clean energy economy is even longer. We're not going to do it overnight. But after 4 months of this administration and 100 days of this Recovery Act, we have carved out a path toward progress. It's a path that begins in places just like this Air Force base, where ordinary citizens tap into their sense of innovation and ingenuity to reinvent the world around them. <p>This base has been known as the \\"Home of the Fighter Pilot.\\" Now it's the home of the largest solar energy installation of its kind in the Western Hemisphere. And by the way, the two concepts are connected because it is good for our national security if we've got more control over our own energy use. And that's the story that will be told all across America, in cities and towns, where a shuttered factory reopens to build wind turbines; where a hospital treats patients with new technology and pulls up their history with new electronic records; where a young entrepreneur with a nest egg and a good idea starts a business and creates more jobs. <p>That's how we move America forward. This is how we've always moved forward. It happens slowly, in fits and starts, but it always happens surely when we are dedicated to bringing about change. It happens not by chance or by luck, but because the American people keep pushing ahead, persevering through hardship, growing through challenge, building something firmer and stronger in place of what was. That's the work we've begun in these last few months, and with your help, this is the work we will continue to do in the days and months ahead. <p>For all of you who are serving in our Armed Forces, we want to make sure that our civilians are mobilizing and working on behalf of this country just as ably as you are. We salute you; we thank you. Thank you, everybody. God bless you, God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"161" "\"Hello, everybody. Please be seated. We meet today at a transformational moment, a moment in history when our interconnected world presents us at once with great promise but also great peril. <p>Now, over the past 4 months, my administration has taken decisive steps to seize the promise and confront these perils. We're working to recover from a global recession while laying a new foundation for lasting prosperity. We're strengthening our Armed Forces as they fight two wars, at the same time we're renewing American leadership to confront unconventional challenges, from nuclear proliferation to terrorism, from climate change to pandemic disease. And we're bringing to Government and to this White House unprecedented transparency and accountability and new ways for Americans to participate in their democracy. <p>But none of this progress would be possible, and none of these 21st century challenges can be fully met, without America's digital infrastructure, the backbone that underpins a prosperous economy and a strong military and an open and efficient Government. Without that foundation, we can't get the job done. <p>It's long been said that the revolutions in communications and information technology have given birth to a virtual world. But make no mistake: This world, cyberspace, is a world that we depend on every single day. It's our hardware and our software, our desktops and laptops and cell phones and BlackBerries that have become woven into every aspect of our lives. <p>It's the broadband networks beneath us and the wireless signals around us, the local networks in our schools and hospitals and businesses, and the massive grids that power our Nation. It's the classified military and intelligence networks that keep us safe and the World Wide Web that has made us more interconnected than at any time in human history. So cyberspace is real, and so are the risks that come with it. <p>It's the great irony of our information age. The very technologies that empower us to create and to build also empower those who would disrupt and destroy. And this paradox, seen and unseen, is something that we experience every day. <p>It's about the privacy and the economic security of American families. We rely on the Internet to pay our bills, to bank, to shop, to file our taxes. But we've had to learn a whole new vocabulary just to stay ahead of the cyber criminals who would do us harm: spyware and malware and spoofing and phishing and botnets. Millions of Americans have been victimized, their privacy violated, their identities stolen, their lives upended, and their wallets emptied. According to one survey, in the past 2 years alone, cyber crime has cost Americans more than $8 billion. <p>I know how it feels to have privacy violated because it has happened to me and the people around me. It's no secret that my Presidential campaign harnessed the Internet and technology to transform our politics. What isn't widely known is that during the general election, hackers managed to penetrate our computer systems. To all of you who donated to our campaign, I want you to all rest assured, our fundraising web site was untouched. [<i>Laughter</i>] So your confidential personal and financial information was protected. <p>But between August and October, hackers gained access to e-mails and a range of campaign files, from policy position papers to travel plans. And we worked closely with the CIA--with the FBI and the Secret Service and hired security consultants to restore the security of our systems. It was a powerful reminder: In this information age, one of your greatest strengths--in our case, our ability to communicate to a wide range of supporters through the Internet--could also be one of your greatest vulnerabilities. <p>So this is a matter, as well, of America's economic competitiveness. The small businesswoman in St. Louis, the bond trader in the New York Stock Exchange, the workers at a global shipping company in Memphis, the young entrepreneur in Silicon Valley, they all need the networks to make the next payroll, the next trade, the next delivery, the next great breakthrough. E-commerce alone, last year, accounted for some $132 billion in retail sales. <p>But every day we see waves of cyber thieves trolling for sensitive information: the disgruntled employee on the inside, the lone hacker a thousand miles away, organized crime, the industrial spy, and increasingly, foreign intelligence services. In one brazen act last year, thieves used stolen credit card information to steal millions of dollars from 130 ATMs--machines in 49 cities around the world, and they did it in just 30 minutes. A single employee of an American company was convicted of stealing intellectual property reportedly worth $400 million. It's been estimated that last year alone cyber criminals stole intellectual property from businesses worldwide worth up to $1 trillion. In short, America's economic prosperity in the 21st century will depend on cybersecurity. <p>And this is also a matter of public safety and national security. We count on computer networks to deliver our oil and gas, our power and our water. We rely on them for public transportation and air traffic control. Yet we know that cyber intruders have probed our electrical grid and that in other countries cyber attacks have plunged entire cities into darkness. <p>Our technological advantage is a key to America's military dominance. But our defense and military networks are under constant attack. Al Qaida and other terrorist groups have spoken of their desire to unleash a cyber attack on our country, attacks that are harder to detect and harder to defend against. Indeed, in today's world, acts of terror could come not only from a few extremists in suicide vests, but from a few key strokes on the computer, a weapon of mass disruption. <p>In one of the most serious cyber incidents to date against our military networks, several thousand computers were infected last year by malicious software, malware. And while no sensitive information was compromised, our troops and defense personnel had to give up those external memory devices, thumb drives, changing the way they used their computers every day. <p>And last year, we had a glimpse of the future face of war. As Russian tanks rolled into Georgia, cyber attacks crippled Georgian Government web sites. The terrorists that sowed so much death and destruction in Mumbai relied not only on guns and grenades but also on GPS and phones using voice-over-the-Internet. For all these reasons, it's now clear this cyber threat is one of the most serious economic and national security challenges we face as a nation. <p>It's also clear that we're not as prepared as we should be, as a Government or as a country. In recent years, some progress has been made at the Federal level. But just as we failed in the past to invest in our physical infrastructure--our roads, our bridges, and rails--we've failed to invest in the security of our digital infrastructure. <p>No single official oversees cybersecurity policy across the Federal Government, and no single agency has the responsibility or authority to match the scope and scale of the challenge. Indeed, when it comes to cybersecurity, Federal agencies have overlapping missions and don't coordinate and communicate nearly as well as they should, with each other or with the private sector. We saw this in the disorganized response to Conficker, the Internet worm that in recent months has infected millions of computers around the world. <p>This status quo is no longer acceptable, not when there's so much at stake. We can and we must do better. And that's why shortly after taking office I directed my National Security Council and Homeland Security Council to conduct a top-to-bottom review of the Federal Government's efforts to defend our information and communications infrastructure and to recommend the best way to ensure that these networks are able to secure our networks as well as our prosperity. <p>And our view--our review was open and transparent. I want to acknowledge, Melissa Hathaway, who is here, who is the Acting Senior Director for Cyberspace on our National Security Council, who led the review team, as well as the Center for Strategic and International Studies bipartisan Commission on Cybersecurity, and all who were part of our 60-day review team. They listened to a wide variety of groups, many of which are represented here today and I want to thank for their input: industry and academia, civil liberties and private--privacy advocates. We listened to every level and branch of Government, from local to State to Federal, civilian, military, homeland as well as intelligence, Congress, and international partners as well. I consulted with my national security teams, my homeland security teams, and my economic advisers. <p>Today I'm releasing a report on our review and can announce that my administration will pursue a new comprehensive approach to securing America's digital infrastructure. This new approach starts at the top with this commitment from me: From now on, our digital infrastructure, the networks and computers we depend on every day, will be treated as they should be, as a strategic national asset. Protecting this infrastructure will be a national security priority. We will ensure that these networks are secure, trustworthy, and resilient. We will deter, prevent, detect, and defend against attacks and recover quickly from any disruptions or damage. <p>To give these efforts the high-level focus and attention they deserve--and as part of the new, single national security staff announced this week--I'm creating a new office here at the White House that will be led by the cybersecurity coordinator. Because of the critical importance of this work, I will personally select this official. I'll depend on this official in all matters relating to cybersecurity, and this official will have my full support and regular access to me as we confront these challenges. <p>Today I want to focus on the important responsibilities this office will fulfill: orchestrating and integrating all cybersecurity policies for the Government, working closely with the Office of Management and Budget to ensure agency budgets reflect those priorities, and in the event of major cyber incident or attack, coordinating our response. <p>To ensure that Federal cyber policies enhance our security and our prosperity, my cybersecurity coordinator will be a member of the national security staff, as well as the staff of my National Economic Council. To ensure that policies keep faith with our fundamental values, this office will also include an official with a portfolio specifically dedicated to safeguarding the privacy and civil liberties of the American people. <p>There's much work to be done, and the report we're releasing today outlines a range of actions that we will pursue in five key areas. <p>First, working in partnership with the communities represented here today, we will develop a new comprehensive strategy to secure America's information and communications networks. To ensure a coordinated approach across Government, my cybersecurity coordinator will work closely with my Chief Technology Officer, Aneesh Chopra, and my Chief Information Officer, Vivek Kundra. To ensure accountability in Federal agencies, cybersecurity will be designated as one of my key management priorities. Clear milestones and performance metrics will measure progress. And as we develop our strategy, we will be open and transparent, which is why you'll find today's report and a wealth of related information on our web site, www.whitehouse.gov. <p>Second, we will work with all the key players, including State and local governments and the private sector, to ensure an organized and unified response to future cyber incidents. Given the enormous damage that can be caused by even a single cyber attack, ad hoc responses will not do, nor is it sufficient to simply strengthen our defenses after incidents or attacks occur. Just as we do for natural disasters, we have to have plans and resources in place beforehand, sharing information, issuing warnings, and ensuring a coordinated response. <p>Third, we will strengthen the public/private partnerships that are critical to this endeavor. The vast majority of our critical information infrastructure in the United States is owned and operated by the private sector. So let me be very clear: My administration will not dictate security standards for private companies. On the contrary, we will collaborate with industry to find technology solutions that ensure our security and promote prosperity. <p>Fourth, we will continue to invest in the cutting-edge research and development necessary for the innovation and discovery we need to meet the digital challenges of our time. And that's why my administration is making major investments in our information infrastructure: laying broadband lines to every corner of America, building a smart electric grid to deliver energy more efficiently, pursuing a next generation of air traffic control systems, and moving to electronic health records, with privacy protections, to reduce costs and save lives. <p>And finally, we will begin a national campaign to promote cybersecurity awareness and digital literacy from our boardrooms to our classrooms and to build a digital workforce for the 21st century. And that's why we're making a new commitment to education in math and science and historic investments in science and research and development. Because it's not enough for our children and students to master today's technologies--social networking and e-mailing and texting and blogging--we need them to pioneer the technologies that will allow us to work effectively through these new media and allow us to prosper in the future. So these are the things we will do. <p>Let me also be clear about what we will not do. Our pursuit of cybersecurity will not include--I repeat, will not include--monitoring private sector networks or Internet traffic. We will preserve and protect the personal privacy and civil liberties that we cherish as Americans. Indeed, I remain firmly committed to net neutrality so we can keep the Internet as it should be, open and free. <p>The task I have described will not be easy. Some 1.5 billion people around the world are already online, and more are logging on every day. Groups and governments are sharpening their cyber capabilities. Protecting our prosperity and security in this globalized world is going to be a long, difficult struggle demanding patience and persistence over many years. <p>But we need to remember we're only at the beginning. The epochs of history are long: the agricultural revolution, the Industrial Revolution. By comparison, our information age is still in its infancy. We're only at Web 2.0. Now our virtual world is going viral, and we've only just begun to explore the next generation of technologies that will transform our lives in ways we can't even begin to imagine. <p>So a new world awaits, a world of greater security and greater potential prosperity, if we reach for it, if we lead. So long as I'm President of the United States, we will do just that. And the United States, the nation that invented the Internet, that launched an information revolution, that transformed the world, will do what we did in the 20th century and lead once more in the 21st. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"162" "\"<i>The President.</i> All right. Well, for all of you who've just joined us, I've just received a briefing here at FEMA at the National Response Coordination Center for our preparations for this year's hurricane season, which begins on Monday. And I want to thank Secretary Napolitano, as well as John Brennan, my Homeland Security Adviser. And we've welcomed Craig Fugate, who has hit the ground running and is already doing an outstanding job not just leading this briefing but leading this excellent agency. And I want to thank all the people here at FEMA who do such an excellent job for their diligence and their commitment for this task. <p>We are all here together because we are determined to be as prepared as possible when the next catastrophic hurricane hits the United States. And we want to make sure that cities and our people remain resilient enough to weather any storm. <p>Our top priority is ensuring the public safety. That means appropriate sheltering in place, or, if necessary, getting as many people as possible out of harm's way prior to landfall. But most of the work, as you would hear from these individual agencies, most of the work takes place before a hurricane hits. True preparedness means having Federal and State and local governments all coordinating effectively, and as you just heard, one of the most important things we can do is make sure the families have prepared appropriately. <p>We just saw some statistics coming out of Florida indicating that a huge percentage of people in hurricane areas simply don't make plans. They don't have a plan, they don't have a set of contingencies that will allow them to respond in an effective way. Those people who have the capacity to plan, they will thereby relieve some of the resources that the Government has to provide, and we can stay focused on those folks who are most vulnerable and have the most difficulty dealing with a storm. <p>So I hope that message of personal responsibility sinks in. And, Craig, is there a web site that we want to provide that would help people formulate a plan right now? <p><i>Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate.</i> Yes, sir, it's real simple, ready.gov. <p><i>The President.</i> Ready.gov. <p><i>Administrator Fugate.</i> It will help you get ready for your disaster threats. <p><i>The President.</i> Okay. That's the reason that all the representatives here met and have been meeting over the last several months, is because they want to be ready. And States are going to have the primary responsibility in preparing for and responding to disasters, but they're going to have the full resources of the Federal Government backing them up. <p>And the last point, I guess, I would like to make, is that when you go on ready.gov, you'll see that--I think the public will see that a lot of these plans are not complicated. They're pretty simple. It's a matter of having a basic emergency supply kit with items such as water, some nonperishable food, an all-weather radio, a flashlight, a first aid kit; making an emergency family plan; staying informed of developments in your area; and learning about your community's emergency plans. <p>So I have no greater responsibility than the safety of the American people. I want to thank all of the people here today who, in their various roles, do such a terrific job even in non-emergency situations, helping to keep the American people safe. But as we enter into hurricane season, I hope that everybody who's watching is going to be paying attention and take seriously their responsibilities as citizens so that the entire country is ready. <p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"163" "\"This week, I nominated Judge Sonia Sotomayor of the U.S. Court of Appeals to replace Justice David Souter, who is retiring after nearly two decades on the Supreme Court. After reviewing many terrific candidates, I am certain that she is the right choice. In fact, there has not been a nominee in several generations who has brought the depth of judicial experience to this job that she offers. <p>Judge Sotomayor's career began when she served as an assistant district attorney in New York, prosecuting violent crimes in America's largest city. After leaving the DA's office, she became a litigator, representing clients in complex international legal disputes. She was appointed to the U.S. District Court, serving 6 years as a trial judge where she presided over hundreds of cases. And most recently, she has spent 11 years on the U.S. Court of Appeals, our Nation's second highest court, grappling with some of the most difficult constitutional and legal issues we face as a nation. She has more experience on the Federal bench than any incoming Supreme Court Justice in the past 100 years. Quite simply, Judge Sotomayor has a deep familiarity with our judicial system from almost every angle. <p>And her achievements are all the more impressive when you consider what she had to overcome in order to achieve them. Judge Sotomayor grew up in a housing project in the South Bronx. Her parents came to New York from Puerto Rico during the Second World War. Her father was a factory worker with a third grade education. And when she was just 9 years old, he passed away. Her mother worked 6 days a week as a nurse to provide for her and her brother, buying the only set of encyclopedias in the neighborhood and sending her children to Catholic school. That's what made it possible for Judge Sotomayor to attend two of America's leading universities, graduating at the top of her class at Princeton University, and studying at Yale Law School, where she won a prestigious post as an editor of the school's law journal. <p>These many years later, it was hard not to be moved by Judge Sotomayor's mother, sitting in the front row at the White House, her eyes welling with tears, as her daughter, who had come so far, for whom she had sacrificed so much, was nominated to the highest court in the land. <p>This is what makes Judge Sotomayor so extraordinary. Even as she has reached the heights of her profession, she has never forgotten where she began. She has faced down barriers, overcome difficult odds, and lived the American Dream. As a Justice of the Supreme Court, she will bring not only the experience acquired over the course of a brilliant legal career, but the wisdom accumulated over the course of an extraordinary journey, a journey defined by hard work, fierce intelligence, and that enduring faith that in America all things are possible. <p>It is her experience in life and her achievements in the legal profession that have earned Judge Sotomayor respect across party lines and ideological divides. She was originally named to the U.S. District Court by the first President Bush, a Republican. She was appointed to the Federal Court of Appeals by President Clinton, a Democrat. She twice has been overwhelmingly confirmed by the U.S. Senate. And I am gratified by the support for this nomination voiced by members of the legal community who represent views from across the political spectrum. <p>There are, of course, some in Washington who are attempting to draw old battle lines and playing the usual political games, pulling a few comments out of context to paint a distorted picture of Judge Sotomayor's record. But I am confident that these efforts will fail, because Judge Sotomayor's 17-year record on the bench--hundreds of judicial decisions that every American can read for him or herself--speak far louder than any attack. Her record makes clear that she is fair, unbiased, and dedicated to the rule of law. As a fellow judge on her court, appointed by Ronald Reagan, said recently, \\"I don't think I'd go as far as to classify her in one camp or another. I think she just deserves the classification of outstanding judge.\\" <p>Congress returns this week, and I hope the confirmation process will begin without delay. No nominee should be seated without rigorous evaluation and hearing; I expect nothing less. But what I hope is that we can avoid the political posturing and ideological brinksmanship that has bogged down this process and Congress in the past. Judge Sotomayor ought to be on the bench when the Supreme Court decides what cases to hear this year, and I'm calling on Democrats and Republicans to be thorough and timely in dealing with this nomination. <p>As President, there are few responsibilities more serious or consequential than the naming of a Supreme Court Justice. The members of our highest court are granted life tenure. They're charged with applying principles put to paper more than two centuries ago to some of the most difficult questions of our time, and the impact of their decisions extends beyond an administration, but for generations to come. <p>This is a decision that I have not taken lightly, and it is one that I am proud to have made. I know that Justice Sotomayor will serve this Nation with distinction. And when she ascends those marble steps to assume her seat on the Supreme Court, bringing a lifetime of experience on and off the bench, America will have taken another important step towards realizing the ideal that is chiseled above its entrance: Equal justice under the law. <p>Thanks.\" "
"164" "\"Good morning, everybody. Just over 2 months ago, I spoke with you in this same spot about the challenges facing our auto industry, and I laid out what needed to be done to save two of America's most storied automakers, General Motors and Chrysler. These companies were facing a crisis decades in the making, and having relied on loans from the previous administration, were asking for more. <p>From the beginning, I made it clear that I would not put any more tax dollars on the line if it meant perpetuating the bad business decisions that had led these companies to seek help in the first place. I refused to let these companies become permanent wards of the state, kept afloat on an endless supply of taxpayer money. In other words, I refused to kick the can down the road. <p>But I also recognized the importance of a viable auto industry to the well-being of families and communities across our industrial Midwest and across the United States. In the midst of a deep recession and financial crisis, the collapse of these companies would have been devastating for countless Americans and done enormous damage to our economy beyond the auto industry. It was also clear that if GM and Chrysler remade and retooled themselves for the 21st century, it would be good for American workers, good for American manufacturing, and good for America's economy. I decided then that if GM and Chrysler and their stakeholders were willing to sacrifice for their companies' survival and success, if they were willing to take the difficult but necessary steps to restructure and make themselves stronger, leaner, and more competitive, then the United States Government would stand behind them. <p>The original restructuring plans submitted by GM and Chrysler earlier this year did not call for the sweeping changes these companies needed to survive, and I couldn't in good conscience proceed on that basis. So we gave them a chance to develop a stronger plan that would put them on a path toward long-term viability. The 60 days GM had to submit its revised plans have now elapsed, and I want to say a few words about where we are and what steps will be taken going forward. But before I do, I want to give you an update on where things stand with Chrysler. <p>When my administration took office and began going over Chrysler's books, the future of this great American car company was uncertain. In fact, it was not clear whether it had any future at all. But after consulting with my Auto Task Force, industry experts, and financial advisers, and after asking many tough questions, I became convinced that if Chrysler were willing to undergo a restructuring, and if it were able to form a partnership with a viable global car company, then Chrysler could get a new lease on life. <p>Well, that more promising scenario has now come to pass. Today, after taking a number of painful steps and moving through a quick, efficient, and fair bankruptcy process, a new, stronger Chrysler is poised to complete its alliance with Fiat. Just 31 days after Chrysler's Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing, a court has approved the Chrysler/Fiat alliance, paving the way for a new Chrysler to emerge from bankruptcy in the next few days. <p>What happens next is in the hands of their executives, managers, and workers, as it is for any private company. But what the completion of this alliance means is that tens of thousands of jobs that would have been lost if Chrysler had liquidated will now be saved, and that consumers have no reason at all to worry about a restructuring, even one as painful as what Chrysler underwent. <p>Keep in mind, many experts said that a quick, surgical bankruptcy was impossible. They were wrong. Others predicted that Chrysler's decision to enter bankruptcy would lead to an immediate collapse in consumer confidence that would send car sales over a cliff. They were wrong as well. In fact, Chrysler sold more cars in May than it did in April, in part because consumers were comforted by our extraordinary commitment to stand behind a quick bankruptcy process. All in all, it's a dramatic--an outcome dramatically better than what appeared likely when this process began. <p>Now, the situation we found at General Motors was very different from what we found at Chrysler, largely because GM is a different kind of company. It is much larger and much more complex, with operations all over the globe. In this context, GM's management team, including its new CEO, Fritz Henderson, its interim chairman, Kent Kresa, and all of their colleagues, has--have worked--has worked tirelessly to produce a plan that meets the strict standards I laid out at the beginning to streamline GM's brands, clean up GM's balance sheet, and make it possible for GM to compete and succeed. <p>Working with my Auto Task Force, GM and its stakeholders have produced a viable, achievable plan that will give this iconic American company a chance to rise again. It's a plan tailored to the realities of today's auto market, a plan that positions GM to move toward profitability, even if it takes longer than expected for our economy to fully recover, and it's a plan that builds on GM's recent progress in making better cars. As this plan takes effect, GM will start building a larger share of its cars here at home, including fuel-efficient cars. In fact, if all goes according to plan, the share of GM cars sold in the United States that are made here will actually grow for the first time in three decades. <p>Now, any time a business as large as General Motors goes through a restructuring, it is extremely difficult to find common ground among all of the company's stakeholders. But while the deal that has been worked out is tough, it is also fair. <p>It will require the United Auto Workers to make further cuts in compensation and retiree health care benefits, painful sacrifices on top of all that they have already done. It will require GM shareholders to give up the remaining value of their shares, just as they would have had to do in any private restructuring of this kind. And it will also provide unsecured bondholders with an equitable outcome, an outcome that will let them recover more than the current value of their claims and substantially more than they would have recovered if the Government had not intervened and GM had liquidated. That's why a majority of GM's bondholders already support this deal. <p>Throughout this process, I wanted to ensure that none of GM's stakeholders receives special treatment because of our Government's involvement. That's why I instructed my Auto Task Force to treat all of GM's stakeholders fairly and to ensure that this restructuring was carried out in a way that was consistent with past precedent, and it was. <p>What we have then is a credible plan that is full of promise. But GM can't put this plan into effect on its own. Executing this plan will require a substantial amount of money that only a government can provide. Considering GM's extensive operations within their borders, the governments of Canada and Ontario have agreed to do their part with an investment in GM's future, and I want to thank them for doing so. I also want to thank the Government of Germany for working diligently to reach a memorandum of understanding on the sale of a major stake in GM's European division and for providing interim funding that will make it possible for that transaction to be finalized. <p>But, of course, GM is an American company with tens of thousands of employees in this country, and responsibility for its future ultimately rests with us. That's why our Government will be making a significant additional investment of about $30 billion in GM, an investment that will entitle American taxpayers to ownership of about 60 percent of the new GM. <p>Now, let me talk about this. I recognize that this may give some Americans pause, so let me explain as clearly as possible why we are making this investment. We inherited a financial crisis unlike any that we've seen in our time. This crisis crippled private capital markets and forced us to take steps in our financial system and with our auto companies that we would not have otherwise even considered. These steps have put our Government in the unwelcome position of owning large stakes in private companies for the simple and compelling reason that their survival and the success of our overall economy depend on it. <p>Understand, we're making these investments not because I want to spend the American people's tax dollars, but because I want to protect them. Instead of taking so much stock in GM, we could have simply offered the company more loans. But for years, GM has been buried under an unsustainable mountain of debt, and piling an irresponsibly large debt on top of the new GM would mean simply repeating the mistakes of the past. So we are acting as reluctant shareholders, because that is the only way to help GM succeed. <p>What we are not doing, what I have no interest in doing, is running GM. GM will be run by a private board of directors and management team with a track record in American manufacturing that reflects a commitment to innovation and quality. They, and not the Government, will call the shots and make the decisions about how to turn this company around. The Federal Government will refrain from exercising its rights as a shareholder in all but the most fundamental corporate decisions. When a difficult decision has to be made on matters like where to open a new plant or what type of new car to make, the new GM, not the United States Government, will make that decision. In short, our goal is to get GM back on its feet, take a hands-off approach, and get out quickly. <p>Exiting a restructuring of this scale, however, requires not only new investment. It also requires giving GM a chance to start anew by clearing away the massive past debts that are weighing the company down. And that's why earlier today GM did what Chrysler has successfully done and filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy with the support of its key stakeholders and the United States Government. <p>In all likelihood, this process will take more time for GM than it did for Chrysler because GM is a bigger, more complex company. But Chrysler's extraordinary success reaffirms my confidence that GM will emerge from its bankruptcy process quickly and as a stronger and more competitive company. And I want to remind everyone that if you are considering buying a GM car during this period of restructuring, your warrantees will be safe and Government-backed. <p>So I'm confident that the steps I'm announcing today will mark the end of an old GM and the beginning of a new GM, a new GM that can produce the high-quality, safe, and fuel-efficient cars of tomorrow, that can lead America towards an energy independent future and that is once more a symbol of America's success. <p>But I want to be honest with you. Building a leaner GM will come at a cost. It will take a painful toll on many Americans who have relied on General Motors throughout the generations. So I want to say a word directly to all the men and women watching today, wondering what all of this will mean as far as their own lives are concerned. <p>I know you've already seen more than your fair share of hard times. We saw 400,000 jobs lost in the auto industry in the year before this restructuring even began. I will not pretend the hard times are over. Difficult days lie ahead. More jobs will be lost; more plants will close; more dealerships will shut their doors, and so will many parts suppliers. <p>But I want you to know that what you're doing is making a sacrifice for the next generation, a sacrifice you may not have chose to make, but a sacrifice you were nevertheless called to make so that your children and all of our children can grow up in an America that still makes things, that still builds cars, that still strives for a better future. <p>As our autoworkers and auto communities pass through these difficult times, we, as a nation, must do our part. That's why, in March, I appointed Ed Montgomery Director of Recovery for Auto Communities and Workers. That's why 2 weeks ago, Ed announced a green jobs training program for autoworkers in hard-hit communities. And that's why last week, Ed and Karen Mills, my Small Business Administration chief, traveled to Indiana to announce a new plan to provide loans to auto, RV, and boat dealers to help finance floor plans. That's why we are accelerating the purchase of a Federal fleet of cars to jump-start demand and give the industry a boost at a time when it needs one. And that's why I'm calling on Congress to pass fleet modernization legislation that can provide a credit to consumers who turn in old cars and purchase cleaner, more fuel-efficient cars. These are important steps on the long road to overcoming a problem that didn't happen overnight and will not be solved overnight. <p>I recognize that today's news carries a particular importance because it's not just any company we're talking about, it's GM. It's a company that's not only been a source of income, but a source of pride for generations of autoworkers and generations of Americans. But while the GM of the future will be different from the GM of the past, I am absolutely confident that if well managed, a new GM will emerge that can provide a new generation of Americans with the chance to live out their dreams, that can outcompete automakers around the world, and that can once again be an integral part of America's economic future. And when that happens, we can truly say that what is good for General Motors and all who work there is good for the United States of America. <p>Thank you, everybody.\" "
"165" "\"<i>The President.</i> Well, thank you all for coming to the White House today as we commemorate the life and work of a President in the president--in the presence of those who loved him and knew him and respected him deeply as both a leader and as a man. <p>And in particular, I want to thank our special guest here today, Nancy Reagan, our former First Lady, who redefined that role in her time at the White House, and who has, in the many years since, taken on a new role as an advocate on behalf of treatments that hold the promise of improving and saving lives. And I should just add, she has been extraordinarily gracious to both me and Michelle during our transition here, and I'm thankful for that. <p>There are few who are not moved by the love that Ms. Reagan felt for her husband, and fewer still who are not inspired by how this love led her to take up the twin causes of stem cell research and Alzheimer's research. In saying a long goodbye, Nancy Reagan became a voice on behalf of millions of families experiencing the depleting, aching reality of Alzheimer's disease. <p>I'd also like to recognize the Members of Congress who are standing alongside us, who worked so hard to pass the Ronald Reagan Centennial Commission Act, particularly Congressman Elton Gallegly, the lead sponsor of this bill. Finally, I want to thank the trustees of the Reagan Foundation who are here today as well. <p>This legislation, approved by an overwhelming bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives and passed unanimously in the Senate, will create a commission to honor President Reagan on the 100th anniversary of his birth, and I am proud to sign it into law. <p>President Reagan understood that while there are often strong disagreements between parties and political adversaries--disagreements that can be a source of conflict and bitterness--it is important to keep in mind all that we share. For all of the deepest of divides that exist in America, the bonds that bring us together are that much stronger. Now, we may see the world differently, but we must never stop seeing one another as fellow Americans and as patriots who want what is best for the country that we love. <p>Now, this Nation was built on the basis of the principle that we are stronger, not weaker, for even the most vigorous debates, debates that have energized our politics since the inventors of America argued over our founding documents more than two centuries ago. Through the weighing of different views, we take measure of where we stand and where we must go, and the moment we fail to recognize the good in those with whom we quarrel is the moment that we've lost sight of who we are as a people. <p>President Reagan helped as much as any President to restore a sense of optimism in our country, a spirit that transcended politics, that transcended even the most heated arguments of the day. It was this optimism that allowed leaders like the President and Speaker Tip O'Neill, who held sharply different philosophies, to sit down together at the end of difficult debates as friends and to work with one another on complex and contentious issues like Social Security. It was this optimism that the American people sorely needed during a difficult period, a period of economic and global challenges that tested us in unprecedented ways. <p>In these perilous times, President Reagan had the ability to communicate directly and movingly to the American people, to understand both the hardships they felt in their lives and the hopes that they had for their country. That was powerful, that was important, and we are better off for the extraordinary leadership that he showed. <p>So I'm glad to have all of you here today. I'm especially glad to have Mrs. Reagan here today as we sign this bill. I'll look forward to seeing the fruits of this commission's work, culminating in the celebration of President Reagan's life on the occasion of his 100th birthday. <p>And on that morning in America, we can be proud to come together as one nation and one people to honor a leader who loved this country and wanted nothing more than to see its promise fulfilled. <p>So thank you all very much. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Ms. Reagan, let's go sign this bill. <p>[<i>At this point, the President signed the bill.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> I've gotten good at this. Although, I think that President Reagan's signature was more legible than mine. [<i>Laughter</i>] All right, there you go. <p>Thank you, everybody.\" "
"166" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you so much. Good afternoon. I am honored to be in the timeless city of Cairo and to be hosted by two remarkable institutions. For over a thousand years, Al-Azhar has stood as a beacon of Islamic learning, and for over a century, Cairo University has been a source of Egypt's advancement. And together, you represent the harmony between tradition and progress. I'm grateful for your hospitality and the hospitality of the people of Egypt. And I'm also proud to carry with me the good will of the American people and a greeting of peace from Muslim communities in my country: <i>As-salaamu alaykum</i>. <p>We meet at a time of great tension between the United States and Muslims around the world, tension rooted in historical forces that go beyond any current policy debate. The relationship between Islam and the West includes centuries of coexistence and cooperation, but also conflict and religious wars. More recently, tension has been fed by colonialism that denied rights and opportunities to many Muslims and a cold war in which Muslim-majority countries were too often treated as proxies without regard to their own aspirations. Moreover, the sweeping change brought by modernity and globalization led many Muslims to view the West as hostile to the traditions of Islam. <p>Violent extremists have exploited these tensions in a small, but potent minority of Muslims. The attacks of September 11, 2001, and the continued efforts of these extremists to engage in violence against civilians has led some in my country to view Islam as inevitably hostile not only to America and Western countries, but also to human rights. All this has bred more fear and more mistrust. <p>So long as our relationship is defined by our differences, we will empower those who sow hatred rather than peace, those who promote conflict rather than the cooperation that can help all of our people achieve justice and prosperity. And this cycle of suspicion and discord must end. <p>I've come here to Cairo to seek a new beginning between the United States and Muslims around the world, one based on mutual interest and mutual respect and one based upon the truth that America and Islam are not exclusive and need not be in competition. Instead, they overlap and share common principles, principles of justice and progress, tolerance and the dignity of all human beings. <p>I do so recognizing that change cannot happen overnight. I know there's been a lot of publicity about this speech, but no single speech can eradicate years of mistrust. Nor can I answer in the time that I have this afternoon all the complex questions that brought us to this point. But I am convinced that in order to move forward, we must say openly to each other the things we hold in our hearts and that too often are said only behind closed doors. There must be a sustained effort to listen to each other, to learn from each other, to respect one another, and to seek common ground. As the Holy Koran tells us: \\"Be conscious of God and speak always the truth.\\" That is what I will try to do today, to speak the truth as best I can, humbled by the task before us and firm in my belief that the interests we share as human beings are far more powerful than the forces that drive us apart. <p>Now part of this conviction is rooted in my own experience. I'm a Christian, but my father came from a Kenyan family that includes generations of Muslims. As a boy, I spent several years in Indonesia and heard the call of the <i>azaan</i> at the break of dawn and at the fall of dusk. As a young man, I worked in Chicago communities where many found dignity and peace in their Muslim faith. As a student of history, I also know civilization's debt to Islam. <p>It was Islam, at places like Al-Azhar, that carried the light of learning through so many centuries, paving the way for Europe's renaissance and enlightenment. It was innovation in Muslim communities that developed the order of algebra, our magnetic compass and tools of navigation, our mastery of pens and printing, our understanding of how disease spreads and how it can be healed. Islamic culture has given us majestic arches and soaring spires, timeless poetry and cherished music, elegant calligraphy and places of peaceful contemplation. And throughout history, Islam has demonstrated through words and deeds the possibilities of religious tolerance and racial equality. <p>I also know that Islam has always been a part of America's story. The first nation to recognize my country was Morocco. In signing the Treaty of Tripoli in 1796, our second President, John Adams, wrote: \\"The United States has in itself no character of enmity against the laws, religion, or tranquillity of Muslims.\\" And since our founding, American Muslims have enriched the United States. They have fought in our wars; they have served in our government; they have stood for civil rights; they have started businesses; they have taught at our universities; they've excelled in our sports arenas; they've won Nobel Prizes, built our tallest building, and lit the Olympic Torch. And when the first Muslim American was recently elected to Congress, he took the oath to defend our Constitution using the same Holy Koran that one of our Founding Fathers, Thomas Jefferson, kept in his personal library. <p>So I have known Islam on three continents before coming to the region where it was first revealed. That experience guides my conviction that partnership between America and Islam must be based on what Islam is, not what it isn't. And I consider it part of my responsibility as President of the United States to fight against negative stereotypes of Islam wherever they appear. <p>But that same principle must apply to Muslim perceptions of America. Just as Muslims do not fit a crude stereotype, America is not the crude stereotype of a self-interested empire. The United States has been one of the greatest sources of progress that the world has ever known. We were born out of revolution against an empire. We were founded upon the ideal that all are created equal, and we have shed blood and struggled for centuries to give meaning to those words, within our borders and around the world. We are shaped by every culture, drawn from every end of the Earth, and dedicated to a simple concept: <i>E pluribus unum</i>--\\"Out of many, one.\\" <p>Now, much has been made of the fact that an African American with the name Barack Hussein Obama could be elected President. But my personal story is not so unique. The dream of opportunity for all people has not come true for everyone in America, but its promise exists for all who come to our shores, and that includes nearly 7 million American Muslims in our country today, who, by the way, enjoy incomes and educational levels that are higher than the American average. <p>Moreover, freedom in America is indivisible from the freedom to practice one's religion. That is why there is a mosque in every State in our Union and over 1,200 mosques within our borders. That's why the United States Government has gone to court to protect the right of women and girls to wear the <i>hijab</i> and to punish those who would deny it. <p>So let there be no doubt, Islam is a part of America. And I believe that America holds within her the truth that regardless of race, religion, or station in life, all of us share common aspirations to live in peace and security, to get an education and to work with dignity, to love our families, our communities, and our God. These things we share. This is the hope of all humanity. <p>Of course, recognizing our common humanity is only the beginning of our task. Words alone cannot meet the needs of our people. These needs will be met only if we act boldly in the years ahead and if we understand that the challenges we face are shared and our failure to meet them will hurt us all. For we have learned from recent experience that when a financial system weakens in one country, prosperity is hurt everywhere. When a new flu infects one human being, all are at risk. When one nation pursues a nuclear weapon, the risk of nuclear attack rises for all nations. When violent extremists operate in one stretch of mountains, people are endangered across an ocean. When innocents in Bosnia and Darfur are slaughtered, that is a stain on our collective conscience. That is what it means to share this world in the 21st century. That is the responsibility we have to one another as human beings. <p>And this is a difficult responsibility to embrace, for human history has often been a record of nations and tribes and, yes, religions subjugating one another in pursuit of their own interests. Yet in this new age, such attitudes are self-defeating. Given our interdependence, any world order that elevates one nation or group of people over another will inevitably fail. So whatever we think of the past, we must not be prisoners to it. Our problems must be dealt with through partnership; our progress must be shared. <p>Now, that does not mean we should ignore sources of tension. Indeed, it suggests the opposite. We must face these tensions squarely. And so in that spirit, let me speak as clearly and as plainly as I can about some specific issues that I believe we must finally confront together. <p>The first issue that we have to confront is violent extremism in all of its forms. In Ankara, I made clear that America is not, and never will be, at war with Islam. We will, however, relentlessly confront violent extremists who pose a grave threat to our security, because we reject the same thing that people of all faiths reject: the killing of innocent men, women, and children. And it is my first duty as President to protect the American people. <p>The situation in Afghanistan demonstrates America's goals and our need to work together. Over 7 years ago, the United States pursued Al Qaida and the Taliban with broad international support. We did not go by choice; we went because of necessity. I'm aware that there's still some who would question or even justify the events of 9/11. But let us be clear: Al Qaida killed nearly 3,000 people on that day. The victims were innocent men, women, and children from America and many other nations who had done nothing to harm anybody. And yet, Al Qaida chose to ruthlessly murder these people, claimed credit for the attack, and even now states their determination to kill on a massive scale. They have affiliates in many countries and are trying to expand their reach. These are not opinions to be debated; these are facts to be dealt with. <p>Make no mistake, we do not want to keep our troops in Afghanistan. We see no--we seek no military bases there. It is agonizing for America to lose our young men and women. It is costly and politically difficult to continue this conflict. We would gladly bring every single one of our troops home, if we could be confident that there were not violent extremists in Afghanistan and now Pakistan determined to kill as many Americans as they possibly can. But that is not yet the case. <p>And that's why we're partnering with a coalition of 46 countries. And despite the costs involved, America's commitment will not weaken. Indeed, none of us should tolerate these extremists. They have killed in many countries. They have killed people of different faiths, but more than any other, they have killed Muslims. Their actions are irreconcilable with the rights of human beings, the progress of nations, and with Islam. The Holy Koran teaches that \\"whoever kills an innocent\\" is as--\\"it is as if he has killed all mankind.\\" And the Holy Koran also says, \\"whoever saves a person, it is as if he has saved all mankind.\\" The enduring faith of over a billion people is so much bigger than the narrow hatred of a few. Islam is not part of the problem in combating violent extremism, it is an important part of promoting peace. <p>Now, we also know that military power alone is not going to solve the problems in Afghanistan and Pakistan. That's why we plan to invest $1.5 billion each year over the next 5 years to partner with Pakistanis to build schools and hospitals, roads and businesses, and hundreds of millions to help those who've been displaced. That's why we are providing more than $2.8 billion to help Afghans develop their economy and deliver services that people depend on. <p>Let me also address the issue of Iraq. Unlike Afghanistan, Iraq was a war of choice that provoked strong differences in my country and around the world. Although I believe that the Iraqi people are ultimately better off without the tyranny of Saddam Hussein, I also believe that events in Iraq have reminded America of the need to use diplomacy and build international consensus to resolve our problems whenever possible. Indeed, we can recall the words of Thomas Jefferson, who said: \\"I hope that our wisdom will grow with our power and teach us that the less we use our power, the greater it will be.\\" <p>Today, America has a dual responsibility to help Iraq forge a better future and to leave Iraq to Iraqis. And I have made it clear to the Iraqi people that we pursue no bases and no claim on their territory or resources. Iraq's sovereignty is its own. And that's why I ordered the removal of our combat brigades by next August. That is why we will honor our agreement with Iraq's democratically elected Government to remove combat troops from Iraqi cities by July and to remove all of our troops from Iraq by 2012. We will help Iraq train its security forces and develop its economy, but we will support a secure and united Iraq as a partner, and never as a patron. <p>And finally, just as America can never tolerate violence by extremists, we must never alter or forget our principles. Nine-eleven was an enormous trauma to our country. The fear and anger that it provoked was understandable, but in some cases, it led us to act contrary to our traditions and our ideals. We are taking concrete actions to change course. I have unequivocally prohibited the use of torture by the United States, and I have ordered the prison at Guantanamo Bay closed by early next year. <p>So America will defend itself, respectful of the sovereignty of nations and the rule of law, and we will do so in partnership with Muslim communities, which are also threatened. The sooner the extremists are isolated and unwelcome in Muslim communities, the sooner we will all be safer. <p>The second major source of tension that we need to discuss is the situation between Israelis, Palestinians, and the Arab world. America's strong bonds with Israel are well known. This bond is unbreakable. It is based upon cultural and historical ties and the recognition that the aspiration for a Jewish homeland is rooted in a tragic history that cannot be denied. <p>Around the world, the Jewish people were persecuted for centuries, and anti-Semitism in Europe culminated in an unprecedented Holocaust. Tomorrow I will visit Buchenwald, which was part of a network of camps where Jews were enslaved, tortured, shot, and gassed to death by the Third Reich. Six million Jews were killed, more than the entire Jewish population of Israel today. Denying that fact is baseless, it is ignorant, and it is hateful. Threatening Israel with destruction or repeating vile stereotypes about Jews is deeply wrong and only serves to evoke in the minds of Israelis this most painful of memories while preventing the peace that the people of this region deserve. <p>On the other hand, it is also undeniable that the Palestinian people, Muslims and Christians, have suffered in pursuit of a homeland. For more than 60 years, they've endured the pain of dislocation. Many wait in refugee camps in the West Bank, Gaza, and neighboring lands for a life of peace and security that they have never been able to lead. They endure the daily humiliations, large and small, that come with occupation. So let there be no doubt, the situation for the Palestinian people is intolerable, and America will not turn our backs on the legitimate Palestinian aspiration for dignity, opportunity, and a state of their own. <p>For decades then, there has been a stalemate: two peoples with legitimate aspirations, each with a painful history that makes compromise elusive. It's easy to point fingers, for Palestinians to point to the displacement brought about by Israel's founding and for Israelis to point to the constant hostility and attacks throughout its history from within its borders, as well as beyond. But if we see this conflict only from one side or the other, then we will be blind to the truth. The only resolution is for the aspirations of both sides to be met through two states, where Israelis and Palestinians each live in peace and security. <p>That is in Israel's interest, Palestine's interest, America's interest, and the world's interest. And that is why I intend to personally pursue this outcome with all the patience and dedication that the task requires. The obligations that the parties have agreed to under the road map are clear. For peace to come, it is time for them, and all of us, to live up to our responsibilities. <p>Palestinians must abandon violence. Resistance through violence and killing is wrong, and it does not succeed. For centuries, black people in America suffered the lash of the whip as slaves and the humiliation of segregation. But it was not violence that won full and equal rights. It was a peaceful and determined insistence upon the ideals at the center of America's founding. This same story can be told by people from South Africa to South Asia, from Eastern Europe to Indonesia. It's a story with a simple truth: Violence is a dead end. It is a sign neither of courage nor power to shoot rockets at sleeping children or to blow up old women on a bus. That's not how moral authority is claimed; that's how it is surrendered. <p>Now is the time for Palestinians to focus on what they can build. The Palestinian Authority must develop its capacity to govern with institutions that serve the needs of its people. Hamas does have support among some Palestinians, but they also have to recognize they have responsibilities. To play a role in fulfilling Palestinian aspirations, to unify the Palestinian people, Hamas must put an end to violence, recognize past agreements, recognize Israel's right to exist. <p>At the same time, Israelis must acknowledge that just as Israel's right to exist cannot be denied, neither can Palestine's. The United States does not accept the legitimacy of continued Israeli settlements. This construction violates previous agreements and undermines efforts to achieve peace. It is time for these settlements to stop. <p>And Israel must also live up to its obligation to ensure that Palestinians can live and work and develop their society. Just as it devastates Palestinian families, the continuing humanitarian crisis in Gaza does not serve Israel's security, neither does the continuing lack of opportunity in the West Bank. Progress in the daily lives of the Palestinian people must be a critical part of a road to peace, and Israel must take concrete steps to enable such progress. <p>And finally, the Arab States must recognize that the Arab Peace Initiative was an important beginning, but not the end of their responsibilities. The Arab-Israeli conflict should no longer be used to distract the people of Arab nations from other problems. Instead, it must be a cause for action to help the Palestinian people develop the institutions that will sustain their state, to recognize Israel's legitimacy, and to choose progress over a self-defeating focus on the past. <p>America will align our policies with those who pursue peace, and we will say in public what we say in private to Israelis and Palestinians and Arabs. We cannot impose peace. But privately, many Muslims recognize that Israel will not go away. Likewise, many Israelis recognize the need for a Palestinian state. It is time for us to act on what everyone knows to be true. <p>Too many tears have been shed. Too much blood has been shed. All of us have a responsibility to work for the day when the mothers of Israelis and Palestinians can see their children grow up without fear, when the Holy Land of the three great faiths is the place of peace that God intended it to be, when Jerusalem is a secure and lasting home for Jews and Christians and Muslims and a place for all of the children of Abraham to mingle peacefully together as in the story of Isra, when Moses, Jesus, and Muhammed, peace be upon them, joined in prayer. <p>The third source of tension is our shared interest in the rights and responsibilities of nations on nuclear weapons. This issue has been a source of tension between the United States and the Islamic Republic of Iran. For many years, Iran has defined itself in part by its opposition to my country, and there is in fact a tumultuous history between us. In the middle of the cold war, the United States played a role in the overthrow of a democratically elected Iranian Government. Since the Islamic Revolution, Iran has played a role in acts of hostage-taking and violence against U.S. troops and civilians. This history is well known. Rather than remain trapped in the past, I've made it clear to Iran's leaders and people that my country is prepared to move forward. The question now is not what Iran is against, but rather what future it wants to build. <p>I recognize it will be hard to overcome decades of mistrust, but we will proceed with courage, rectitude, and resolve. There will be many issues to discuss between our two countries, and we are willing to move forward without preconditions on the basis of mutual respect. But it is clear to all concerned that when it comes to nuclear weapons, we have reached a decisive point. This is not simply about America's interests. It's about preventing a nuclear arms race in the Middle East that could lead this region and the world down a hugely dangerous path. <p>I understand those who protest that some countries have weapons that others do not. No single nation should pick and choose which nation holds nuclear weapons. And that's why I strongly reaffirmed America's commitment to seek a world in which no nations hold nuclear weapons. And any nation, including Iran, should have the right to access peaceful nuclear power, if it complies with its responsibilities under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. That commitment is at the core of the treaty, and it must be kept for all who fully abide by it. And I'm hopeful that all countries in the region can share in this goal. <p>The fourth issue that I will address is democracy. I know there has been controversy about the promotion of democracy in recent years, and much of this controversy is connected to the war in Iraq. So let me be clear: No system of government can or should be imposed by one nation by any other. <p>That does not lessen my commitment, however, to governments that reflect the will of the people. Each nation gives life to this principle in its own way, grounded in the traditions of its own people. America does not presume to know what is best for everyone, just as we would not presume to pick the outcome of a peaceful election. But I do have an unyielding belief that all people yearn for certain things: the ability to speak your mind and have a say in how you are governed, confidence in the rule of law and the equal administration of justice, government that is transparent and doesn't steal from the people, the freedom to live as you choose. These are not just American ideas, they are human rights. And that is why we will support them everywhere. <p>Now, there is no straight line to realize this promise, but this much is clear: Governments that protect these rights are ultimately more stable, successful, and secure. Suppressing ideas never succeeds in making them go away. America respects the right of all peaceful and law-abiding voices to be heard around the world, even if we disagree with them. And we will welcome all elected, peaceful governments, provided they govern with respect for all their people. <p>This last point is important, because there are some who advocate for democracy only when they're out of power. Once in power, they are ruthless in suppressing the rights of others. So no matter where it takes hold, government of the people and by the people sets a single standard for all who would hold power. You must maintain your power through consent, not coercion; you must respect the rights of minorities and participate with a spirit of tolerance and compromise; you must place the interests of your people and the legitimate workings of the political process above your party. Without these ingredients, elections alone do not make true democracy. <p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you! <p><i>The President.</i> Thank you. <p>The fifth issue that we must address together is religious freedom. Islam has a proud tradition of tolerance. We see it in the history of Andalusia and Cordoba during the Inquisition. I saw it firsthand as a child in Indonesia, where devout Christians worshiped freely in an overwhelmingly Muslim country. That is the spirit we need today. People in every country should be free to choose and live their faith based upon the persuasion of the mind and the heart and the soul. This tolerance is essential for religion to thrive, but it's being challenged in many different ways. <p>Among some Muslims, there's a disturbing tendency to measure one's own faith by the rejection of somebody else's faith. The richness of religious diversity must be upheld, whether it is for Maronites in Lebanon or the Copts in Egypt. And if we are being honest, fault lines must be closed among Muslims as well, as the divisions between Sunni and Shi'a have led to tragic violence, particularly in Iraq. <p>Freedom of religion is central to the ability of peoples to live together. We must always examine the ways in which we protect it. For instance, in the United States, rules on charitable giving have made it harder for Muslims to fulfill their religious obligation. That's why I'm committed to working with American Muslims to ensure that they can fulfill <i>zakat</i>. <p>Likewise, it is important for Western countries to avoid impeding Muslim citizens from practicing religion as they see fit, for instance, by dictating what clothes a Muslim woman should wear. We can't disguise hostility towards any religion behind the pretence of liberalism. <p>In fact, faith should bring us together. And that's why we're forging service projects in America to bring together Christians, Muslims, and Jews. That's why we welcome efforts like Saudi Arabian King Abdallah's interfaith dialog and Turkey's leadership in the Alliance of Civilizations. Around the world, we can turn dialog into interfaith service, so bridges between peoples lead to action, whether it is combating malaria in Africa or providing relief after a natural disaster. <p>The sixth issue that I want to address is women's rights. I know--[<i>applause</i>]--I know, and you can tell from this audience, that there is a healthy debate about this issue. I reject the view of some in the West that a woman who chooses to cover her hair is somehow less equal, but I do believe that a woman who is denied an education is denied equality. And it is no coincidence that countries where women are well educated are far more likely to be prosperous. <p>Now, let me be clear: Issues of women's equality are by no means simply an issue for Islam. In Turkey, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Indonesia, we've seen Muslim-majority countries elect a woman to lead. Meanwhile, the struggle for women's equality continues in many aspects of American life and in countries around the world. <p>I am convinced that our daughters can contribute just as much to society as our sons. Our common prosperity will be advanced by allowing all humanity, men and women, to reach their full potential. I do not believe that women must make the same choices as men in order to be equal, and I respect those women who choose to live their lives in traditional roles. But it should be their choice. And that is why the United States will partner with any Muslim-majority country to support expanded literacy for girls and to help young women pursue employment through microfinancing that helps people live their dreams. <p>Finally, I want to discuss economic development and opportunity. I know that for many, the face of globalization is contradictory. The Internet and television can bring knowledge and information, but also offensive sexuality and mindless violence into the home. Trade can bring new wealth and opportunities, but also huge disruptions and change in communities. In all nations, including America, this change can bring fear. Fear that because of modernity, we lose control over our economic choices, our politics, and, most importantly, our identities, those things we most cherish about our communities, our families, our traditions, and our faith. <p>But I also know that human progress cannot be denied. There need not be contradictions between development and tradition. Countries like Japan and South Korea grew their economies enormously while maintaining distinct cultures. The same is true for the astonishing progress within Muslim-majority countries from Kuala Lumpur to Dubai. In ancient times and in our times, Muslim communities have been at the forefront of innovation and education. <p>And this is important, because no development strategy can be based only upon what comes out of the ground, nor can it be sustained while young people are out of work. Many Gulf States have enjoyed great wealth as a consequence of oil, and some are beginning to focus it on broader development. But all of us must recognize that education and innovation will be the currency of the 21st century, and in too many Muslim communities there remains underinvestment in these areas. I'm emphasizing such investment within my own country. And while America in the past has focused on oil and gas when it comes to this part of the world, we now seek a broader engagement. <p>On education, we will expand exchange programs and increase scholarships like the one that brought my father to America. At the same time, we will encourage more Americans to study in Muslim communities. And we will match promising Muslim students with internships in America, invest in online learning for teachers and children around the world, and create a new online network so a young person in Kansas can communicate instantly with a young person in Cairo. <p>On economic development, we will create a new corps of business volunteers to partner with counterparts in Muslim-majority countries. And I will host a summit on entrepreneurship this year to identify how we can deepen ties between business leaders, foundations, and social entrepreneurs in the United States and Muslim communities around the world. <p>On science and technology, we will launch a new fund to support technological development in Muslim-majority countries and to help transfer ideas to mark--to the marketplace so they can create more jobs. We'll open centers of scientific excellence in Africa, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia and appoint new science envoys to collaborate on programs that develop new sources of energy, create green jobs, digitize records, clean water, grow new crops. Today I'm announcing a new global effort with the Organization of the Islamic Conference to eradicate polio. And we will also expand partnerships with Muslim communities to promote child and maternal health. <p>All these things must be done in partnership. Americans are ready to join with citizens and governments, community organizations, religious leaders, and businesses in Muslim communities around the world to help our people pursue a better life. <p>And the issues that I have described will not be easy to address, but we have a responsibility to join together on behalf of the world that we seek, a world where extremists no longer threaten our people and American troops have come home, a world where Israelis and Palestinians are each secure in a state of their own and nuclear energy is used for peaceful purposes, a world where governments serve their citizens and the rights of all God's children are respected. Those are mutual interests. That is the world we seek, but we can only achieve it together. <p>I know there are many, Muslim and non-Muslim, who question whether we can forge this new beginning. Some are eager to stoke the flames of division and to stand in the way of progress. Some suggest that it isn't worth the effort, that we are fated to disagree and civilizations are doomed to clash. Many more are simply skeptical that real change can occur. There's so much fear, so much mistrust that has built up over the years. But if we choose to be bound by the past, we will never move forward. And I want to particularly say this to young people of every faith in every country: You, more than anyone, have the ability to reimagine the world, to remake this world. <p>All of us share this world for but a brief moment in time. The question is whether we spend that time focused on what pushes us apart, or whether we commit ourselves to an effort, a sustained effort to find common ground, to focus on the future we seek for our children, and to respect the dignity of all human beings. <p>It's easier to start wars than to end them. It's easier to blame others than to look inward. It's easier to see what is different about someone than to find the things we share. But we should choose the right path, not just the easy path. There's one rule that lies at the heart of every religion, that we do unto others as we would have them do unto us. This truth transcends nations and peoples, a belief that isn't new, that isn't black or white or brown, that isn't Christian or Muslim or Jew. It's a belief that pulsed in the cradle of civilization and that still beats in the hearts of billions around the world. It's a faith in other people, and it's what brought me here today. We have the power to make the world we seek, but only if we have the courage to make a new beginning, keeping in mind what has been written. <p>The Holy Koran tells us: \\"O mankind! We have created you male and a female, and we have made you into nations and tribes so that you may know one another.\\" The Talmud tells us: \\"The whole of the Torah is for the purpose of promoting peace.\\" The Holy Bible tells us: \\"Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God.\\" The people of the world can live together in peace. We know that is God's vision, now that must be our work here on Earth. <p>Thank you, and may God's peace be upon you. Thank you very much. Thank you.\" "
"167" "\"Chancellor Merkel and I have just finished our tour here at Buchenwald. I want to thank Dr. Volkhard Knigge, who gave an outstanding account of what we were witnessing. I am particularly grateful to be accompanied by my friend Elie Wiesel, as well as Mr. Bertrand Herz, both of whom are survivors of this place. <p>We saw the area known as Little Camp, where Elie and Bertrand were sent as boys. In fact, at the place that commemorates this camp, there is a photograph in which we can see a 16-year-old Elie in one of the bunks along with the others. We saw the ovens of the crematorium, the guard towers, the barbed wire fences, the foundations of barracks that once held people in the most unimaginable conditions. <p>We saw the memorial to all the survivors, a steel plate, as Chancellor Merkel said, that is heated to 37 degrees Celsius, the temperature of the human body, a reminder--where people were deemed inhuman because of their differences--of the mark that we all share. <p>Now, these sights have not lost their horror with the passage of time. As we were walking up, Elie said, \\"If these trees could talk.\\" And there's a certain irony about the beauty of the landscape and the horror that took place here. More than half a century later, our grief and our outrage over what happened have not diminished. I will not forget what I've seen here today. <p>I've known about this place since I was a boy, hearing stories about my great uncle, who was a very young man serving in World War II. He was part of the 89th Infantry Division, the first Americans to reach a concentration camp. They liberated Ohrdruf, one of Buchenwald's subcamps. <p>And I told this story. He returned from his service in a state of shock, saying little and isolating himself for months on end from family and friends, alone with the painful memories that would not leave his head. And as we see--as we saw some of the images here, it's understandable that someone who witnessed what had taken place here would be in a state of shock. <p>My great uncle's commander, General Eisenhower, understood this impulse to silence. He had seen the piles of bodies and starving survivors and deplorable conditions that the American soldiers found when they arrived, and he knew that those who witnessed these things might be too stunned to speak about them or be able--be unable to find the words to describe them, that they might be rendered mute in the way my great uncle had. And he knew that what had happened here was so unthinkable that after the bodies had been taken away, that perhaps no one would believe it. <p>And that's why he ordered American troops and Germans from the nearby town to tour the camp. He invited Congressmen and journalists to bear witness and ordered photographs and films to be made. And he insisted on viewing every corner of these camps so that, and I quote, he could \\"be in a position to give firsthand evidence of these things if ever in the future there develops a tendency to charge these allegations merely to propaganda.\\" <p>We are here today because we know this work is not yet finished. To this day, there are those who insist that the Holocaust never happened, a denial of fact and truth that is baseless and ignorant and hateful. This place is the ultimate rebuke to such thoughts, a reminder of our duty to confront those who would tell lies about our history. <p>Also to this day, there are those who perpetuate every form of intolerance--racism, anti-Semitism, homophobia, xenophobia, sexism, and more--hatred that degrades its victims and diminishes us all. In this century, we've seen genocide. We've seen mass graves and the ashes of villages burned to the ground, children used as soldiers and rape used as a weapon of war. This place teaches us that we must be ever vigilant about the spread of evil in our own time, that we must reject the false comfort that others' suffering is not our problem and commit ourselves to resisting those who would subjugate others to serve their own interests. <p>But as we reflect today on the human capacity for evil and our shared obligation to defy it, we're also reminded of the human capacity for good. For amidst the countless acts of cruelty that took place here, we know that there were many acts of courage and kindness as well: the Jews who insisted on fasting on Yom Kippur; the camp cook who hid potatoes in the lining of his prison uniform and distributed them to his fellow inmates, risking his own life to help save theirs; the prisoners who organized a special effort to protect the children here, sheltering them from work and giving them extra food. They set up secret classrooms, some of the inmates, and taught history and math and urged the children to think about their future professions. And we were just hearing about the resistance that formed and the irony that the base for the resistance was in the latrine areas because the guards found it so offensive that they wouldn't go there. And so out of the filth, that became a space in which small freedoms could thrive. <p>When the American GIs arrived, they were astonished to find more than 900 children still alive, and the youngest was just 3 years old. And I'm told that a couple of the prisoners even wrote a Buchenwald song that many here sang. Among the lyrics were these: \\". . . whatever our fate, we will say yes to life, for the day will come when we are free . . . in our blood we carry the will to live and in our hearts, in our hearts faith.\\" <p>These individuals never could have known that the world would one day speak of this place. They could not have known that some of them would live to have children and grandchildren who would grow up hearing their stories and would return here so many years later to find a museum and memorials and the clock tower set permanently to 3:15, the moment of liberation. <p>They could not have known how the nation of Israel would rise out of the destruction of the Holocaust and the strong, enduring bonds between that great nation and my own. And they could not have known that one day an American President would visit this place and speak of them and that he would do so standing side by side with the German Chancellor in a Germany that is now a vibrant democracy and a valued American ally. <p>They could not have known these things. But, still, surrounded by death they willed themselves to hold fast to life. In their hearts, they still had faith that evil would not triumph in the end, that while history is unknowable it arches towards progress, and that the world would one day remember them. And it is now up to us, the living, in our work, wherever we are, to resist injustice and intolerance and indifference in whatever forms they may take and ensure that those who were lost here did not go in vain. It is up to us to redeem that faith. It is up to us to bear witness, to ensure that the continues--the world continues to note what happened here, to remember all those who survived and all those who perished, and to remember them not just as victims, but also as individuals who hoped and loved and dreamed just like us. <p>And just as we identify with the victims, it's also important for us, I think, to remember that the perpetrators of such evil were human as well, and that we have to guard against cruelty in ourselves. And I wanted to express particular thanks to Chancellor Merkel and the German people, because it's not easy to look into the past in this way and acknowledge it and make something of it, make a determination that they will stand guard against acts like this happening again. <p>Rather than have me end with my remarks, I thought it was appropriate to have Elie Wiesel provide some reflection and some thought as he returns here so many years later to the place where his father died.\" "
"168" "\"Over the past few days, I've been traveling through the Middle East and Europe working to renew our alliances, enhance our common security, and propose a new partnership between the United States and the Muslim world. <p>But even as I'm abroad, I'm firmly focused on the other pressing challenges we face, including the urgent need to reform our health care system. Even as we speak, Congress is preparing to introduce and debate health reform legislation that is the product of many months of effort and deliberation. And if you're like any of the Americans I've met across this country, who know all too well that the soaring costs of health care make our current course unsustainable, I imagine you'll be watching their progress closely. <p>I'm talking about the families I've met whose spiraling premiums and out-of-pocket expenses are pushing them into bankruptcy or forcing them to go without the check-ups or prescriptions they need; business owners who fear they'll be forced to choose between keeping their doors open or covering their workers; Americans who rightly worry that the ballooning costs of Medicare and Medicaid could lead to fiscal catastrophe down the road. Simply put, the status quo is broken. <p>We cannot continue this way. If we do nothing, everyone's health care will be put in jeopardy. Within a decade, we'll spend $1 out of every 5 we earn on health care, and we'll keep getting less for our money. And that's why fixing what's wrong with our health care system is no longer a luxury we hope to achieve; it's a necessity we cannot postpone any longer. <p>The growing consensus around that reality has led an unprecedented coalition to come together for change. Unlike past attempts at reforming our health care system, everyone is at the table, patients' advocates and health insurers, business and labor, Democrats and Republicans alike. <p>A few weeks ago, some of these improbable allies committed to cut national health care spending by $2 trillion over the next decade. What makes this so remarkable is that it probably wouldn't have happened just a few short years ago. But today, at this historic juncture, even old adversaries are united around the same goal: quality, affordable health care for all Americans. <p>Now, I know that when you bring together disparate groups with differing views, there will be lively debate, and that's a debate I welcome. But what we can't accept is reform that just invests more money in the status quo, reform that throws good money after bad habits. <p>Instead we must attack the root causes of skyrocketing health care costs. Some of these costs are the result of unwarranted profiteering that has no place in our health care system, and in too many communities, folks are paying higher costs without receiving better care in return. And yet we know, for example, that there are places like the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota, the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio, and other institutions that offer some of the highest quality of care in the Nation at some of the lowest costs in the Nation. We should learn from their successes and promote the best practices, not the most expensive ones. That's how we'll achieve reform that fixes what doesn't work and builds on what does. <p>This week, I conveyed to Congress my belief that any health care reform must be built around fundamental reforms that lower costs, improve quality and coverage, and also protect consumer choice. And that means if you like the plan you have, you can keep it. If you like the doctor you have, you can keep your doctor too. The only change you'll see are falling costs as our reforms take hold. <p>I've also made it very clear to Congress that we must develop a plan that doesn't add to our budget deficit. My budget included a historic downpayment on reform, and we'll work with Congress to fully cover the costs through rigorous spending reductions and appropriate additional revenues. We'll eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse in our health care system, but we'll also take on key causes of rising costs, saving billions while providing better care to the American people. <p>Now, all across America, our families are making hard choices when it comes to health care. Now, it's time for Washington to make the right ones. It's time to deliver. And I am absolutely convinced that if we keep working together and living up to our mutual responsibilities, if we place the American people's interests above the special interests, we will seize this historic opportunity to finally fix what ails our broken health care system and strengthen our economy and our country now and for decades to come.\" "
"169" "\"Good afternoon. Thank you, President Sarkozy, Prime Minister Brown, Prime Minister Harper, and Prince Charles for being here today. Thank you to our Secretary of Veterans Affairs, General Eric Shinseki, for making the trip out here to join us. Thanks also to Susan Eisenhower, whose grandfather began this mission 65 years ago with a simple charge: \\"Ok, let's go,\\" and to a World War II veteran who returned home from this war to serve a proud and distinguished career as a United States Senator and a national leader, Bob Dole. <p>I'm not the first American President to come and mark this anniversary, and I likely will not be the last. This is an event that has long brought to this coast both heads of state and grateful citizens, veterans and their loved ones, the liberated and their liberators. It's been written about and spoken of and depicted in countless books and films and speeches. And long after our time on this Earth has passed, one word will still bring forth the pride and awe of men and women who will never meet the heroes who sit before us: D-Day. <p>Why is this? Of all the battles in all the wars across the span of human history, why does this day hold such a revered place in our memory? What is it about the struggle that took place on the sands a few short steps from here that brings us back to remember year after year after year? Part of it, I think, is the size of the odds that weighed against success. For three centuries, no invader had ever been able to cross the English Channel into Normandy, and it had never been more difficult than in 1944. <p>That was the year that Hitler ordered his top field marshal to fortify the Atlantic Wall against a seaborne invasion. From the tip of Norway to southern France, the Nazis lined steep cliffs with machine guns and artillery. Low-lying areas were flooded to block passage. Sharpened poles awaited paratroopers. Mines were laid on the beaches and beneath the water. And by the time of the invasion, half a million Germans waited for the Allies along the coast between Holland and northern France. <p>At dawn on June 6th, the Allies came. The best chance for victory had been for the British Royal air corps to take out the guns on the cliffs while airborne divisions parachuted behind enemy lines. But all did not go according to plan. Paratroopers landed miles from their mark, while the fog and clouds prevented Allied planes from destroying the guns on the cliffs. So when the ships landed here at Omaha, an unimaginable hell rained down on the men inside. Many never made it out of the boats. <p>And yet, despite all of this, one by one, the Allied forces made their way to shore, here and at Utah and Juno, Gold and Sword. They were American, British, and Canadian. Soon, the paratroopers found each other and fought their way back. The Rangers scaled the cliffs. And by the end of the day, against all odds, the ground on which we stand was free once more. The sheer improbability of this victory is part of what makes D-Day so memorable. It also arises from the clarity of purpose with which this war was waged. <p>We live in a world of competing beliefs and claims about what is true. It's a world of varied religions and cultures and forms of government. In such a world, it's all too rare for a struggle to emerge that speaks to something universal about humanity. The Second World War did that. No man who shed blood or lost a brother would say that war is good, but all know that this war was essential. For what we faced in Nazi totalitarianism was not just a battle of competing interests; it was a competing vision of humanity. Nazi ideology sought to subjugate and humiliate and exterminate. It perpetrated murder on a massive scale, fueled by a hatred of those who were deemed different and therefore inferior. It was evil. <p>The nations that joined together to defeat Hitler's Reich were not perfect. They had made their share of mistakes, had not always agreed with one another on every issue. But whatever God we prayed to, whatever our differences, we knew that the evil we faced had to be stopped. Citizens of all faiths and of no faith came to believe that we could not remain as bystanders to the savage perpetration of death and destruction. And so we joined and sent our sons to fight and often die so that men and women they never met might know what it is to be free. <p>In America, it was an endeavor that inspired a nation to action. A President who asked his country to pray on D-Day also asked its citizens to serve and sacrifice to make the invasion possible. On farms and in factories, millions of men and women worked three shifts a day, month after month, year after year. Trucks and tanks came from plants in Michigan and Indiana, New York and Illinois. Bombers and fighter planes rolled off assembly lines in Ohio and Kansas, where my grandmother did her part as an inspector. Shipyards on both coasts produced the largest fleet in history, including the landing craft from New Orleans that eventually made it here to Omaha. <p>But despite all the years of planning and preparation, despite the inspiration of our leaders, the skill of our generals, the strength of our firepower, and the unyielding support from our home front, the outcome of the entire struggle would ultimately rest on the success of one day in June. <p>Lyndon Johnson once said that there are certain moments when \\"history and fate meet at a single time in a single place to shape a turning point in man's unending search for freedom.\\" And D-Day was such a moment. One newspaper noted that \\"we have come to the hour for which we were born.\\" Had the Allies failed here, Hitler's occupation of this continent might have continued indefinitely. Instead, victory here secured a foothold in France. It opened a path to Berlin. It made possible the achievements that followed the liberation of Europe: the Marshall plan, the NATO alliance, the shared prosperity and security that flowed from each. <p>It was unknowable then, but so much of the progress that would define the 20th century, on both sides of the Atlantic, came down to a battle for a slice of beach only 6 miles long and 2 miles wide. More particularly, it came down to the men who landed here, those who now rest in this place for eternity and those who are with us here today. <p>Perhaps more than any other reason, you, the veterans of that landing, are why we still remember what happened on D-Day. You're why we keep coming back. For you remind us that in the end, human destiny is not determined by forces beyond our control. You remind us that our future is not shaped by mere chance or circumstance. Our history has always been the sum total of the choices made and the actions taken by each individual man and woman. It has always been up to us. <p>You could have done what Hitler believed you would do when you arrived here. In the face of a merciless assault from these cliffs, you could have idled the boats offshore. Amid a barrage of tracer bullets that lit the night sky, you could have stayed in those planes. You could have hid in the hedgerows or waited behind the seawall. You could have done only what was necessary to ensure your own survival. <p>But that's not what you did. That's not the story you told on D-Day. Your story was written by men like Zane Schlemmer of the 82d Airborne, who parachuted into a dark marsh, far from his objective and his men. Lost and alone, he still managed to fight his way through the gunfire and help liberate the town in which he landed, a town where a street now bears his name. <p>It's a story written by men like Anthony Ruggiero, an Army Ranger who saw half the men on his landing craft drown when it was hit by shellfire just a thousand yards off this beach. He spent 3 hours in freezing water and was 1 of only 90 Rangers to survive out of the 225 who were sent to scale the cliffs. <p>And it's a story written by so many who are no longer with us, like Carlton Barrett. Private Barrett was only supposed to serve as a guide for the 1st Infantry Division, but he instead became one of its heroes. After wading ashore in neck-deep water, he returned to the water again and again and again to save his wounded and drowning comrades. And under the heaviest possible enemy fire, he carried them to safety. He carried them in his own arms. <p>This is the story of the Allied victory. It's the legend of units like Easy Company and the All-American 82d. It's the tale of the British people, whose courage during the Blitz forced Hitler to call off the invasion of England; the Canadians, who came even though they were never attacked; the Russians, who sustained some of the war's heaviest casualties on the Eastern front; and all those French men and women who would rather have died resisting tyranny than lived within its grasp. <p>It is the memories that have been passed on to so many of us about the service or sacrifice of a friend or relative. For me, it is my grandfather, Stanley Dunham, who arrived on this beach 6 weeks after D-Day and marched across Europe in Patton's army. And it is my great uncle who was part of the first American division to reach and liberate a Nazi concentration camp. His name is Charles Payne, and I'm so proud that he's with us here today. <p>I know this trip doesn't get any easier as the years pass, but for those of you who make it, there's nothing that could keep you away. One such veteran, a man named Jim Norene, was a member of the 502d Parachute Infantry Division of the 101st Airborne. Last night, after visiting this cemetery for one last time, he passed away in his sleep. Jim was gravely ill when he left his home, and he knew that he might not return. But just as he did 65 years ago, he came anyway. May he now rest in peace with the boys he once bled with, and may his family always find solace in the heroism he showed here. <p>In the end, Jim Norene came back to Normandy for the same reason we all come back. He came for the reason articulated by Howard Huebner, another former paratrooper who is here with us today. When asked why he made the trip, Howard said, \\"It's important that we tell our stories. It doesn't have to be something big . . . just a little story about what happened so people don't forget\\"--so people don't forget. <p>Friends and veterans, we cannot forget. What we must not forget is that D-Day was a time and a place where the bravery and selflessness of a few was able to change the course of an entire century. At an hour of maximum danger, amid the bleakest of circumstances, men who thought themselves ordinary found within themselves the ability to do something extraordinary. They fought for their moms and sweethearts back home, for the fellow warriors they came to know as brothers. And they fought out of a simple sense of duty, a duty sustained by the same ideals for which their countrymen had once fought and bled for over two centuries. <p>That is the story of Normandy, but also the story of America, of the Minutemen who gathered on a green in Lexington, of the Union boys from Maine who repelled a charge at Gettysburg, of the men who gave their last full measure of devotion at Inchon and Khe Sanh, of all the young men and women whose valor and goodness still carry forward this legacy of service and sacrifice. It's a story that has never come easy, but one that always gives us hope. For as we face down the hardships and struggles of our time and arrive at that hour for which we were born, we cannot help but draw strength from those moments in history when the best among us were somehow able to swallow their fears and secure a beachhead on an unforgiving shore. <p>To those men who achieved that victory 65 years ago, we thank you for your service. May God bless you, and may God bless the memory of all those who rest here.\" "
"170" "\"Well, thank you, Joe, and thanks to all of you Cabinet, sub-Cabinet agencies that have been involved in this process. Your leadership, Joe, has been critical on this. I'm grateful to you and your team for helping to coordinate between all the agencies, because there are a lot of moving parts to this whole process. <p>On Friday, we learned that we had lost an additional 345,000 jobs in the month of May. Now, that was far less than was expected, but it's still too many. That means that there are families who are still losing not only their jobs, but maybe losing their homes, finding themselves under extraordinary financial straits. And it's a reminder that we're still in the middle of a very deep recession that was years in the making, and it's going to take a considerable amount of time for us to pull out of. <p>Having said that, this was the fewest number of jobs that we have lost in about 8 months, so it was about half of the number lost of just a few months ago, and it's a sign that we're moving in the right direction. The key is for us to build on the modest progress that has been made in the months to come. <p>When we arrived here, we were confronting the most significant recession since the Great Depression. It was bad, and it was getting worse. Had we done nothing, I think it's fair to say that most economists believed we could have really gone into a tailspin. We decided to move swiftly and boldly, and I signed a Recovery Act into law just over a hundred days ago, and we've done more than ever, faster than ever, more responsibly than ever, to get the gears of the economy moving again. We've created and saved, as you said, Joe, at least 150,000 jobs, jobs of teachers and nurses and firefighters and police officers. People who had been laid off are not being laid off. Folks who might have seen that plant close, as you pointed out, in my hometown, suddenly they started seeing orders coming back in, and that meant that they were retained. <p>We offered immediate relief to 95 percent of working families through our tax cut. We helped struggling State governments safeguard critical safety-net programs and, in some cases, made them work better. So, Kathleen, as you know, a lot of people, they lose their jobs, they lose their health care. Because of the Recovery Act, if even when they lost their jobs, many of them were actually able to use the COBRA program that was cost-prohibitive previously. So we've got some good news to report. I've been receiving the weekly reports from all of you, and I thank you and your teams for your dedication in moving this forward. <p>Having said that, I'm not satisfied. We've got more work to do. The biggest concern that I have moving forward is that the toll that job losses take on individual families and communities can be self-reinforcing. People lose jobs; they pull back on spending. That means businesses don't have customers, and suddenly you start seeing more job layoffs. Our whole task here with the Recovery Act is to reverse that negative cycle into a positive cycle, and it's going to take some work. <p>So I'm pleased to know that having put the infrastructure in place, having gotten your teams up and running, many of the criteria by which money is going out in a responsible way that protects taxpayers having been created, now we're in a position to really accelerate. <p>And so the goal here is that we're going to create or save 600,000 jobs over the next 100 days. Joe highlighted some of the specific commitments that we're making to keep the recovery moving forward: keeping teachers in the classroom, cops on the streets, providing summer jobs for youth that are particularly hard-hit in this job market, breaking ground on hundreds of new projects all across the country in clean energy and transportation, and so on. <p>And we're going to do it--continuing to operate in a transparent fashion so that taxpayers know this money is not being wasted on a bunch of boondoggles. And I think that sometimes good news comes in what you don't hear about, and you haven't heard a bunch of scandals--knock on wood--[<i>laughter</i>]--so far. <p>That doesn't mean that this thing is going to be flawless, but I think it is fair to say that given the speed with which we've acted, all of you can be proud that many of the safeguards and transparency measures that have taken place so far seem to have worked. We've got to keep that up because at a time when everybody is tightening their belts, the last thing the American people want to see is that any of this money is being wasted. <p>Now, I know that there are some who, despite all evidence to the contrary, still don't believe in the necessity and promise of this Recovery Act, and I would suggest to them that they talk to the companies who, because of this plan, scrapped the idea of laying off employees and, in fact, decided to hire employees. Tell that to the Americans who receive that unexpected call saying come back to work. Tell it to the Americans poised to benefit from critical investments that this plan makes in our long-term growth and prosperity. <p>In the end, that's the only measure of progress, is whether or not the American people are seeing some progress in their own lives. And so although we've seen some stabilizing in the financial markets, and credit spreads have gone down, and we're seeing a reduction in the fear that gripped the market just a few months ago--stock market is up a little bit, all that stuff is not our ultimate goal. Our ultimate goal is making sure that the average family out there--mom working, dad working--that they are able to pay their bills, feel some job security, make their mortgage payments; the small-business owner there is starting to see customers coming back in, they can make payroll, they can even think about hiring a little bit more and expanding. That's the measure, how ordinary families are helping to rebuild America once more. <p>We've got a long way to go, but I feel like we've made great progress. I'm grateful to you, Joe, for your leadership. I want to thank all of you for the good work you're doing. And now we're going to get into the nitty-gritty of how we're going to make this happen. <p>Press, thank you. You're getting kicked out now.\" "
"171" "\"Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. Thank you. Thank you all for joining us here in the White House. Before I begin, I want to comment briefly on the announcement by the Treasury Department with regard to the financial stability plan. <p>As you know, through this plan and its predecessor, taxpayer dollars were used to stabilize the financial system at a time of extraordinary stress. And these funds were also meant to be an investment, and they were meant to be temporary. And that's why this morning's announcement is important. <p>Several financial institutions are set to pay back $68 billion to taxpayers. And while we know that we will not escape the worst financial crisis in decades without some losses to taxpayers, it's worth noting that in the first round of repayments from these companies the Government has actually turned a profit. <p>Now, this is not a sign that our troubles are over--far from it. The financial crisis this administration inherited is still creating painful challenges for businesses and families alike. And I think everybody sees it in their own individual districts. But it is a positive sign. We're seeing an initial return on a few of these investments. We're restoring funds to the Treasury, where they'll be available to safeguard against continuing risks to financial stability. And as this money is returned, we'll see our national debt lessened by $68 billion, billions of dollars that this generation will not have to borrow and future generations will not have to repay. <p>I've said repeatedly that I have no interest in managing the banking system, or, for that matter, running auto companies or other private institutions. So today's announcement is welcome news to me. But I also want to say, the return of these funds does not provide forgiveness for past excesses or permission for future misdeeds. It's critical that as our country emerges from this period of crisis, that we learn its lessons, that those who seek reward do not take reckless risk, that short-term gains are not pursued without regard for long-term consequences. <p>At the same time, as we seek greater responsibility from those in the private sector, it's my view and the view of those who are standing behind me today, as well as those in the audience, that greater responsibility is required on the part of those who serve the public as well. <p>As a nation, we have several imperatives at this difficult moment in our history. We're confronting the worst recession this country has faced in generations, and this has required extraordinary investments in the short term. Another imperative is addressing long-deferred priorities--health care, energy, education--which threaten the American economy and the well-being of American families. And we've begun to tackle these problems as well. <p>But we are also called upon to rein in deficits by addressing these and other challenges in a manner that is fiscally responsible. This, in part, requires the kind of line-by-line review of the budget that is ongoing to remove things that we don't need and make the programs we do need work more efficiently. There are billions of dollars to be saved this way. But much of our effort will entail going after the big-ticket items that drive the deficits. <p>By ending unnecessary no-bid contracts and reforming the way Government contracts are awarded, we can save the American people up to $40 billion every year. In addition, Secretary Robert Gates has proposed a badly needed overhaul of a defense contracting system riddled with hundreds of billions of dollars in cost overruns, and the cancelation of superfluous defense systems unnecessary to combat the threats of the 21st century. <p>We're also going to eliminate unwarranted subsidies currently lavished on health insurance companies through Medicare, which will save roughly $177 billion over the next decade. And this is part of broader health reform, about which I'll have more to say in the coming days, which will both cut costs and improve care. <p>So all told, in the next 4 years, the deficit will be cut in half. Over the next decade, nondefense discretionary spending will reach its lowest level as a share of our national income since we began keeping records in 1962. <p>But we must go further, and one important step we can and must take is restoring the so-called pay-as-you-go rule, or PAYGO. This is a rule I championed in the Senate and called for time and again on the campaign trail. Today, with the support of these legislators, including the Speaker of the House, my administration is submitting to Congress a proposal to codify this rule into law, and I hope that the House and Senate will act quickly to pass it. <p>The pay-as-you-go rule is very simple: Congress can only spend a dollar if it saves a dollar elsewhere. And this principle guides responsible families managing a budget. And it is no coincidence that this rule was in place when we moved from record deficits to record surpluses in the 1990s, and that when this rule was abandoned, we returned to record deficits that doubled the national debt. Entitlement increases and tax cuts need to be paid for. They're not free, and borrowing to finance them is not a sustainable long-term policy. <p>Paying for what you spend is basic common sense. Perhaps that's why here in Washington it's been so elusive. Of course, there have been those in Washington leading the charge to restore PAYGO, and many of them are here today. I want to recognize Congressman George Miller, who introduced the first PAYGO bill in the House. I want to thank the House Blue Dogs and their leader, especially Baron Hill, who has been a driving force in favor of PAYGO. I want to acknowledge Senator Claire McCaskill, who's shown real leadership on this issue in the Senate. And as I said, I want to acknowledge the Speaker of the House, as well as leader Steny Hoyer, who are here because they understand the importance of this principle and are fully supportive of our efforts. <p>In fact, 2 years ago, a new Democratic Congress put in place congressional rules to restore this principle, but could not pass legislation without the support of the administration. I want you all to know you now have that support. <p>The fact is there are few who aren't distressed by deficits. It's a concern that crosses party lines, geographic boundaries, and ideological divides. But often, in the give-and-take of the political process, the vested interests of the few overtake the broader interests of the many. The debate of the day drowns out those who speak of what we may face tomorrow. And that's why pay-as-you-go is essential. It requires Congress to navigate the ebb and flow of politics while remaining fixed on that fiscal horizon. <p>The reckless fiscal policies of the past have left us in a very deep hole, and digging our way out of it will take time, patience, and some tough choices. I know that in the face of this historic challenge there are many across this country who are skeptical of our collective ability to meet it. They're not wrong to feel that way. They're not wrong to draw this lesson after years in which we've put off difficult decisions, in which we've allowed our politics to grow smaller as our challenges grew ever more daunting. <p>But I think everybody understands this is an extraordinary moment, one in which we are called upon not just to restore fiscal responsibility, but to once again live up to the broader responsibilities we have to one another. And I know that we can summon that sense of shared obligation, that we have the capacity to change and to grow and to solve even our toughest of problems. <p>And that's at the heart of why we're here today. I appreciate the work of the people in this room who've shown a willingness to make hard choices and do the hard work that's essential to overcoming the challenges of the present, while leaving our Nation better off in the future. So this is going to be a lift. We know it's going to be tough. I think we can get it done, especially with the extraordinary leadership that is on display here today. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. Take care.\" "
"172" "\"Last week, I spoke to you about my commitment to work with Congress to pass health care reform this year. Today I'd like to speak about how that effort is essential to restoring fiscal responsibility. <p>When it comes to the cost of health care, this much is clear: The status quo is unsustainable for families, businesses, and government. America spends nearly 50 percent more per person on health care than any other country. Health care premiums have doubled over the last decade, deductibles and out-of-pocket costs have skyrocketed, and many with preexisting conditions are denied coverage. More and more, Americans are being priced out of the care they need. <p>These costs are also hurting business, as some big businesses are at a competitive disadvantage with their foreign counterparts and some small businesses are forced to cut benefits, drop coverage, or even lay off workers. Meanwhile, Medicare and Medicaid pose one of the greatest threats to our Federal deficit and could leave our children with a mountain of debt that they cannot pay. <p>We cannot continue down this path. I don't accept a future where Americans forego health care because they can't pay for it and more and more families go without coverage at all. And I don't accept a future where American business is hurt and our Government goes broke. We have a responsibility to act, and to act now. That's why I'm working with Congress to pass reform that lowers costs, improves quality and coverage, and protects consumer health care choices. <p>I know some question whether we can afford to act this year, but the unmistakable truth is it would be irresponsible to not act. We can't keep shifting a growing burden to future generations. With each passing year, health care costs consume a larger share of our Nation's spending and contribute to yawning deficits that we can't control. So let me be clear: Health care reform is not part of the problem when it comes to our fiscal future, it's a fundamental part of the solution. <p>Real reform will mean reductions in our long-term budget. And I have made a firm commitment that health care reform will not add to the Federal deficit over the next decade. To keep that commitment, my administration has already identified how to pay for the historic $635 billion downpayment on reform detailed in our budget. This includes over $300 billion that we will save through changes like reducing Medicare overpayments to private insurers and rooting out waste in Medicare and Medicaid. <p>However, any honest accounting must prepare for the fact that health care reform will require additional costs in the short term, in order to reduce spending in the long term. So today I am announcing an additional $313 billion in savings that will rein in unnecessary spending and increase efficiency and the quality of care; savings that will ensure that we have nearly $950 billion set aside to offset the cost of health care reform over the next 10 years. <p>These savings will come from commonsense changes. For example, if more Americans are insured, we can cut payments that help hospitals treat patients without health insurance. If the drug makers pay their fair share, we can cut Government spending on prescription drugs. And if doctors have incentives to provide the best care instead of more care, we can help Americans avoid the unnecessary hospital stays, treatments, and tests that drive up costs. For more details about these and other savings, you can visit our web site, www.whitehouse.gov. <p>These savings underscore the fact that securing quality, affordable health care for the American people is tied directly to insisting upon fiscal responsibility. And these savings are rooted in the same principle that must guide our broader approach to reform. We will fix what's broken, while building upon what works. If you like your plan and your doctor, you can keep them. The only changes that you'll see are lower costs and better health care. <p>For too long, we've stood by while our health care system has frayed at the seams. While there has been excuse after excuse to delay reform, the price of care has gone up for individuals, for business, and for the Government. This time must be different. This is the moment when we must reform health care so that we can build a new foundation for our economy to grow, for our people to thrive, and for our country to pursue a responsible and sustainable path. Thanks.\" "
"173" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you so much. Good to see you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Please, everybody be seated. Thank you very much. You're very kind. Thank you. <p>Let me begin by thanking Nancy for the wonderful introduction. I want to thank Dr. Joseph Heyman, the chair of the board of the trustees, as well as Dr. Jeremy Lazarus, speaker of House of Delegates. Thanks to all of you for bringing me home, even if it's just for a day. <p>From the moment I took office as President, the central challenge we've confronted as a nation has been the need to lift ourselves out of the worst recession since World War II. And in recent months, we've taken a series of extraordinary steps, not just to repair the immediate damage to our economy, but to build a new foundation for lasting and sustained growth. We're here to create new jobs, to unfreeze our credit markets. We're stemming the loss of homes and the decline of home values. <p>All this is important. But even as we've made progress, we know that the road to prosperity remains long and it remains difficult. And we also know that one essential step on our journey is to control the spiraling cost of health care in America. And in order to do that, we're going to need the help of the AMA. <p>Today, we are spending over $2 trillion a year on health care, almost 50 percent more per person than the next most costly nation. And yet, as I think many of you are aware, for all of this spending, more of our citizens are uninsured, the quality of our care is often lower, and we aren't any healthier. In fact, citizens in some countries that spend substantially less than we do are actually living longer than we do. <p>Make no mistake, the cost of our health care is a threat to our economy. It's an escalating burden on our families and businesses. It's a ticking time bomb for the Federal budget. And it is unsustainable for the United States of America. <p>It's unsustainable for Americans like Laura Klitzka, a young mother that I met in Wisconsin just last week, who's learned that the breast cancer she thought she'd beaten had spread to her bones, but who's now being forced to spend time worrying about how to cover the $50,000 in medical debts she's already accumulated, worried about future debts that she's going to accumulate, when all she wants to do is spend time with her two children and focus on getting well. These are not the worries that a woman like Laura should have to face in a nation as wealthy as ours. <p>Stories like Laura's are being told by women and men all across this country, by families who've seen out-of-pocket costs soar and premiums double over the last decade at a rate three times faster than wages. This is forcing Americans of all ages to go without the checkups or the prescriptions they need--that you know they need. It's creating a situation where a single illness can wipe out a lifetime of savings. <p>Our costly health care system is unsustainable for doctors like Michael Kahn in New Hampshire, who, as he puts it, spends 20 percent of each day supervising a staff, explaining insurance problems to patients, completing authorization forms, writing appeal letters--a routine that he calls disruptive and distracting, giving him less time to do what he became a doctor to do and actually care for his patients. <p>Small-business owners like Chris and Becky Link in Nashville are also struggling. They've always wanted to do right by the workers at their family-run marketing firm, but they've recently had to do the unthinkable and lay off a number of employees, layoffs that could have been deferred, they say, if health care costs weren't so high. Across the country, over one-third of small businesses have reduced benefits in recent years and one-third have dropped their workers' coverage altogether since the early nineties. <p>Our largest companies are suffering as well. A big part of what led General Motors and Chrysler into trouble in recent decades were the huge costs they racked up providing health care for their workers, costs that made them less profitable and less competitive with automakers around the world. If we do not fix our health care system, America may go the way of GM--paying more, getting less, and going broke. <p>Now, when it comes to the cost of our health care, then, the status quo is unsustainable. So reform is not a luxury; it is a necessity. When I hear people say, \\"Well, why are you taking this on right now? You've got all these other problems,\\" I keep on reminding people I'd love to be able to defer these issues, but we can't. I know there's been much discussion about what reform would cost, and rightly so. This is a test of whether we, Democrats and Republicans alike, are serious about holding the line on new spending and restoring fiscal discipline. <p>But let there be no doubt: the cost of inaction is greater. If we fail to act--and you know this because you see it in your own individual practices--if we fail to act, premiums will climb higher, benefits will erode further, the rolls of the uninsured will swell to include millions more Americans, all of which will affect your practice. <p>If we fail to act, one out of every five dollars we earn will be spent on health care within a decade. And in 30 years, it will be about one out of every three, a trend that will mean lost jobs, lower take-home pay, shuttered businesses, and a lower standard of living for all Americans. <p>And if we fail to act, Federal spending on Medicaid and Medicare will grow over the coming decades by an amount almost equal to the amount our Government currently spends on our Nation's defense. It will, in fact, eventually grow larger than what our Government spends on anything else today. It's a scenario that will swamp our Federal and State budgets, and impose a vicious choice of either unprecedented tax hikes, or overwhelming deficits, or drastic cuts in our Federal and State budgets. <p>So to say it as plainly as I can, health care is the single most important thing we can do for America's long-term fiscal health. That is a fact. [<i>Applause</i>] That's a fact. <p>It's a fact, and the truth is most people know that it's a fact. And yet, as clear as it is that our system badly needs reform, reform is not inevitable. There's a sense out there among some, and perhaps some members who are gathered here today of the AMA, that as bad as our current system may be--and it's pretty bad--the devil we know is better than the devil we don't. There's a fear of change, a worry that we may lose what works about our health care system while trying to fix what doesn't. <p>I'm here to tell you I understand that fear, and I understand the cynicism. They're scars left over from past efforts at reform. After all, Presidents have called for health care reform for nearly a century: Teddy Roosevelt called for it; Harry Truman called for it; Richard Nixon called for it; Jimmy Carter called for it; Bill Clinton called for it. But while significant individual reforms have been made--such as Medicare and Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program--efforts at comprehensive reform that covers everyone and brings down costs have largely failed. <p>And part of the reason is because the different groups involved--doctors, insurance companies, businesses, workers, and others--simply couldn't agree on the need for reform or what shape it would take. And if we're honest, another part of the reason has been the fierce opposition fueled by some interest groups and lobbyists, opposition that has used fear tactics to paint any effort to achieve reform as an attempt to, yes, socialize medicine. <p>And despite this long history of failure, I'm standing here because I think we're in a different time. One sign that things are different is that just this past week, the Senate passed a bill that will protect children from the dangers of smoking, a reform the AMA has long championed--[<i>applause</i>]--this organization long championed; it went nowhere when it was proposed a decade ago--I'm going to sign this into law. <p>Now, what makes this moment different is that this time, for the first time, key stakeholders are aligning not against, but in favor of reform. They're coming out--they're coming together out of a recognition that while reform will take everyone in our health care community to do their part--everybody's going to have to pitch in--ultimately, everybody will benefit. <p>And I want to commend the AMA, in particular, for offering to do your part to curb costs and achieve reform. Just a week ago, you joined together with hospitals, labor unions, insurers, medical device manufacturers, and drug companies to do something that would have been unthinkable just a few years ago, you promised to work together to cut national health care spending by $2 trillion over the next decade, relative to what it would have otherwise been. And that will bring down costs; that will bring down premiums. That's exactly the kind of cooperation we need, and we appreciate that very much. Thank you. <p>Now, the question is how do we finish the job? How do we permanently bring down costs and make quality, affordable health care available to every single American? That's what I've come to talk about today. We know the moment is right for health care reform. We know this is a historic opportunity we've never seen before and may not see again. But we also know that there are those who will try and scuttle this opportunity no matter what, who will use the same scare tactics and fear-mongering that's worked in the past; who will give warnings about socialized medicine and Government takeovers, long lines and rationed care, decisions made by bureaucrats and not doctors. We have heard this all before. And because these fear tactics have worked, things have kept getting worse. <p>So let me begin by saying this to you and to the American people: I know that there are millions of Americans who are content with their health care coverage; they like their plan and, most importantly, they value their relationship with their doctor. They trust you. And that means that no matter how we reform health care, we will keep this promise to the American people: If you like your doctor, you will be able to keep your doctor, period. If you like your health care plan, you'll be able to keep your health care plan, period. No one will take it away, no matter what. My view is that health care reform should be guided by a simple principle: Fix what's broken and build on what works. And that's what we intend to do. <p>If we do that, we can build a health care system that allows you to be physicians instead of administrators and accountants; a system that gives Americans the best care at the lowest cost; a system that eases up the pressure on businesses and unleashes the promise of our economy, creating hundreds of thousands of jobs, making take-home wages thousands of dollars higher, and growing our economy by tens of billions of dollars more every year. That's how we'll stop spending tax dollars to prop up an unsustainable system, and start investing those dollars in innovations and advances that will make our health care system and our economy stronger. That's what we can do with this opportunity. And that's what we must do with this moment. <p>Now, the good news is that in some instances, there's already widespread agreement on the steps necessary to make our health care system work better. <p>First, we need to upgrade our medical records by switching from a paper to an electronic system of record keeping. And we've already begun to do this with an investment we made as part of our Recovery Act. It simply doesn't make sense that patients in the 21st century are still filling out forms with pens on papers that have to be stored away somewhere. As Newt Gingrich has rightly pointed out--and I don't quote Newt Gingrich that often--[<i>laughter</i>]--we do a better job tracking a FedEx package in this country than we do tracking patients' health records. <p>You shouldn't have to tell every new doctor you see about your medical history or what prescriptions you're taking. You shouldn't have to repeat costly tests. All that information should be stored securely in a private medical record so that your information can be tracked from one doctor to another, even if you change jobs, even if you move, even if you have to see a number of different specialists. That's just common sense. <p>And that will not only mean less paper-pushing and lower administrative costs, saving taxpayers billions of dollars; it will also mean all of you physicians will have an easier time doing your jobs. It will tell you, the doctors, what drugs a patient is taking so you can avoid prescribing a medication that could cause a harmful interaction. It will prevent the wrong dosages from going to a patient. It will reduce medical errors, it's estimated, that lead to 100,000 lives lost unnecessarily in our hospitals every year. So there shouldn't be an argument there. And we want to make sure that we're helping providers computerize so that we can get this system up and running. <p>The second step that we can all agree on is to invest more in preventive care so we can avoid illness and disease in the first place. And that starts with each of us taking more responsibility for our health and for the health of our children. It means quitting smoking. It means going in for that mammogram or colon cancer screening. It means going for a run or hitting the gym, and raising our children to step away from the video games and spend more time playing outside. <p>It also means cutting down on all the junk food that's fueling an epidemic of obesity, which puts far too many Americans, young and old, at greater risk of costly, chronic conditions. And that's a lesson Michelle and I have tried to instill in our daughters. As some of you know, we started a White House vegetable garden. I say \\"we\\" generously, because Michelle has done most of the work. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's a lesson that we should work with local school districts to incorporate into their school lunch programs. <p>Building a health care system that promotes prevention rather than just managing diseases will require all of us to do our parts. It will take doctors telling us what risk factors we should avoid and what preventive measures we should pursue. It will take employers following the example of places like Safeway that is rewarding workers for taking better care of their health while reducing health care costs in the process. <p>If you're one of three-quarters of Safeway workers enrolled in their \\"Healthy Measures\\" program, you can get screened for problems like high cholesterol or high blood pressure. And if you score well, you can pay lower premiums; you get more money in your paycheck. It's a program that has helped Safeway cut health care spending by 13 percent, and workers save over 20 percent on their premiums. And we're open to doing more to help employers adopt and expand programs like this one. <p>Now, our Federal Government also has to step up its efforts to advance the cause of healthy living. Five of the costliest illnesses and conditions--cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, lung disease, and strokes--can be prevented. And yet only a fraction of every health care dollar goes to prevention or public health. And that's starting to change with an investment we're making in prevention and wellness programs that can help us avoid disease that harm our health and the health of our economy. <p>But as important as they are, investments in electronic records and preventive care, all the things that I've just mentioned, they're just preliminary steps. They will only make a dent in the epidemic of rising costs in this country. <p>Despite what some have suggested, the reason we have these spiraling costs is not simply because we've got an aging population; demographics do account for part of rising costs because older, sicker societies pay more on health care than younger, healthier ones, and there's nothing intrinsically wrong in us taking better care of ourselves. But what accounts for the bulk of our costs is the nature of our health care delivery system itself, a system where we spend vast amounts of money on things that aren't necessarily making our people any healthier; a system that automatically equates more expensive care with better care. <p>Now, a recent article in the New Yorker, for example, showed how McAllen, Texas, is spending twice as much as El Paso County--twice as much--not because people in McAllen, Texas, are sicker than they are in El Paso, not because they're getting better care or getting better outcomes. It's simply because they're using more treatments, treatments that, in some cases, they don't really need; treatments that, in some cases, can actually do people harm by raising the risk of infection or medical error. <p>And the problem is this pattern is repeating itself across America. One Dartmouth study shows that you're less likely--you're no less likely to die from a heart attack and other ailments in a higher-spending area than in a lower-spending one. <p>And there are two main reasons for this. The first is a system of incentives where the more tests and services are provided, the more money we pay. And a lot of people in this room know what I'm talking about. It's a model that rewards the quantity of care rather than the quality of care; that pushes you, the doctor, to see more and more patients even if you can't spend much time with each, and gives you every incentive to order that extra MRI or EKG, even if it's not necessary. It's a model that has taken the pursuit of medicine from a profession--a calling--to a business. <p>That's not why you became doctors. That's not why you put in all those hours in the anatomy suite or the O.R. That's not what brings you back to a patient's bedside to check in, or makes you call a loved one of a patient to say it will be fine. You didn't enter this profession to be bean-counters and paper-pushers. You entered this profession to be healers. And that's what our health care system should let you be. [<i>Applause</i>] That's what this health care system should let you be. <p>Now, that starts with reforming the way we compensate our providers, doctors and hospitals. We need to bundle payments so you aren't paid for every single treatment you offer a patient with a chronic condition like diabetes, but instead paid well for how you treat the overall disease. We need to create incentives for physicians to team up, because we know that when that happens, it results in a healthier patient. We need to give doctors bonuses for good health outcomes, so we're not promoting just more treatment, but better care. <p>And we need to rethink the cost of a medical education, and do more to reward medical students who choose a career as a primary care physician, who choose to work in underserved areas instead of the more lucrative paths. That's why we're making a substantial investment in the National Health Service Corps that will make medical training more affordable for primary care doctors and nurse practitioners so they aren't drowning in debt when they enter the workforce. [<i>Applause</i>] Somebody back there is drowning in debt, they were applauding. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>The second structural reform we need to make is to improve the quality of medical information making its way to doctors and patients. We have the best medical schools, the most sophisticated labs, the most advanced training of any nation on the globe. Yet we're not doing a very good job harnessing our collective knowledge and experience on behalf of better medicine. <p>Less than 1 percent of our health care spending goes to examining what treatments are most effective--less than 1 percent. And even when that information finds its way into journals, it can take up to 17 years to find its way to an exam room or operating table. As a result, too many doctors and patients are making decisions without the benefit of the latest research. <p>A recent study, for example, found that only half of all cardiac guidelines are based on scientific evidence--half. That means doctors may be doing a bypass operation when placing a stent is equally effective; or placing a stent when adjusting a patient's drug and medical management is equally effective, all of which drives up costs without improving a patient's health. <p>So one thing we need to do is to figure out what works, and encourage rapid implementation of what works into your practices. That's why we're making a major investment in research to identify the best treatments for a variety of ailments and conditions. <p>Now, let me be clear--I just want to clear something up here--identifying what works is not about dictating what kind of care should be provided. It's about providing patients and doctors with the information they need to make the best medical decisions. See, I have the assumption that if you have good information about what makes your patients well, that's what you're going to do. I have confidence in that. We're not going to need to force you to do it. We just need to make sure you've got the best information available. <p>Still, even when we do know what works, we are often not making the most of it. And that's why we need to build on the examples of outstanding medicine at places like the Cincinnati Children's Hospital, where the quality of care for cystic fibrosis patients shot up after the hospital began incorporating suggestions from parents. And places like Tallahassee Memorial Health Care, where deaths were dramatically reduced with rapid response teams that monitored patients' conditions and \\"multidisciplinary rounds\\" with everyone from physicians to pharmacists. And places like Geisinger Health System in rural Pennsylvania, and Intermountain Health in Salt Lake City, where high-quality care is being provided at a cost well below the national average. These are all islands of excellence that we need to make the standard in our health care system. <p>So replicating best practices, incentivizing excellence, closing cost disparities--any legislation sent to my desk that does not these--does not achieve these goals in my mind does not earn the title of reform. <p>But my signature on a bill is not enough. I need your help, doctors, because to most Americans you are the health care system. The fact is Americans--and I include myself and Michelle and our kids in this--we just do what you tell us to do. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's what we do. We listen to you, we trust you. And that's why I will listen to you and work with you to pursue reform that works for you. <p>Together, if we take all these steps, I am convinced we can bring spending down, bring quality up; we can save hundreds of billions of dollars on health care costs while making our health care system work better for patients and doctors alike. And when we align the interests of patients and doctors, then we're going to be in a good place. <p>Now, I recognize that it will be hard to make some of these changes if doctors feel like they're constantly looking over their shoulders for fear of lawsuits. I recognize that. Don't get too excited yet. [<i>Applause</i>] All right. <p>Now, I understand some doctors may feel the need to order more tests and treatments to avoid being legally vulnerable. That's a real issue. Now, just hold on to your horses here, guys. [<i>Laughter</i>] I want to be honest with you. I'm not advocating caps on malpractice awards---- <p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo! <p><i>The President.</i> ----[<i>laughter</i>]--which I believe--I personally believe can be unfair to people who've been wrongfully harmed. <p>But I do think we need to explore a range of ideas about how to put patient safety first; how to let doctors focus on practicing medicine; how to encourage broader use of evidence-based guidelines. I want to work with the AMA so we can scale back the excessive defensive medicine that reinforces our current system, and shift to a system where we are providing better care, simply--rather than simply more treatment. <p>So this is going to be a priority for me. And I know, based on your responses, it's a priority for you. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I look forward to working with you. And it's going to be difficult. But all this stuff is going to be difficult. All of it's going to be important. <p>Now, I know this has been a long speech, but we got more to do. [<i>Laughter</i>] The changes that I have already spoken about, all that is going to need to go hand in hand with other reforms. Because our health care system is so complex and medicine is always evolving, we need a way to continually evaluate how we can eliminate waste, reduce costs, and improve quality. <p>That's why I'm open to expanding the role of a commission created by a Republican Congress called the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, which happens to include a number of physicians on the commission. In recent years, this commission proposed roughly $200 billion in savings that never made it into law. These recommendations have now been incorporated into our broader reform agenda, but we need to fast track their proposals, the commission's proposals, in the future so that we don't miss another opportunity to save billions of dollars, as we gain more information about what works and what doesn't work in our health care system. <p>And as we seek to contain the cost of health care, we also have to ensure that every American can get coverage they can afford. We must do so in part because it's in all of our economic interests. Each time an uninsured American steps foot into an emergency room with no way to reimburse the hospital for care, the cost is handed over to every American family as a bill of about $1,000. It's reflected in higher taxes, higher premiums, and higher health care costs. It's a hidden tax, a hidden bill that will be cut as we insure all Americans. And as we insure every young and healthy American, it will spread out risk for insurance companies, further reducing costs for everyone. <p>But alongside these economic arguments, there's another, more powerful one. And it is simply this: We are not a nation that accepts nearly 46 million uninsured men, women, and children. We are not a nation that lets hard-working families go without coverage, or turns its back on those in need. We're a nation that cares for its citizens. We look out for one another. That's what makes us the United States of America. We need to get this done. <p>So we need to do a few things to provide affordable health insurance to every single American. The first thing we need to do is to protect what's working in our health care system. So just in case you didn't catch it the first time, let me repeat: If you like your health care system and your doctor, the only thing reform will mean to you is your health care will cost less. If anyone says otherwise, they are either trying to mislead you or don't have their facts straight. <p>Now, if you don't like your health care coverage or you don't have any insurance at all, you'll have a chance, under what we've proposed, to take part in what we're calling a health insurance exchange. And this exchange will allow you to one-stop shop for a health care plan, compare benefits and prices, and choose a plan that's best for you and your family--the same way, by the way, that Federal employees can do, from a postal worker to a Member of Congress. You will have your choice of a number of plans that offer a few different packages, but every plan would offer an affordable, basic package. <p>Again, this is for people who aren't happy with their current plan. If you like what you're getting, keep it. Nobody is forcing you to shift. But if you're not, this gives you some new options. And I believe one of these options needs to be a public option that will give people a broader range of choices, and inject competition into the health care market so that force--so that we can force waste out of the system and keep the insurance companies honest. <p>Now, I know that there's some concern about a public option. Even within this organization there's healthy debate about it. In particular, I understand that you're concerned that today's Medicare rates, which many of you already feel are too low, will be applied broadly in a way that means our cost savings are coming off your backs. And these are legitimate concerns, but they're ones, I believe, that can be overcome. As I stated earlier, the reforms we propose to reimbursement are to reward best practices, focus on patient care, not on the current piecework reimbursements. What we seek is more stability and a health care system that's on a sounder financial footing. <p>And the fact is these reforms need to take place regardless of whether there's a public option or not. With reform, we will ensure that you are being reimbursed in a thoughtful way that's tied to patient outcomes, instead of relying on yearly negotiations about the sustainable growth rate formula that's based on politics and the immediate State of the Federal budget in any given year. <p>And I just want to point out the alternative to such reform is a world where health care costs grow at an unsustainable rate. And if you don't think that's going to threaten your reimbursements and the stability of our health care system, you haven't been paying attention. So the public option is not your enemy; it is your friend, I believe. <p>Let me also say that--let me also address a illegitimate concern that's being put forward by those who are claiming that a public option is somehow a Trojan horse for a single-payer system. I'll be honest, there are countries where a single-payer system works pretty well. But I believe--and I've taken some flak from members of my own party for this belief--that it's important for our reform efforts to build on our traditions here in the United States. So when you hear the naysayers claim that I'm trying to bring about government-run health care, know this: They're not telling the truth. <p>What I am trying to do--and what a public option will help do--is put affordable health care within reach for millions of Americans. And to help ensure that everyone can afford the cost of a health care option in our exchange, we need to provide assistance to families who need it. That way, there will be no reason at all for anyone to remain uninsured. <p>Indeed, it's because I'm confident in our ability to give people the ability to get insurance at an affordable rate that I'm open to a system where every American bears responsibility for owning health insurance, so long as we provide a hardship waiver for those who still can't afford it as we move towards this system. <p>The same is true for employers. While I believe every business has a responsibility to provide health insurance for its workers, small businesses that can't afford it should receive an exemption. And small-business workers and their families will be able to seek coverage in the exchange if their employer is not able to provide it. <p>Now, here's some good news. Insurance companies have expressed support for the idea of covering the uninsured and they certainly are in favor of a mandate. I welcome their willingness to engage constructively in the reform debate. I'm glad they're at the table. But what I refuse to do is simply create a system where insurance companies suddenly have a whole bunch of more customers on Uncle Sam's dime, but still fail to meet their responsibilities. We're not going to do that. <p>Let me give you an example of what I'm talking about. We need to end the practice of denying coverage on the basis of preexisting conditions. The days of cherry-picking who to cover and who to deny, those days are over. I know you see it in your practices, and how incredibly painful and frustrating it is; you want to give somebody care and you find out that the insurance companies are wiggling out of paying. <p>This is personal for me also. I've told this story before. I'll never forget watching my own mother, as she fought cancer in her final days, spending time worrying about whether her insurer would claim her illness was a preexisting condition so it could get out of providing coverage. Changing the current approach to preexisting conditions is the least we can do, for my mother and for every other mother, father, son, and daughter, who has suffered under this practice, who've been paying premiums and don't get care. We need to put health care within the reach for millions of Americans. <p>Now, even if we accept all of the economic and moral reasons for providing affordable coverage to all American, there is no denying that expanding coverage will come at a cost, at least in the short run. But it is a cost that will not--I repeat--will not add to our deficits. I've set down a rule for my staff, for my team--and I've said this to Congress--health care reform must be, and will be, deficit neutral in the next decade. <p>Now, there are already voices saying the numbers don't add up; they're wrong. Here's why: Making health care affordable for all Americans will cost somewhere on the order of $1 trillion over the next 10 years. That's real money, even in Washington. [<i>Laughter</i>] But remember, that's less than we are projected to have spent on the war in Iraq. And also remember, failing to reform our health care system in a way that genuinely reduces cost growth will cost us trillions of dollars more in lost economic growth and lower wages. <p>That said, let me explain how we will cover the price tag. First, as part of the budget that was passed a few months ago, we put aside $635 billion over 10 years in what we're calling a health reserve fund. Over half of that amount, more than $300 billion, will come from raising revenue by doing things like modestly limiting the tax deductions the wealthiest Americans can take to the same level that it was at the end of the Reagan years--same level that it was under Ronald Reagan. Some are concerned that this will dramatically reduce charitable giving, for example, but statistics show that's not true. And the best thing for our charities is the stronger economy that we will build with health care reform. <p>But we can't just raise revenues. We're also going to have to make spending cuts, in part by examining inefficiencies in our current Medicare program. There are going to be robust debates about where these cuts should be made, and I welcome that debate. But here's where I think these cuts should be made: First, we should end overpayments to Medicare Advantage. Today, we're paying Medicare Advantage plans much more than we pay for traditional Medicare services. Now, this is a good deal for insurance companies. It's a subsidy to insurance companies. It's not a good deal for you. It's not a good deal for the American people. And by the way, it doesn't follow free market principles, for those who are always talking about free market principles. That's why we need to introduce competitive bidding into the Medicare Advantage program, a program under which private insurance companies are offering Medicare coverage. That alone will save $177 billion over the next decade, just that one step. <p>Second, we need to use Medicare reimbursements to reduce preventable hospital readmissions. Right now, almost 20 percent of Medicare patients discharged from hospitals are readmitted within a month, often because they're not getting the comprehensive care that they need. This puts people at risk; it drives up cost. By changing how Medicare reimburses hospitals, we can discourage them from acting in a way that boosts profits but drives up costs for everyone else. That will save us $25 billion over the next decade. <p>Third, we need to introduce generic biologic drugs into the marketplace. These are drugs used to treat illnesses like anemia. But right now, there is no pathway at the FDA for approving generic versions of these drugs. Creating such a pathway will save us billions of dollars. We can save another roughly $30 billion by getting a better deal for our poorer seniors while asking our well-off seniors to pay a little more for their drugs. <p>So that's the bulk of what's in the Health Reserve Fund. I've also proposed saving another $313 billion in Medicare and Medicaid spending in several other ways. One way is by adjusting Medicare payments to reflect new advances and productivity gains in our economy. Right now Medicare payments are rising each year by more than they should. These adjustments will create incentives for providers to deliver care more efficiently, and save us roughly $109 billion in the process. <p>Another way we can achieve savings is by reducing payments to hospitals for treating uninsured people. I know hospitals rely on these payments now, legitimately, because of the large number of uninsured patients that they treat. But if we put in a system where people have coverage and the number of uninsured people goes down with our reforms, the amount we pay hospitals to treat uninsured people should go down as well. Reducing these payments gradually, as more and more people have coverage, will save us over $106 billion, and we'll make sure the difference goes to the hospitals that need it most. <p>We can also save about $75 billion through more efficient purchasing of prescription drugs. And we can save about $1 billion more by rooting out waste, abuse, fraud throughout our health care system so that no one is charging more for a service than it's worth or charging a dime for a service that they don't provide. <p>Let me be clear: I'm committed to making these cuts in a way that protects our senior citizens. In fact, these proposals will actually extend the life of the Medicare Trust Fund by 7 years, and reduce premiums for Medicare beneficiaries by roughly $43 billion over the next 10 years. And I'm working with AARP to uphold that commitment. <p>Now, for those of you who took out your pencil and paper--[<i>laughter</i>]--altogether, these savings mean that we've put about $950 billion on the table--and that doesn't count some of the long-term savings that we think will come about from reform--from medical IT, for example, or increased investment in prevention. So that stuff in congressional jargon is not scorable; the Congressional Budget Office won't count that as savings, so we're setting that aside. We think that's going to come, but even separate and far from that, we've put $950 billion on the table, taking us almost all the way to covering the full cost of health care reform. <p>In the weeks and months ahead, I look forward to working with Congress to make up the difference so that health care reform is fully paid for in a real, accountable way. And let me add that this does not count longer-term savings. I just want to repeat that. By insisting that the reforms that we're introducing are deficit neutral over the next decade, and by making the reforms that will help slow the growth rate of health care costs over the coming decades--bending the curve--we can look forward to faster economic growth, higher living standards, and falling, instead of rising, budget deficits. <p>Now, let me just wrap up by saying this. I know people are cynical whether we can do this or not. I know there will be disagreements about how to proceed in the days ahead. There's probably healthy debate within the AMA. That's good. I also know this: We can't let this moment pass us by. <p>You know, the other day, a friend of mine, Congressman Earl Blumenauer, handed me a magazine with a special issue titled, \\"The Crisis in American Medicine.\\" One article notes \\"soaring charges.\\" Another warns about the \\"volume of utilization of services.\\" Another asks if we can find a \\"better way than fee-for-service for paying for medical care.\\" It speaks to many of the challenges we face today. The thing is, this special issue was published by Harper's Magazine in October of 1960--[<i>laughter</i>]--before I was born. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Members of the American Medical Association, and my fellow Americans, I'm here today because I don't want our children and their children to still be speaking of a crisis in American medicine 50 years from now. I don't want them to still be suffering from spiraling costs that we did not stem, or sicknesses that we did not cure. I don't want them to be burdened with massive deficits we did not curb or a worsening economy that we did not rebuild. <p>I want them to benefit from a health care system that works for all of us; where families can open a doctor's bill without dreading what's inside; where parents are talking to their kids and getting them to get regular checkups, and testing themselves for preventable ailments; where parents are feeding their kids healthier food and kids are exercising more; where patients are spending more time with their doctors, and doctors can pull up on a computer all the medical information and latest research they'll ever want to know to meet patients' needs; where orthopedists and nephrologists and oncologists are all working together to treat a single human being; where what's best about America's health care system has become the hallmark of America's health care system. <p>That's the health care system we can build. That's the future I'm convinced is within our reach. And if we're willing to come together and bring about that future, then we will not only make Americans healthier, we will not only unleash America's economic potential, but we will reaffirm the ideals that led you into this noble profession, and we'll build a health care system that lets all Americans heal. <p>Thank you very much, AMA. Appreciate you; thank you.\" "
"174" "\"Thank you. Please, everybody, be seated. Thank you very much. Since taking office, my administration has mounted what I think has to be acknowledged as an extraordinary response to a historic economic crisis. But even as we take decisive action to repair the damage to our economy, we're working hard to build a new foundation for sustained economic growth. This will not be easy. We know that this recession is not the result of one failure, but of many. And many of the toughest challenges we face are the product of a cascade of mistakes and missed opportunities which took place over the course of decades. <p>That's why, as part of this new foundation, we're seeking to build an energy economy that creates new jobs and new businesses to free us from our dependence on foreign oil. We want to foster an education system that instills in each generation the capacity to turn ideas into innovations, and innovations into industries and jobs. And as I discussed on Monday at the American Medical Association, we want to reform our health care system so that we can remain healthy and competitive. <p>This new foundation also requires strong, vibrant financial markets, operating under transparent, fairly administered rules of the road that protect America's consumers and our economy from the devastating breakdown that we've witnessed in recent years. <p>It is an indisputable fact that one of the most significant contributors to our economic downturn was a unraveling of major financial institutions and the lack of adequate regulatory structures to prevent abuse and excess. A culture of irresponsibility took root from Wall Street to Washington to Main Street. And a regulatory regime basically crafted in the wake of a 20th century economic crisis--the Great Depression--was overwhelmed by the speed, scope, and sophistication of a 21st century global economy. <p>In recent years, financial innovators, seeking an edge in the marketplace, produced a huge variety of new and complex financial instruments. And these products, such as asset-based securities, were designed to spread risk, but unfortunately, ended up concentrating risk. Loans were sold to banks, banks packaged these loans into securities, investors bought these securities often with little insight into the risks to which they were exposed. And it was easy money while it lasted. But these schemes were built on a pile of sand. And as the appetite for these products grew, lenders lowered standards to attract new borrowers. Many Americans bought homes and borrowed money without being adequately informed of the terms, and often without accepting the responsibilities. <p>Meanwhile, executive compensation unmoored from long-term performance, or even reality, rewarded recklessness rather than responsibility. And this wasn't just the failure of individuals; this was a failure of the entire system. The actions of many firms escaped scrutiny. In some cases, the dealings of these institutions were so complex and opaque that few inside or outside these companies understood what was happening. Where there were gaps in the rules, regulators lacked the authority to take action. Where there were overlaps, regulators lacked accountability for their inaction. <p>An absence of oversight engendered systematic and systemic abuse. Instead of reducing risk, the markets actually magnified risks that were being taken by ordinary families and large firms alike. There was far too much debt and not nearly enough capital in the system. And a growing economy bred complacency. <p>Now, we all know the result: the bursting of a debt-based bubble; the failure of several of the world's largest financial institutions; the sudden decline in available credit; the deterioration of the economy; the unprecedented intervention of the Federal Government to stabilize the financial markets and prevent a wider collapse; and most importantly, the terrible pain in the lives of ordinary Americans. And there are retirees who've lost much of their life savings, families devastated by job losses, small businesses forced to shut their doors. Millions of Americans who've worked hard and behaved responsibly have seen their life dreams eroded by the irresponsibility of others and by the failure of their Government to provide adequate oversight. Our entire economy has been undermined by that failure. <p>So the question is, what do we do now? We did not choose how this crisis began, but we do have a choice in the legacy this crisis leaves behind. So today my administration is proposing a sweeping overhaul of the financial regulatory system, a transformation on a scale not seen since the reforms that followed the Great Depression. <p>These proposals reflect intensive consultation with leaders of Congress, including those who are here today: Chairman Dodd and Chairman Frank, who, along with Senator Shelby and Representative Bachus, will be meeting with me throughout this process. They met with me earlier this year to jump-start the discussion of reform. These reforms are also drawing on conversations with regulators, including those I met with this morning, as well as consumer advocates and business leaders, academic experts, and the broader public. <p>In these efforts, we seek a careful balance. I've always been a strong believer in the power of the free market. It has been and will remain the engine of America's progress, the source of prosperity that's unrivaled in history. I believe that jobs are best created not by government, but by businesses and entrepreneurs who are willing to take a risk on a good idea. I believe that our role is not to disparage wealth, but to expand its reach; not to stifle the market, but to strengthen its ability to unleash the creativity and innovation that still makes this Nation the envy of the world. <p>So that's our goal: to restore markets in which we reward hard work and responsibility and innovation, not recklessness and greed; in which honest, vigorous competition is the system--in the system is prized, and those who game the system are thwarted. <p>With the reforms we're proposing today, we seek to put in place rules that will allow our markets to promote innovation while discouraging abuse. We seek to create a framework in which markets can function freely and fairly, without the fragility in which normal business cycles suddenly bring the risk of financial collapse. We want a system that works for businesses and consumers. <p>There are those who will say that we do not go far enough, that we should have scrapped the system altogether and started all over again. I think that would be a mistake. Instead, we've crafted reforms to pinpoint the structural weaknesses that allowed for this crisis and to make sure that these problems are dealt with so that we're preventing crises in the future. <p>And there are also those who say that we are going too far. But the events of the past few years offer ample testimony for the need to make significant changes. The absence of a working regulatory regime over many parts of the financial system, and over the system as a whole, led us to near catastrophe. We shouldn't forget that. We don't want to stifle innovation. But I'm convinced that by setting out clear rules of the road and ensuring transparency and fair dealing, we will actually promote a more vibrant market. This principle is at the heart of the changes we're proposing, so let me list them for you. <p>First, we're proposing a set of reforms to require regulators to look not only at the safety and soundness of individual institutions but also, for the first time, at the stability of the financial system as a whole. <p>One of the reasons this crisis could take place is that while many agencies and regulators were responsible for overseeing individual financial firms and their subsidiaries, no one was responsible for protecting the whole system from the kinds of risks that tied these firms to one another. Regulators were charged with seeing the trees, but not the forest. And even then, some firms that posed a so-called systemic risk were not regulated as strongly as others; they behaved like banks but chose to be regulated as insurance companies, or investment firms, or other entities that were under less scrutiny. <p>As a result, the failure of one firm threatened the viability of many others, and the effect multiplied. There was no system in place that was prepared for this kind of outcome. And more importantly, no one has been charged with preventing it. We were facing one of the largest financial crises in history, and those responsible for oversight were mostly caught off guard and without the authority needed to address the problem. <p>It's time for that to change. I am proposing that the Federal Reserve be granted new authority, and accountability, for regulating bank holding companies and other large firms that pose a risk to the entire economy in the event of failure. We'll also raise the standard to which these kinds of firms are held. If you can pose a great risk, that means you have a great responsibility. We will require these firms to meet stronger capital and liquidity requirements so that they're more resilient and less likely to fail. <p>And even as we place the authority to regulate these large firms in the hands of the Federal Reserve, so that lines of responsibility and accountability are clear, we will also create an oversight council to bring together regulators from across markets to coordinate and share information, to identify gaps in regulation, and to tackle issues that don't fit neatly into an organizational chart. We're going to bring everyone together to take a broader view, and a longer view, to solve problems in oversight before they can become crises. <p>As part of this effort, we're proposing the creation of what's called resolution authority for large and interconnected financial firms so that we're not only putting in place safeguards to prevent the failure of these firms but also a set of orderly procedures that will allow us to protect the economy if such a firm does in fact go underwater. <p>Think about this: If a bank fails, we have a process through the FDIC that protects depositors and maintains confidence in the banking system. This process was created during the Great Depression when the failure of one bank led to runs on other banks, which in turn threatened wider turmoil. And it works. Yet we don't have any effective system in place to contain the failure of an AIG, or the largest and most interconnected financial firms in our country. <p>And that's why, when this crisis began, crucial decisions about what would happen to some of the world's biggest companies--companies employing tens of thousands of people and holding trillions of dollars in assets--took place in emergency meetings in the middle of the night. And that's why we've had to rely on taxpayer dollars. We should not be forced to choose between allowing a company to fall into a rapid and chaotic dissolution, or to support the company with taxpayer money. That's an unacceptable choice. There's too much at stake, and we're going to change it. <p>Second, we're proposing a new and powerful agency charged with one--just one job: looking out for ordinary consumers. And this is essential, for this crisis was not just the result of decisions made by the mightiest of financial firms; it was also the result of decisions made by ordinary Americans to open credit cards and take out home loans and take on other financial obligations. We know that there were many who took out loans they knew they couldn't afford, but there were also millions of Americans who signed contracts they didn't always understand offered by lenders who didn't always tell the truth. Even today, folks sign up for mortgages or student loans or credit cards and face a bewildering array of incomprehensible options. Companies compete not by offering better products, but more complicated ones, with more fine print and more hidden terms. <p>So this new agency will change that, building on credit card reforms I signed into law a few weeks ago with the help of many of the Members of Congress who are here today. This agency will have the power to set standards so that companies compete by offering innovative products that consumers actually want and actually understand. Consumers will be provided information that is simple, transparent, and accurate. You'll be able to compare products and see what's best for you. The most unfair practices will be banned. Those ridiculous contracts with pages of fine print that no one can figure out--those things will be a thing of the past. And enforcement will be the rule, not the exception. <p>For example, this agency will be empowered to set new rules for home mortgage lending so that the bad practices that led to the home mortgage crisis will be stamped out. Mortgage brokers will be held to higher standards. Exotic mortgages that hide exploding costs will no longer be the norm. Home mortgage disclosures will be reasonable, clearly written, and concise. And we're going to level the playing field so that nonbanks that offer home loans are held to the same standards as banks that offer similar services, so that lenders aren't competing to lower standards, but rather are competing to meet a higher bar on behalf of consumers. <p>Now, the mission of this new agency must also be reflected in the work we do throughout the Government. There are other agencies, like the Federal Trade Commission, charged with protecting consumers, and we must ensure that those agencies have the resources and the state-of-the-art tools to stop unfair and deceptive practices as well. <p>Third, we're proposing a series of changes designed to promote free and fair markets by closing gaps and overlaps in our regulatory system, including gaps that exist not just within but between nations. <p>We've seen that structural deficiencies allow some companies to shop for the regulator of their choice, and others, like hedge funds, to operate outside of the regulatory system altogether. We've seen the development of financial instruments, like many derivatives, that are so complex as to defy efforts to assess their actual value. And we've seen a system that allowed lenders to profit by providing loans to borrowers who would never repay, because the lender offloaded the loans and the consequences to somebody else. <p>And that's why, as part of these reforms, we will dismantle the Office of Thrift Supervision and close loopholes that have allowed important institutions to cherry-pick among banking rules. We will offer only one Federal banking charter, regulated by a strengthened Federal supervisor. We'll raise capital requirements for all depository institutions. Hedge fund advisers will be required to register with the SEC. <p>We're also proposing comprehensive regulation of credit default swaps and other derivatives that have threatened the entire financial system. And we will require the originator of a loan to retain an economic interest in that loan, so that the lender, and not just the holder of a security, for example, has an interest in ensuring that a loan is actually paid back. By setting commonsense rules, these kinds of financial instruments can play a constructive, rather than destructive role. <p>Now, over the past two decades, we've seen time and again cycles of precipitous booms and busts. In each case, millions of people have had their lives profoundly disrupted by developments in the financial system, most severely in our recent crisis. These aren't just numbers on a ledger. This is a child's chance to get an education. This is a family's ability to pay their bills or stay in their homes. This is the right of our seniors to retire with dignity and security and respect. These are American dreams, and we should not accept a system that consistently puts them in danger. Financial institutions have an obligation to put--to themselves and to the public to manage risks carefully. And as President, I have a responsibility to ensure that our financial system works for the economy as a whole. <p>There's always been a tension between those who place their faith in the invisible hand of the marketplace and those who place more trust in the guiding hand of the Government, and that tension isn't a bad thing. It gives rise to healthy debates and creates a dynamism that makes it possible for us to adapt and grow. For we know that markets are not an unalloyed force for either good or for ill. In many ways, our financial system reflects us. In the aggregate of countless independent decisions, we see the potential for creativity, and the potential for abuse. We see the capacity for innovations that make our economy stronger, and for innovations that exploit our economy's weaknesses. <p>We are called upon to put in place those reforms that allow our best qualities to flourish, while keeping those worst traits in check. We're called upon to recognize that the free market is the most powerful generative force for our prosperity, but it is not a free license to ignore the consequences of our actions. <p>This is a difficult time for our Nation. But from this period of challenge, we can once again tap those values and ideals that have allowed us to lead the global economy and will allow us to lead once again. That's how we'll help more Americans live their own dreams. That's why these reforms are so important. And I look forward to working with leaders in Congress and all of you to see these proposals put to work so that we can overcome this crisis and build a lasting foundation for prosperity. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"175" "\"We got everybody? All right, well, we're looking forward to a constructive conversation with these outstanding regulators and supervisors who have helped us design how we're going to approach a critical problem in our economy. I'll have more to say about it this afternoon, but I want to publicly thank them for their service to the country. <p>All right, thanks, guys.\" "
"176" "\"Well, today I'm proud to issue a Presidential memorandum that paves the way for long-overdue progress in our Nation's pursuit of equality. Many of our Government's hard-working and dedicated and patriotic public servants have long been denied basic rights that their colleagues enjoy for one simple reason, the people that they love are of the same sex. <p>Currently, for example, LGBT Federal employees can't always use sick leave to care for their domestic partners or their partners' children. Their partners aren't covered under long-term care insurance. Partners of American Foreign Service officers abroad aren't treated the same way when it comes to the use of medical facilities or visitation rights in case of an emergency. And these are just some of the wrongs that we intend to right today. <p>In consultation with Secretary of State Clinton, as well as OPM Director John Berry, my administration has completed a long and thorough review to identify a number of areas where we can extend Federal benefits to the same-sex partners of Foreign Service and executive branch Government employees. <p>And I'm requesting that Secretary Clinton and Director Berry do so where possible under existing law, and that the heads of all executive departments and agencies conduct reviews to determine where they may do the same. <p>Hundreds of Fortune 500 companies already offer such benefits, not only because it's the right thing to do, but because they recognize that it helps them compete for and retain the best possible talent, and we need top talent serving their country right now more than ever. <p>Now, under current law, we cannot provide same-sex couples with the full range of benefits enjoyed by heterosexual married couples. And that's why I'm proud to announce my support for the domestic partners benefits and obligations act; crucial legislation that will guarantee these rights for all Federal employees. <p>I want to thank Representative Tammy Baldwin, who is behind me somewhere--there she is right there--for her tireless leadership on this bill and in the broader struggle for equality. I want to thank Senators Joe Lieberman--Joe is here--as well as Susan Collins for championing this bill in the Senate, and Representative Barney Frank for his leadership on this and so many other issues. In fact, this is his second trip to the White House today. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It's a day that marks a historic step towards the changes we seek, but I think we all have to acknowledge this is only one step. Among the steps we have not yet taken is to repeal the Defense of Marriage Act. I believe it's discriminatory, I think it interferes with States' rights, and we will work with Congress to overturn it. <p>We've got more work to do to ensure that Government treats all its citizens equally, to fight injustice and intolerance in all its forms, and to bring about that more perfect union. I'm committed to these efforts, and I pledge to work tirelessly on behalf of these issues in the months and years to come. <p>Thank you very much everybody, and with that I am going to sign this executive order.\" "
"177" "\"Thank you. Well, it is nice to be among friends. I want to thank Bob Menendez, the DSCC chair. I want to thank Chris Van Hollen, the \\"D-trip\\" chair, my great leaders in Congress, Harry Reid and Madam Speaker Nancy Pelosi, for their outstanding leadership. To all my colleagues and former colleagues who I see gathered around, thank you so much for your outstanding work. And also, please give a big round of applause to Diana Krall for the wonderful entertainment. <p>It's a pleasure to be here, on behalf of the men and women in Congress who have worked tirelessly--and I mean tirelessly--over the last 5 months to put this Nation on a road back to prosperity. I want to especially thank the two leaders, two Americans who have, day in, day out, just been steering this ship, and without their leadership in Congress, we would just not get things done, Nancy and Harry. Every single day they are displaying the skill and tenacity and the fierce urgency of the challenges we face. So please give them another round of applause. <p>Chris Van Hollen and Bob Menendez, they've got a thankless job, which is to recruit and fundraise and organize so we can expand our majority in 2010. And they're doing exemplary work, and we're all grateful for them. <p>Now, we've been called to govern in some extraordinary times. We've been asked to confront challenges of a size and scope that are unmatched in recent history, a set of challenges that very few generations of Americans have ever been asked to confront. We've got two wars, a debilitating recession, a global financial crisis, issues like global climate change that threaten our planet. Meeting these challenges is not easy. If it was easy, it would have already been taken care of--[<i>laughter</i>]--and everyone here could kick back and spend more time at home with their families. <p>But that's not the hand that we've been dealt. We've been called to lead not when it's easy, but when it's hard. That requires tough choices, and it requires doing what's right, even what--even if what's right isn't always necessarily popular. It requires taking on the status quo in Washington. And let's face it, the status quo in Washington favors inertia over action and tinkering over real reform. It requires the courage to look beyond the immediate news cycle, which is very hard to do, and to look beyond the next election to the next generation, to do what we have to do to ensure that the American Dream is there for our children and that the world that they inherit is better than the one that we did. <p>And that's what so many in Congress have done in these last 5 months, and that's what we're going to have to do in the hard months to come. It's not just a responsibility; I think it's also a privilege. And it's an extraordinary opportunity, for in our hands lies the ability to shape our world for good or for ill. Just think about what we've already achieved together--5 months. <p>Now, people's memories are short around here. [<i>Laughter</i>] Let's just do a little inventory. Not 1 month into this administration, we responded to this recession with the most sweeping economic recovery plan in our Nation's history. The plan has already provided tax relief to 95 percent of hard-working families, the most progressive tax cut in our history. It's saving jobs and creating new ones in construction and clean energy and small businesses across the country. Before the summer's end, we will have created another 600,000 jobs. <p>Thanks to this Congress, we also passed a budget resolution that will help cut our deficit in half, while laying the building blocks of a new foundation for lasting growth and prosperity, a budget that invests in clean energy and quality schools and reform that will finally bring down our health care costs. <p>With the help of the Members of Congress, and with the help of everybody in this room, we've lifted the ban on Federal funding for stem cell research. We expanded the Children's Health Insurance Program to cover 11 million additional children in need. We passed a national service bill to create hundreds of thousands of opportunities for people to serve in their communities. We passed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act--the first bill I signed into law--to make sure that women in this country get a fair shake on the workplace. <p>We've passed a series of reforms that won't just change policies in Washington, it changes the way we do business in Washington. We've brought together auto executives and labor unions and environmental groups, Democrats and Republicans, to set a national fuel efficiency standard for our cars and trucks for the first time in history. We passed bipartisan legislation to help homeowners and crack down on predatory lenders who seek to take advantage of them. <p>We passed a law that will protect consumers from the unfair rate hikes and abusive fees that are levied by many credit card companies, a law that will eliminate waste in our defense budget and save taxpayers billions of dollars. And after a decade of opposition, we passed legislation that will prevent tobacco companies from preying on our children. <p>Five months. Every Member of Congress who helped make these reforms possible should feel proud of what we've accomplished. But we shouldn't feel satisfied. We should feel confident in the future, but not content with the present, not when there are workers out there who are still looking for a job and families who are still unable to pay their bills. Not when there are millions of Americans who are trying to figure out whether they can afford health care and millions more of our children who are being left behind in our education system. We can't be satisfied when our Nation is not leading the world in developing a 21st century energy economy. <p>We've come a long way, we can see some light on the horizon, but we've got a much longer journey to travel. And this is when it gets hard, ironically, in part because the economy has stabilized somewhat; now suddenly everybody forgets. We introduced this financial regulatory bills; people start to say, \\"Why do we need all this regulation.\\" I'm sorry, wasn't it just in September that the financial system almost melted down? What are you talking about? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But that's the nature of things. This is when the criticism gets louder. This is when the pundits grow impatient. This is when the cynicism mounts. This is when we hear the same voices advocating the same old policies that got us into this mess in the first place. This is when we hear that the change we seek just isn't possible: can't do it; system overload; circuits breaking down. [<i>Laughter</i>] Right, George? [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, we've been hearing it--it's so predictable. <p>So this is exactly the moment we need to fight the hardest. This is the time when we need to band together. This is the time when we have to do what we know is right for the country and deliver the change that we promised to deliver in November. <p>And that's why all of you are here tonight. That's why you're digging deep again tonight, at a time when it's not easy to dig deep. That's why I know that you're going to keep on making those phone calls and knocking on those doors. And that's why we've got to get to those polls again next November to make sure that we send a Democratic House and a Democratic Senate back to Congress to finish the business of the American people. <p>And that's why I'm here tonight, because I can't bring about the change that I promised by myself in the Oval Office, or just me and Rahm. [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, Rahm is great, but you know--[<i>laughter</i>]--I need a little more help than that. It's not how it works. <p>I need partners in Congress, leaders who are determined to make a difference for the folks they represent. And right now, more than ever before, we need their help; America needs their help. We need their help to build schools that meet high standards, and close the achievement gap, and prepare our kids for the challenges of the 21st century, where we reward teachers for performance and give them new pathways for advancement. We need their help to reach the goal that I've set for higher education in this country, that by the year 2020, America once again will have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. <p>We need their help to pass a comprehensive energy and climate bill that will finally reduce our dangerous dependence on foreign oil and offer new energy incentives to reduce the pollution that threatens our health and our climate, a plan that will create millions of new jobs producing wind turbines and solar panels and biofuels. Because we know that the nation that leads the 21st century in clean energy technology, that's the nation that's going to lead in the global economy. And America can and must be that nation. <p>We need the leaders of Congress to create new rules of the road for Wall Street to make sure that a crisis like this never happens again. As I said, yesterday I outlined a set of regulatory reforms that will encourage drive and innovation in our markets, but reforms that will also punish shortcuts and abuses. They're reforms that will allow our market to function freely and fairly, but without the risks that brought our financial system to the brink of collapse. I ask Congress to pass these reforms before the year is out. It is something that we have to do and I'm confident we can do. <p>And right now we need the help of this Congress to finally pass reforms that bring down the crushing cost of health care and give every American an opportunity to get decent health care in this country. I gave a speech about this earlier in the week. When it comes to the cost of health care, the status quo is unsustainable. Inaction is no longer an option. If we do nothing, more families will go bankrupt, more businesses will shut their doors, more debt will be passed on to our children. <p>It's time to fix what's broken about our health care system and build on what works. And I've said this before: If you like your doctor, you should be able to keep your health care; if you like your health care plan, you should be able to keep it. But we need a system where every American can finally afford their health care. <p>And let me be clear: I sincerely hope that there are members of both parties who will participate in reform. No party has a monopoly on the best ideas about how to get this done. I've said that before. But to those who simply criticize without offering new ideas of their own, I have to ask, what's your answer? What's your answer to all those families who now spend more on health care than on housing or on food? What's your answer to those businesses that are choosing between closing their doors and letting their workers go? <p>What's your answer to the woman I met in Wisconsin who introduced me the other day--has breast cancer that's gone to her bones; got two little kids. She's 36 years old. And she's already got $50,000 worth of debt, and she's spending time worrying about whether she's leaving debt behind to her family that they'll never be able to pay off. <p>Don't tell me that all you're offering is meager tax cuts to uninsured Americans. Don't present that as a new idea. It's the same idea that's been proposed for the last 8 years. Don't tell me that we're going to tinker around the edges and that nothing is going to change and 46 million people won't have health insurance, and you still have people who do have health insurance with their premiums tripling, doubling over the last 9 years, going up three times faster than wages. That's not acceptable. <p>If we're all--if all we're doing is subsidizing a health care system that can't contain costs, if all we're doing is putting more money into a system that is not working, that is broken, then we're just throwing good money after bad. That's not reform. We need to permanently bring down costs so we can eventually save more money than we spend. And that's what I want to do. <p>Now, we've outlined a way to pay for this reform with cuts and savings in our budget. And as we make these and other investments, we have to restore fiscal discipline in Washington so that we don't leave our children and grandchildren with a mountain of debt. And already, my administration has identified more than 100 Government programs that we can reduce or eliminate, saving taxpayers nearly $17 billion next year alone. And we're going to go line by line through the budget, looking for even more places to cut. <p>We're living through extraordinary times. We didn't ask for the challenges that we face, but we are determined to answer the call to meet them. We're going to cast aside the old arguments and overcome the stubborn divisions and move forward as one people and one nation. <p>And I know it won't be easy. There are going to be setbacks. There are going to be times where we get weary. It's like running that marathon, and you hit a wall, and you're going to say, \\"My feet hurt, and my knees are buckling.\\" This is going to take time. But I promise you that I will always tell the American people the truth about the challenges we face and the steps that we're taking, and I will continue to measure my progress by the progress the American people see in their own lives. <p>And I'm convinced that if we stand together, then I know years from now we will look back on this moment as the time when the American people reclaimed together their future and wrote the next great chapter in American history. <p>We're doing that because of you, and I'm grateful to you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"178" "\"<i>The President. </i>How is everybody doing today? <p><i>Audience members. </i>Good. <p><i>The President.</i> Doing good? <p><i>Audience members. </i>Yes. <p><i>The President.</i> Well, it is good to see you--it is impressive. First of all, I want to thank Gerald for founding this extraordinary program. Give him a big round of applause. And I want to thank Tynesia for running this thing in an extraordinary way. It seems like she's doing a great job. Give her a big round of applause. <p>So I am just very excited to be here. I just met four of your fellow Year Up participants, and they represented you very well. And they told me a little bit about the program. <p>I know that so many of you are doing extraordinary things now, but you've had your bumps in the road, and there have been some tough times. And part of the reason we wanted to come here is that Father's Day is coming up, and a lot of young people in America these days are growing up without fathers in the house, and as a consequence, without direction. And I'm somebody who didn't have a father in my house when I was coming up. And what we wanted to do was to highlight the fact that, first of all, there are all kinds of people who succeed despite the obstacles, but also to remind ourselves that there's so much talent out there that is untapped because people don't have pathways to success, and they don't have somebody who is giving them a hand and giving them advice and giving them counsel. <p>And so, number one, we want to send out a message that our parents--that's the first foundation--and fathers especially need to be involved with their children's lives. So the young men who are here today, I just want you to know that even if your father was not there, you can be there for your child when you have a child--and it's not a bad thing to wait to have a child--[<i>laughter</i>]--until you've got your act together. <p>But the second message was also to say that we as a community can help provide young people with support and direction. And I think that this Year Up program is a terrific example of that. <p>So I just want to thank all of you for being great model--role models for your peers and for younger people who are coming up; your brothers and sisters, people in the community, they're all watching you. I want to remind you that things are going to get tough at times in your lives, and I don't want anybody here to feel discouraged. Right now the economy is going through a very tough time, which means that the job market is more restrictive, especially for young people entering the market. But the skills that you've obtained and the poise, character that you've been developing is something that will last you a lifetime, and you will be successful as long as you stick with it. <p>So we're just very proud of you. That's it from me. Now what I want to do is just open it up and have questions.\" "
"179" "\"Thanks to all of you. Thank you. Please, everybody, have a seat. Before I get started, as the father of two girls, can I just say how incredibly impressive those three young ladies were. Dad would be proud. <p>To Heather and all the others who have made this evening possible, thank you so much. It is wonderful to be here. I want to express my appreciation for the opportunity to tell jokes that weren't funny enough for me to use when we did this 5 weeks ago. [<i>Laughter</i>] Whatever. [<i>Laughter</i>] The jokes may not be as good, but neither is the guest list. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm just joking. For me, there's no contest. Why bother hanging out with celebrities when I can spend time with the people who made me one? [<i>Laughter</i>] I know where my bread is buttered. <p>Plus, we have our own luminaries here in attendance. The junior Senator from Wyoming, John Barrasso, is here. <p>[<i>At this point, White House Press Secretary Robert L. Gibbs came to the podium and whispered in the President's ear.</i>] <p>I'm sorry, John Barasso skipped this evening. [<i>Laughter</i>] Let me tell you, though, for those who haven't met him, John Barrasso is the George Clooney of junior Senators from Wyoming. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It is great to be here with so much talent from the world of TV and radio. Despite the flood of new media, I think your programming is more relevant than ever before. At least, that's the impression I get when I read the blogs every day. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It's good to see a number of hard-working correspondents here tonight. Journalists like Chuck Todd. I think I spotted Chuck over there somewhere. At this dinner, Chuck embodies the best of both worlds: He has the rapid-fire style of a television correspondent and the facial hair of a radio correspondent. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Mika Brzezinski is here, I believe, in the house. Mika and I have a lot in common. We both have partners named Joe who used to be in Congress and don't know when to stop talking. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And happening now: Wolf Blitzer is here. He's the only man--[<i>applause</i>]--the only other man in America with his own situation room. [<i>Laughter</i>] People assume that mine is cooler, but this is not the case. As hard as we've tried, we have not been able to generate the bandwidth necessary to turn Larry Summers into a hologram. [<i>Laughter</i>] We can't do it. <p>Now, one person that you know could not be here tonight is Secretary Hillary Clinton. As most of you know, Hillary broke her elbow a few days ago on her way to the White House. And we all wish her a very speedy recovery. I do have to say, though, that while it's been reported as an accident, there were some suspicious circumstances. [<i>Laughter</i>] Just before the incident, Secret Service spotted Richard Holbrooke spraying WD-40 all over the driveway. [<i>Laughter</i>] So now, on top of the costs of health care and energy and the recovery plan, we've got another fiscal problem. Fortunately, the lawyers tell me that Hillary is ready to settle. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I have to admit, though, it wasn't easy coming up with fresh material for this dinner. A few nights ago, I was up tossing and turning, trying to figure out exactly what to say. Finally, when I couldn't get back to sleep, I rolled over and asked Brian Williams what he thought. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, the truth is, Brian Williams is actually a terrible house guest. He put an empty milk carton back in the fridge. He leaves his wet towels all over the Roosevelt Room. We're pretty sure he clogged the toilet and didn't tell anybody. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Although I must say, the whole thing was worth it. \\"Inside the Obama White House\\" is my favorite new show. [<i>Laughter</i>] There's just something really compelling about the main character. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's a wonderful narrative. In fact, the show has been such a hit that all of you guys now want to come and tape one in my house. ABC is planning a series called \\"Dancing with the Czars.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] TLC has got something called \\"Jon &amp; Kate plus Peter Orszag.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] That's going to be good. [<i>Laughter</i>] Nick at Nite has a new take on an old classic, \\"Leave it to Uighurs.\\" I thought that was pretty good. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Of course, given the fiscal crisis in California, these shows all will be competing directly with Governor Schwarzenegger's new reality series, \\"I'm a Celebrity--Get Me Out of Here!\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] That's how I feel tonight. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Look, it's nothing personal, but this dinner conflicts with my date night. [<i>Laughter</i>] I was supposed to be going out with Michelle for Thai food--in Bangkok. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But I have been doing a lot of traveling. I just returned from a trip abroad, as you know. In Egypt, we had the opportunity to tour the pyramids. By now I'm sure all of you have seen the pictures of Rahm on a camel. I admit I was a little nervous about the whole situation. I said at the time, \\"This is a wild animal known to bite and kick and spit. And who knows what the camel might do?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But I have to say, as I traveled to all these countries, I saw firsthand how much people truly have in common with one another. Because no matter where I went, there's one thing I heard over and over again from every world leader: \\"No thanks, but have you considered Palau?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Of course, most of my attention has been focused here back home. As you know, we've been working around the clock to repair our major financial institutions and our auto companies. But you probably wouldn't understand the concept of troubled industries, working as you do in the radio and television industry. <p>[<i>Members of the audience groaned.</i>] <p>Oh, we don't joke about that, huh? [<i>Laughter</i>] That's not funny. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>One problem we're trying to solve is the high cost of health care in America. And I'm pleased that in our quest to reform the health care system, I've gained the support of the American Medical Association. It proves true the old expression that it's easier to catch flies with honey. And if honey doesn't work, feel free to use an open palm and a swift, downward movement. <p>Now, the challenges we face are many, and I'll be honest, I don't have all the answers. And when I'm not sure what's right, I often ask myself, \\"WWLD?\\"--\\"What would a wise Latino do?\\" I'm proud of my nominee, Sonia Sotomayor. And all those who oppose her, to all those who say that there's no place for empathy on the bench, I say this: I completely understand how you're feeling. [<i>Laughter</i>] When you're upset, I'm upset. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Another difficult challenge is how to help our automakers thrive in the 21st century. We've tried a number of different approaches, and tonight, I'm announcing a new one. It's a plan passed on to me by a close friend and adviser, Oprah Winfrey. So if each of you will look under your seat, you find that you get a car company! [<i>Laughter</i>] You get a car company! And FOX, you get AIG. [<i>Laughter</i>] Enjoy! <p>The truth is, as I've said all along, I have no ambition to run an auto company. I'm not the salesman in chief. And GM will rise or fall on the quality of its products, like the taut, athletic design of the new Buick Enclave. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's French-seamed leather and warm wood tones make the Enclave more than transportation. It's a modern driver's retreat. [<i>Laughter</i>] Come on, work with me here. I've got cars to move, people! <p>In all seriousness, despite the jokes I've told, I'm here tonight because I appreciate the work that all of you do and the role that you play. You report the news as it happens, and you're covering history as it's made. With a hand-held camera or a mike, or now even a cell phone or a blog, you bring the truth to people and allow people to bring truth to the world. <p>We're seeing that now as history is unfolding. In the sounds and images broadcast from Iran over the last week, we've seen professional and citizen journalists act as a voice for those who want to be heard, bearing witness to universal aspirations of democracy and freedom. Often at great risk and sometimes with great sacrifice, they do it because the rest of us need to hear the stories that they tell. In recent years, we've seen the same courageous reporting in Iraq, in Afghanistan, and the Congo, and in every dangerous corner of the world. And everywhere there's a story that needs to be told. <p>I think all of you understand these are changing times. As journalists, you understand that better than anyone. But one thing that will never change is the need to report the news as it happens, wherever it happens. This is what you do, and this is what will help us meet the challenges of our time. We are grateful to you for that. <p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"180" "\"Hello, everybody. Everybody have a seat. Now, first of all, let's give thanks that it's not raining, because we thought it might be and we were worried that Bobby would be sending smoke into the White House. But it's a beautiful day. <p>I want to personally acknowledge, once again--they've already been introduced, but I want to introduce them because some of you young people are sitting with them--you may not know who you're sitting with--the extraordinary men who are participating in this event today. First of all, Chief Quartermaster John Lehnen--thank you so much, John. Some of you may know this guy, Dwyane Wade. I hear he plays basketball pretty good. [<i>Laughter</i>] Etan Thomas, another ballplayer; Joseph Jones, Center for Urban Families; Greg Brown, who is the CEO of Motorola; Antwaan Randle El, outstanding football player; Dr. Steve Rosen, Northwestern Cancer Center; Jorge Ramos, one of the premier journalists in the country; B.D. Wong, outstanding actor; Tony Hawk, who is the best skateboarder in the world; Coach Bill Cowher of the championship Steelers; Darryl \\"DMC\\" McDaniels; Mike Laas, who is a small businessman; Senator Evan Bayh, former colleague of ours; Fatherhood Dads, Inc., president David Ladd; the president of Morehouse College, Dr. Robert Franklin; as well as some of the outstanding members of my staff--Mike Strautmanis, Denis McDonough, Reggie Love. And we also want to thank Bobby Flay, one of the best chefs in the world, for providing us with these unbelievably good-looking grub over here. <p>I don't want to talk long. I want to come around and say hello to everybody. I just want to thank all of you for participating. For the young people who are here today, I just hope that the message that we're sending out about how important fathers are is something that you will internalize, because all of you are probably going to end up being fathers. And the time is now, to start thinking about what that means in terms of responsibilities, what it means to be a man. And the men who are--you're going to be sitting with today, I think, exemplify--whether they're famous or not famous, rich or not so rich, they embody that spirit of love and dedication and commitment that fatherhood is all about. <p>So we appreciate all of you. I don't want to get in the way of the food. Thank you for participating. Hope you guys have a good time. And to all the fathers out there, happy Father's Day. All right?\" "
"181" "\"As we continue to recover from a historic economic crisis, it's clear to everyone that one of its major causes was a breakdown in oversight that led to widespread abuses in the financial system. An epidemic of irresponsibility took hold from Wall Street to Washington to Main Street, and the consequences have been disastrous: millions of Americans have seen their life savings erode; families have been devastated by job losses; businesses large and small have closed their doors. <p>In response, this week, my administration proposed a set of major reforms to the rules that govern our financial system; to attack the causes of this crisis and to prevent future crises from taking place; to ensure that our markets can work fairly and freely for businesses and consumers alike. <p>We're going to promote markets that work for those who play by the rules. We're going to stand up for a system in which fair dealing and honest competition are the only way to win. We're going to level the playing field for consumers, and we're going to have the kinds of rules that encourage innovations that make our economy stronger, not those that allow insiders to exploit its weaknesses for their own gain. <p>And one of the most important proposals is a new oversight agency called the Consumer Financial Protection Agency. It's charged with just one job: looking out for the interests of ordinary Americans in the financial system. This is essential, for this crisis may have started on Wall Street, but its impacts have been felt by ordinary Americans who rely on credit cards, home loans, and other financial instruments. <p>It's true that this crisis was caused in part by Americans who took on too much debt and took out loans they simply could not afford. But there are also millions of Americans who signed contracts they didn't always understand offered by lenders who didn't always tell the truth. Today, folks signing up for a mortgage, student loan, or credit card face a bewildering array of incomprehensible options. Companies compete not by offering better products, but more complicated ones, with more fine print and hidden terms. It's no coincidence that the lack of strong consumer protections led to abuses against consumers; the lack of rules to stop deceptive lending practices led to abuses against borrowers. <p>This new agency will have the responsibility to change that. It will have the power to set tough new rules so that companies compete by offering innovative products that consumers actually want and actually understand. Those ridiculous contracts, pages of fine print that no one can figure out, will be a thing of the past. You'll be able to compare products, with descriptions in plain language, to see what is best for you. The most unfair practices will be banned, and the rules will be enforced. <p>Though some argue that these changes, and the many others we've called for, go too far. I welcome a debate about how we can make sure our regulations work for businesses and consumers. But what I will not accept, what I will vigorously oppose, are those who do not argue in good faith; those who would defend the status quo at any cost; those who put their narrow interests ahead of the interests of ordinary Americans. We've already begun to see special interests mobilizing against change. And that's not surprising, that's Washington. <p>For these are interests that have benefited from a system which allow ordinary Americans to be exploited. These interests argue against reform even as millions of people are facing the consequences of this crisis in their own lives. These interests defend business-as-usual even though we know that it was business-as-usual that allowed this crisis to take place. <p>Well, the American people did not send me to Washington to give in to the special interests; the American people sent me to Washington to stand up for their interests. And while I'm not spoiling for a fight, I'm ready for one. The most important thing we can do to put this era of irresponsibility in the past is to take responsibility now. That's why my administration will accept no less than real and lasting change to the way business is done, on Wall Street and in Washington. We will do what is necessary to end this crisis, and we will do what it takes to prevent this kind of crisis from ever happening again. <p>Thank you.\" "
"182" "\"Thank you. Well, first of all, I want to thank Barry Rand for the introduction, but also AARP, the organization he so ably represents, for coming together with us on this critical issue today. <p>Last week, in my address to the American Medical Association, I spoke about the urgent need for health care reform and what will be required to achieve it. And one of the things that will be required, I said, was that everyone in our health care community is going to have to come together and do their part. <p>In recent days, Chairman Max Baucus, who has been doing an outstanding job leading the Finance Committee on this issue, as well as members of my administration, have been in discussions with the pharmaceutical industry to find a way to bring down costs of prescription drugs for America's seniors. And I'm pleased to report that over the weekend we reached an understanding that will help close the notorious doughnut hole in Medicare Part D. This is a significant breakthrough on the road to health care reform, one that will make the difference in the lives of many older Americans. <p>I think many of you in the press are familiar with the issue. The doughnut hole refers to a gap in prescription drug coverage that makes it harder for millions of Medicare beneficiaries to pay for the medication they need. The way the program is structured, Medicare covers up to $2,700 in yearly prescription costs and then stops, and the coverage starts back up when the costs exceed 6,100, which means between 2,700 and 6,100 folks are out of luck. And this gap in coverage has placing a crushing burden on many older Americans who live on fixed incomes and can't afford thousands of dollars in out-of-pocket expenses. <p>Chris Dodd, who has been an outstanding leader on a whole host of health care issues throughout his career and who is helping to lead the HELP Committee while Senator Kennedy is undergoing his treatment for his illness--Chris, I think, will tell you that as we travel around the country, seniors would constantly be coming up to us and saying, how do we deal with this extraordinary burden? And as a consequence, you'd have seniors who would be taking half their medication, even though the doctor said that is not going to be as effective; you are putting your life at risk. They had no other choice. <p>So as part of the health care reform I expect Congress to enact this year, Medicare beneficiaries whose spending falls within this gap will now receive a discount on prescription drugs of at least 50 percent from the negotiated price their plan pays. It's a reform that will make prescription drugs more affordable for millions of seniors and restore a measure of fairness to Medicare Part D. It's a reflection of the importance of this single step for America's seniors that it has earned the support of AARP, which has been fighting for years to address this anomaly in the system on behalf of older Americans. AARP is committed, as I am, to achieving health care reform by the end of this year. And I'm committed to continuing to work with AARP to ensure that any reforms we pursue are carried out in a way that protects America's seniors, who know as well as anyone what's wrong with our health care system and why it's badly in need of reform. <p>Our goal, our imperative, is to reduce the punishing inflation in health care costs while improving patient care. And to do that we're going to have to work together to root out waste and inefficiencies that may pad the bottom line of the insurance industry, but add nothing to the health of our Nation. To that end, the pharmaceutical industry has committed to reduce its draw on the health care system by $80 billion over the next 10 years as part of overall health care reform. <p>Real health care reform that reduces the spiraling costs of health services and extends quality, affordable health coverage to all Americans will require these kinds of commitments throughout the system. And drug and insurance companies stand to benefit when tens of millions more Americans have coverage. So we're asking them, in exchange, to make essential concessions to reform the system and help reduce costs; it's only fair. Today marks a major step forward, but it will only be meaningful if we complete the journey. <p>So I want to commend the House for coming together last week to produce a health care reform bill, a bill, I might note, that protects seniors and has received the support of the AARP. I will continue to work closely with the relevant chairs in the House and the Senate, and leaders like Senator Dodd and Senator Baucus, and with members of both parties who are willing to commit themselves to this critical task. Our families, our businesses, and our long-term fiscal health demands that we act and act now. Today we are, and I'm grateful to all those who helped make this day possible. And to those who, here in Washington, who've grown accustomed to \\"sky is falling\\" prognoses and the certainties that we cannot get this done, I have to repeat--revive an old saying we had from the campaign: Yes we can. We are going to get this done. <p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"183" "\"<i>The President.</i> Please, everybody, have a seat, have a seat. I am thrilled to be here for what is I think an extraordinary accomplishment by this Congress, a bill we're about to sign into law. <p>I want to acknowledge a few of our special guests. First of all, we've got the crew from the Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids: Eamon, Christopher, Sarah, and Hoai-Nam. We have our FDA Commissioner, Dr. Peggy Hamburg. We have our CDC Director, Tom Frieden. And we have just some extraordinary Members of Congress here on stage--Senator Dodd, Senator Durbin, Senator Enzi, Senator Harkin, Senator Lautenberg, Representative Waxman, Representative Dingell, Representative Christensen, Representative Pallone, and Representative Platts--all of whom did extraordinary work in helping to move this legislation forward. Please give them a big round of applause. I want to thank all of them. <p>Now, there are three Members of Congress that I have to especially thank: Representative Waxman, Representative Dodd, and--excuse me--[<i>laughter</i>]--Senator Dodd<i>--</i>-- <p><i>Senator Christopher J. Dodd.</i> Things are tough enough. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President. --</i>--and most importantly, Senator Ted Kennedy, who can't be here today. <p>You know, the legislation I'm signing today represents change that's been decades in the making. Since at least the middle of the last century, we've known about the harmful and often deadly effects of tobacco products. More than 400,000 Americans now die of tobacco-related illnesses each year, making it the leading cause of preventable death in the United States. More than 8 million Americans suffer from at least one serious illness caused by smoking, and these health problems cost us all more than $100 billion a year. <p>What's even worse are the effects on our children. One out of every five children in our country are now current smokers by the time they leave high school. Think about that statistic, one out of every five children in our country are now current smokers by the time they leave high school. Each day, 1,000 young people under the age of 18 become new, regular, daily smokers. And almost 90 percent of all smokers began at or before their 18th birthday. <p>I know; I was one of these teenagers, and so I know how difficult it can be to break this habit when it's been with you for a long time. And I also know that kids today don't just start smoking for no reason. They're aggressively targeted as customers by the tobacco industry. They're exposed to a constant and insidious barrage of advertising where they live, where they learn, and where they play. Most insidiously, they are offered products with flavorings that mask the taste of tobacco and make it even more tempting. <p>We've known about this for decades, but despite the best efforts and good progress made by so many leaders and advocates with us today, the tobacco industry and its special interest lobbying have generally won the day up on the Hill. When Henry Waxman first brought tobacco CEOs before Congress in 1994, they famously denied that tobacco was deadly, nicotine was addictive, or that their companies marketed to children. And they spent millions upon millions in lobbying and advertising to fight back every attempt to expose these denials as lies. <p>Fifteen years later, their campaign has finally failed. Today, thanks to the work of Democrats and Republicans, health care and consumer advocates, the decades-long effort to protect our children from the harmful effects of tobacco has emerged victorious. Today change has come to Washington. <p>This legislation will not ban all tobacco products, and it will allow adults to make their own choices. But it will also ban tobacco advertising within a thousand feet of schools and playgrounds. It will curb the ability of tobacco companies to market products to our children by using appealing flavors. It will force these companies to more clearly and publicly acknowledge the harmful and deadly effects of the products they sell. And it will allow the scientists at the FDA to take other commonsense steps to reduce the harmful effects of smoking. <p>This legislation is a victory for bipartisanship, and it was passed overwhelmingly in both Houses of Congress. It's a victory for health care reform, as it will reduce some of the billions we spend on tobacco-related health care costs in this country. It's a law that will reduce the number of American children who pick up a cigarette and become adult smokers. And most importantly, it is a law that will save American lives and make Americans healthier. <p>We know that even with the passage of this legislation, our work to protect our children and improve the public's health is not complete. Today, tobacco is the leading preventable cause of death not just in America, but also in the world. If current trends continue, 1 billion people will die from tobacco-related illnesses this century. And so the United States will continue to work with the World Health Organization and other nations to fight this epidemic on a global basis. <p>But no matter how long or how hard this fight may be, what's happening today gives us hope. When I ran for President, I did so because I believed that despite the power of the status quo and the influence of special interests, it was possible for us to bring change to Washington. And the progress we've made these past 5 months has only reinforced my faith in this belief. <p>Despite the influence of the credit card industry, we passed a law to protect consumers from unfair rate hikes and abusive fees. Despite the influence of banks and lenders, we passed a law to protect homeowners from mortgage fraud. Despite the influence of the defense industry, we passed a law to protect taxpayers from waste and abuse in defense contracting. And today, despite decades of lobbying and advertising by the tobacco industry, we've passed a law to help protect the next generation of Americans from growing up with a deadly habit that so many of our generation have lived with. <p>When Henry Waxman opened that first hearing back in '94 on tobacco with the industry CEOs, he began by quoting an ancient proverb: \\"A journey of a thousand miles must begin with a single step.\\" Our journey for change is far from over. But with the package of--passage of the kids tobacco legislation that I'm about to sign, we're taking another big and very important step, a step that will save lives and dollars. So I want to thank not only the Members of Congress who are up on stage, but also all the Members of Congress in the audience and all the health advocates that fought for so long for this to happen. We hope you feel good about the extraordinary service that you've rendered this country. Thank you very much. Let's go sign the bill.\" "
"184" "\"Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Right now the House of Representatives is moving towards a vote of historic proportions on a piece of legislation that will open the door to a new clean energy economy. <p>For more than three decades, we've talked about our dependence on foreign oil. And for more than three decades, we've seen that dependence grow. We've seen our reliance on fossil fuels jeopardize our national security. We've seen it pollute the air we breathe and endanger our planet. And most of all, we've seen that other countries realize a critical truth: The nation that leads in the creation of a clean energy economy will be the nation that leads the 21st century global economy. <p>Now is the time for the United States of America to realize this as well. Now is the time for us to lead. The energy bill before the House will finally create a set of incentives that will spark a clean energy transformation of our economy. It will spur the development of low-carbon sources of energy, everything from wind, solar, and geothermal power to safe nuclear energy and cleaner coal. It will spur new energy savings like the efficient windows and other materials that reduce heating costs in the winter and cooling costs in the summer. <p>And most importantly, it will make possible the creation of millions of new jobs. Now make no mistake, this is a jobs bill. We're already seeing why this is true in the clean energy investments we're making through the Recovery Act. In California, 3,000 people will be employed to build a new solar plant that will create 1,000 jobs. In Michigan, investments in wind turbines and wind technology is expected to create over, 2,600 jobs. In Florida, three new solar projects are expected to employ 1,400 people. The list goes on and on, but the point is this: This legislation will finally make clean energy the profitable kind of energy. That will lead to the creation of new businesses and entire new industries. And that will lead to American jobs that pay well and can't be outsourced. <p>I've often talked about the need to build a new foundation for economic growth so that we don't return to the endless cycle of bubble and bust that has led us into this deep recession. Clean energy and the jobs it creates will be absolutely critical to that new foundation. <p>This legislation has also been written carefully to address the concerns that many have expressed in the past. Instead of increasing the deficit, it's paid for by the polluters who currently emit dangerous carbon emissions. It provides assistance to businesses and families as they make the gradual transition to clean energy technologies. It gives rural communities and farmers the opportunity to participate in climate solutions and generate new income. And above all, it will protect consumers from the costs of this transition so that in a decade, the price to the average American will be about the same as a postage stamp per day. <p>Because this legislation is so balanced and sensible, it's already attracted a remarkable coalition of consumer and environmental groups, labor and business leaders, Democrats and Republicans. Now I urge every Member of Congress, Democrat and Republican, to come together to support this legislation. I can't stress enough the importance of this vote. I know this is going to be a close vote, in part because of the misinformation that's out there that suggests there's somehow a contradiction between investing in clean energy and our economic growth. But my call to those Members of Congress who are still on the fence, as well as to the American people, is this: We cannot be afraid of the future, and we can't be prisoners of the past. We've been talking about this issue for decades, and now is the time to finally act. <p>There's no disagreement over whether our dependence on foreign oil is endangering our security; we know it is. There's no longer a debate about whether carbon pollution is placing our planet in jeopardy; it's happening. And there's no longer a question about whether the jobs and the industries of the 21st century will be centered around clean, renewable energy. The only question is, which country will create these jobs and these industries? And I want that answer to be the United States of America, and I believe that the American people and the men and women they sent to Congress share that view. <p>So let's take this opportunity to come together and meet our obligations to our constituents, to our children, to God's creation, and to future generations. Thank you very much.\" "
"185" "\"Hello, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Well, first of all, it is great to see all of you here today. I want to thank all the Members of Congress who are here participating, all the families and young people who are here. I, obviously, have to thank my wife, Michelle Obama, who has spent much of her adult life focused on service. You know, she understands that nothing's more powerful than when you enlist the skill and talent and passion of the American people on behalf of helping others. And she's been doing that all her life, and she's doing just a great job as First Lady in making that happen. <p>I want to thank all the men and women here at Fort McNair and all those who serve our country under our proud flag. We're grateful to each and every one of you. Those Americans in uniform, it's clear the nature of their service. I think sometimes what's forgotten is when one person in the family serves in our Armed Forces, that means the entire family is serving. And it's very gratifying to see all of you committed to helping to put together some backpacks and care packages for military families all across the country. This is an issue that Michelle has taken extraordinary interest in during the course of our campaign. She would meet with military families and discover that, despite all the things that Government may want to do, there are still a lot of holes and a lot of gaps that need to be filled in terms of giving the support to our military families that's necessary, and that's where you come in. <p>So we're very proud of them, but we're very proud of you. And we always want to remember that serving our country is not just something that we should expect our members of our Armed Forces to do, that's something that we should expect all of us as citizens to do. <p>On Monday, we launched \\"United We Serve,\\" our summer service initiative. It's going to run all the way through our National Day of Service on September 11th. We want to ask every American to take some time out this summer to do something for others. Parents take your kids. They're going to have fun, they're going to be in sports camps, they're going to be watching TV and playing video games--once a week, take them down, whether it's to a soup kitchen or to volunteer on a community project, teach them what it means to be a real citizen. You'll find that, actually, the kids love it, and it's going to make a lasting impression on them. And if all of us are doing that this summer, then we're going to make this country stronger. We're working hard and Members of Congress are working really hard right now, to make our Government work for people, but Government can only do so much. Ultimately, the strength of America doesn't come from Capitol Hill, it doesn't come from the White House, it comes from the grassroots, and that's what all of you are about. <p>So I appreciate you. I hope you guys have some great fun today. I notice the air conditioning is on in here, which--[<i>laughter</i>]--sometimes, with some of these service projects, you got to change shirts at the end of the day. So enjoy yourselves, and I hope I get a chance to say thank you personally and shake some hands before the day is done. All right? Thank you very much, everybody. <p>Oh, one other thing that I wanted to mention--and since we've got a lot of press here--sometimes people want to be involved in service but don't know how to get involved in service. <p>And so what I want to do is just remind people, if you go to serve.gov--serve.gov--that will give you an entire toolkit for how you can sign up for service in your communities. So there's no excuses. And you can find the service project that's right for you. If you care about animals, you can find a shelter that helps with stray animals. If you care about tutoring kids or you've got an education background, you'll be able to find something that allows you to use your particular skills. <p>So get on serve.gov, and that's how you're going to be identify--going to be able to identify the service project that's right for you and your family. All right? Thank you, everybody. Have fun.\" "
"186" "\"Hello, everybody. We have just finished what I consider to be a very productive meeting on one of the most critical issues that I think this Nation faces, and that is an immigration system that is broken and needs fixing. <p>We have Members of Congress from both Chambers and from both parties, who have participated in the meeting and shared a range of ideas. I think the consensus is that despite the--our inability to get this passed over the last several years, the American people still want to see a solution in which we are tightening up our borders or cracking down on employers who are using illegal workers in order to drive down wages and oftentimes mistreat those workers. And we need a effective way to recognize and legalize the status of undocumented workers who are here. <p>Now, this is--there is not by any means consensus across the table. As you can see, we've got a pretty diverse spectrum of folks here. But what I'm encouraged by is that after all the overheated rhetoric and the occasional demagoguery on all sides around this issue, we've got a responsible set of leaders sitting around the table who want to actively get something done and not put it off until a year, 2 years, 3 years, 5 years from now, but to start working on this thing right now. <p>My administration is fully behind an effort to achieve comprehensive immigration reform. I have asked my Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Secretary Janet Napolitano, to lead up a group that is going to be working with a leadership group from both the House and the Senate to start systematically working through these issues from the congressional leaders and those with the relevant jurisdiction. What we've heard is through a process of regular order, they would like to work through these issues both in the House and in the Senate. <p>In the meantime, administratively, there are a couple of things that our administration has already begun to do. The FBI has cleared much of the backlog of immigration background checks that was really holding up the legal immigration process. DHS is already in the process of cracking down on unscrupulous employers and, in collaboration with the Department of Labor, working to protect those workers from exploitation. <p>The Department of Homeland Security has also been making good progress in speeding up the processing of citizenship petitions, which has been far too slow for far too long. And that, by the way, is an area of great consensus, cuts across Democratic and Republican parties, the notion that we've got to make our legal system of immigration much more efficient and effective and customer-friendly than it currently is. <p>Today I'm pleased to announce a new collaboration between my Chief Information Officer, my Chief Performance Officer, my Chief Technologies Officer, and the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Office to make the agency much more efficient, much more transparent, much more user-friendly than it has been in the past. <p>In the next 90 days, USCIS will launch a vastly improved web site that will, for the first time ever, allow applicants to get updates on their status of their applications via e-mail and text message and online. And anybody who's dealt with families who are trying to deal with, navigate the immigration system, this is going to save them huge amounts of time standing in line, waiting around, making phone calls, being put on hold. It's an example of some things that we can do administratively, even as we're working through difficult issues surrounding comprehensive immigration. And the idea is very simple here. We're going to leverage cutting-edge technology to reduce the unnecessary paperwork, backlogs, and the lack of transparency that's caused so many people so much heartache. <p>Now, we all know that comprehensive immigration reform is difficult. We know it's a sensitive and politically volatile issue. One of the things that was said around the table is the American people still don't have enough confidence that Congress and any administration is going to get serious about border security. And so they're concerned that any immigration reform simply will be a short-term legalization of undocumented workers with no long-term solution with respect to future flows of illegal immigration. <p>What's also been acknowledged is that the 12 million or so undocumented workers are here, who are not paying taxes in the ways that we'd like them to be paying taxes, who are living in the shadows, that that is a group that we have to deal with in a practical, common-sense way. Now, I think the American people are ready for us to do so. But it's going to require some heavy lifting. It's going to require a victory of practicality and common sense and good policymaking over short-term politics. That's what I'm committed to doing as President. <p>I want to especially commend John McCain, who's with me here today, because along with folks like Lindsey Graham, he has already paid a significant political cost for doing the right thing. I stand with him; I stand with Nydia Velazquez and others who have taken leadership on this issue. I am confident that if we enter into this with the notion that this is a nation of laws that have to be observed and this is a nation of immigrants, then we're going to create a stronger nation for our children and our grandchildren. <p>So thank you all for participating. I'm looking forward to us getting busy and getting to work. All right? Thank you. Oh, and by the way, I hope everybody has got their Hawaiian shirts and their muumuus for our luau tonight.\" "
"187" "\"Aloha. It is wonderful to see you all. I am not going to make a long speech. I just want to say to all the Members of Congress, you've been working hard. I wish I could give you all trips to Hawaii, but I figured since--given our budget crunch we can't do that, that we'd at least bring Hawaii to you. <p>And I want to thank our wonderful entertainers, Tihati. Thank you very much. I want to thank all the chefs who prepared the outstanding food, especially Alan Wong, a friend from Hawaii, does a great job. I want to--in case you don't know, this is Malia Obama, Sasha Obama, Michelle Obama, and the star of the family, Bo Obama. <p>I hope you guys have a wonderful time. Enjoy. Feel free to just roam around here. And thank you again, Members of Congress, for the unbelievable work that you're doing for the American people each and every day. I appreciate you. Thank you, guys.\" "
"188" "\"Today the House of Representatives took historic action with the passage of the American Clean Energy and Security Act. It's a bold and necessary step that holds the promise of creating new industries and millions of new jobs, decreasing our dangerous dependence on foreign oil, and strictly limiting the release of pollutants that threaten the health of families and communities and the planet itself. Now it's up to the Senate to take the next step. And I'm confident that in the coming weeks and months the Senate will demonstrate the same commitment to addressing what is a tremendous challenge and an extraordinary opportunity. <p>As always happens when we debate issues of this magnitude, we see lines of demarcation. There are those who argue that the status quo is acceptable, those who would have us continue our dependence on foreign oil and our reliance on fossil fuels despite the risks to our security, our economy, and the planet. But the American people know that the nation that leads in building a 21st century clean energy economy is the nation that will lead in creating a 21st century global economy. I want America to be that nation. And with this vote, the House has put America on the path to being that nation. <p>The fact is, just weeks ago, few in Washington believed that this day would come to pass. The best bet, the safe bet, was that after three decades of failure, we couldn't muster the political will to tackle the energy challenge despite the necessity and urgency of action. But although Washington may not see it yet, there is a spirit of change that's taken hold across this country. As has happened at every critical juncture in our history, the American people are demanding that we abandon the failed policies and politics of the past; we no longer accept inaction; that we face up to the challenges of our time. And today the House has done exactly that. <p>I want to thank Speaker Pelosi for what was a prodigious effort on behalf of this measure. I also want to thank and recognize the chairs of the committees that worked so hard on this bill: Henry Waxman, Collin Peterson, Charlie Rangel. I want to acknowledge John Dingell, Ed Markey, Rick Boucher, and Mike Doyle, as well as many others who worked long and hard to get to this day. They spent months carefully crafting a plan that's sensitive to vulnerable communities and industries, and that ushers in a critical transition to a clean energy economy without untenable new burdens on the American people. <p>By creating a system of clean energy incentives, this bill complements our earlier actions to raise automobile fuel efficiency standards, to double our capacity to generate electricity from sources like wind and sun, and to make significant new investments in the research and development of homegrown, renewable sources of energy. <p>So I look forward to continuing this work with the Senate so that Congress can send me a bill that I can sign into law, and so that we can say, at long last, that this was the moment when we decided to confront America's energy challenge and reclaim America's future. That's what this vote was about. It was a victory of the future over the past. And that's what America is all about. <p>Thanks, guys.\" "
"189" "\"Yesterday the House of Representatives passed a historic piece of legislation that will open the door to a clean energy economy and a better future for America. <p>For more than three decades, we've talked about our dependence on foreign oil. And for more than three decades, we have seen that dependence grow. We've seen our reliance on fossil fuels jeopardize our national security. We've seen it pollute the air we breathe and endanger our planet. And most of all, we've seen other countries realize a critical truth: The nation that leads in the creation of a clean energy economy will be the nation that leads the 21st century global economy. Now is the time for the United States of America to realize this too. Now is the time for us to lead. <p>The energy bill that passed the House will finally create a set of incentives that will spark a clean energy transformation in our economy. It will spur the development of low carbon sources of energy, everything from wind, solar, and geothermal power to safer nuclear energy and cleaner coal. It will spur new energy savings, like the efficient windows and other materials that reduce heating costs in the winter and cooling costs in the summer. And most importantly, it will make possible the creation of millions of new jobs. <p>Make no mistake: This is a jobs bill. We're already seeing why this is true in the clean energy investments we're making through the Recovery Act. In California, 3000 people will be employed to build a new solar plant that in turn will create 1000 permanent jobs. In Michigan, investment in wind turbines and wind technology is expected to create over 2,600 jobs. In Florida, three new solar projects are expected to employ 1400 people. <p>The list goes on and on, but the point is this: This legislation will finally make clean energy the profitable kind of energy. That will lead to the creation of new businesses and entire new industries, and that will lead to American jobs that pay well and can't be outsourced. I've often talked about the need to build a new foundation for economic growth so that we don't return to the endless cycle of bubble and bust that led us to this recession. Clean energy and the jobs it creates will be absolutely critical to this new foundation. <p>This legislation has also been carefully written to address the concerns that many have expressed in the past. Instead of increasing the deficit, it's paid for by the polluters who currently emit dangerous carbon emissions. It provides assistance to businesses and families as they make the gradual transition to clean energy technologies. It gives rural communities and farmers the opportunity to participate in climate solutions and generate new income. And above all, it will protect consumers from the costs of this transition, so that in a decade, the price to the average American will be just about a postage stamp a day. <p>Because this legislation is so balanced and sensible, it's already attracted a remarkable coalition of consumer and environmental groups, labor and business leaders, Democrats and Republicans. And I want to thank every Member of Congress who put politics aside to support this bill on Friday. <p>Now my call to every Senator, as well as to every American, is this: We cannot be afraid of the future, and we must not be prisoners of the past. Don't believe the misinformation out there that suggests that there is somehow a contradiction between investing in clean energy and economic growth. It's just not true. <p>We've been talking about energy for decades. But there's no longer a disagreement over whether our dependence on foreign oil is endangering our security. It is. There's no longer a debate about whether carbon pollution is placing our planet in jeopardy. It's happening. And there's no longer a question about whether the jobs and industries of the 21st century will be centered around clean, renewable energy. The question is, which country will create these jobs and these industries? I want that answer to be the United States of America. And I believe that the American people and the men and women they sent to Congress share that view. <p>So I want to congratulate the House for passing this bill, and I want to urge the Senate to take this opportunity to come together and meet our obligations to our constituents, to our children, to God's creation, and to future generations. <p>Thanks for listening.\" "
"190" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. Since taking the--excuse me--since taking office, my administration's mounted a sustained response to a historic economic crisis. But even as we take decisive action to repair the damage to our economy, we're also working to build a new foundation for sustained and lasting economic growth. <p>And we know this won't be easy, but this is a moment where we've been called upon to cast off the old ways of doing business and act boldly to reclaim America's future. Nowhere is this more important than in building a new, clean energy economy, ending our dependence on foreign oil, and limiting the dangerous pollutants that threaten our health and the health of our planet. <p>And that's precisely what we've begun to do. Thanks to broad coalitions ranging from business to labor, investors to entrepreneurs, Democrats and Republicans, from coal States and coastal States, and all who are willing to take on this challenge, we've come together to achieve more in the past few months to create a new, clean energy economy than we have in decades. <p>We began with historic investments in the Recovery Act and the Federal budget that will help create hundreds of thousands of jobs doing the work of doubling our country's supply of renewable energy. We're talking about jobs building wind turbines and solar panels, jobs developing next-generation solutions for next-generation cars, jobs upgrading our outdated power grid so it can carry clean, renewable energy from the far-flung areas that harness it to the big cities that use it. <p>Thanks to a remarkable partnership between automakers, autoworkers, environmental advocates, and States, we created incentives for companies to develop cleaner, more efficient vehicles and for Americans to drive them. We set in motion a new national policy aimed at both increasing gas mileage and decreasing greenhouse gas pollution for all new cars and trucks sold in the United States. And as a result, we'll save 1.8 billion barrels of oil over the lifetime of the vehicles sold in the next 5 years, the projected equivalent of taking 58 million cars off the road for an entire year. <p>And we know that even as we seek solutions to our energy problems at home, the solution to global climate change requires American leadership abroad. That's why I've appointed a global climate envoy to help lead our reengagement with the international community as we find sustainable ways to transition to a global low-carbon economy. <p>And now, just last Friday, the House of Representatives came together to pass an extraordinary piece of legislation that will finally open the door to decreasing our dependence on foreign oil, preventing the worst consequences of climate change, and making clean energy the profitable kind of energy. Thanks to Members of Congress who were willing to place America's progress before the usual Washington politics, this bill will create new businesses, new industries, and millions of new jobs, all without imposing untenable new burdens on the American people or America's businesses. In the months to come, the Senate will take up its version of the energy bill, and I am confident that they too will choose to move this country forward. <p>So we've gotten a lot done on the energy front over the last 6 months. But even as we're changing the ways we're producing energy, we're also changing the ways we use energy. In fact, one of the fastest, easiest, and cheapest ways to make our economy stronger and cleaner is to make our economy more energy efficient. And that's something that Secretary Chu is working every single day to work through. <p>We know the benefits. In the late 1970s, the State of California enacted tougher energy-efficiency policies. Over the next three decades, those policies helped create almost 1.5 million jobs. And today, Californians consume 40 percent less energy per person than the national average, which, over time, has prevented the need to build at least 24 new power plants. Think about that. California, producing jobs; their economy keeping pace with the rest of the country; and yet they have been able to maintain their energy usage at a much lower level than the rest of the country. <p>So that's why we took significant steps in the Recovery Act to invest in energy efficiency measures, from modernizing Federal buildings to helping American families make upgrades to their homes, steps that will create jobs and save taxpayers and consumers money. And that's why I've asked Secretary Chu to lead a new effort at the Department of Energy focusing on implementing more aggressive efficiency standards for common household appliances like refrigerators and ovens, which will spark innovation, save consumers money, and reduce energy demand. <p>So today we're announcing additional actions to promote energy efficiency across America, actions that will create jobs in the short run and save money and reduce dangerous emissions in the long run. The first step we're taking sets new efficiency standards on fluorescent and incandescent lighting. Now, I know light bulbs may not seem sexy, but this simple action holds enormous promise because 7 percent of all the energy consumed in America is used to light our homes and our businesses. Between 2012 and 2042, these new standards will save consumers up to $4 billion a year, conserve enough electricity to power every home in America for 10 months, reduce emissions equal to the amount produced by 166 million cars each year, and eliminate the need for as many as 14 coal-fired power plants. And by the way, we're going to start here at the White House. Secretary Chu's already started to take a look at our light bulbs, and we're going to see what we need to replace them with energy efficient light bulbs. <p>And if we want to make our economy run more efficiently, we've also got to make our homes and businesses run more efficiently. And that's why we're also speeding up a $346 million investment under the Recovery Act to expand and accelerate the development, deployment, and use of energy efficient technologies in residential and commercial buildings, which consume almost 40 percent of the energy we use and contribute to almost 40 percent of the carbon pollution we produce. <p>We're talking about technologies that are available right now or will soon be available, from lighting to windows, heating to cooling, smart sensors and controls. By adopting these technologies in our homes and businesses, we can make our buildings up to 80 percent more energy efficient or, with additions like solar panels on the roof or geothermal power from underground, even transform them into zero-energy buildings that actually produce as much energy as they consume. <p>Now, progress like this might seem farfetched. But the fact is we're not lacking for ideas and innovation. All we lack are the smart policies and the political will to help us put our ingenuity to work. And when we put aside the posturing and the politics, when we put aside attacks that are based less on evidence than on ideology, then a simple choice emerges: We can remain the world's leading importer of oil, or we can become the world's leading exporter of clean energy. We can allow climate change to wreak unnatural havoc, or we can create jobs utilizing low-carbon technologies to prevent its worst effects. We can cede the race for the 21st century, or we can embrace the reality that our competitors already have: The nation that leads the world in creating a new, clean energy economy will be the nation that leads the 21st century global economy. That's our choice: between a slow decline and renewed prosperity; between the past and the future. <p>The American people have made their choice. They expect us to move forward right now, at this moment of great challenge, and stake our claim on the future; a stronger, cleaner, and more prosperous future where we meet our obligations to our citizens, our children, and to God's creation, and where the United States of America leads once again. <p>That's the future we're aiming for. I've got a great Secretary of Energy who's helping us achieve it. I want to thank again the House of Representatives for doing the right thing on Friday, and we are absolutely confident that we're going to be able to make more progress in the weeks and months to come. <p>Thanks, guys.\" "
"191" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hey. Good to see you. I'm waiting for FLOTUS here. FLOTUS always politics more than POTUS. <p><i>The First Lady.</i> No, you move too slow. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> It is great to see everybody here today, and they're just--I've got a lot of friends in the room, but there are some people I want to especially acknowledge. First of all, somebody who helped ensure that we are in the White House, Steve Hildebrand. Please give Steve a big round of applause. Where's Steve? He's around here somewhere. <p>The new Chair of the Export-Import Bank, Fred Hochberg; where's Fred? There's Fred. Good to see you, Fred. Our Director of the Institute of Education Sciences at DOE, John Easton; where's John? A couple of special friends--Bishop Gene Robinson; where's Gene? Hey, Gene. Ambassador Michael Guest is here. Ambassador Jim Hormel is here. Oregon Secretary of State Kate Brown is here. <p>All of you are here. Welcome to your White House. So---- <p><i>Audience member.</i> [<i>Inaudible</i>] [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> Somebody asked from the Lincoln Bedroom here. [<i>Laughter</i>] You knew I was from Chicago too. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It's good to see so many friends and familiar faces, and I deeply appreciate the support I've received from so many of you; Michelle appreciates it. And I want you to know that you have our support as well. And you have my thanks for the work you do every day in pursuit of equality on behalf of the millions of people in this country who work hard and care about their communities and who are gay, lesbian, bisexual, or transgender. <p>Now, this struggle, I don't need to tell you, is incredibly difficult, although I think it's important to consider the extraordinary progress that we have made. There are unjust laws to overturn and unfair practices to stop. And though we've made progress, there are still fellow citizens, perhaps neighbors or even family members and loved ones, who still hold fast to worn arguments and old attitudes; who fail to see your families like their families; and who would deny you the rights that most Americans take for granted. And I know this is painful, and I know it can be heartbreaking. <p>And yet all of you continue, leading by the force of the arguments you make but also by the power of the example that you set in your own lives as parents and friends, as PTA members and leaders in the community. And that's important, and I'm glad that so many LGBT families could join us today. For we know that progress depends not only on changing laws but also changing hearts. And that real, transformative change never begins in Washington. <p>[<i>At this point, a cell phone rang.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> Whose duck is back there? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The First Lady</i>. It's a duck. <p><i>The President.</i> There's a duck quacking in there somewhere. [<i>Laughter</i>] Where do you guys get these ring tones, by the way? [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm just curious. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Indeed, that's the story of the movement for fairness and equality, not just for those who are gay, but for all those in our history who've been denied the rights and responsibilities of citizenship; who've been told that the full blessings and opportunities of this country were closed to them. It's the story of progress sought by those who started off with little influence or power, by men and women who brought about change through quiet, personal acts of compassion and courage and sometimes defiance wherever and whenever they could. <p>That's the story of a civil rights pioneer who's here today. Frank Kameny, who was fired--[<i>applause</i>]--Frank was fired from his job as an astronomer for the Federal Government simply because he was gay. And in 1965, he led a protest outside the White House, which was at the time both an act of conscience but also an act of extraordinary courage. And so we are proud of you, Frank, and we are grateful to you for your leadership. <p>It's the story of the Stonewall protests, which took place 40 years ago this week, when a group of citizens, with few options and fewer supporters, decided they'd had enough and refused to accept a policy of wanton discrimination. And two men who were at those protests are here today. Imagine the journey that they've traveled. <p>It's the story of an epidemic that decimated a community and the gay men and women who came to support one another and save one another, and who continue to fight this scourge, and who've demonstrated before the world that different kinds of families can show the same compassion and support in a time of need; that we all share the capacity to love. <p>So this story, this struggle, continues today, for even as we face extraordinary challenges as a nation, we cannot and will not put aside issues of basic equality. We seek an America in which no one feels the pain of discrimination based on who you are or who you love. <p>And I know that many in this room don't believe that progress has come fast enough, and I understand that. It's not for me to tell you to be patient, any more than it was for others to counsel patience to African Americans who were petitioning for equal rights a half century ago. <p>But I say this: We have made progress, and we will make more. And I want you to know that I expect and hope to be judged not by words, not by promises I've made, but by the promises that my administration keeps. And by the time you receive--[<i>applause</i>]. We've been in office 6 months now. I suspect that by the time this administration is over, I think you guys will have pretty good feelings about the Obama administration--[<i>inaudible</i>]. <p>Now, while there is much more work to do, we can point to important changes we've already put in place since coming into office. I've signed a memorandum requiring all agencies to extend as many Federal benefits as possible to LGBT families as current law allows. And these are benefits that will make a real difference for Federal employees and Foreign Service officers who are so often treated as if their families don't exist. And I'd like to note that one of the key voices in helping us develop this policy is John Berry, our Director of the Office of Personnel Management, who is here today. And I want to thank John Berry. <p>I've called on Congress to repeal the so-called Defense of Marriage Act to help end discrimination against same-sex couples in this country. Now, I want to add, we have a duty to uphold existing law, but I believe we must do so in a way that does not exacerbate old divides. And fulfilling this duty in upholding the law in no way lessens my commitment to reversing this law. I've made that clear. <p>I'm also urging Congress to pass the domestic partners benefits and obligations act, which will guarantee the full range of benefits, including health care, to LGBT couples and their children. My administration's also working hard to pass an employee nondiscrimination bill and hate crimes bill, and we're making progress on both fronts. Judy and Dennis Shepard, as well as their son Logan, are here today. I met with Judy in the Oval Office in May, and I assured her, and I assure all of you, that we are going to pass an inclusive hate crimes bill into law, a bill named for their son Matthew. <p>In addition, my administration is committed to rescinding the discriminatory ban on entry to the United States based on HIV status. The Office of Management and Budget just concluded a review of a proposal to repeal this entry ban, which is a first and very big step towards ending this policy. And we all know that HIV/AIDS continues to be a public health threat in many communities, including right here in the District of Columbia. And that's why this past Saturday, on National HIV Testing Day, I was proud once again to encourage all Americans to know their status and get tested the way Michelle and I know our status and got tested. <p>And finally, I want to say a word about \\"don't ask, don't tell.\\" As I said before, I'll say it again, I believe \\"don't ask, don't tell\\" doesn't contribute to our national security. In fact, I believe preventing patriotic Americans from serving their country weakens our national security. My administration is already working with the Pentagon and Members of the House and the Senate on how we'll go about ending this policy, which will require an act of Congress. <p>Someday, I'm confident we'll look back at this transition and ask why it generated such angst, but as Commander in Chief in a time of war, I do have a responsibility to see that this change is administered in a practical way and a way that takes over the long term. That's why I've asked the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to develop a plan for how to thoroughly implement a repeal. <p>I know that every day that passes without a resolution is a deep disappointment to those men and women who continue to be discharged under this policy--patriots who often possess critical language skills and years of training and who've served this country well. But what I hope is that these cases underscore the urgency of reversing this policy not just because it's the right thing to do, but because it is essential for our national security. <p>Now, even as we take these steps, we must recognize that real progress depends not only on the laws we change but, as I said before, on the hearts we open. For if we're honest with ourselves, we'll acknowledge that there are good and decent people in this country who don't yet fully embrace their gay brothers and sisters, not yet. <p>That's why I've spoken about these issues not just in front of you, but in front of unlikely audiences: in front of African American church members, in front of other audiences that have traditionally resisted these changes. And that's what I'll continue to do so. That's how we'll shift attitudes. That's how we'll honor the legacy of leaders like Frank and many others who have refused to accept anything less than full and equal citizenship. <p>Now, 40 years ago, in the heart of New York City at a place called the Stonewall Inn, a group of citizens, including a few who are here today, as I said, defied an unjust policy and awakened a nascent movement. It was the middle of the night. The police stormed the bar, which was known for being one of the few spots where it was safe to be gay in New York. Now, raids like this were entirely ordinary, because it was considered obscene and illegal to be gay; no establishments for gays and lesbians could get licenses to operate. The nature of these businesses, combined with the vulnerability of the gay community itself, meant places like Stonewall, and the patrons inside, were often the victims of corruption and blackmail. <p>Now, ordinarily, the raid would come and the customers would disperse. But on this night, something was different. There are many accounts of what happened, and much has been lost to history, but what we do know is this: People didn't leave. They stood their ground. And over the course of several nights, they declared that they had seen enough injustice in their time. This was an outpouring against not just what they experienced that night, but what they had experienced their whole lives. And as with so many movements, it was also something more. It was at this defining moment that folks who had been marginalized rose up to challenge not just how the world saw them, but also how they saw themselves. <p>As we've seen so many times in history, once that spirit takes hold, there is little that can stand in its way. And the riots at Stonewall gave way to protests, and protests gave way to a movement, and the movement gave way to a transformation that continues to this day. It continues when a partner fights for her right to sit at the hospital bedside of a woman she loves. It continues when a teenager is called a name for being different, and says, \\"So what if I am?\\" It continues in your work and in your activism, in your fight to freely live your lives to the fullest. <p>In one year after the protests, a few hundred gays and lesbians and their supporters gathered at the Stonewall Inn to lead a historic march for equality. But when they reached Central Park, the few hundred that began the march had swelled to 5,000. Something had changed, and it would never change back. <p>The truth is, when these folks protested at Stonewall 40 years ago, no one could have imagined that you or, for that matter, I would be standing here today. So we are all witnesses to monumental changes in this country. That should give us hope, but we cannot rest. We must continue to do our part to make progress, step by step, law by law, mind by changing mind. And I want you to know that in this task, I will not only be your friend, I will continue to be an ally and a champion and a President who fights with you and for you. <p>Thanks very much, everybody. God bless you. We are--thank you. It's a little stuffed in here. We're going to open--we opened up that door. We're going to walk this way, and then we're going to come around, and we'll see some of you over there, all right? <p><i>The First Lady. </i>Out there? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> But out there. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But thank you very much, all, for being here. Enjoy the White House. Thank you.\" "
"192" "\"<i>The President. </i>Thank you very much. Well, it is wonderful to see all these do-gooders in one room. [<i>Laughter</i>] And it is always a dangerous thing trying to follow Geoffrey Canada. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I thank you all for being here. <p><i> Withdrawal of U.S. Troops From Iraq</i> <p>Before we begin the subject of today's gathering, I want to say a few words about an important milestone that we've reached in Iraq. Today American troops have transferred control of all Iraqi cities and towns to Iraq's Government and security forces. And this transition was agreed to last year as part of our status of forces agreement with the sovereign Iraqi Government. It's a part of our strategy to responsibly end the war by removing all American combat brigades from Iraq by next September and all of our troops from Iraq by the end of 2011. <p>So the Iraqi people are rightly treating this day as a cause for celebration. This is an important step forward, as a sovereign and united Iraq continues to take control of its own destiny. And with this progress comes responsibility. Iraq's future is in the hands of its own people, and Iraq's leaders must now make some hard choices necessary to resolve key political questions, to advance opportunity, and to provide security for their towns and their cities. In this effort, America will be a strong partner to the Iraqi people on behalf of their security and prosperity. <p>Now, make no mistake: There will be difficult days ahead. We know that the violence in Iraq will continue. We see that already in the senseless bombing in Kirkuk earlier today. And there are those who will test Iraq's security forces and the resolve of the Iraqi people through more sectarian bombings and the murder of innocent civilians. But I'm confident that those forces will fail. The future belongs to those who build, not those who destroy. And today's transition is further proof that those who have tried to pull Iraq into the abyss of disunion and civil war are on the wrong side of history. <p>Finally, the very fact that Iraqis are celebrating this day is a testament to the courage, the capability, and commitment of every single American who has served in Iraq. That's worth applauding. Through tour after tour of duty, our troops have overcome every obstacle to extend this precious opportunity to the Iraqi people. These women and men are not always in the headlines, but they're in our hearts and prayers, and we will forever honor their selfless service and sacrifice, as well as the service and sacrifice of their families. And there is more work to be done, but we've made important progress in supporting a sovereign, stable, and self-reliant Iraq. And everyone who's served there, both in uniform as well as our civilians, deserves our thanks. <p>Now, it's fitting that we're here today to talk about what each of us can do to lift up this Nation, because our troops' sacrifice challenges all of us to do what we can do to be better citizens. That's what the people that you've heard from already are doing every single day. <p>So I want to start off thanking Geoffrey Canada, Robert Chambers, Pat Christen--who's here with one of Hope Lab's student testers, Richard Ross--Richard, wave to everybody--[<i>laughter</i>]--for speaking with us about the extraordinary work their organizations are doing in their communities. And I want to thank Richard and Vanessa Nunez for sharing their stories with us today. Thank you very much. You both clearly have very bright futures ahead of you. <p>I want to acknowledge our outstanding Education Secretary, Arne Duncan. He's worth giving a round of applause. As well as, if I'm not mistaken, Congressman Jim Moran is here. There he is, right here in the front, with his daughter Dorothy. I want to thank Steve Goldsmith for moderating. We were discussing the fact that at Harvard--Vanessa, you were there--how long ago was that? Fifteen years ago? We were together on a conference talking about this very issue. And so it's nice to see Steve, one of the outstanding mayors at the time and now continuing to do great work helping people to think about how we can all fulfill our civic responsibilities more effectively. So thank you very much. <p>I also want to thank Dave Cieslewicz--I want to make sure I say that properly--of Madison, Wisconsin, and Mayor Sara Presler of Flagstaff, Arizona, for their commitment as well. Please give them a big round of applause. <p>And finally, I want to thank all of you here today for everything you're doing to find new solutions to some of our oldest, toughest problems. I know what you do is not easy. I know that for many of you, the hours are long, the pay could be better, let's face it. But I also know the difference that each of you make. I know the lives that you change every single day. You teach us that there's no such thing as a lost cause if you're willing to be creative and challenge the conventional wisdom and take some risks; if you're willing to try, and fail, and then try again until you find something that works. And today I want to recognize that pioneering spirit and thank you all for the contributions that you're making to our communities. <p>What you all do is important in any year. But at this particular moment, when we're facing challenges unlike any we've seen in our lifetime, it's absolutely critical, because while we're working hard to rebuild our economy and help people who are struggling, let's face it, there's only so much that Washington can do. Government can't do everything and be everywhere, nor should it be. <p>For example, Government can help rebuild schools--and Arne Duncan is working as hard as anybody--but we need new ways to teach our children and train our teachers and get parents more involved in their children's education. Government can reform our health care system, but we need innovative approaches to help people manage their illnesses and lead healthier lives. Government can invest in clean energy, but we need new initiatives to get people to train for green jobs and make their homes and offices more energy efficient. <p>So if anyone out there is waiting for Government to solve all their problems, they're going to be disappointed. Because ultimately, the best solutions don't come from the top-down, not from Washington, they come from the bottom-up in each and every one of our communities. <p>As some of you know, I first saw this years ago when I worked as a community organizer in Chicago--neighborhoods devastated by steel plant closings. And I spent hours going door to door, meeting with anyone who would talk to me, asking people about their struggles and what an organization could do to help. And it was slow, laborious going. We had plenty of setbacks and failed more often than we succeeded. But we listened to the people in the community and we learned from them and got them engaged and got them involved. And slowly, block by block, we began to turn those neighborhoods around, fighting for job training and better housing and more opportunity for young people. <p>The lesson I learned then still holds true today: That folks who are struggling don't simply need more Government bureaucracy; that top-down, one-size-fits-all program usually doesn't end up fitting anybody. People don't need somebody out in Washington to tell them how to solve their problems, especially when the best solutions are often right there in their own neighborhoods, just waiting to be discovered. <p>So right now, in communities across America, people are hard at work developing and running programs that could be the next Harlem Children's Zone or the next Genesys Works or the next Hope Lab--and idealistic young people like Wendy Kopp who refused to listen to skeptics years ago and pushed ahead to bring her vision for Teach for America to life. <p>We've got young-at-heart people like Robert Chambers, who finish out careers in business or health care or education, and instead of transitioning into retirement, they're just too busy, they're too restless, so they come back for an encore, plowing a lifetime of experience into helping people in need. We've got people from all backgrounds, all walks of life succeeding where others have failed, getting real, measurable results, changing the way we think about some of our toughest problems. <p>The bottom line is clear: Solutions to America's challenges are being developed every day at the grass roots, and Government shouldn't be supplanting those efforts, it should be supporting those efforts. Instead of wasting taxpayer money on programs that are obsolete or ineffective, Government should be seeking out creative, results-oriented programs like the ones here today and helping them replicate their efforts across America. <p>So if the Harlem's Children's Zone can turn around neighborhoods in New York, then why not Detroit or San Antonio or Los Angeles or Indianapolis? If Bonnie CLAC can help working people purchase cars and manage their finances in New Hampshire, then they can probably do it in Vermont or all across New England or all across America. <p>Now, it's not going to be easy to scale up some of these great ideas. If it was easy, you would have already done it, and you wouldn't be here today, except maybe to just check out the White House. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's hard, but it's also critical. And it's absolutely possible, if we're willing to work together to give organizations like these the resources they need to reach their fullest potential and have their fullest impact, and if we're able to ensure that best practices are shared all across the country, that we've set up a strong network of ideas. And that's precisely the idea behind the $50 million innovation fund included in the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act, an initiative designed to assist community solutions like these that we're asking Congress to fund this year. <p>We're going to use this fund to find the most promising nonprofits in America. We'll examine their data and rigorously evaluate their outcomes. We'll invest in those with the best results that are most likely to provide a good return on our taxpayer dollars. And we'll require that they get matching investments from the private sector, from businesses and foundations and philanthropists, to make those taxpayer dollars go even further. <p>And today I'm announcing that I'll be asking Melody Barnes, who is our Director of the Domestic Policy Council, and our innovation team to lead this process, traveling across the country to discover and evaluate the very best programs in our communities. <p>And we won't just be looking at the usual suspects in the usual places. We won't just be seeking the programs that everybody already knows about, but we also want to find those hidden gems that haven't yet gotten the attention they deserve. And we'll be looking in all sorts of communities, rural, urban, and suburban, in every region of this country, because we know that great ideas and outstanding programs are everywhere, and it's up to us to find them. <p>We're going to take this new approach, this new way of doing business, Government-wide. So we've already set up a What Works Fund at the Department of Education, $650 million in the Recovery Act that we'll be investing in the most successful, highest impact initiatives in our school districts and communities. It's not just going to be the usual formulas here. From pioneering teacher training programs and efforts to bring new technologies into our schools, to early learning programs and programs to help at-risk kids, these are the kinds of initiatives that Arne and his staff at the Department are looking to support. <p>At the Department of Health and Human Services, we're working on a new home-visiting initiative connecting nurses and other trained professionals with at-risk families to ensure that children get a healthy, safe, and smart start to life. We'll be seeking out the very best programs to achieve those goals--ones with the strongest record of success--and we'll test promising approaches to see what works and what doesn't. <p>So all of this represents a new kind of partnership between government and the nonprofit sector, but I can tell you right now, that partnership isn't complete and it won't be successful without help from the private sector. And that's why I'm glad that there are some deep pockets in the audience here--[<i>laughter</i>]--foundations, corporations, and individuals. You need to be part of this effort as well, and that's my challenge to the private sector today. <p>Our nonprofits can provide the solutions. Our Government can rigorously evaluate these solutions and invest limited taxpayer dollars in ones that work, but we need those of you from the private sector to step up as well. We need you to provide that critical seed capital to launch these ideas. We need you to provide those matching funds to help them grow, and we need you to serve as a partner, providing strategic advice and other resources to help them succeed. If we work together, if we all go all in here, think about the difference we can make. Think about the impact we could have with just the organizations represented in this room. <p>We've got Jim McCorkell here from Admission Possible, a group that helps promising young people from low-income families attend college. Ninety-nine percent of the Admission Possible class of 2008 got into college--99 percent. Where's Jim? Where's Jim? There he is, back there. The vast majority stay in college and earn their degrees. Admission Possible operates in just two States now. So imagine if it was 10 or 20 or 50. <p>We've got Alfa Demmellash here from Rising Tide Capital. Where is Alfa? Right over there. Did I pronounce your name right? <p><i>Alfa Demmellash</i>. Yes, you did. <p><i>The President.</i> Good. When your name is Barack Obama, you're sensitive to these things. [<i>Laughter</i>] So Alfa is with Rising Tide Capital, an organization that helps struggling mom-and-pop entrepreneurs get loans, run their businesses, and improve their profit margins. Seventy percent of their clients are single moms; all of them rely on their businesses to support their families. And so far Rising Tide has helped 250 businessowners in the State of New Jersey. So imagine if they could help 500 or 1,000 or more all across America. <p>If we empower organizations like these, think about the number of young people like Vanessa and Richard whose lives we can change, the number of families whose livelihoods we can boost, the number of struggling communities we can bring back to life. <p>In the end, that's what this effort is about. It's not about the old partisan lines in the sand. We know there's nothing Democratic or Republican about just doing what works. So we want to cast aside worn ideological debates and focus on what really helps people in their daily lives. That's what each and every one of you are doing all across America. For that, I honor you, I thank you, and I look forward to working with you in the days and months and years ahead to address the urgent challenges of our time. <p>So thank you very much, everybody. Good luck.\" "
"193" "\"Hello and happy Fourth of July, everybody. This weekend is a time to get together with family and friends, kick back, and enjoy a little time off. And I hope that's exactly what all of you do, but I also want to take a moment today to reflect on what I believe is the meaning of this distinctly American holiday.<p>Today we are called to remember not only the day our country was born, we're also called to remember the indomitable spirit of the first American citizens who made that day possible. We are called to remember how unlikely it was that our American experiment would succeed at all, that a small band of patriots would declare independence from a powerful empire, and that they would form, in the new world, what the old world had never known, a government of, by, and for the people.<p>That unyielding spirit is what defines us as Americans. It's what led generations of pioneers to blaze a westward trail. It's what led my grandparents' generation to persevere in the face of a depression and triumph in the face of tyranny. It's what led generations of American workers to build an industrial economy unrivalled around the world. It's what has always led us, as a people, not to wilt or cower at a difficult moment, but to face down any trial and rise to any challenge, understanding that each of us has a hand in writing America's destiny.<p>That is the spirit we are called to show once more. We're facing an array of challenges on a scale unseen in our time. We're waging two wars. We're battling a deep recession. And our economy, and our Nation itself, are endangered by festering problems we have kicked down the road for far too long: spiraling health care costs, inadequate schools, and a dependence on foreign oil.<p>Meeting these extraordinary challenges will require an extraordinary effort on the part of every American. And that is an effort we cannot defer any longer. Now is the time to lay a new foundation for growth and prosperity. Now is the time to revamp our education system, demand more from teachers, parents, and students alike and build schools that prepare every child in America to outcompete any worker in the world.<p>Now is the time to reform an unsustainable health care system that is imposing crushing costs on families, businesses&mdash;large and small&mdash;as well as State and Federal budgets. We need to protect what works, fix what's broken, and bring down costs for all Americans. No more talk. No more delay. Health care reform must happen this year. <p>And now is the time to meet our energy challenge, one of the greatest challenges we have ever confronted as a people or as a planet. For the sake of our economy and our children, we must build on the historic bill passed by the House of Representatives and make clean energy the profitable kind of energy so that we can end our dependence on foreign oil and reclaim America's future.<p>These are some of the challenges that our generation has been called to meet. And yet there are those who would have us try what has already failed, who would defend the status quo. They argue that our health care system is fine the way it is and that a clean energy economy can wait. They say we are trying to do too much, that we are moving too quickly, and that we all ought to just take a deep breath and scale back our goals.<p>These naysayers have short memories. They forget that we, as a people, did not get here by standing pat in a time of change. We did not get here by doing what was easy. That's not how a cluster of 13 Colonies became the United States of America.<p>We are not a people who fear the future. We are a people who make it. And on this July 4th, we need to summon that spirit once more. We need to summon the same spirit that inhabited Independence Hall 233 years ago today. <p>That's how this generation of Americans will make its mark on history. That's how we will make the most of this extraordinary moment, and that's how we will write the next chapter in the great American story. Thank you, and happy Fourth of July.\" "
"194" "\"Welcome to the White House, and happy Fourth of July. Michelle and I are honored and proud to have you here on the Fourth. And we're humbled to be joined up here by heroes, men and women who went beyond the call of duty in battle, some selflessly risking their lives again and again so that others might live. True to form, they, like all of you, say they were just doing their job. That's what makes you the best of us, and that's why we simply want to say thank you to each and every one of you for your extraordinary service to our country.<p>We're joined in that sentiment by Vice President Joe Biden, who, as many of you know, is marking Independence Day with troops in Iraq, and Jill Biden, who's spending it with military families in Germany.<p>I should say that there's also one girl in particular who's just thrilled that all of you are here, and that is Malia Obama, because this happens to be her birthday as well. When she was younger, I used to say that all these fireworks were for her. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm not sure she still buys that, but, even if this backyard is a little bit unique, our gathering tonight is not so different from gatherings that are taking place all across the country, in parks and fields and backyards all across America. In small towns and big cities, folks are firing up grills, laughing with family and friends, and laying out a blanket in preparation for the big show. They're reliving the simple, unmistakable joys of being an American.<p>But I suspect they're also taking some time to reflect on the unique nature of what it means to be an American; to give thanks for the extraordinary blessings that we enjoy; to celebrate and uphold the ideas and values that have invigorated and sustained this democracy and made it the lasting beacon for all of the world.<p>Just imagine the extraordinary audacity it took 233 years ago for a group of patriots to cast off the title of subject for citizen and put ideas to paper that were as simple as they were revolutionary: that we are equal; that we are free; that we can pursue our full measure of happiness and make of our lives what we will.<p>In retrospect, it seems inevitable. But I think it's fair to say that even the Framers of that declaration&mdash;especially the Framers of that declaration&mdash;would be astonished to see the results of their improbable experiment: a nation of commerce that led future revolutions in industry and information; a nation of discovery that blazed a trail west, cured disease, and put a man on the Moon; a nation of progress that strives perpetually to perfect itself; and a nation of hope that has again and again inspired people the world over to reach for the same freedoms we hold so dear.<p>And at each and every moment, generations of brave and selfless men and women like those standing alongside me have defended those freedoms and served our country with honor, waging war so that we might know peace, braving hardship so that we might know opportunity, and sometimes, paying the ultimate price so we might know freedom.<p>You are the latest, strongest link in that unbroken chain that stretches back to the Continental Army. You're the heirs of that legacy of proud men and women who strained to hold together a young union; who rolled back the creeping tide of tyranny; who stood post through a long twilight struggle; who have taken on the terror and extremism that threatens the world's stability.<p>And because of your brave efforts, American troops this week transferred control of all Iraqi cities and towns in Iraq's Government to Iraqi security forces. Because of what you did&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;because the courage and capability and commitment of every single American who has served in Iraq, a sovereign and united Iraq is taking control of its own destiny.<p>Iraq's future now rests in the hands of its own people. As extraordinary an accomplishment as that is, we know that this transition won't be without problems. We know there will be difficult days ahead. And that's why we will remain a strong partner to the Iraqi people on behalf of their security and prosperity.<p>But I want to say this to all of you: You have done everything that has been asked of you. The United States of America is proud of you. I'm proud to be your Commander in Chief. And that's why, this Fourth of July, I renew my pledge to each and every one of you that for as long as I have that immeasurable honor, you will always have the equipment and support you need to get the job done. Your families will always be a priority of Michelle's and mine and remain on our hearts and on our minds. And when our servicemembers do return home, it will be to an America that always welcomes them home with the care that they were promised.<p>It is, after all, your service, the service of generations of soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, and coast guardsmen, that makes our annual celebration of this day possible. It's your service that proves that our founding ideals remain just as powerful and alive in our third century as a nation as they did on that first Fourth of July. And it is your service that guarantees that the United States of America shall forever remain the last, best hope on Earth.<p>So happy Fourth of July, everybody. Right now the Marine Band is going to pay tribute to your service with a few songs that I think you know.\" "
"195" "\"Thank you so much. Well, congratulations, Oksana. And to the entire class of 2009, congratulations to you. I don't know if anybody else will meet their future wife or husband in class like I did, but I'm sure that you're all going to have wonderful careers.<p>I want to acknowledge a few people who are here. We have President Mikhail Gorbachev&mdash;is here today, and I want everybody to give him a big round of applause. I want to thank Sergei Guriev, the rector of the New Economic School; Maxim Boycko, their chairman of the board; and Arkady Dvorkovich, who is the NES board member, president of the alumni association, and is doing an excellent job for President Medvedev, because he was in our meeting yesterday. <p>Good morning. It is a great honor for me to join you at the New Economic School. Michelle and I are so pleased to be in Moscow. And as somebody who was born in Hawaii, I'm glad to be here in July instead of January. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I know that NES is a young school, but I speak to you today with deep respect for Russia's timeless heritage. Russian writers have helped us understand the complexities of the human experience and recognize eternal truths. Russia's painters, composers, and dancers have introduced us to new forms of beauty. Russia's scientists have cured disease, sought new frontiers of progress, and helped us go to space.<p>These are contributions that are not contained by Russia's borders, as vast as those borders are. Indeed, Russia's heritage has touched every corner of the world and speaks to the humanity that we share. That includes my own country, which has been blessed with Russian immigrants for decades. We've been enriched by Russian culture and enhanced by Russian cooperation. And as a resident of Washington, DC, I continue to benefit from the contributions of Russians, specifically from Alexander Ovechkin. [<i>Laughter</i>] We're very pleased to have him in Washington, DC.<p>Here at NES, you have inherited this great cultural legacy, but your focus on economics is no less fundamental to the future of humanity. As Pushkin said, \\"Inspiration is needed in geometry just as much as poetry.\\" And today I want particularly to speak to those of you preparing to graduate. You're poised to be leaders in academia and industry, in finance and government. But before you move forward, it's worth reflecting on what has already taken place during your young lives.<p>Like President Medvedev and myself, you're not old enough to have witnessed the darkest hours of the cold war, when hydrogen bombs were tested in the atmosphere, and children drilled in fallout shelters, and we reached the brink of nuclear catastrophe. But you are the last generation born when the world was divided. At that time, the American and Soviet Armies were still massed in Europe, trained and ready to fight. The ideological trenches of the last century were roughly in place. Competition in everything from astrophysics to athletics was treated as a zero-sum game. If one person won, then the other person had to lose.<p>And then, within a few short years, the world as it was ceased to be. Now, make no mistake, this change did not come from any one nation. The cold war reached a conclusion because of the actions of many nations over many years and because the people of Russia and Eastern Europe stood up and decided that its end would be peaceful.<p>With the end of the cold war, there were extraordinary expectations for peace and for prosperity, for new arrangements among nations and new opportunities for individuals. And like all periods of great change, it was a time of ambitious plans and endless possibilities. But, of course, things don't always work out exactly as planned. Back in 1993, shortly after this school opened, one NES student summed up the difficulty of change when he told a reporter, and I quote him, \\"The real world is not so rational as on paper.\\" The real world is not so rational as on paper.<p>Over two tumultuous decades, that truth has been borne out around the world. Great wealth has been created, but it has not eliminated vast pockets of crushing poverty. Poverty exists here, it exists in the United States, and it exists all around the world. More people have gone to the ballot box, but too many governments still fail to protect the rights of their people. Ideological struggles have diminished, but they've been replaced by conflicts over tribe and ethnicity and religion. A human being with a computer can hold the same amount of information stored in the Russian State Library, but that technology can also be used to do great harm.<p>In a new Russia, the disappearance of old political and economic restrictions after the end of the Soviet Union brought both opportunity and hardship. A few prospered, but many more did not. There were tough times. But the Russian people showed strength and made sacrifices, and you achieved hard-earned progress through a growing economy and greater confidence. And despite faint, painful times, many in Eastern Europe and Russia are much better off today than 20 years ago.<p>We see that progress here at NES, a school founded with Western support that is now distinctly Russian, a place of learning and inquiry where the test of an idea is not whether it is Russian or American or European, but whether it works. Above all, we see that progress in all of you, young people with a young century to shape as you see fit.<p>Your lifetimes coincides with this era of transition. But think about the fundamental questions asked when this school was founded: What kind of future is Russia going to have? What kind of future are Russia and America going to have together? What world order will replace the cold war? Those questions still don't have clear answers, and so now they must be answered by you, by your generation in Russia, in America, and around the world. You get to decide. And while I cannot answer those questions for you, I can speak plainly about the future that America is seeking.<p>To begin with, let me be clear: America wants a strong, peaceful, and prosperous Russia. This belief is rooted in our respect for the Russian people and a shared history between our nations that goes beyond competition. Despite our past rivalry, our people were allies in the greatest struggle of the last century. Recently I noted this when I was in Normandy&mdash;for just as men from Boston and Birmingham risked all that they had to storm those beaches and scale those cliffs, Soviet soldiers from places like Kazan and Kiev endured unimaginable hardships to repeal&mdash;to repel an invasion and turn the tide in the East. As President John Kennedy said, \\"No nation in history of battle ever suffered more than the Soviet Union in the Second World War.\\"<p>So as we honor this past, we also recognize the future benefit that will come from a strong and vibrant Russia. Think of the issues that will define your lives: security from nuclear weapons and extremism; access to markets and opportunity; health and the environment; an international system that protects sovereignty and human rights, while promoting stability and prosperity. These challenges demand global partnership, and that partnership will be stronger if Russia occupies its rightful place as a great power.<p>Yet unfortunately, there is sometimes a sense that old assumptions must prevail, old ways of thinking, a conception of power that is rooted in the past rather than in the future. There is the 20th century view that the United States and Russia are destined to be antagonists, and that a strong Russia or a strong America can only assert themselves in opposition to one another. And there is a 19th century view that we are destined to vie for spheres of influence, and that great powers must forge competing blocs to balance one another.<p>These assumptions are wrong. In 2009, a great power does not show strength by dominating or demonizing other countries. The days when empires could treat sovereign states as pieces on a chess board are over. As I said in Cairo, given our independence, any world order that&mdash;given our interdependence, any world order that tries to elevate one nation or one group of people over another will inevitably fail. The pursuit of power is no longer a zero-sum game; progress must be shared.<p>That's why I have called for a reset in relations between the United States and Russia. This must be more than a fresh start between the Kremlin and the White House, though that is important, and I've had excellent discussions with both your President and your Prime Minister. It must be sustained effort among the American and Russian people to identify mutual interests and expand dialogue and cooperation that can pave the way to progress.<p>This will not be easy. It's difficult to forge a lasting partnership between former adversaries; it's hard to change habits that have been ingrained in our Governments and our bureaucracies for decades. But I believe that on the fundamental issues that will shape this century, Americans and Russians share common interests that form a basis for cooperation. It is not for me to define Russia's national interests, but I can tell you about America's national interests, and I believe that you will see we share common ground.<p>First, America has an interest in reversing the spread of nuclear weapons and preventing their use. In the last century, generations of Americans and Russians inherited the power to destroy nations, and the understanding that using that power would bring about our own destruction. In 2009, our inheritance is different. You and I don't have to ask whether American and Russian leaders will respect a balance of terror; we understand the horrific consequences of any war between our two countries. But we do have to ask this question: We have to ask whether extremists who have killed innocent civilians in New York and in Moscow will show that same restraint. We have to ask whether 10 or 20 or 50 nuclear-armed nations will protect their arsenals and refrain from using them.<p>This is the core of the nuclear challenge in the 21st century, the notion that prestige comes from holding these weapons, or that we can protect ourselves by picking and choosing which nation can have these weapons, is an illusion. In the short period since the end of the cold war, we've already seen India, Pakistan, and North Korea conduct nuclear tests. Without a fundamental change, do any of us truly believe that the next two decades will not bring about the further spread of these nuclear weapons?<p>That's why America is committed to stopping nuclear proliferation and, ultimately, seeking a world without nuclear weapons. That is consistent with our commitment under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. That is our responsibility as the world's two leading nuclear powers. And while I know this goal won't be met soon, pursuing it provides the legal and moral foundation to prevent the proliferation and eventual use of nuclear weapons.<p>We're already taking important steps to build this foundation. Yesterday President Medvedev and I made progress on negotiating a new treaty that will substantially reduce our warheads and delivery systems. We renewed our commitment to clean, safe, and peaceful nuclear energy, which must be a right for all nations that live up to their responsibilities under the NPT. And we agreed to increase cooperation on nuclear security, which is essential to achieving the goal of securing all vulnerable nuclear material within 4 years.<p>Now, as we keep our own commitments, we must hold other nations accountable for theirs. Whether America or Russia, neither of us would benefit from a nuclear arms race in East Asia or the Middle East. That's why we should be united in opposing North Korea's efforts to become a nuclear power and opposing Iran's efforts to acquire a nuclear weapon. I'm pleased that President Medvedev and I agreed upon a joint threat assessment of the ballistic challenges&mdash;ballistic missile challenges of the 21st century, including from Iran and North Korea.<p>This is not about singling out individual nations; it's about the responsibility of all nations. If we fail to stand together, then the NPT and the Security Council will lose credibility, and international law will give way to the law of the jungle. And that benefits no one. As I said in Prague, rules must be binding, violations must be punished, and words must mean something.<p>The successful enforcement of these rules will remove causes of disagreement. I know Russia opposes the planned configuration for missile defense in Europe. And my administration is reviewing these plans to enhance the security of America, Europe, and the world. And I've made it clear that this system is directed at preventing a potential attack from Iran. It has nothing to do with Russia. In fact, I want to work together with Russia on a missile defense architecture that makes us all safer. But if the threat from Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programs is eliminated, the driving force for missile defense in Europe will be eliminated, and that is in our mutual interests.<p>Now, in addition to securing the world's most dangerous weapons, a second area where America has a critical national interest is in isolating and defeating violent extremists. For years, Al Qaida and its affiliates have defiled a great religion of peace and justice and ruthlessly murdered men, women, and children of all nationalities and faiths. Indeed, above all, they have murdered Muslims. And these extremists have killed in Amman and Bali, Islamabad and Kabul, and they have the blood of Americans and Russians on their hands. They're plotting to kill more of our people, and they benefit from safe havens that allow them to train and operate, particularly along the border of Pakistan and Afghanistan.<p>And that's why America has a clear goal: to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat Al Qaida and its allies in Afghanistan and Pakistan. We seek no bases, nor do we want to control these nations. Instead, we want to work with international partners, including Russia, to help Afghans and Pakistanis advance their own security and prosperity. And that's why I'm pleased that Russia has agreed to allow the United States to supply our coalition forces through your territory. Neither America nor Russia has an interest in an Afghanistan or Pakistan governed by the Taliban. It's time to work together on behalf of a different future, a future in which we leave behind the great game of the past and the conflict of the present, a future in which all of us contribute to the security of Central Asia.<p>And beyond Afghanistan, America is committed to promoting the opportunity that will isolate extremists. We are helping the Iraqi people build a better future, and leaving Iraq to the Iraqis. We're pursuing the goal of two states, Israel and Palestine, leave&mdash;living in peace and security. We're partnering with Muslim communities around the world to advance education, health, and economic development. In each of these endeavors, I believe that the Russian people share our goals, and will benefit from success&mdash;and we need to partner together.<p>Now, in addition to these security concerns, the third area that I will discuss is America's interest in global prosperity. And since we have so many economists and future business men and women in the room, I know this is of great interest to you.<p>We meet in the midst of the worst global recession in a generation. I believe that the free market is the greatest force for creating and distributing wealth that the world has ever known. But wherever the market is allowed to run rampant&mdash;through excessive risk-taking, a lack of regulation, or corruption&mdash;then all are endangered, whether we live on the Mississippi or on the Volga.<p>In America, we're now taking unprecedented steps to jump-start our economy and reform our system of regulation. But just as no nation can wall itself off from the consequences of a global crisis, no one can serve as the sole engine of global growth. You see, during your lives, something fundamental has changed. And while this crisis has shown us the risks that come with change, that risk is overwhelmed by opportunity. <p>Think of what's possible today that was unthinkable two decades ago. A young woman with an Internet connection in Bangalore, India, can compete with anybody anywhere in the world. An entrepreneur with a startup company in Beijing can take his business global. An NES professor in Moscow can collaborate with colleagues at Harvard or Stanford. That's good for all of us, because when prosperity is created in India, that's a new market for our goods; when new ideas take hold in China, that pushes our businesses to innovate; when new connections are forged among people, all of us are enriched.<p>There is extraordinary potential for increased cooperation between Americans and Russians. We can pursue trade that is free and fair and integrated with the wider world. We can boost investment that creates jobs in both our countries. We can forge partnerships on energy that tap not only traditional resources, like oil and gas, but new sources of energy that will drive growth and combat climate change. All of that, Americans and Russians can do together.<p>Now, government can promote this cooperation, but ultimately, individuals must advance this cooperation, because the greatest resource of any nation in the 21st century is you. It's people&mdash;it's young people especially. And the country which taps that resource will be the country that will succeed. That success depends upon economies that function within the rule of law. As President Medvedev has rightly said, a mature and effective legal system is a condition for sustained economic development. People everywhere should have the right to do business or get an education without paying a bribe, whether they are in America or Russia or Africa or Latin America. That's not a American idea or a Russian idea; that's how people and countries will succeed in the 21st century.<p>And this brings me to the fourth issue that I will discuss, America's interest in democratic governments that protect the rights of their people. By no means is America perfect. But it is our commitment to certain universal values which allows us to correct our imperfections, to improve constantly, and to grow stronger over time. Freedom of speech and assembly has allowed women and minorities and workers to protest for full and equal rights at a time when they were denied. The rule of law and equal administration of justice has busted monopolies, shut down political machines that were corrupt, ended abuses of power. Independent media have exposed corruption at all levels of business and government. Competitive elections allow us to change course and hold our leaders accountable. If our democracy did not advance those rights, then I, as a person of African ancestry, wouldn't be able to address you as an American citizen, much less as a President. Because at the time of our founding, I had no rights&mdash;people who looked like me. But it is because of that process that I can now stand before you as President of the United States.<p>So around the world, America supports these values because they are moral, but also because they work. The arc of history shows that governments which serve their own people survive and thrive; governments which serve only their own power do not. Governments that represent the will of their people are far less likely to descend into failed states, to terrorize their citizens, or to wage war on others. Governments that promote the rule of law, subject their actions to oversight, and allow for independent institutions are more dependable trading partners. And in our own history, democracies have been America's most enduring allies, including those we once waged war with in Europe and Asia, nations that today live with great security and prosperity.<p>Now let me be clear: America cannot and should not seek to impose any system of government on any other country, nor would we presume to choose which party or individual should run a country. And we haven't always done what we should have on that front. Even as we meet here today, America supports now the restoration of the democratically elected President of Honduras, even though he has strongly opposed American policies. We do so not because we agree with him, we do so because we respect the universal principle that people should choose their own leaders, whether they are leaders we agree with or not.<p>And that leads me to one final area that I will discuss, which is America's interest in an international system that advances cooperation, while respecting the sovereignty of all nations.<p>State sovereignty must be a cornerstone of international order. Just as all states should have the right to choose their leaders, states must have the right to borders that are secure, and to their own foreign policies. That is true for Russia, just as it is true for the United States. Any system that cedes those rights will lead to anarchy. That's why we must apply this principle to all nations, and that includes nations like Georgia and Ukraine. America will never impose a security arrangement on another country. For any country to become a member of an organization like NATO, for example, a majority of its people must choose to; they must undertake reforms; they must be able to contribute to the alliance's mission. And let me be clear: NATO should be seeking collaboration with Russia, not confrontation.<p>And more broadly, we need to foster cooperation and respect among all nations and peoples. As President of the United States, I will work tirelessly to protect America's security and to advance our interests. But no one nation can meet the challenges of the 21st century on its own, nor dictate its terms to the world. That is something that America now understands, just as Russia understands. That's why America seeks an international system that lets nations pursue their interests peacefully, especially when those interests diverge; a system where the universal rights of human beings are respected, and violations of those rights are opposed; a system where we hold ourselves to the same standards that we apply to other nations, with clear rights and responsibilities for all.<p>There was a time when Roosevelt, Churchill, and Stalin could shape the world in one meeting. Those days are over. The world is more complex today. Billions of people have found their voice, and seek their own measure of prosperity and self-determination in every corner of the planet. Over the past two decades, we've witnessed markets grow, wealth spread, and technology used to build, not destroy. We've seen old hatreds pass, illusions of differences between people lift and fade away; we've seen the human destiny in the hands of more and more human beings who can shape their own destinies. Now we must see that the period of transition which you have lived through ushers in a new era in which nations live in peace and people realize their aspirations for dignity, security, and a better life for their children. That is America's interests, and I believe that it is Russia's interest as well.<p>I know that this future can seem distant. Change is hard. In the words of that NES student back in 1993, \\"The real world is not so rational as on paper.\\" But think of the change that has unfolded with the passing of time. One hundred years ago, a czar ruled Russia, and Europe was a place of empire. When I was born, segregation was still the law of the land in parts of America, and my father's Kenya was still a colony. When you were born, a school like this would have been impossible, and the Internet was only known to a privileged few.<p>You get to decide what comes next. You get to choose where change will take us, because the future does not belong to those who gather armies on a field of battle or bury missiles in the ground; the future belongs to young people with an education and the imagination to create. That is the source of power in this century. And given all that has happened in your two decades on Earth, just imagine what you can create in the years to come.<p>Every country charts its own course. Russia has cut its way through time like a mighty river through a canyon, leaving an indelible mark on human history as it goes. As you move this story forward, look to the future that can be built if we refuse to be burdened by the old obstacles and old suspicions; look to the future that can be built if we partner on behalf of the aspirations we hold in common. Together, we can build a world where people are protected, prosperity is enlarged, and our power truly serves progress. And it is all in your hands. <p>Good luck to all of you. Thank you very much. Thank you.\" "
"196" "\"[<i>The President's remarks were joined in progress.</i>]<p>&mdash;&mdash;not simply tolerate dissenting voices but also to respect and recognize dissenting voices. This is one of the elements, along with an independent media and adherence to the rule of law, that has helped to solidify our own Government during some very difficult times. I said in my remarks recently that the fact that I sit before you as President of the United States is a testimony to the power of dissent in the United States over time in creating a different reality. And it's also an important tool for fighting corruption.<p>So I think it's very important that I come before you with some humility. I think in the past there's been a tendency for the United States to lecture rather than to listen. And we, obviously, still have much work to do with our own democracy in the United States, but nevertheless, I think we share some common values and interest in building a strong, democratic culture in Russia as well as the United States.<p>And I want to say that this is, by the way, something I do in every country I visit. So whether I visit&mdash;travel to Turkey or I travel to England, wherever I go, I think it's always important for me to recognize that the particular head of state that I'm meeting with is the head of the government, but that the society itself represents a larger spectrum of views.<p>So I again am grateful to all of you for taking the time. And rather than spend all the time talking, what I'd like to do is listen to you and find out your perspectives, your views, and we can go in any direction that you prefer. We can talk about policy and specific concerns or questions you may have for me. Or we can talk more generally about how democracy is progressing&mdash;&mdash;<p>[<i>At this point, the remarks continued, and no transcript was provided.</i>]\" "
"197" "\"Good afternoon. <i>Dobryi den'</i>. It is a great privilege to join all of you today with President Medvedev. From our first meeting at the G-20 summit in London to our discussions here in Moscow, President Medvedev's leadership has been critical to new progress in U.S.-Russian relations. And the fact that he has experience in business, in the private sector, makes him an invaluable ally in our efforts to improve the commercial ties between our two countries. <p>I want to thank our Ambassador, John Beyrle, for all the work that he does here in Moscow. And I want to thank all the organizations that helped to bring us here today: the U.S.-Russia Business Council, the American Chamber of Commerce in Moscow, the Russian Union of Industrial Entrepreneurs, Business Russia, and so many others. <p>All of you are part of a long line of commerce and trade between our peoples. Russia and the U.S. first established diplomatic relations more than 200 years ago. But before we ever exchanged ambassadors, we exchanged goods. Along the way, you gave us a pretty good deal on Alaska. Thank you. [<i>Laughter</i>] Even during a long cold war, trade endured: American grains, Russian raw materials. And in recent years, Russian-American trade surged. <p>So I want to thank all of you for your outstanding ideas on how our two countries can deepen these ties even further with new trade and investments that will create new jobs and prosperity for people in our countries. This was a key message of the speech that I just delivered this morning at the New Economic School, where you've got some of the most talented young people in Russia studying business and economics, recognizing that the future of Russia is intimately wrapped up with commerce.<p>Now, I've called for a reset in relations between Russia and the United States, but this can't just be a matter of two Presidents. It has to go deeper. It has to be between our people. It has to be more than just security or dismantling weapons. It has to be about our common prosperity, the jobs we create, the innovation we unleash, the industries that we build. <p>And that's why I made it very clear: America seeks a prosperous Russia that partners with us on a broad range of issues. We want Russia to be selling us goods, and we want Russia to be buying goods from us. And that's why we've created a U.S.-Russia Bilateral Presidential Commission to explore new opportunities for partnership.<p>Now, many of you here are part of this important work, and I want to thank you. And I also want to thank our commission cochairs for their leadership, and I am confident that they are going to do an outstanding job, our Minister Nabiullina and Commerce Secretary Gary Locke. They both bring a long track record of forging trade relationships and creating jobs in the 21st century in agriculture, in health, in energy, science, and technology.<p>Our commission reflects a fundamental truth of the global economy, and that is that prosperity is shared. When Russia buys aircrafts from U.S. aerospace companies, that sustains jobs in America. When an America soda company opens a new bottling plant outside of Moscow, that creates jobs for Russians. When our economies grow more intertwined, all of us can make progress.<p>But if the opportunities of our global economy are shared, so are the risks. Reckless speculation of bankers in one country reverberates on the floor of the Moscow Stock Exchange. A contracting global economy and shrinking trade means closed factories and lost jobs from North America to northern Russia. <p>So our fortunes are linked, and yet so much potential remains untapped. I said that we had made progress, but consider this: Total trade between our countries is just $36 billion. Our trade, America's trade with Russia, is only about 1 percent of all our trade with the world&mdash;1 percent&mdash;a percent that's virtually unchanged since the cold war. And that 36 billion is about the same as our trade with Thailand, a country with less than half of the population of Russia. Surely, we can do better.<p>In fact, Russia and the United States are natural economic partners. Between us, we're a market of some 440 million consumers, including Russia's growing middle class. There's Russia's skilled workers, vast scientific establishment, and natural resources. On the other hand, there's American leadership in high-tech, manufacturing, agriculture, and capital. So we need to make it easier for American companies to invest in Russia and make it easier for Russian companies to invest in the United States. <p>There are so many opportunities for cooperation, some of which have already been mentioned. But in order to achieve this better future, we're going to have to do some work, and some of the areas where our Governments are going to have to do work have already been mentioned. We have to promote transparency, accountability, rule of law, on which investments and economic growth depend. And so I welcome very much President Medvedev's initiatives to promote the rule of law and ensure a mature and effective legal system as a condition for sustained economic growth.<p>We also have to work on bureaucracy. The small example that was just mentioned, I'm sure, is costing millions, billions, cumulatively over time, of lost opportunities and spent person hours unnecessarily, because we simply haven't updated our laws. Russian and American collaboration could unleash opportunities and prosperity across a whole range of endeavors, from agriculture to aerospace, from green construction to clean energy, from transportation to telecommunications, if we seize this moment, if we work together.<p>Now, government can promote this cooperation. We can help to get out of the way, and we will. But ultimately, individual entrepreneurs and businesses have to advance the agenda. And I commend you for being here to do precisely that, because entrepreneurship and innovation are among the greatest forces in human history when it comes to progress and prosperity. It's our workers, it's our people, it's our ideas, who are the greatest engines of economic growth. It will be with their skills and talent that ultimately will determine the fate of nations in the 21st century, not simply the bountiful natural resources that both America and Russia share.<p>I'm told there's a Russian proverb that says, \\"Every seed knows its time.\\" So today I hope that we've planted a seed, a seed of new cooperation and new commerce. And now we must do the work of seeing that that seed grows into a relationship that advances prosperity for our peoples. <p>So thank you very much for gathering in that spirit. Thank you for your commitment to progress. We need to grow this economy, and we're going to be able to do it faster and more effectively if we're doing it together. Thank you very much.\" "
"198" "\"Thank you very much. Thank you. Well, good afternoon. <i>Dobryi den'</i>. I apologize that, I think, I'm running late, and I'm leaving early. This is a good reason why civil society is so important, because you can't always count on politicians. [<i>Laughter</i>] It is a great pleasure to be with all of you. Through the work that you do, you underscore what I believe is a fundamental truth in the 21st century: That strong, vibrant nations include strong, vibrant civil societies.<p>This was also a key message of the speech that I gave this morning at the New Economic School. We not only need a reset button between the American and Russian Government, but we need a fresh start between our societies, more dialogue, more listening, more cooperation in confronting common challenges. For history teaches us that real progress, whether it's economic or social or political, doesn't come from the top down. It typically comes from the bottom up. It comes from people; it comes from the grassroots; it comes from you. The best ideas and solutions come from ordinary citizens who become involved in their communities and in their countries. And by mobilizing and organizing and changing people's hearts and minds, you then change the political landscape. And oftentimes politicians get the credit for changing laws, but in fact, you've created the environment in which those new laws can occur.<p>I learned this myself when I worked as a community organizer in Chicago. I'm glad to see my friend here from Chicago, Calvin Holmes, who&mdash;we used to work together on a range of civic issues. I was working in communities that were devastated by steel plant closings, and so I went door to door, I worked with churches, trying to learn what people needed.<p>And we had a lot of setbacks. In fact, we had more failures than successes. But we kept on listening to the people; we learned from them; we got them involved. And over time, they chose projects to work on, whether it was building a new play lot or improving a neighborhood park or improving the local school or improving housing in the community. And slowly, block by block, neighborhood by neighborhood, you started to see change happen: more jobs, better housing, more opportunities for young people. And I learned a lesson, that if you want to bring about change, it's not enough just to be an advocate; it's not enough to just wait for the Government to act. You have to step up and deliver results, real impact on people's lives.<p>And that is something that I think is lost sometimes when we discuss civil society. There's a tendency sometimes for this to be a very abstract conversation with very lofty goals. And since I am a former law professor, I love abstractions and lofty goals. But your neighbor, your friend, your coworker, they're struggling with very immediate things right now: Can they pay the rent? Can their child go to a school that is going to teach them so that they can succeed in the future?<p>Those are the day-to-day struggles that they're wrestling with. And if they can't see a connection between what you are doing and their lives getting better in the short term, as well as the long term, then it's very hard to get any traction over time.<p>Now, no community is the same, and every country will follow its own path. So let me be very clear: Russia's future is up to the Russian people. Not every choice that's good for the United States is going to be good for Russia. Not every model of organization or development or democracy may be easily transplantable from one country to the next. But let me also say that we can learn from each other, and I do think there's some universal principles. So I commend you for this summit, designed not to lecture, but to listen, as was already pointed out, not to teach or impose solutions, but to learn from each other, from the bottom up.<p>As today's speakers explained, there are so many opportunities for new partnerships: developing strong, prosperous communities; expanding education and exchanges that open young minds to each other's countries; promoting healthy lifestyles that help people live longer, more productive lives; discovering the clean energy technologies we need to protect our environment and confront climate change. These are the challenges that we can meet together.<p>And meeting these challenges, in turn, requires what many of you have dedicated your lives to sustaining a vibrant civil society: the freedom of people to live as they choose, to speak their minds, to organize peacefully, and to have a say in how they are governed; a free press to report the truth; confidence in the rule of law and the equal administration of justice; a government that's accountable and transparent. And we honor all of you for the passion and perseverance that you bring to these causes.<p>As I've said elsewhere, I don't think these are American ideals, and I don't think they are the monopoly of one country. They're universal values; they're human rights. And that's why the United States of America will support them everywhere. That is our commitment, and that is our promise.<p>And in supporting these ideals, it's also important that we uphold them ourselves. And that's why I take the last speaker's admonition as a useful reminder that what we do matters, in part because although we know that sometimes we'll fall short of our ideals, when we do, they can be an excuse for others. Our journey to perfect our Union goes on to this day. And that's why I did order the closing of the Guantanamo Bay prison, and I did ban torture without equivocation and without exception.<p>Here in Russia, I welcome the steps that President Medvedev has taken so that civil society groups can play a more active role on behalf of the Russian people. And I want to acknowledge that we are joined today by representatives of two important organizations, the Office of the Human Rights Ombudsman and the Presidential Commission on Human Rights and Civil Society.<p>Make no mistake: Civil society, civil groups, hold their governments to high standards. And I know, because this audience includes Americans who've been critical of me for not moving fast enough on issues that are of great importance. They've said it to my face in the Oval Office while I was President. [<i>Laughter</i>] They told me I was wrong. And in some cases they changed my mind, in some cases they didn't. And that's okay, because we're not going to agree on everything. But I know this: Their voices and their views and their criticism ultimately will make my decisions better. They will make me ask tougher questions and ask my staffs tougher questions. And we'll find out: Are there ways of doing what we need to do that conform to our deepest held values and our ideals and that are sustainable over the long term? That makes our country stronger in the long term, and I wouldn't want it any other way.<p>So this summit reminds us: The fresh starts have to be between more than just two Presidents. They have to be between our two peoples, our two societies. They have to be more than just common security, the cold war weapons we dismantle. It must be about our common opportunity, the future of progress and prosperity that we build together.<p>And I think that the leadership here in Russia, both civil and governmental, understand this. I had lunch with President Medvedev this afternoon, and we started talking about health issues and the continuing high mortality rate among Russian men in particular. And we talked about alcoholism, and we talked about smoking. And we talked about the fact that government programs can be initiated, but to the extent that there's been success in the United States around reducing smoking levels, it's not only a matter of changing laws, it's also been changing attitudes, so that people feel that they need to change. And they internalize these different attitudes. That's something that civic society can do in a way that government never can. I then met the leader of the Russian Orthodox Church, and he talked about how, you know, government exchanges are useful, but religious organizations, they can help melt away the suspicions and mistrust that have built between people over time.<p>So just in those two conversations, in the span of 15 minutes, essentially what I heard was a call for action from you. Confidence that what you are doing matters, even when sometimes it seems hard and it seems as if nobody is listening. That's what our work here on Earth must be about, what Tolstoy called the \\"sole meaning of life . . . to serve humanity.\\" Now, thank you for making that cause the meaning of your lives. And good luck to all of you.<p><i>Spasibo</i>.\" "
"199" "\"Well, the&mdash;first of all, just let me tell you that everybody is asking about Janet, including President Napolitano here. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I'm very appreciative that all of you are there, and my remarks are going to be very brief.<p>I think it's clear that although we were fortunate not to see a more serious situation in the spring when we first got news of this outbreak, that the potential for a significant outbreak in the fall is looming. And Kathleen, Janet, John Brennan, Arne Duncan, and our entire team have tried to engage in the most rigorous planning exercise to make sure that anything that may occur in the fall, we're prepared for.<p>And so I won't go through the details of this. I'm sure that Kathleen and Janet and others have laid out what the potential consequences are of a renewed outbreak of H1N1. We want to make sure that we are not promoting panic, but we are promoting vigilance and preparation. And the most important thing for us to do in this process is to make sure that State and local officials prepare now to implement a vaccination program in the fall, but also that they are working on an overall public communications campaign with the White House and the possibilities that we may need to be dealing with schools that are seeing significant outbreaks of H1N1.<p>And we've looked at past cases of this being properly handled and situations like this being improperly handled, and one of the most important differences is where it's well handled, State and local officials have complete ownership over this issue. They are providing good ideas to the Federal Government; they are critical links to inform us what's working and what's not.<p>And so I'm just very grateful that all of you are taking this seriously. We may end up averting a crisis. That's our hope. But I think that if we are all working together in a thoughtful, systematic way based on the best science possible, that even if this turns out to be a serious situation, we can mitigate the damage and protect our neighbors and our friends and coworkers.<p>So again, my main message to you is to say thank you. You are working with a outstanding team in Kathleen, Janet, Arne, and John. And if there are any issues at all that you think we have not raised, any t's we have not crossed or i's that we have not dotted, that affect either our general approach or your specific community, please let us know. We don't want to find out after the fact that there's some things that we could have done better. We want to find out now and make sure that we're planning ahead.<p>So, Kathleen, good job as always, and I want you to know that in conversations with world leaders about this issue, what's clear is, is that we are way ahead in terms of our planning. And in fact, we may need to provide some guidance and direction to other public health officials in other countries who may not have done such excellent preparation as you have done.\" "
"200" "\"<i>Buona sera</i>. Good afternoon. We have just finished a productive meeting of the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate Change, and I'd like to begin by recognizing Prime Minister Berlusconi for cochairing this forum, as well as the extraordinary hospitality that he, his team, and the people of L'Aquila and the people of Italy have shown us during this stay. We are very grateful to all of you. I also want to thank the 17 other leaders who participated.<p>We had a candid and open discussion about the growing threat of climate change and what our nations must do, both individually and collectively, to address it. And while we don't expect to solve this problem in one meeting or one summit, I believe we've made some important strides forward as we move towards Copenhagen.<p>I don't think I have to emphasize that climate change is one of the defining challenges of our time. The science is clear and conclusive, and the impacts can no longer be ignored. Ice sheets are melting; sea levels are rising; our oceans are becoming more acidic. And we've already seen its effects on weather patterns, our food and water sources, our health and our habitats.<p>Every nation on this planet is at risk, and just as no one nation is responsible for climate change, no one nation can address it alone. And that's why, back in April, I convened this forum of the world's major economies who are responsible for more than three-quarters of the world's carbon pollution. And it's why we've gathered again here today.<p>Each of our nations comes to the table with different needs, different priorities, different levels of development. And developing nations have real and understandable concerns about the role they will play in these efforts. They want to make sure that they do not have to sacrifice their aspirations for development and higher living standards. Yet, with most of the growth in projected emissions coming from these countries, their active participation is a prerequisite for a solution.<p>We also agree that developed countries, like my own, have a historic responsibility to take the lead. We have the much larger carbon footprint per capita, and I know that in the past, the United States has sometimes fallen short of meeting our responsibilities. So let me be clear: Those days are over. One of my highest priorities as President is to drive a clean energy transformation of our economy, and over the past 6 months, the United States has taken steps towards this goal.<p>We've made historic investments in the billions of dollars in developing clean energy technologies. We're on track to create thousands of new jobs across America&mdash;on solar initiatives and wind projects and biofuel projects, trying to show that there is no contradiction between environmentally sustainable growth and robust economic growth.<p>We've also for the first time created a national policy raising our fuel efficiency standards that will result in savings of 1.8 billion barrels of oil over the lifetime of vehicles sold in the next 5 years alone. And we just passed in our House of Representatives the first climate change legislation that would cut carbon pollution by more than 80 percent by 2050.<p>These are very significant steps in the United States. They're not as far as some countries have gone, but they are further than others, and I think that as I wrestle with these issues politically in my own country, I've come to see that it is going to be absolutely critical that all of us go beyond what's expected if we're going to achieve our goals. During the course of our 3 days in L'Aquila, we've taken also a number of significant steps forward. I want to briefly highlight them.<p>This week, the G-8 nations came to a historic consensus on concrete goals for reducing carbon emissions. We all agreed that by 2050 developed nations will reduce their emissions by 80 percent, and that we will work with all nations to cut global emissions in half. This ambitious effort is consistent with limiting global warming to no more than 2 degrees Celsius, which, as our declaration explicitly acknowledged for the first time, is what the mainstream of the scientific community has called for.<p>Today at the Major Economies Forum, developed and developing nations made further and unprecedented commitments to take strong and prompt action. Developed nations committed to reducing their emissions in absolute terms. And for the first time, developing nations also acknowledged the significance of the 2 degrees Celsius metric and agreed to take action to meaningfully lower their emissions relative to business as usual in the midterm&mdash;in the next decade or so. And they agreed that between now and Copenhagen, they will negotiate concrete goals to reduce their emissions by 2050.<p>We also agreed that the actions we take to achieve our reductions must be measurable, reportable, and verifiable. And we agreed to establish, at the earliest possible date, a peak year after which overall global emissions will start falling. And these are all very significant steps forward in addressing this challenge.<p>In addition, we agreed to substantially increase financial resources to help developing nations create low-carbon growth plans and deploy clean energy technologies. We also recognize that climate change is already happening, and so we're going to have to help those affected countries adapt, particularly those who are least able to deal with its consequences because of a lack of resources. So we are looking at providing significant financial assistance to help these countries, and I want to particularly commend President Calderon of Mexico and Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom for coming up with some creative proposals that all of us are going to be exploring as to how we might finance this. We've asked the G-20 finance ministers to take up the climate financing issues and report back to us at the G-20 meeting in Pittsburgh in the fall.<p>Finally, we've agreed to create a new global partnership to drive the development of transformational clean energy technologies around the world. Our goal is to double the research and development investments we need to bring these technologies to market and to achieve our long-term energy and emissions goals. A number of countries have already agreed to take lead on developing particular technologies, including solar and smart grids, advanced vehicles, bio-energy, and more. Australia, for example, is creating a new center, which Kevin will be introducing shortly, and, I think, points to the ability for us to pool our resources in order to see the technological breakthroughs that are going to be necessary in order for us to solve this problem.<p>So let me just summarize. We've made a good start, but I am the first one to acknowledge that progress on this issue will not be easy. And I think that one of the things we're going to have to do is fight the temptation towards cynicism, to feel that the problem is so immense that somehow we cannot make significant strides.<p>It is no small task for 17 leaders to bridge their differences on an issue like climate change. We each have our national priorities and politics to contend with, and any steps we agree to here are intended to support and not replace the main U.N. negotiations with more than 190 countries. It's even more difficult in the context of a global recession, which I think adds to the fears that somehow addressing this issue will contradict the possibilities of robust global economic growth.<p>But ultimately, we have a choice. We can either shape our future, or we can let events shape it for us. We can fall back on the stale debates and old divisions, or we can decide to move forward and meet this challenge together. I think it's clear from our progress today which path is preferable and which path we have chosen. We know that the problems we face are made by human beings. That means it's within our capacity to solve them. The question is whether we will have the will to do so; whether we'll summon the courage and exercise the leadership to chart a new course. That's the responsibility of our generation; that must be our legacy for generations to come. And I am looking forward to being a strong partner in this effort.<p>With that, let me turn it over to Kevin Rudd, who, I think, has a significant announcement that fits in with the issues I raised earlier about technology challenges and our capacity to move forward and leapfrog over some of the old technologies that make this problem so difficult to deal with.\" "
"201" "\"Hello, Ghana. Thank you. Thank you. I want to thank the people of Ghana for this extraordinary visit. Michelle and I have been greatly honored to be joined by President Mills and his lovely wife. They have been gracious hosts. <p>You know, your President and I have a lot in common. We're both lawyers; we're both former law professors; we're both new Presidents. We both like to think of ourselves as athletes. The difference is President Mills played hockey on the national team of Ghana, and I played basketball mostly in my backyard. [<i>Laughter</i>] But we both love sports.<p>We're both proud of serving our countries. And today I want to honor President Mills for his strong and thoughtful leadership, his devotion to democracy, and his commitment for the future of this nation. <p>Now, I also want to thank the magnificent welcoming committee, including the drummers and the dancers. Michelle and I and our daughters enjoyed it very much. <p>I want to recognize our Peace Corps volunteers who are here. You know, Ghana was the very first nation to host young people from the Peace Corps. And for decades, our two nations have formed vital partnerships and lasting friendships because of this program. So all of you in the Peace Corps, you are doing an outstanding job, and we're proud of you. <p>As somebody whose father comes from Africa, obviously, this visit has been particularly meaningful for me. I've had a chance to discuss the future of Ghana but also the future of Africa with President Mills. I've spoken to the Parliament here in Ghana about America's commitment to supporting democracy and development. Michelle and I visited La General Hospital, where we met with beautiful women and their children who are getting the care that they need for a healthy start. <p>And finally, we toured Cape Coast Castle, a place for centuries where men, women, and children of this nation and surrounding areas were sold into slavery. I'll never forget the image of my two young daughters, the descendants of Africans and African Americans, walking through those doors of no return, but then walking back those doors of return. It was a remarkable reminder that while the future is unknowable, the winds always blow in the direction of human progress. <p>At each point of our visit here, I was reminded of the enduring bond between our nations. The men and women taken from this nation helped to build my own. And today, many of our leading citizens trace their roots to these shores. Your first President attended a university in the United States, as did your current one. Great civil rights leaders of America, like Dr. Martin Luther King, looked to the independence movement here in Ghana and asked themselves, \\"If Africans can live freely in Africa, why can't African Americans live freely in America?\\" <p>And immigrants from Ghana and from all across Africa have thrived all across America. Today, both our nations are diverse and vibrant democracies. Here in Ghana, many different ethnic groups speak many languages, but have found a way to live and work together in peace. People here can speak freely and worship freely. You have a robust civil society, fair elections, and a free press, a growing market economy, and a sense of energy and optimism. And every day with its success, Ghana sends a simple message to the world that democracy can thrive in Africa.<p>So we in America are proud of our partnership with Ghana. Together, we've worked to advance education and fight poverty. We've made real and measurable strides in fighting diseases from malaria to tuberculosis to polio and neglected tropical diseases. This is a partnership we intend to continue. It's a partnership based not just on shared interests, but on shared ideals, ideals forged in struggles for independence that have made our countries who they are. <p>We believe that democracy is not simply a gift from previous generations, but a responsibility for each generation to preserve and to pass on. We believe that no one, whether it's through the influence of politics, the power of money, or the fear of force is above the law. And we believe that we're all equal, all endowed with basic human dignity, all entitled to basic human rights. <p>It is up to each of us, every one of us, to uphold those ideals. This is true not just in Ghana but for all of Africa. America wants to partner with the people and nations of Africa, but we all know that the future of Africa is in the hands of Africa. <p>So I especially want to, again, speak to the young people of Africa. In places like Ghana, you make up more than half the population, and here is what you must know, that the world is what you make of it. You have the power to hold your leaders accountable and to build institutions that serve the people. You can serve in communities like these Peace Corps workers and harness your energy and education to renew and build connections between the world. You can conquer disease and end conflict and make change from the bottom up. You can do all that. <p>And I promise you this: If you seize this opportunity, if you take responsibility for your future, America will be with you every step of the way as a partner and as a friend. Freedom is your inheritance, hard won 52 years ago by men and women determined to cast off the title of subjects for the title of citizens and claim for themselves and their children the liberties that are all of our birthrights. <p>Dr. King came here to Ghana to witness the culmination of that struggle. He watched as the Union Jack was lowered and the Ghanaian flag was raised at the Parliament. He marveled at the site of the Duchess of Kent dancing with the new Ghanaian President at the state ball. And in a sermon he gave upon returning home to America, he said of this new nation, \\"There is a great day ahead. The future is on its side.\\" Those words ring just as true today as they did more than half a century ago. <p>Great days lie ahead for this nation. The future is on Ghana's side. I promise that America will be with you. And together we will create a better world. <p>Thank you, Ghana. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"202" "\"Michelle, the children, as well as other members of my family, just got an extraordinary tour of this castle. It is reminiscent of the trip I took to Buchenwald, because it reminds us of the capacity of human beings to commit great evil. One of the most striking things that I heard was that right above the dungeons in which male captives were kept was a church, and that reminds us that sometimes we can tolerate and stand by great evil even as we think that we're doing good.<p>You know, I think it was particularly important for Malia and Sasha, who are growing up in such a blessed way, to be reminded that history can take very cruel turns, and hopefully, one of the things that was imparted to them during this trip is their sense of obligation to fight oppression and cruelty wherever it appears, and that any group of people who are degrading another group of people have to be fought against with whatever tools we have available to us.<p>So obviously, it's a moving experience, a moving moment. We want to thank those who arranged for the tour and the people of Ghana for preserving this history. As painful as it is, I think that it helps to teach all of us that we have to do what we can to fight against the kinds of evils that, sadly, still exist in our world, not just on this continent but in every corner of the globe.<p>And I think, as Americans and as African Americans, obviously, there's a special sense that on the one hand this place was a place of profound sadness; on the other hand, it is here where the journey of much of the African American experience began. And symbolically, to be able to come back with my family, with Michelle and our children, and see the portal through which the diaspora began, but also to be able to come back here in celebration with the people of Ghana of the extraordinary progress that we've made because of the courage of so many, Black and White, to abolish slavery and ultimately win civil rights for all people, I think, is a source of hope. It reminds us that as bad as history can be, it's also possible to overcome.<p>Thanks, everybody.\" "
"203" "\"[<i>A trumpet played as the President prepared to speak.</i>]<p>I like this. Thank you. Thank you. I think Congress needs one of those horns. [<i>Laughter</i>] That sounds pretty good. Sounds like Louis Armstrong back there. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Good afternoon, everybody. It is a great honor for me to be in Accra and to speak to the Representatives of the people of Ghana. I am deeply grateful for the welcome that I've received, as are Michelle and Malia and Sasha Obama. Ghana's history is rich, the ties between our two countries are strong, and I am proud that this is my first visit to sub-Saharan Africa as President of the United States of America. <p>I want to thank Madam Speaker and all the members of the house of representatives for hosting us today. I want to thank President Mills for his outstanding leadership. To the former Presidents&mdash;Jerry Rawlings, former President Kufuor&mdash;the Vice President, Chief Justice, thanks to all of you for your extraordinary hospitality and the wonderful institutions that you've built here in Ghana. <p>I'm speaking to you at the end of a long trip. I began in Russia for a summit between two great powers. I traveled to Italy for a meeting of the world's leading economies. And I've come here to Ghana for a simple reason: The 21st century will be shaped by what happens not just in Rome or Moscow or Washington, but by what happens in Accra as well. <p>This is the simple truth of a time when the boundaries between people are overwhelmed by our connections. Your prosperity can expand America's prosperity, your health and security can contribute to the world's health and security, and the strength of your democracy can help advance human rights for people everywhere.<p>So I do not see the countries and peoples of Africa as a world apart; I see Africa as a fundamental part of our interconnected world, as partners with America on behalf of the future we want for all of our children. That partnership must be grounded in mutual responsibility and mutual respect. And that is what I want to speak with you about today. <p>We must start from the simple premise that Africa's future is up to Africans. I say this knowing full well the tragic past that has sometimes haunted this part of the world. After all, I have the blood of Africa within me, and my family's own story encompasses both the tragedies and triumphs of the larger African story. <p>Some of you know my grandfather was a cook for the British in Kenya, and though he was a respected elder in his village, his employers called him \\"boy\\" for much of his life. He was on the periphery of Kenya's liberation struggles, but he was still imprisoned briefly during repressive times. In his life, colonialism wasn't simply the creation of unnatural borders or unfair terms of trade; it was something experienced personally, day after day, year after year. <p>My father grew up herding goats in a tiny village, an impossible distance away from the American universities where he would come to get an education. He came of age at a moment of extraordinary promise for Africa. The struggles of his own father's generation were giving birth to new nations, beginning right here in Ghana. Africans were educating and asserting themselves in new ways, and history was on the move.<p>But despite the progress that has been made&mdash;and there has been considerable progress in many parts of Africa&mdash;we also know that much of that promise has yet to be fulfilled. Countries like Kenya had a per capita economy larger than South Korea's when I was born. They have badly been outpaced. Disease and conflict have ravaged parts of the African Continent. <p>In many places, the hope of my father's generation gave way to cynicism, even despair. Now, it's easy to point fingers and to pin the blame of these problems on others. Yes, a colonial map that made little sense helped to breed conflict. The West has often approached Africa as a patron or a source of resources rather than a partner. But the West is not responsible for the destruction of the Zimbabwean economy over the last decade, or wars in which children are enlisted as combatants. In my father's life, it was partly tribalism and patronage and nepotism in an independent Kenya that for a long stretch derailed his career, and we know that this kind of corruption is still a daily fact of life for far too many. <p>Now, we know that's also not the whole story. Here in Ghana, you show us a face of Africa that is too often overlooked by a world that sees only tragedy or a need for charity. The people of Ghana have worked hard to put democracy on a firmer footing, with repeated peaceful transfers of power even in the wake of closely contested elections. And by the way, can I say that for that, the minority deserves as much credit as the majority. And with improved governance and an emerging civil society, Ghana's economy has shown impressive rates of growth. <p>This progress may lack the drama of 20th century liberation struggles, but make no mistake: It will ultimately be more significant. For just as it is important to emerge from the control of other nations, it is even more important to build one own&mdash;one's own nation. <p>So I believe that this moment is just as promising for Ghana and for Africa as the moment when my father came of age and new nations were being born. This is a new moment of great promise. Only this time, we've learned that it will not be giants like Nkrumah and Kenyatta who will determine Africa's future. Instead, it will be you, the men and women in Ghana's Parliament, the people you represent. It will be the young people brimming with talent and energy and hope who can claim the future that so many in previous generations never realized. <p>Now, to realize that promise, we must first recognize a fundamental truth that you have given life to in Ghana: Development depends on good governance. That is the ingredient which has been missing in far too many places for far too long. That's the change that can unlock Africa's potential. And that is a responsibility that can only be met by Africans. <p>As for America and the West, our commitment must be measured by more than just the dollars we spend. I've pledged substantial increases in our foreign assistance, which is in Africa's interests and America's interests. But the true sign of success is not whether we are a source of perpetual aid that helps people scrape by; it's whether we are partners in building the capacity for transformational change. <p>This mutual responsibility must be the foundation of our partnership. And today, I'll focus on four areas that are critical to the future of Africa and the entire developing world: democracy, opportunity, health, and the peaceful resolution of conflict. <p>First, we must support strong and sustainable democratic governments. As I said in Cairo, each nation gives life to democracy in its own way and in line with its own traditions. But history offers a clear verdict: Governments that respect the will of their own people, that govern by consent, and not coercion, are more prosperous, they are more stable, and more successful than governments that do not. <p>This is about more than just holding elections; it's also about what happens between elections. Repression can take many forms, and too many nations, even those that have elections, are plagued by problems that condemn their people to poverty. And no country is going to create wealth if its leaders exploit the economy to enrich themselves, or if police can be bought off by drug traffickers. No business wants to invest in a place where the government skims 20 percent off the top, or the head of the port authority is corrupt. No person wants to live in a society where the rule of law gives way to the rule of brutality and bribery. This&mdash;that is not democracy; that is tyranny, even if occasionally you sprinkle an election in there. And now is the time for that style of governance to end. <p>In the 21st century, capable, reliable, and transparent institutions are the key to success: strong Parliaments, honest police forces, independent judges, an independent press, a vibrant private sector, a civil society. Those are the things that give life to democracy, because that is what matters in people's everyday lives. <p>Now, time and again, Ghanaians have chosen constitutional rule over autocracy and shown a democratic spirit that allows the energy of your people to break through. We see that in leaders who accept defeat graciously&mdash;the fact that President Mills's opponents were standing beside him last night to greet me when I came off the plane spoke volumes about Ghana; victors who resist calls to wield power against the opposition in unfair ways. We see that spirit in courageous journalists like Anas Aremeyaw Anas, who risked his life to report the truth. We see it in police like Patience Quaye, who helped prosecute the first human trafficker in Ghana. We see it in the young people who are speaking up against patronage and participating in the political process. <p>Across Africa, we've seen countless examples of people taking control of their destiny and making change from the bottom up. We saw it in Kenya, where civil society and business came together to help stop postelection violence. We saw it in South Africa, where over three-quarters of the country voted in the recent election&mdash;the fourth since the end of Apartheid. We saw it in Zimbabwe, where the Election Support Network braved brutal repression to stand up for the principle that a person's vote is their sacred right. <p>Now, make no mistake: History is on the side of these brave Africans, not with those who use coups or change constitutions to stay in power. Africa doesn't need strongmen; it needs strong institutions. <p>Now, America will not seek to impose any system of government on any other nation. The essential truth of democracy is that each nation determines its own destiny. But what America will do is increase assistance for responsible individuals and responsible institutions, with a focus on supporting good governance: on Parliaments, which check abuses of power and ensure that opposition voices are heard; on the rule of law, which ensures the equal administration of justice; on civic participation, so that young people get involved; and on concrete solutions to corruption, like forensic accounting and automating services, strengthening hotlines, protecting whistleblowers to advance transparency and accountability. <p>And we provide this support. I have directed my administration to give greater attention to corruption in our human rights reports. People everywhere should have the right to start a business or get an education without paying a bribe. We have a responsibility to support those who act responsibly and to isolate those who don't, and that is exactly what America will do. <p>Now, this leads directly to our second area of partnership: supporting development that provides opportunity for more people. With better governance, I have no doubt that Africa holds the promise of a broader base of prosperity. Witness the extraordinary success of Africans in my country, America. They're doing very well. So they've got the talent; they've got the entrepreneurial spirit. The question is, how do we make sure that they're succeeding here in their home countries? The continent is rich in natural resources. And from cell phone entrepreneurs to small farmers, Africans have shown the capacity and commitment to create their own opportunities. But old habits must also be broken. Dependence on commodities, or a single export, has a tendency to concentrate wealth in the hands of the few and leaves people too vulnerable to downturns. <p>So in Ghana, for instance, oil brings great opportunities, and you have been very responsible in preparing for new revenue. But as so many Ghanaians know, oil cannot simply become the new cocoa. From South Korea to Singapore, history shows that countries thrive when they invest in their people and in their infrastructure, when they promote multiple export industries, develop a skilled workforce, and create space for small and medium-sized businesses that create jobs. <p>As Africans reach for this promise, America will be more responsible in extending our hand. By cutting costs that go to Western consultants and administration, we want to put more resources in the hands of those who need it, while training people to do more for themselves. And that's why our $3.5 billion food security initiative is focused on new methods and technologies for farmers, not simply sending American producers or goods to Africa. Aid is not an end in itself. The purpose of foreign assistance must be creating the conditions where it's no longer needed. I want to see Ghanaians not only self-sufficient in food, I want to see you exporting food to other countries and earning money. You can do that. <p>Now, America can also do more to promote trade and investment. Wealthy nations must open our doors to goods and services from Africa in a meaningful way. That will be a commitment of my administration. And where there is good governance, we can broaden prosperity through public-private partnerships that invest in better roads and electricity; capacity-building that trains people to grow a business; financial services that reach not just the cities but also the poor and rural areas. This is also in our own interests, for if people are lifted out of poverty and wealth is created in Africa, guess what? New markets will open up for our own goods. So it's good for both. <p>Now, one area that holds out both undeniable peril and extraordinary promise is energy. Africa gives off less greenhouse gas than any other part of the world, but it is the most threatened by climate change. A warming planet will spread disease, shrink water resources, and deplete crops, creating conditions that produce more famine and more conflict. All of us&mdash;particularly the developed world&mdash;have a responsibility to slow these trends through mitigation and by changing the way that we use energy. But we can also work with Africans to turn this crisis into opportunity. <p>Together, we can partner on behalf of our planet and our prosperity and help countries increase access to power while skipping&mdash;leapfrogging the dirtier phase of development. Think about it: Across Africa, there is bountiful wind and solar power, geothermal energy, and biofuels. From the Rift Valley to the north African deserts, from the Western Coasts to South Africa's crops, Africa's boundless natural gifts can generate its own power, while exporting profitable, clean energy abroad. <p>These steps are about more than growth numbers on a balance sheet. They're about whether a young person with an education can get a job that supports a family; a farmer can transfer their goods to market; an entrepreneur with a good idea can start a business. It's about the dignity of work. It's about the opportunity that must exist for Africans in the 21st century. Now, just as governance is vital to opportunity, it's also critical to the third area I want to talk about: strengthening public health.<p>In recent years, enormous progress has been made in parts of Africa. Far more people are living productively with HIV/AIDS and getting the drugs they need. I just saw a wonderful clinic and hospital that is focused particularly on maternal health. But too many still die from diseases that shouldn't kill them. When children are being killed because of a mosquito bite, and mothers are dying in childbirth, then we know that more progress must be made. <p>Yet because of incentives&mdash;often provided by donor nations&mdash;many African doctors and nurses go overseas, or work for programs that focus on a single disease. And this create gaps in primary care and basic prevention. Meanwhile, individual Africans also have to make responsible choices that prevent the spread of disease, while promoting public health in their communities and countries. <p>So across Africa, we see examples of people tackling these problems. In Nigeria, an interfaith effort of Christians and Muslims has set an example of cooperation to confront malaria. Here in Ghana and across Africa, we see innovative ideas for filling gaps in care, for instance, through e-health initiatives that allow doctors in big cities to support those in small towns. <p>America will support these efforts through a comprehensive, global health strategy, because in the 21st century, we are called to act by our conscience but also by our common interest, because when a child dies of a preventable disease in Accra, that diminishes us everywhere. And when disease goes unchecked in any corner of the world, we know that it can spread across oceans and continents. <p>And that's why my administration has committed $63 billion to meet these challenges&mdash;$63 billion. Building on the strong efforts of President Bush, we will carry forward the fight against HIV/AIDS. We will pursue the goal of ending deaths from malaria and tuberculosis, and we will work to eradicate polio. We will fight neglected tropical disease. And we won't confront illnesses in isolation. We will invest in public health systems that promote wellness and focus on the health of mothers and children. <p>Now, as we partner on behalf of a healthier future, we must also stop the destruction that comes not from illness, but from human beings. And so the final area that I will address is conflict.<p>Let me be clear: Africa is not the crude caricature of a continent at perpetual war. But if we are honest, for far too many Africans, conflict is a part of life, as constant as the Sun. There are wars over land and wars over resources. And it is still far too easy for those without conscience to manipulate whole communities into fighting among faiths and tribes. <p>These conflicts are a millstone around Africa's neck. Now, we all have many identities: of tribe and ethnicity; of religion and nationality. But defining oneself in opposition to someone who belongs to a different tribe or who worships a different prophet has no place in the 21st century. Africa's diversity should be a source of strength, not a cause for division. We are all God's children. We all share common aspirations to live in peace and security, to access education and opportunity, to love our families and our communities and our faith. That is our common humanity. <p>That is why we must stand up to inhumanity in our midst. It is never justified&mdash;never justifiable to target innocents in the name of ideology. It is the death sentence of a society to force children to kill in wars. It is the ultimate mark of criminality and cowardice to condemn women to relentless and systemic rape. We must bear witness to the value of every child in Darfur and the dignity of every woman in the Congo. No faith or culture should condone the outright&mdash;outrages against them. And all of us must strive for the peace and security necessary for progress. <p>Africans are standing up for this future. Here, too, in Ghana we are seeing you help point the way forward. Ghanaians should take pride in your contributions to peacekeeping from Congo to Liberia to Lebanon and your efforts to resist the scourge of the drug trade. We welcome the steps that are being taken by organizations like the African Union and ECOWAS to better resolve conflicts, to keep the peace, and support those in need. And we encourage the vision of a strong, regional security architecture that can bring effective, transnational forces to bear when needed. <p>America has a responsibility to work with you as a partner to advance this vision, not just with words, but with support that strengthens African capacity. When there's a genocide in Darfur or terrorists in Somalia, these are not simply African problems; they are global security challenges, and they demand a global response. <p>And that's why we stand ready to partner through diplomacy and technical assistance and logistical support, and we will stand behind efforts to hold war criminals accountable. And let me be clear: Our Africa Command is focused not on establishing a foothold in the continent, but on confronting these common challenges to advance the security of America, Africa, and the world.<p>Now, in Moscow, I spoke of the need for an international system where the universal rights of human beings are respected and violations of those rights are opposed. And that must include a commitment to support those who resolve conflicts peacefully, to sanction and stop those who don't, and to help those who have suffered. But ultimately, it will be vibrant democracies like Botswana and Ghana which roll back the causes of conflict and advance the frontiers of peace and prosperity. <p>As I said earlier, Africa's future is up to Africans. The people of Africa are ready to claim that future. And in my country, African Americans&mdash;including so many recent immigrants&mdash;have thrived in every sector of society. We've done so despite a difficult past, and we've drawn strength from our African heritage. With strong institutions and a strong will, I know that Africans can live their dreams in Nairobi and Lagos, Kigali, Kinshasa, Harare, and right here in Accra. <p>You know, 52 years ago, the eyes of the world were on Ghana. And a young preacher named Martin Luther King traveled here to Accra to watch the Union Jack come down and the Ghanaian flag go up. This was before the march on Washington or the success of the civil rights movement in my country. And Dr. King was asked how he felt while watching the birth of a nation, and he said, \\"It renews my conviction in the ultimate triumph of justice.\\" <p>Now that triumph must be won once more, and it must be won by you. And I am particularly speaking to the young people all across Africa and right here in Ghana. In places like Ghana, young people make up over half of the population. And here is what you must know: The world will be what you make of it. You have the power to hold your leaders accountable and to build institutions that serve the people. You can serve in your communities and harness your energy and education to create new wealth and build new connections to the world. You can conquer disease and end conflicts and make change from the bottom up. You can do that. Yes you can&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;because in this moment, history is on the move. <p>But these things can only be done if all of you take responsibility for your future. And it won't be easy. It will take time and effort. There will be suffering and setbacks. But I can promise you this: America will be with you every step of the way, as a partner, as a friend. Opportunity won't come from any other place, though. It must come from the decisions that all of you make, the things that you do, the hope that you hold in your heart. <p>Ghana, freedom is your inheritance. Now it is your responsibility to build upon freedom's foundation. And if you do, we will look back years from now to places like Accra and say, this was the time when the promise was realized; this was the moment when prosperity was forged, when pain was overcome, and a new era of progress began. This can be the time when we witness the triumph of justice once more. Yes we can.<p>Thank you very much. God bless you. Thank you.\" "
"204" "\"Part of the reason this is so important is throughout Africa, the rates of both infant mortality, but also maternal mortality is still far too high, I mean, by a factor of&mdash;a multiple of tens compared to many other parts of the world. And so these kinds of programs that provide sound prenatal care and maternal care are extraordinarily important, and this is a model of the kind of clinics where people are able to get these important services.\" "
"205" "\"This week we've made important progress towards the goal of bringing about change abroad and change at home. During my visit to Russia, we began the process of resetting relations so that we can address key national priorities like the threat of nuclear weapons and extremism. At the G-8 summit, leaders from nearly 30 nations met to discuss how we'll collectively confront the urgent challenges of our time, from managing the global recession to fighting global warming to addressing global hunger and poverty. And in Ghana, I laid out my agenda for supporting democracy and development in Africa and around the world. But even as we make progress on these challenges abroad, my thoughts are on the state of our economy at home. And that's what I want to talk to you about today. <p>We came into office facing the most severe economic downturn since the Great Depression. At the time, we were losing, on average, 700,000 jobs a month, and many feared that our financial system was on the verge of collapse.<p>As a result of the swift and aggressive action we took in the first few months of this year, we've been able to pull our financial system and our economy back from the brink. We took steps to restart lending to families and businesses, stabilize our major financial institutions, and help homeowners stay in their homes and pay their mortgages. We also passed the largest and most sweeping economic recovery plan in our Nation's history. <p>The Recovery Act wasn't designed to restore the economy to full health on its own, but to provide the boost necessary to stop the free fall. It was designed to spur demand and get people spending again and cushion those who had borne the brunt of the crisis. And it was designed to save jobs and create new ones.<p>In a little over 100 days, this Recovery Act has worked as intended. It's already extended unemployment insurance and health insurance to those who have lost their jobs in this recession. It's delivered $43 billion in tax relief to American working families and businesses. Without the help the Recovery Act has provided to struggling States, its estimated that State deficits would be nearly twice as large as they are now, resulting in tens of thousands of additional layoffs, layoffs that would affect police officers, teachers, and firefighters. <p>The Recovery Act has allowed small businesses and clean energy companies to hire new workers or scrap their plans for eliminating current jobs. And it's led to new jobs building roads, bridges, and other infrastructure projects, thousands of which are only beginning now. In the months to come, thousands more projects will begin, leading to additional jobs. <p>Now, I realize that when we passed this Recovery Act, there were those who felt that doing nothing was somehow an answer. Today, some of those same critics are already judging the effort a failure, although they have yet to offer a plausible alternative. Others believed that the recovery plan should have been even larger, and they're already calling for a second recovery plan. <p>But as I made clear at the time it was passed, the Recovery Act was not designed to work in 4 months, it was designed to work over 2 years. We also knew that it would take some time for the money to get out the door, because we're committed to spending it in a way that's effective and transparent. Crucially, this is a plan that will also accelerate greatly through the summer and the fall. We must let it work the way it's supposed to, with the understanding that in any recession, unemployment tends to recover more slowly than other measures of economic activity. <p>Now, I'm confident that the United States of America will weather this economic storm. But once we clear away the wreckage, the real question is what we will build in its place. Even as we rescue this economy from a full blown crisis, I've insisted that we must rebuild it better than before.<p>Without serious reforms, we are destined to either see more crises, or suffer stagnant growth rates for the foreseeable future, or a combination of the two. That's a future I absolutely reject. And that's why we're laying a new foundation that's not only strong enough to withstand the challenges of the 21st century, but one that will allow us to thrive and compete in a global economy. That means investing in the jobs of the future, training our workers to compete for those jobs, and controlling the health care costs that are driving us into debt. <p>Through the clean energy investment we've made in the Recovery Act, we're already seeing startups and small businesses make plans to create thousands of new jobs. In California, 3,000 people will be employed to build a new solar plant. In Michigan, investments in wind turbines and wind technology is expected to create over 2,600 jobs. And a few weeks ago, the House of Representatives passed historic legislation that would finally make clean energy the profitable kind of energy, leading to whole new industries and jobs that can't be outsourced.<p>To give our workers the skills and education they need to compete for the high-tech, high-wage jobs of the future, we're working on reforms that will close achievement gaps, ensure that our schools meet high standards, reward our teachers for performance and give them new pathways to advancement. <p>Finally, we've made important progress in the last few weeks on health care reform that will finally control the costs that are driving our families, our businesses, and our Government into debt. Both the Senate and the House have now produced legislation that will bring down costs, provide better care for patients, and curb the worst practices of insurance companies, so that they can no longer deny Americans coverage based on a preexisting medical condition. It's a plan that would also allow Americans to keep their health insurance if they lose their job or if they change their job. And it would set up a health insurance exchange, a marketplace that will allow families and small businesses to access one-stop shopping for quality, affordable coverage, and help them compare prices and choose the plan that best suits their needs. One such choice would be a public option that would make health care more affordable through competition that keeps the insurance companies honest. <p>One other point: Part of what makes our current economic situation so challenging is that we already had massive deficits as the recession gathered force. And although the Recovery Act represents just a small fraction of our long-term debt, people have legitimate questions as to whether we can afford reform without making our deficits much worse. <p>So let me be clear: I have been firm in insisting that both health care reform and clean energy legislation cannot add to our deficit. And I intend to continue the work of reducing waste, eliminating programs that don't work, and reforming our entitlement programs to ensure that our long-term deficits are brought under control.<p>I said when I took office that it would take many months to move our economy from recession to recovery and ultimately to prosperity. We're not there yet, and I continue to believe that even one American out of work is one too many. But we're moving in the right direction. We're cleaning up the wreckage of this storm. And we are laying a firmer, stronger foundation so that we may better weather whatever future storms may come. This year has been and will continue to be a year of rescuing our economy from disaster.<p>But just as important will be the work of rebuilding a long-term engine for economic growth. It won't be easy, and there will continue to be those who argue that we have to put off hard decisions that we have already deferred for far too long. But earlier generations of Americans didn't build this great country by fearing the future and shrinking our dreams. This generation&mdash;our generation&mdash;has to show that same courage and determination. I believe we will.<p>Thanks for listening.\" "
"206" "\"Hello, everybody. Please have a seat. Well, welcome to the White House, and congratulations to the Columbus Crew on winning your first MLS Cup. Give them a big round of applause.<p>There are a couple people who are big fans, and so&mdash;they also happen to be Members of Congress. I want to acknowledge them: Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, Representative Steve Driehaus, and Representative Mary Jo Kilroy. Please give them a big round of applause. And the Olives soccer team is here&mdash;is that this crew right here? I suspected as much. They've been working with the Crew; they're all from the Columbus area. So welcome to the Rose Garden. <p>And congratulations to all the rowdy fans who were with you guys every step of the way. I hear that the Crew stadium was one of the toughest places to play for visiting teams, although I think you saw, playing the Chicago Fire, that we've got a little&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;you know, we've got some pretty good fans in Chicago as well.<p>I want to thank Clark Hunt and all the members of the Hunt family for being here today. The Hunt family's legacy and dedication to American professional sports&mdash;and to soccer in particular&mdash;has been critical to the success of this team but also to the success of the league.<p>I want to congratulate Coach Warzychi&mdash;Warzycha&mdash;and you know, it's like Barack Obama, you know, you screw it up occasionally. And I also want to congratulate Coach Schmid. Under your leadership, this team made an incredible turnaround from a losing season in 2007 to the best record in MLS in 2008. And congratulations, Sigi, on being chosen MLS Coach of the Year.<p>Now, I should admit up front that I don't get a chance to see a lot of professional sports teams these days. Most of the soccer I've seen recently has been at my daughters' games. And I've learned that there are two important rules at that age&mdash;I'm sure some of you may remember this. The first is, no matter what position you play, just run straight to the ball and congregate around it. [<i>Laughter</i>] And the second rule is, don't forget the snacks at halftime. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But I see that my daughters love playing this game of soccer, and we know that this is an exciting time for soccer in America. We just watched Team USA shock the world at the Confederation Cup, and we're in the middle of another impressive run in the Gold Cup.<p>As some of you may know, I just got back from the G-8 meeting in Italy, and one of the leaders there was President Lula da Silva of Brazil. He gave me a hard time about Team USA dropping a 2-0 lead in the Confederations Cup final, but I reminded him that we held our own against the best teams in the world, we shocked a lot of people, and we might just see that team in the World Cup next year. So it's clear that soccer in America is on the rise, and MLS is a big part of that. <p>I want to congratulate Chad Marshall on being named Defender of the Year; Guillermo Barros Schelotto for winning the MVP award and assisting in all three goals in the championship game.<p>And finally, I want to salute these guys for donating so much time and energy to the Columbus community, and we thank them for participating in our United We Serve summer of service. Just last week, the Crew spent time with young people in Columbus cleaning up some of the low-income neighborhoods near Crew Stadium, which strengthens their community and reaches out to folks who need it most. <p>That kind of spirit of service is what this White House wants to encourage in all citizens, but seeing it from professional athletes is especially gratifying. And so we appreciate also the clinic that the Crew is going to put on for young people here in DC today, which teaches them not just skills but also how to live healthy and active lives.<p>And thanks to that example&mdash;an example set by the Crew and by players across MLS and women's professional soccer as well&mdash;I'm confident that American soccer will remain something to be excited about for years to come.<p>So congratulations again for the incredible championship season and good luck next year. And I have to say that that's a big trophy&mdash;so give them a big round of applause, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"207" "\"<i>The President.</i> All right. Well, hello, everybody. A couple of quick acknowledgments: Where's Greg&mdash;where's Greg Nickels? Thank you. There you are, Greg. Thank you so much for your participation today. I understand Governor Rendell is here, or was here. He may have stepped out, but when he comes back in, I hope to have a chance to say hello to him. Burrell Ellis, CEO of DeKalb County&mdash;it's so nice to see you, Burrell; Kathie Novak&mdash;where's Kathie? Hey, Kathie, good to see you; Henry Cisneros&mdash;where are you? The legendary&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;good to see you, my friend; Federico Pena, thank you so much&mdash;who worked so hard to help us get elected; Julia Stasch&mdash;where's my friend from Chicago? There she is. Good to see you, Julia. And obviously, you know our outstanding Cabinet that is so focused on these issues: Ray LaHood; Shaun Donovan; Lisa Jackson. Where's&mdash;Ms. Mills, there; great to see Karen, and Hilda Solis.<p>I just want you to know, as well as our new Director of our office of&mdash;I always forget the full name of this thing; I call it the drug czar, but&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>].<p><i>National Drug Control Policy Director R. Gil Kerlikowske</i><i>.</i> I'm fine with that. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Okay, Gil. By the way, Nickels vouched for you. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Thank you so much, all of you, for participating. I see a lot of friends, old and new. And it's great to be back, and it's great to be joined by some of the finest urban thinkers in America for what I understand has been a critical conversation on the future of America's urban and metropolitan areas.<p>Now, as you might imagine, this is a subject that's near and dear to my heart. I've lived almost all my life in urban areas. Michelle and I chose to raise our daughters in the city where she grew up. And even though I went to college in LA and New York, and law school across the river from Boston, I received my greatest education on Chicago's south side, working at the local level to bring about change in those communities and opportunities to people's lives.<p>And I see a number of Chicago folks who were fighting with me&mdash;I mean, alongside me&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;for many years. I already mentioned Julia, but obviously, there are a number of other folks as well.<p>And that experience also gave me an understanding of some of the challenges facing city halls all across the country. And I know that those challenges are particularly severe today because of this recession. Four in five cities have had to cut services, just when folks need it the most, and 48 States face the prospects of budget deficits in the coming fiscal year. <p>And that's one reason why we took swift and aggressive action in the first months of my administration to pull our economy&mdash;&mdash;<p>[<i>At this point, the teleprompter screen fell.</i>]<p>&mdash;&mdash;oh, goodness, sorry about that, guys&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;to pull our economy back from the brink, including the largest and most sweeping economic recovery plan in our Nation's history. If we had not taken that step, our cities would be in a even deeper hole, and State budget deficits would be nearly twice as large as they are right now, and tens of thousands of police officers and firefighters and teachers would be out of a job as we speak. And I think that all of you are aware of that.<p>But what's also clear is we're going to need to do more than just help our cities weather the current economic storm. We've got to figure out ways to rebuild them on a newer, firmer, stronger foundation for our future. And that requires new strategies for our cities and metropolitan areas that focus on advancing opportunity through competitive, sustainable, and inclusive growth. And that's why all of you are here today. And I know that there were a lot of ideas that were shared throughout the morning and afternoon.<p>Now, the first thing we need to recognize is that this is not just a time of challenge for America's cities; it's also a time of great change. Even as we've seen many of our central cities continuing to grow in recent years, we've seen their suburbs and exurbs grow roughly twice as fast&mdash;that spreads homes and jobs and businesses to a broader geographic area. And this transformation is creating new pressures and problems, of course, but it's also opening up new opportunities, because it's not just our cities that are hotbeds of innovation anymore; it's our growing metropolitan areas. <p>And when I spoke to the U.S. Conference of Mayors last year, I tried to hone in on this point that what, I think, traditionally had been seen as this divide between city and suburb, that in some ways you've seen both city and suburb now come together and recognize they can't solve their problems in isolation, they've got to paying attention to each other. And these metropolitan areas, they're home to 85 percent of our jobs and 90 percent of our economic output.<p>Now, that doesn't mean investing in America comes at the expense of rural America, quite the opposite. Investing in mass transit and high-speed rail, for example, doesn't just make our downtowns more livable; it helps our regional economies grow. Investing in renewable energy doesn't just make our cities cleaner; it boosts rural areas that harness that energy. Our urban and rural communities are not independent, they are interdependent.<p>So what's needed now is a new, imaginative, bold vision tailored to this reality that brings opportunity to every corner of our growing metropolitan areas, a new strategy that's about southern Florida as much as Miami; that's about Mesa and Scottsdale as much as it's about Phoenix; that's about Aurora and Boulder and Northglenn as much as about Denver.<p>An early step was to appoint Adolfo Carrion as our first White House Director of Urban Affairs. And his team and he share my belief that our cities need more than just a partner; they need a partner who knows that the old ways of looking at our cities just won't do. And that's why I've directed the Office of Management and Budget, the Domestic Policy Council, the National Economic Council, and the Office of Urban Affairs to conduct the first comprehensive interagency review in 30 years of how the Federal Government approaches and funds urban and metropolitan areas so that we can start having a concentrated, focused, strategic approach to Federal efforts to revitalize our metropolitan areas. <p>And we're also going to take a hard look at how Washington helps or hinders our cities and metro areas, from infrastructure to transportation, from housing to energy, from sustainable development to education. And we're going to make sure Federal policies aren't hostile to good ideas or best practices on the local levels. We're going to put an end to throwing money at what doesn't work, and we're going to start investing in what does work and make sure that we're encouraging that. <p>Now, we began to do just that with my budget proposal, which included two investments in innovative and proven strategies. I just want to mention these briefly. Now, the first, Promise Neighborhoods, is modeled on Geoffrey Canada's successful Harlem Children's Zone. It's an all-encompassing, all-hands-on-deck effort that's turning around the lives of New York City's children, block by block. And we&mdash;what we want to do is to make grants available for communities in other cities to jump-start their own neighborhood-level interventions that change the odds for our kids.<p>The second proposal we call Choice Neighborhoods, focuses on new ideas for housing in our cities by recognizing that different communities need different solutions. So instead of isolated and monolithic public housing projects that too often trap residents in a cycle of poverty and isolate them further, we want to invest in proven strategies that actually transform communities and enhance opportunity for residents and businesses alike.<p>But we also need to fundamentally change the way we look at metropolitan development. For too long, Federal policy has actually encouraged sprawl and congestion and pollution, rather than quality public transportation and smart, sustainable development. And we've been keeping communities isolated when we should have been bringing them together.<p>And that's why we've created a new interagency partnership on sustainable communities, led by Shaun Donovan, as well as Ray LaHood and Lisa Jackson. And by working together, their agencies can make sure that when it comes to development&mdash;housing, transportation, energy efficiency&mdash;these things aren't mutually exclusive, they go hand in hand. And that means making sure that affordable housing exists in close proximity to jobs and transportation. That means encouraging shorter travel times and lower travel costs. It means safer, greener, more livable communities.<p>So we're off to a good start. But the truth is, is that Washington can't solve all of these problems that face our cities, and frankly, I know that cities don't expect Washington to solve all these problems. Instead of waiting for Washington, a lot of cities have already gone ahead and become their own laboratories for change and innovation, some leading the world in coming up with new ways to solve the problems of our time.<p>So you take an example like Denver. Their metropolitan area is projected to grow by 1 million residents over the next 15 years or so. But rather than wait for a congestion crisis, they're already at work on plans to build and operate a public transit system up to the challenge, and to surround that system with smart new housing, retail, and office development near each stop.<p>Philadelphia is an example of what's been called \\"urban agriculture.\\" It may sound like an oxymoron, but one proposal is trying to make a situation where fresh, local food supplies are within a short walk for most city residents, which will have a direct impact not only on the economy and on the environment but also make an immeasurable difference in the health of Americans. <p>Or Kansas City, one idea there focuses on transforming a low-income community into a national model of sustainability by weatherizing homes and building a green local transit system.<p>So three different cities with three unique ideas for the future, and that's why they're three of the cities that are members of my&mdash;that the members of my Cabinet and Office of Urban Affairs will visit this summer as part of a ongoing national conversation to lift up best practices from around the country, to look at innovations for the metropolitan areas of tomorrow. And forward-looking cities shouldn't be succeeding despite Washington; they should be succeeding with a hand from Washington. We want to hear directly from them, and we want to hear directly from all of you, on fresh ideas and successful solutions that you've devised, and then figure out what the Federal Government can do or shouldn't do to help reinvent cities and metropolitan areas for the 21st century. <p>So I know that this change is possible. After all, I'm from a city that knows a little something about reinventing itself. In the 19th century, after a cataclysmic fire, Chicagoans rebuilt stronger than before. In the last century, they led the world upward in steel and glass. And in this century, under my friend Mayor Daley's leadership, they're helping to lead the world forward in newer, greener, more livable ways.<p>Daniel Burnham said, \\"Make no little plans.\\" And that's the spirit behind his bold and ambitious designs unveiled 100 years ago this month that helped transform Chicago into a world-class city. That's the same spirit with which we have to approach the reinvention of all of America's cities and metropolitan areas, a vision of vibrant, sustainable places that provide our children with every chance to learn and to grow, and that allow our businesses and workers the best opportunity to innovate and succeed, and that let our older Americans live out their best years in the midst of all that metropolitan life can offer. Now is the time to seize that moment of possibility, and I am absolutely confident that, starting today with this conversation, you and I together, we're going to be able to make this happen.<p>So thank you for joining us, and I'm looking forward to all of us getting to work. Thank you.\" "
"208" "\"Hello, Michigan! Thank you. Thank you so much. First of all, give Joe a big round of applause for the wonderful introduction. We've got some special guests here. Now, if everybody has chairs, go ahead and use them. [<i>Laughter</i>] Feel free. We've got some special guests here today that I just want to acknowledge. All of you are special, but these folks I want to make sure that you have a chance to see them.<p>First of all, one of the best Governors in the country, please give Jennifer Granholm a big round of applause. Lieutenant Governor John Cherry, give John a big round of applause. One of my favorite people, a former colleague of mine, still just a fighter on behalf of working families each and every day, Senator Debbie Stabenow. We've got speaker of the house Andy Dillon in the house. We've got a lot of other local elected officials, and I just want to thank them.<p>A couple of people who are missing: Carl Levin, who is doing great work. He's in the Senate right now fighting on behalf of a bill to make sure that we're not loading up a bunch of necessary defense spending with unnecessary defense spending. So he's the point person on it. The only reason he's not here is because he is working alongside the administration to get this bill done. Please give him a big round of applause. Congressman Sandy Levin, also working hard on your behalf each and every day, but is not here today. I want to go ahead and acknowledge the new mayor, since he's the new mayor, Mayor Dave Bing, great ballplayer. My game is a little like Dave Bing's&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;except I don't have the jump shot or the speed or the ball handling skills or the endurance. [<i>Laughter</i>] Also don't have the afro. Don't think I forgot that, Dave. I remember. [<i>Laughter</i>] I remember that.<p>I also want to acknowledge that we've got the Executive Director of the White House Council on Auto Communities and Workers, who's working hard, has a direct line to me each and every day. He's traveling constantly back here&mdash;Ed Montgomery. Please give Ed a big round of applause. And the chairman of the Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indian tribes, Derek Bailey, is here. Please give Derek a big round of applause. And finally, the president of the college where we are here, Jim Jacobs; give Jim Jacobs a big round of applause.<p>And those of you who I've missed, you know how grateful I am that you're here. And thank you all. It is wonderful to be back at Macomb. It was terrific visiting this campus as a candidate, but I have to admit, it's even better visiting as a President.<p>Now, this is a place where anyone, anyone with a desire to learn and to grow, to take their career to a new level or start a new career altogether has the opportunity to pursue their dream, right here in Macomb. This is a place where people of all ages and all backgrounds, even in the face of obstacles, even in the face of very difficult personal challenges, can take a chance on a brighter future for themselves and their families.<p>There are folks like Joe, who just told us his story. When Joe lost his job, he decided to take advantage of assistance for displaced workers. He earned his associate degree here at Macomb, and with a pretty impressive GPA, I might add. And with the help of that degree, Joe found a new job working for the new Henry Ford West Bloomfield Hospital as a maintenance mechanic, using the skills he learned here and the talents that he brought to make a fresh start.<p>There are workers like Kellie Kulman, who is here today. Where's Kellie? Raise your hand, Kellie. Where are you? There you are. There's Kellie right there. Kellie is a UAW worker at a Ford plant in Sterling Heights, Michigan. She used to drive a fork lift, right? But then she decided to train here at Macomb for a job that required new skills, and now she's an apprentice pipe fitter. It's a telling example: Even as this painful restructuring takes place in our auto industry, workers are seeking out training for new auto jobs. And Joe and Kellie's story make clear what all of you know: Community colleges are an essential part of our recovery in the present and our prosperity in the future. This place can make the future better, not just for these individuals but for America.<p>Now, since this recession began 20 months ago, 6.5 million Americans have lost their jobs, and I don't have to tell you Michigan in particular has been hard-hit. Now, I&mdash;the statistics are daunting. The whole country now, the unemployment rate is approaching 10 percent. Here in Michigan, it's about 5 points higher. And new jobs reports are going to be coming out, and we're going to see continuing job loss even as the economy is beginning to stabilize.<p>Now, that's not just abstractions. Those just aren't numbers on a page. Those are extraordinary hardships, tough times for families and individuals who've worked hard all their lives and have done the right things all their lives. And if you haven't lost a job, chances are you know somebody who has: a family member, a neighbor, a friend, a coworker. And you know that as difficult as the financial struggle can be, the sense of loss is about more than just a paycheck, because most of us define ourselves by the work we do. That's part of what it means to be an American. We take pride in work, that sense that you're contributing, supporting your family, meeting your responsibilities. People need work not just for income, but because it makes you part of that fabric of the community that's so important. And so when you lose your job and when entire communities are losing thousands of jobs, that's a heavy burden, that's a heavy weight.<p>Now, my administration has a job to do as well, and that job is to get this economy back on its feet. That's my job, and it's a job I gladly accept. I love these folks who helped get us in this mess and then suddenly say, well, this is Obama's economy. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's fine. Give it to me. My job is to solve problems, not to stand on the sidelines and carp and gripe.<p>So I welcome the job. I want the responsibility. And I know that&mdash;let's just take an example. Many questioned our efforts to help save GM and Chrysler from collapse earlier this year. Their feeling was these companies were driven to the brink by poor management decisions over a long period of time, and like any business, they should be held accountable for those decisions. I agreed that they should be held accountable. But I also recognized the historic significance and economic prominence of these companies in communities all across Michigan and all across the country.<p>I thought about the hundreds of thousands of Americans whose livelihoods are still connected to the American auto industry and the impact on an already struggling economy, especially right here in Michigan. So I said that if Chrysler and GM were willing to fundamentally restructure their businesses and make the hard choices necessary to become competitive now and in the future, it was a process worth supporting.<p>Now, today, after a painful period of soul-searching and sacrifice, both GM and Chrysler have emerged from bankruptcy. Remember, folks said there was no way they could do it. They've gotten it done already, in record time, far faster than anybody thought possible. They've got a leaner structure; they've got new management and a viable vision of how to compete and win in the 21st century. And those sacrifices were shared among all the stakeholders: workers and management, creditors and shareholders, retirees and communities. And together, they've made the rebirth of Chrysler and GM possible. It was the right thing to do.<p>But even with this positive news, the hard truth is, is that some of the jobs that have been lost in the auto industry and elsewhere won't be coming back. They're the casualties of a changing economy. In some cases, just increased productivity in the plants themselves means that some jobs aren't going to return. And that only underscores the importance of generating new businesses and new industries to replace the ones that we've lost and of preparing our workers to fill the jobs they create. For even before this recession hit, we were faced with an economy that was simply not creating or sustaining enough new, well paying jobs.<p>So now is the time to change all that. What we face is far more than a passing crisis. This is a transformative moment. And in this moment we must do what other generations have done. It's not the time to shrink from the challenges we face and put off tough decisions. That's what Washington has done for decades, and it's exactly why I ran for President&mdash;to change that mindset. Now is the time to build a firmer, stronger foundation for growth that will not only withstand future economic storms, but that will help us thrive and compete in a global economy. To build that foundation, we have to slow the growth of health care costs that are driving us into debt. We're going to have to do that, and there's going to be a major debate over the next 3 weeks. And don't be fooled by folks trying to scare you, saying we can't change the health care system. We have no choice but to change the health care system, because right now it's broken for too many Americans. We're going to have to make tough choices necessary to bring down deficits. But don't let folks fool you; the best way to start bringing down deficits is to get control of our health care costs, which is why we need reform.<p>Now is the time to create the jobs of the future by growing industries, including a new clean energy economy. And Jennifer Granholm has been all on top of this as the Governor of Michigan. She is bring cleaning energy jobs right here to Michigan, and we've got to support her in that effort.<p>I want Michigan to build windmills and wind turbines and solar panels and biofuel plants and energy-efficient light bulbs and weatherize all our&mdash;of that, because, Michigan, you know bad weather. [<i>Laughter</i>] So you can be all on top of weatherizing. You need to weatherize. [<i>Laughter</i>] I know about that in Chicago too. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But we also have to ensure that we're educating and preparing our people for the new jobs of the 21st century. We've got to prepare our people with the skills they need to compete in this global economy. Time and again, when we've placed our bet for the future on education, we have prospered as a result, by tapping the incredible innovative and generative potential of a skilled American workforce. That's what happened when President Lincoln signed into law legislation creating the land-grant colleges, which not only transformed higher education but also our entire economy. That's what took place when President Roosevelt signed the GI bill, which helped educate a generation and ushered in an era of unprecedented prosperity. That was the foundation for the American middle class.<p>And that's why, at the start of my administration I set a goal for America: By 2020, this Nation will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. We used to have that. We're going to have it again. And we've begun to take historic steps to achieve this goal. Already we've increased Pell grants by $500. We've created a $2,500 tax credit for 4 years of college tuition. We've simplified student aid applications and ensured that aid is not based on the income of a job that you just lost. A new GI bill of rights for the 21st century is beginning to help soldiers coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan to begin a new life in a new economy. And the recovery plan has helped close State budget shortfalls, which put enormous pressure on public universities and community colleges, at the same time making historic investments in school libraries and classrooms and facilities all across America. So we've already taken some steps that are building the foundation for a 21st-century education system here in America, one that will allow us to compete with China and India and everybody else all around the world.<p>But today I'm announcing the most significant downpayment yet on reaching the goal of having the highest college graduation rate of any nation in the world. We're going to achieve this in the next 10 years. And it's called the american graduation initiative. It will reform and strengthen community colleges like this one from coast to coast so they get the resources that students and schools need and the results workers and businesses demand. Through this plan, we seek to help an additional 5 million Americans earn degrees and certificates in the next decade&mdash;5 million.<p>Not since the passage of the original GI bill and the work of President Truman's Commission on Higher Education, which helped to double the number of community colleges and increase by seven-fold enrollment in those colleges, have we taken such a historic step on behalf of community colleges in America. And let me be clear: We pay for this plan. This isn't adding to the deficit. We're paying for this plan by ending the wasteful subsidies we currently provide to banks and private lenders for student loans. That will save tens of billions of dollars over the next 10 years. Instead of lining the pockets of special interests, it's time this money went towards the interests of higher education in America. That's what my administration is committed to doing.<p>Now, I know that for a long time there have been politicians who have spoken of training as a silver bullet and college as a cure-all. It's not, and we know that. I can't tell you how many workers who've been laid off, you talk to them about training, and they say, \\"Training for what?\\" So I understand the frustrations that a lot of people have, especially if the training is not well designed for the specific jobs that are being created out there.<p>But we know that in the coming years, jobs requiring at least an associate degree are projected to grow twice as fast as jobs requiring no college experience. We will not fill those jobs or even keep those jobs here in America without the training offered by community colleges. That's why I want to applaud Governor Granholm for the No Worker Left Behind program. It's providing up to 2 years' worth of free tuition at community colleges and universities across the State. The rest of the country should learn from the effort.<p>This is training to become a medical technician or a health IT worker or a lab specialist or a nurse. In fact, 59 percent of all new nurses come from community colleges. This is training to install solar panels and build those wind turbines we were talking about and develop a smarter electricity grid. And this is the kind of education that more and more Americans are using to improve their skills and broaden their horizons. And many young people are saving money by spending 2 years at community college before heading to a 4-year college. And more workers who have lost their jobs, or fear losing a job, are seeking an edge at schools like this one.<p>At the same time, community colleges are under increasing pressure to cap enrollments and scrap courses and cut costs as States and municipalities face budget shortfalls. And this is in addition to the challenges you face in the best of times, as these schools receive far less funding per student than typical 4-year colleges and universities. So community colleges are an undervalued asset in our country. Not only is that not right, it's not smart. And that's why I've asked Dr. Jill Biden, who happens to be a relation of the Vice President, Joe Biden, but who is also a community college educator for more than 16 years, to promote community colleges and help us make community colleges stronger. And that's why we're putting in place this american graduation initiative.<p>Let me describe for you the specifics of what we're going to do. Number one: We will offer competitive grants, challenging community colleges to pursue innovative, results-oriented strategies in exchange for Federal funding. We'll fund programs that connect students looking for jobs with businesses that are looking to hire. We'll challenge these schools to find new and better ways to help students catch up on the basics, like math and science, that are essential to our competitiveness. We'll put colleges and employers together to create programs that match curricula in the classroom with the needs of the boardroom.<p>These are all kinds of&mdash;there are all kinds of examples of what's possible. We've seen Cisco, for example, working with community colleges to prepare students and workers for jobs ranging from work in broadband to health IT. We know that the most successful community colleges are those that partner with the private sector. So we want to encourage more companies to work with schools to build these type of relationships. That way, when somebody goes through a training program, they know that there's a job at the end of that training.<p>We'll also create a new research center with a simple mission: to measure what works and what doesn't. All too often, we don't know what happens when somebody walks out of a classroom and onto the factory floor or into the library or the laboratory or the office. And that means businesses often can't be sure what a degree is really worth. And schools themselves don't have the facts to make informed choices about which programs receive&mdash;achieve results and which programs don't. And this is important, not just for businesses and colleges, but for students and workers as well. If a parent is going to spend time in the classroom and away from his or her family, especially after a long day at work, that degree really has to mean something. They have to know that when they get that degree, this is going to help advance their goals. If a worker is going to spend 2 years training to enter into a whole new profession, that certificate has to mean that he or she is ready and that businesses are ready to hire.<p>In addition, we want to propose new funding for innovative strategies that promote not just enrollment in a community college program, but completion of that program. See, more than half of all students who enter community college to earn an associate degree or transfer to a 4-year school to earn a bachelor's degree, unfortunately, fail to reach their goal. That's not just a waste of a valuable resource, that's a tragedy for these students. Oftentimes they've taken out debt, and they don't get the degree, but they still have to pay back the debt. And it's a disaster for our economy.<p>So we'll fund programs that track student progress inside and outside the classroom. Let's figure out what's keeping students from crossing that finish line and then put in place reforms that will remove those barriers. Maybe it becomes too difficult for a parent to be away from home or too expensive for a waiter or a nurse to miss a shift. Maybe a young student just isn't sure if her education will lead to employment. The point is, we need to figure out solutions for these kinds of challenges, because facing these impediments shouldn't prevent you from reaching your potential.<p>All right, so that's a big chunk of this first part of this initiative. The second part: We're going to back $10 billion in loans to renovate and rebuild college classrooms and buildings all across the country. All too often, community colleges are treated like the stepchild of the higher education system; they're an afterthought, if they're thought of at all. And that means schools are often years behind in the facilities they provide, which means, in a 21st-century economy, they're years behind in the education they can offer. That's a mistake, and it's one that we'll help to correct. Through this fund, schools will have the chance to borrow at a more affordable rate to modernize facilities, and they'll be building on the funds in the recovery plan that are already helping to renovate schools, including community colleges all across the country. And by the way, not only does this improve the schools and the training that they're providing, guess what? You also have to hire some workers and some trades men and women to do the work on those schools. So it means it's putting people to work in Michigan, right here right now.<p>Number three, even as we repair bricks and mortar, we have an opportunity to build a new virtual infrastructure to complement the education and training community colleges can offer. So we're going to support the creation of a new online, open-source clearinghouse of courses so that community colleges across the country can offer more classes without building more classrooms. And this will make a big difference, especially for rural campuses that a lot of times have struggled&mdash;attract&mdash;have to struggle to attract students and faculty. And this will make it possible for a professor to complement his lecture with an online exercise or for a student who can't be away from her family to still keep up with her coursework. We don't know where this kind of experiment will lead, but that's exactly why we ought to try it, because I think there's a possibility that online education can provide especially for people who are already in the workforce and want to retrain the chance to upgrade their skills without having to quit their job. <p>So let me say this more: The road to recovery, the road to prosperity, is going to be hard. It was never going to be easy. When I was sworn in, we were seeing 700 [thousand]* jobs lost that month. Then we had the same amount lost for 2 more consecutive months. Now we've got an average of about 400,000 jobs lost, but we're still losing too many jobs. We will get to the point where we're not losing jobs, but then we've got to start getting to the point where we're actually creating jobs.<p>And it's going to take time. There are going to be false starts, and there are going to be setbacks. But I am confident that we can meet the challenges we face, because that's what we've always done. That's what America does. We hit some challenges, we fuss and argue about it, and then we go ahead and go about the business of solving our problems. That's what we see on display right here at Macomb Community College. That's what I've seen at colleges and universities all across this country. At every juncture in our history when we've been challenged, we have summoned the resilience and the industriousness, that can-do American spirit that has allowed us to succeed in the face of even the toughest odds. <p>That's what we can and must do now, not just to overcome this crisis, but to leave something better behind, to lay a foundation on which our children and our grandchildren can prosper and take responsibility for their future, just as the students at this school, at this difficult moment, are taking responsibility for theirs. I am absolutely confident that if I've got your help that we can make it happen, and we are going to see a stronger, more prosperous Michigan in the years to come.<p>Thank you very much, Warren. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"209" "\"Hello, everybody. Good afternoon. I am pleased to be joined by not only some of my former colleagues and outstanding legislators, but also by nurses. And I think I've said this before: I really like nurses. [<i>Laughter</i>] And so to have them here today on behalf of such a critical issue at a critical time is extraordinary.<p>Let me introduce a few of them. We've got Becky Patton, who's the president of the American Nurses Association here. Raise your hand, Becky. We have Dr. Mary Wakefield, who's a nurse and happens to be the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration at HHS, our highest ranking nurse in the administration. We've got Keisha Walker, an RN, currently a senior research nurse at Johns Hopkins University's Bloomberg School of Public Health. We have Dr. Rebecca Wiseman, nurse and assistant professor of adult health at the University of Maryland School of Nursing. And I'm also joined by Representative Johnson, Representative Capps, Representative McCarthy, Chairman George Miller, and my friend Chris Dodd.<p>I am very pleased to be joined today by the representatives from the American Nurses Association on behalf of 2.9 million registered nurses in America, men and women who know as well as anyone the urgent need for health reform.<p>Now, as I said before, I have a longstanding bias towards nurses. When Sasha, our younger daughter, was diagnosed with a dangerous case of meningitis when she was just 3 months old, we were terrified. And we were appreciative of the doctors, but it was the nurses who walked us through the entire process to make sure that Sasha was okay.<p>When both my daughters were born, the obstetrician was one of our best friends, but we saw her for about 10 minutes in each delivery. The rest of the time what we saw were nurses who did an incredible amount of work in not only taking care of Michelle but also caring for a nervous husband and then later for a couple of fat little babies.<p>So I know how important nurses are, and the Nation does too. Nurses aren't in health care to get rich. Last I checked, they're in it to care for all of us, from the time they bring a new life into this world to the moment they ease the pain of those who pass from it. If it weren't for nurses, many Americans in underserved and rural areas would have no access to health care at all.<p>And that's why it's safe to say that few understand why we have to pass reform as intimately as our Nation's nurses. They see firsthand the heartbreaking costs of our health care crisis. They hear the same stories that I've heard across this country&mdash;of treatment deferred or coverage denied by insurance companies; of insurance premiums and prescriptions that are so expensive they consume a family's entire budget; of Americans forced to use the emergency room for something as simple as a sore throat just because they can't afford to see a doctor.<p>And they understand that this is a problem that we can no longer defer. We can't kick the can down the road any longer. Deferring reform is nothing more than defending the status quo. And those who would oppose our efforts should take a hard look at just what it is that they're defending. Over the last decade, health insurance premiums have risen three times faster than wages. Deductibles and out-of-pocket costs are skyrocketing. And every single day we wait to act, thousands of Americans lose their insurance, some turning to nurses in emergency rooms as their only recourse.<p>So make no mistake, the status quo on health care is not an option for the United States of America. It's threatening the financial stability of families, of businesses, and of government. It's unsustainable, and it has to change.<p>I know a lot of Americans who are satisfied with their health care right now are wondering what reform would mean for them, so let me be clear: If you like your doctor or health care provider, you can keep them. If you like your health care plan, you can keep that too. <p>But here's what else reform will mean for you&mdash;and this is for people who have health insurance: You will save money. If you lose your job, change your job, or start a new business, you'll still be able to find quality health insurance that you can afford. If you have a preexisting medical condition, no insurance company will be able to deny you coverage. You won't have to worry about being priced out of the market. You won't have to worry about one illness leading your family into financial ruin. That's what reform means, not just for the uninsured but for the people who have health insurance right now.<p>And the naysayers and the cynics still doubt that we can do this. But it wasn't too long ago that those same naysayers doubted that we'd be able to make real progress on health care reform. And thanks to the work of key committees in Congress, we're now closer to the goal of health reform than we have ever been.<p>Yesterday the House introduced its health reform proposal. Today, thanks to the unyielding passion and inspiration of our friend Ted Kennedy and to the bold leadership of Senator Chris Dodd, the Senate HELP Committee reached a major milestone by passing a similarly strong proposal for health reform. It's a plan that was debated for more than 50 hours and that, by the way, includes 160 Republican amendments, a hopeful sign of bipartisan support for the final product, if people are serious about bipartisanship.<p>Both proposals will take what's best about our system today and make it the basis for our system tomorrow, reducing costs, raising quality, and ensuring fair treatment of consumers by the insurance industry. Both include a health insurance exchange, a marketplace that will allow families and small businesses to compare prices, services, and the quality, so they can choose the plan that best suits their needs. And among the choices available would be a public health insurance option that would make health care more affordable by increasing competition, providing more choices, and keeping insurance companies honest. Both proposals will offer stability and security to Americans who have coverage today and affordable options to those who don't. <p>Now, this progress should make us hopeful, but it can't make us complacent. It should instead provide the urgency for both the House and the Senate to finish their critical work on health reform before the August recess.<p>America's nurses need us to succeed, not just on behalf of the patients that they sometimes speak for. If we invest in prevention, nurses won't have to treat diseases or complications that could have been avoided. If we modernize health records, we'll streamline the paperwork that can take up more than one-third of the average nurse's day, freeing them to spend more time with their patients. If we make their jobs a little bit easier, we can attract and train the young nurses we need to make up a nursing shortage that's only getting worse. Nurses do their part every time they check another healthy patient out of the hospital. It's now time for us to do our part.<p>Now, I just want to be clear: We are going to get this done. Becky and I were talking in the Oval Office. And Becky just pointed out we need to buck up people a little bit here. [<i>Laughter</i>] And that's what nurses do all the time. They buck up patients, sometimes they buck up some young resident who doesn't quite know what they're doing. [<i>Laughter</i>] You look at Becky, you can tell she knows what she's doing. And what she's saying is it's time for us to buck up&mdash;Congress, this administration, the entire Federal Government&mdash;to be clear that we've got to get this done.<p>Our nurses are on board. The American people are on board. It's now up to us. We can do what we've done for so long and defer tough decisions for another day, or we can step up and meet our responsibilities. In other words, we can lead. We can look beyond the next news cycle and the next election to the next generation and come together to build a system that works not just for these nurses, but for the patients they care for, for doctors and hospitals, for families and businesses, and for our very future as a nation.<p>I'm confident it's going to get done because we've got a great team behind us. And we are going to be continually talking about this for the next 2 to 3 weeks until we've got a bill off the Senate and we've got a bill out of the House. Then we'll deserve a few weeks rest before we come back and finally get a bill done so we can sign it right here in the Rose Garden.<p>Thank you, everybody.\" "
"210" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. Hello, NAACP. Thank you. Please, everybody, have a seat. Thank you. What an extraordinary night, capping off an extraordinary week, capping off an extraordinary 100 years at the NAACP. To Chairman Bond, Brother Justice, I am so grateful to all of you for being here. And it's just good to be among friends.<p>It is an extraordinary honor to be here, in the city where the NAACP was formed, to mark its centennial. What we celebrate tonight is not simply the journey the NAACP has traveled, but the journey that we as Americans have traveled over the past 100 years.<p>It's a journey that takes us back to a time before most of us was&mdash;were born, long before the Voting Rights Act and the Civil Rights Act and <i>Brown</i> v. <i>Board of Education</i>, back to an America just a generation past slavery. It was a time when Jim Crow was a way of life, when lynchings were all too common, when race riots were shaking cities across a segregated land.<p>It was in this America where an Atlanta scholar named W.E.B. Du Bois, a man of towering intellect and a fierce passion for justice, sparked what became known as the Niagara movement, where reformers united not by color but by cause, where an association was born that would, as its charter says, promote equality and eradicate prejudice among citizens of the United States.<p>From the beginning, these founders understood how change would come, just as King and all the civil rights giants did later. They understood that unjust laws needed to be overturned, that legislation needed to be passed, and that Presidents needed to be pressured into action. They knew that the stain of slavery and the sin of segregation had to be lifted in the courtroom and in the Legislature and in the hearts and the minds of Americans.<p>They also knew that here in America change would have to come from the people. It would come from people protesting lynchings, rallying against violence, all those women who decided to walk instead of taking the bus, even though they were tired after a long day of doing somebody else's laundry, looking after somebody else's children. It would come from men and women of every age and faith and every race and region taking Greyhounds on freedom rides, sitting down at Greensboro lunch counters, registering voters in rural Mississippi, knowing they would be harassed, knowing they would be beaten, knowing that some of them might never return.<p>Because of what they did, we are a more perfect Union. Because Jim Crow laws were overturned, Black CEOs today run Fortune 500 companies. Because civil rights laws were passed, Black mayors and Black Governors, Members of Congress serve in places where they might once have been able, not just to vote but even take a sip of water. And because ordinary people did such ordinary&mdash;extraordinary things, because they made the civil rights movement their own, even though there may not be a plaque or their names might not be in the history books, because of their efforts, I made a little trip to Springfield, Illinois, a couple of years ago, where Lincoln once lived, and race riots once raged, and began the journey that has led me to be here tonight as the 44th President of the United States of America.<p>Because of them I stand here tonight, on the shoulders of giants. And I'm here to say thank you to those pioneers and thank you to the NAACP.<p>And yet even as we celebrate the remarkable achievements of the past 100 years, even as we inherit extraordinary progress that cannot be denied, even as we marvel at the courage and determination of so many plain folk, we know that too many barriers still remain.<p>We know that even as our economic crisis batters Americans of all races, African Americans are out of work more than just about anybody else, a gap that's widening here in New York City, as a detailed report this week by Comptroller Bill Thompson laid out. We know that even as spiraling health care costs crush families of all races, African Americans are more likely to suffer from a host of diseases, but less likely to own health insurance than just about anybody else. We know that even as we imprison more people of all races than any nation in the world, an African American child is roughly five times as likely as a White child to see the inside of a prison. We know that even as the scourge of HIV/AIDS devastates nations abroad, particularly in Africa, it is devastating the African American community here at home with disproportionate force. We know these things.<p>These are some of the barriers of our time. They're very different from the barriers faced by earlier generations. They're very different from the ones faced when fire hoses and dogs were being turned on young marchers, when Charles Hamilton Houston and a group of young Howard lawyers were dismantling segregation case by case across the land.<p>But what's required today, what's required to overcome today's barriers is the same as what was needed then. The same commitment, the same sense of urgency, the same sense of sacrifice, the same sense of community, the same willingness to do our part for ourselves and one another that has always defined America at its best and the African American experience at its best. And so the question is, where do we direct our efforts? What steps do we take to overcome these barriers? How do we move forward in the next 100 years?<p>Now, the first thing we need to do is to make real the words of the NAACP Charter and eradicate prejudice, bigotry, and discrimination among citizens of the United States. I understand there may be a temptation among some to think that discrimination is no longer a problem in 2009. And I believe that overall, there probably has never been less discrimination in America than there is today. I think we can say that.<p>But make no mistake, the pain of discrimination is still felt in America: by African American women paid less for doing the same work as colleagues of a different color and a different gender; by Latinos made to feel unwelcome in their own country; by Muslim Americans viewed with suspicion simply because they kneel down to pray to their God; by our gay brothers and sisters, still taunted, still attacked, still denied their rights. <p>On the 45th anniversary of the Civil Rights Act, discrimination cannot stand, not on account of color or gender, how you worship, or who you love. Prejudice has no place in the United States of America. That's what the NAACP stands for. That's what the NAACP will continue to fight for as long as it takes.<p>But we also know that prejudice and discrimination&mdash;at least, the most blatant types of prejudice and discrimination&mdash;are not even the steepest barriers to opportunity today. The most difficult barriers include structural inequalities that our Nation's legacy of discrimination has left behind, inequalities still plaguing too many communities and too often the object of national neglect.<p>These are barriers we are beginning to tear down one by one by rewarding work with an expanded tax credit, by making housing more affordable, by giving ex-offenders a second chance. These are barriers we're targeting through our White House Office on Urban Affairs, through programs like Promise Neighborhoods that builds on Geoffrey Canada's success with the Harlem Children's Zone that foster a comprehensive approach to ending poverty by putting all children on a pathway to college and giving them the schooling and after-school support that they need to get there.<p>Now, I think all of us understand that our task of reducing these structural inequalities has been made more difficult by the state and structure of our broader economy, an economy that for the last decade has been fueled by a cycle of boom and bust, an economy where the rich got really, really rich, but ordinary folks didn't see their incomes or their wages go up, an economy built on credit cards and shady mortgage loans, an economy built not on a rock but on sand.<p>That's why my administration is working so hard not only to create and save jobs in the short term, not only to extend unemployment insurance and help for people who have lost their health care in this crisis, not just to stem the immediate economic wreckage, but to lay a new foundation for growth and prosperity that will put opportunity within the reach of not just African Americans, but all Americans. All Americans, of every race, of every creed, from every region of the country, we want everybody to participate in the American Dream. That's what the NAACP is all about.<p>Now, one pillar of this new foundation is health insurance for everybody. Health insurance reform that cuts costs and makes quality health coverage affordable for all and it closes health care disparities in the process. Another pillar is energy reform that makes clean energy profitable, freeing America from the grip of foreign oil, putting young people to work upgrading low-income homes, weatherizing them, creating jobs that can't be outsourced. Another pillar is financial reform with consumer protections that crackdown on mortgage fraud and stop predatory lenders from targeting Black and Latino communities all across the country. <p>All these things will make America stronger and more competitive. They will drive innovation; they will create jobs; they will provide families with more security. And yet even if we do all that, the African American community will still fall behind in the United States and the United States will fall behind in the world unless we do a far better job than we have been doing of educating our sons and daughters.<p>I hope you don't mind, I want to go into a little detail here about education. In the 21st century, when so many jobs will require a bachelor's degree or more, when countries that outeducate us today will outcompete us tomorrow, a world-class education is a prerequisite for success.<p>There's no two ways about it. There's no way to avoid it. You know what I'm talking about. There's a reason the story of the civil rights movement was written in our schools. There's a reason Thurgood Marshall took up the cause of Linda Brown. There's a reason why the Little Rock Nine defied a Governor and a mob. It's because there is no stronger weapon against inequality and no better path to opportunity than an education that can unlock a child's God-given potential.<p>And yet more than half a century after <i>Brown</i> v. <i>Board</i>, the dream of a world-class education is still being deferred all across the country. African American students are lagging behind White classmates in reading and math, an achievement gap that is growing in States that once led the way in the civil rights movement. Over half of all African American students are dropping out of school in some places. There are overcrowded classrooms and crumbling schools and corridors of shame in America filled with poor children, not just Black children, Brown and White children as well.<p>The state of our schools is not an African American problem; it is an American problem, because if Black and Brown children cannot compete, then America cannot compete. And let me say this: If Al Sharpton, Mike Bloomberg, and Newt Gingrich can agree that we need to solve the education problem, then that's something all of America can agree we can solve. Those guys came into my office. [<i>Laughter</i>] Just sitting in the Oval Office&mdash;I kept on doing a double take. [<i>Laughter</i>] But that's a sign of progress and it is a sign of the urgency of the education problem. All of us can agree that we need to offer every child in this country&mdash;every child&mdash;&mdash;<p><i>Audience members</i>. Amen!<p><i>The President.</i> Got an amen corner back there&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;every child&mdash;every child in this country the best education the world has to offer from cradle through a career.<p>That's our responsibility as leaders. That's the responsibility of the United States of America. And we, all of us in Government, have to work to do our part by not only offering more resources but also demanding more reform. Because when it comes to education, we've got to get past this old paradigm, this outdated notion that somehow it's just money, or somehow it's just reform, but no money, and embrace what Dr. King called the \\"both-and\\" philosophy. We need more money, and we need more reform.<p>When it comes to higher education, we're making college and advanced training more affordable and strengthening community colleges that are the gateway to so many with an initiative that will prepare students not only to earn a degree but to find a job when they graduate, an initiative that will help us meet the goal I have set of leading the world in college degrees by 2020. We used to rank number one in college graduates. Now we are in the middle of the pack. And since we are seeing more and more African American and Latino youth in our population, if we are leaving them behind, we cannot achieve our goal, and America will fall further behind. And that is not a future that I accept, and that is not a future that the NAACP is willing to accept.<p>We're creating a Race to the Top fund that will reward States and public school districts that adopt 21st-century standards and assessments. We're creating incentives for States to promote excellent teachers and replace bad ones, because the job of a teacher is too important for us to accept anything less than the best.<p>We also have to explore innovative approaches such as those being pursued here in New York City, innovations like Bard High School Early College and Medgar Evers College Preparatory School that are challenging students to complete high school and earn a free associate's degree or college credit in just 4 years.<p>And we should raise the bar when it comes to early learning programs. It's not enough just to have a babysitter. We need our young people stimulated and engaged and involved. And we need our folks involved in child development to understand the latest science. Today, some early learning programs are excellent, some are mediocre, and some are wasting what studies show are by far a child's most formative years.<p>That's why I've issued a challenge to America's Governors: If you match the success of States like Pennsylvania and develop an effective model for early learning, if you focus reform on standards and results in early learning programs, if you demonstrate how you will prepare the lowest income children to meet the highest standards of success, then you can compete for an Early Learning Challenge Grant that will help prepare all our children to enter kindergarten all ready to learn.<p>So these are some of the laws we're passing. These are some of the policies we are enacting. We are busy in Washington. Folks in Congress are getting a little tuckered out. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I'm telling them we can't rest; we've got a lot of work to do. The American people are counting on us. These are some of the ways we're doing our part in Government to overcome the inequities, the injustices, the barriers that still exist in our country.<p>But all these innovative programs and expanded opportunities will not, in and of themselves, make a difference if each of us, as parents and as community leaders, fail to do our part by encouraging excellence in our children. Government programs alone won't get our children to the promised land. We need a new mindset, a new set of attitudes, because one of the most durable and destructive legacies of discrimination is the way we've internalized a sense of limitation, how so many in our community have come to expect so little from the world and from themselves.<p>We've got to say to our children, yes, if you're African American, the odds of growing up amid crime and gangs are higher. Yes, if you live in a poor neighborhood, you will face challenges that somebody in a wealthy suburb does not have to face. But that's not a reason to get bad grades, that's not a reason to cut class, that's not a reason to give up on your education and drop out of school. No one has written your destiny for you. Your destiny is in your hands, you cannot forget that. That's what we have to teach all of our children. No excuses&mdash;no excuses. You get that education, all those hardships will just make you stronger, better able to compete. Yes we can.<p>To parents: We can't tell our kids to do well in school and then fail to support them when they get home. You can't just contract out parenting. For our kids to excel, we have to accept our responsibility to help them learn. That means putting away the Xbox, putting our kids to bed at a reasonable hour. It means attending those parent-teacher conferences and reading to our children and helping them with their homework.<p>And by the way, it means we need to be there for our neighbors' sons and daughters. We need to go back to the time, back to the day when parents saw somebody, saw some kid fooling around, and it wasn't your child, but they'll whup you anyway. [<i>Laughter</i>] Or at least they'll tell your parents, and the parents will. You know. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's the meaning of community. That's how we can reclaim the strength and the determination and the hopefulness that helped us come so far, helped us make a way out of no way.<p>It also means pushing our children to set their sights a little bit higher. They might think they've got a pretty good jump shot or a pretty good flow, but our kids can't all aspire to be LeBron or Lil' Wayne. I want them aspiring to be scientists and engineers, doctors and teachers, not just ballers and rappers. I want them aspiring to be a Supreme Court Justice. I want them aspiring to be the President of the United States of America. I want their horizons to be limitless. I don't&mdash;don't tell them they can't do something. Don't feed our children with a sense of&mdash;that somehow because of their race that they cannot achieve.<p>Yes, Government must be a force for opportunity. Yes, Government must be a force for equality. But ultimately, if we are to be true to our past, then we also have to seize our own future, each and every day.<p>And that's what the NAACP is all about. The NAACP was not founded in search of a handout. The NAACP was not founded in search of favors. The NAACP was founded on a firm notion of justice, to cash the promissory note of America that says all of our children, all God's children, deserve a fair chance in the race of life.<p>It's a simple dream and yet one that all too often has been denied and is still being denied to so many Americans. It's a painful thing, seeing that dream denied. I remember visiting a Chicago school in a rough neighborhood when I was a community organizer, and some of the children gathered round me. And I remember thinking how remarkable it was that all of these children seemed so full of hope, despite being born into poverty, despite being delivered, in some cases, into addiction, despite all the obstacles they were already facing, you could see that spark in their eyes. They were the equal of children anywhere.<p>And I remember the principal of the school telling me that soon that sparkle would begin to dim, that things would begin to change, that soon the laughter in their eyes would begin to fade, that soon something would shut off inside, as it sunk in&mdash;because kids are smarter than we give them credit for&mdash;as it sunk in that their hopes would not come to pass, not because they weren't smart enough, not because they weren't talented enough, not because of anything about them inherently, but because, by accident of birth, they had not received a fair chance in life.<p>I know what can happen to a child who doesn't have that chance. But I also know what can happen to a child that does. I was raised by a single mom. I didn't come from a lot of wealth. I got into my share of trouble as a child. My life could have easily taken a turn for the worse. When I drive through Harlem or I drive through the south side of Chicago and I see young men on the corners, I say, there but for the grace of God go I. They're no less gifted than me. They're no less talented than me.<p>But I had some brakes. That mother of mine, she gave me love; she pushed me; she cared about my education; she took no lip; she taught me right from wrong. Because of her, I had a chance to make the most of my abilities. I had the chance to make the most of my opportunities. I had the chance to make the most of life.<p>The same story holds true for Michelle. The same story holds true for so many of you. And I want all the other Barack Obamas out there, all the other Michelle Obamas out there to have the same chance, the chance that my mother gave me, that my education gave me, that the United States of America has given me. That's how our Union will be perfected and our economy rebuilt. That is how America will move forward in the next 100 years.<p>And we will move forward. This I know, for I know how far we have come. Some, you saw, last week in Ghana, Michelle and I took Malia and Sasha and my mother-in-law to Cape Coast Castle in Ghana. Some of you may have been there. This is where captives were once imprisoned before being auctioned, where, across an ocean, so much of the African American experience began.<p>We went down into the dungeons where the captives were held. There was a church above one of the dungeons, which tells you something about saying one thing and doing another. I was&mdash;we walked through the door of no return. I was reminded of all the pain and all the hardships, all the injustices and all the indignities on the voyage from slavery to freedom.<p>But I was reminded of something else. I was reminded that no matter how bitter the rod, how stony the road, we have always persevered. We have not faltered, nor have we grown weary. As Americans, we have demanded and strived for and shaped a better destiny. And that is what we are called on to do once more. NAACP, it will not be easy. It will take time. Doubts may rise, and hopes may recede.<p>But if John Lewis could brave billy clubs to cross a bridge, then I know young people today can do their part to lift up our community. If Emmet Till's uncle, Mose Wright, could summon the courage to testify against the men who killed his nephew, I know we can be better fathers and better brothers and better mothers and sisters in our own families. If three civil rights workers in Mississippi&mdash;Black, White, Christian and Jew, city born and country bred&mdash;could lay down their lives in freedom's cause, I know we can come together to face down the challenges of our own time. We can fix our schools; we can heal our sick; we can rescue our youth from violence and despair.<p>And 100 years from now, on the 200th anniversary of the NAACP, let it be said that this generation did its part, that we too ran the race, that full of faith that our dark past has taught us, full of the hope that the present has brought us, we faced in our lives and all across this Nation the rising sun of a new day begun.<p>Thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"211" "\"Thank you. It is good to see you. Hello, New Jersey. All right, everybody have a seat. Everybody have a seat. I want to begin by just making a few acknowledgements. First of all, I'm going to have a lot to say about this guy, but I just want everybody to know that one of my earliest supporters, somebody who had faith and confidence in me before I was a United States Senator was the man standing next to me right here, Jon Corzine. And so it is a special honor to be with him.<p>I've got a couple other friends I want to quickly acknowledge. Larry Cohen is around here somewhere&mdash;CWA&mdash;right here. We appreciate you, Larry, president of the Communication Workers. We've got a couple of outstanding mayors: The pride of Newark, Cory Booker is here&mdash;there's Cory in the back; and we've also got the pride of Jersey City, Jerramiah Healy.<p>I want to just say a little something at the top. As many of you may have heard, five officers were shot in the line of duty in Jersey City. Jerramiah may&mdash;I just saw him. We just discussed it. He may already be on his way back. Obviously, we are watching this closely. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the families of all the officers who've been hurt. And we are confident they are going to end up coming back strong as ever. But it's a reminder for all of us of the incredible sacrifice that our law enforcement officials engage in, and their families are part of, each and every day. So I hope everybody keeps them in their thoughts and prayers in the days to come.<p>It is great to be back in New Jersey. I'm proud to stand with a man who wakes up every single day thinking about your future and the future of the State, and that's your Governor, Jon Corzine. <p>Like many of us in public life today, Jon is a leader who's been called to govern at some extraordinary times. He's been tested by the worst recession in half a century, a recession that was caused by years of recklessness and irresponsibility, and obviously, had a disproportionate impact here in New Jersey, given the closeness of the financial sector to the State. <p>Part of the crisis was caused by the same small thinking that's plagued our politics for decades, the kind of thinking that says we can afford to tinker around with big problems, put off tough decisions, defer the big challenges, tell people only what they want to hear. <p>That's not the kind of leader Jon Corzine is. He didn't run for this office on the promise that change would be easy, and he certainly has not avoided what is hard. This isn't somebody who's here because of some special interest or political machine, he's here because he cares about what happens to the people of New Jersey. <p>This is a man who has provided more property tax relief than any other Governor in New Jersey's history. This is the first Governor in 60 years who has reduced the size of government. At the same time, this is also a leader who has stood up against those who wanted to cut what matters, like education. Jon Corzine has not only protected funding for New Jersey's schools, he's reformed them with higher standards, and now students in this State rank at the top of the country in reading and math. That's a testimony to Jon Corzine's leadership. <p>Since Jon Corzine became Governor, the Children's Health Insurance Program has been expanded to reach 80,000 more children&mdash;80,000 who've got health insurance who did not have it before. New Jersey has become a leader in clean energy. And Jon Corzine wasn't just the first Governor to pass an economic recovery plan for his State, he was an ally in developing&mdash;in helping the Federal Government, my administration, develop the national recovery plan.<p>And because of these recovery plans, jobs have been saved and created throughout the State of New Jersey: jobs of cops and teachers, jobs in small businesses and clean energy companies. Unemployment insurance and health insurance has been extended to those who have felt the brunt of this recession, who lost their jobs. Tax relief has been delivered to families and small businesses. Ninety-five percent of working families have already received tax relief as a consequence of our recovery plan. And I can promise you that more help is on the way in the weeks and months to come. <p>Now, I realize this is little comfort to those who have lost a job in this recession. Some of you know people who've lost jobs, or maybe you're worried about losing their home or can't afford their health insurance anymore. I realize that some of the progress that's been made doesn't help some folks who need to pay their bills and have fallen deeply behind. And I'll be honest with you, even though jobs have always been one of the last things that come back in a recession, some of the jobs that have been lost may not come back. <p>The fact is, even before this crisis hit, we had an economy that was creating a good deal of wealth for the folks at the very top, but not a lot of good-paying jobs for the rest of America. It's an economy that wasn't built to compete in the 21st century. It was one where we spend more on health care than any other nation but aren't any healthier, where we've been slow to invest in clean energy technologies and have created new jobs and new industries in other countries because we've been slow to take up the call of clean energy. We had an economy where we've watched our graduation rates lag behind too much of the world. We used to be at the very top, number one, in college graduation rates; we aren't anymore. We're in the middle of the pack. <p>But that was the America of yesterday; that doesn't have to be the America of tomorrow. That must not be the America our children inherit. You see, what we're facing right now is more than a passing crisis, it's a transformative moment that's led this Nation to an unmistakable crossroad. We've got some choices and decisions we've got to make right here in Washington and right here in Trenton. <p>Now, there are some in New Jersey, some in Washington, some all across the country, who want us to go down the path we've already traveled for most of the last decade. The path where we just throw up our hands and say, \\"We can't do anything about health care. It's too tough. We can't do anything about energy&mdash;too hard,\\" where we do nothing but hand out more tax breaks to the wealthiest few that make the rich richer and the deficit even larger and leave ordinary people in the lurch. That's one path. It's a path where our health care costs keep rising and our oil dependency keeps on growing, where our financial markets remain an unregulated crapshoot, and our workers lose out on the jobs of tomorrow. <p>But that's not the future I accept for the United States of America. That's not the future that Jon Corzine accepts for the United States of America. That's not the future you accept for the United States of America. We are going to set a new course for this Nation, and it's going to start right here in New Jersey.<p>We did not come as far as a country as we have because we've spent all our time looking backwards or because we stood still in the face of great challenges and said, \\"No we can't.\\" We didn't get here by lowering our sights or diminishing our dreams. We are a forward-looking people, a people who have always faced the future not with fear, but with determination; not with doubt, but with hope. We've always taken great chances and reached for new horizons and remade the world around us.<p>And that's what we must do again. I am absolutely confident that we will weather this economic storm. But once we clear away the wreckage, the real question is: What are we going to build in its place? <p>Even as we rescue this economy from this crisis, I believe we have to rebuild an even better economy than we had before. We're going to have to lay a new foundation that will allow this country to thrive and compete in the global economy. And that means investing in the clean energy jobs of the future. That means educating and training our workers for those jobs. That means finally controlling the health care costs that are driving this Nation into debt.<p>When it comes to these issues, the naysayers seem to think that we can somehow just keep on doing what we've been doing and expect a different outcome. We can't. And everywhere we go, I meet Americans who know that we can't. They know change isn't easy. They know there will be setbacks and false starts. And I love some of our opponents who stand up and say, \\"Look, it's been 6 months and you haven't solved the economy yet.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] The American people know better than that.<p>Here is what they also know: We're at a rare moment where we've been given the opportunity to remake our world, a chance to seize our future. And as difficult as it sometimes is, what is inherent about the American spirit is the fact that we don't cling to the past in this country; we always move forward. And that movement doesn't begin in Washington, it begins with you. It happens because the American people decide it's time to move forward, because you decide it's time for change, because you're willing to face the future without fear. And if you do that now, then we will not only reelect Jon Corzine so he can keep on fighting for families here in New Jersey, but we will do what earlier generations have done and build something better to leave to our children and secure our future in the 21st century. <p>We are counting on you. And I'm absolutely confident that the American people are going to meet the test. Thank you, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"212" "\"Right now in Washington, our Senate and House of Representatives are both debating proposals for health insurance reform. Today I want to speak with you about the stakes of this debate for our people and for the future of our Nation. This is an issue that affects the health and financial well being of every single American and the stability of our entire economy.<p>It's about every family unable to keep up with soaring out-of-pocket costs and premiums rising three times faster than wages; every worker afraid of losing health insurance if they lose their job or change jobs; everyone who's worried that they may not be able to get insurance or change insurance if someone in their family has a preexisting condition.<p>It's about a woman in Colorado who told us that when she was diagnosed with breast cancer, her insurance company, the one she'd paid over $700 a month to, refused to pay for her treatment. She had to use up her retirement funds to save her own life.<p>It's about a man from Maryland who sent us his story, a middle class college graduate whose health insurance expired when he changed jobs. During that time, he needed emergency surgery, and woke up $10,000 in debt, a debt that has left him unable to save, buy a home, or make a career change.<p>It's about every business forced to shut their doors or shed jobs or ship them overseas. It's about State governments overwhelmed by Medicaid, Federal budgets consumed by Medicare, and deficits piling higher year after year.<p>This is the status quo. This is the system we have today. This is what the debate in Congress is all about: whether we'll keep talking and tinkering and letting this problem fester as more families and businesses go under and more Americans lose their coverage, or whether we'll seize this opportunity, one we might not have again for generations, and finally pass health insurance reform this year, in 2009.<p>Now, we know there are those who will oppose reform no matter what. We know the same special interests and their agents in Congress will make the same old arguments and use the same scare tactics that have stopped reform before because they profit from this relentless escalation in health care costs. And I know that once you've seen enough ads and heard enough people yelling on TV, you might begin to wonder whether there's a grain of truth to what they're saying. So let me take a moment to answer a few of their arguments.<p>First, the same folks who controlled the White House and Congress for the past 8 years as we ran up record deficits will argue, believe it or not, that health reform will lead to record deficits. That's simply not true. Our proposals cut hundreds of billions of dollars in unnecessary spending and unwarranted giveaways to insurance companies in Medicare and Medicaid. They change incentives so providers will give patients the best care, not just the most expensive care, which will mean big savings over time. And we've urged Congress to include a proposal for a standing commission of doctors and medical experts to oversee cost-savings measures.<p>I want to be very clear: I will not sign on to any health plan that adds to our deficits over the next decade. And by helping improve quality and efficiency, the reforms we make will help bring our deficits under control in the long term.<p>Those who oppose reform will also tell you that under our plan, you won't get to choose your doctor, that some bureaucrat will choose for you. That's also not true. Michelle and I don't want anyone telling us who our family's doctor should be, and no one should decide that for you either. Under our proposals, if you like your doctor, you keep your doctor. If you like your current insurance, you keep that insurance. Period. End of story.<p>Finally, opponents of health reform warn that this is all some big plot for socialized medicine or government-run health care with long lines and rationed care. That's not true either. I don't believe that Government can or should run health care. But I also don't think insurance companies should have free reign to do as they please.<p>That's why any plan I sign must include an insurance exchange, a one-stop shopping marketplace where you can compare the benefits, costs, and track records of a variety of plans, including a public option to increase competition and keep insurance companies honest, and choose what's best for your family. And that's why we'll put an end to the worst practices of the insurance industry: no more yearly caps or lifetime caps, no more denying people care because of preexisting conditions, and no more dropping people from a plan when they get too sick. No longer will you be without health insurance, even if you lose your job or change your jobs.<p>The good news is that people who know the system best are rallying to the cause of change. Just this past week, the American Nurses Association, representing millions of nurses across America, and the American Medical Association, representing doctors across our Nation, announced their support because they've seen first hand the need for health insurance reform.<p>They know we cannot continue to cling to health industry practices that are bankrupting families and undermining American businesses large and small. They know we cannot let special interests and partisan politics stand in the way of reform, not this time around.<p>The opponents of health insurance reform would have us do nothing. But think about what doing nothing, in the face of ever-increasing costs, will do to you and your family. So today I am urging the House and the Senate, Democrats and Republicans, to seize this opportunity and vote for reform that gives the American people the best care at the lowest cost, that reins in insurance companies, strengthens businesses, and finally gives families the choices they need and the security they deserve.<p>Thanks.\" "
"213" "\"Hello, everybody. Please have a seat. Well, I just first of all want to thank the Children's Hospital for hosting us today, and I want to thank the participants: Joseph Wright, Brian Jacobs, Yewande Johnson, Michael Knappe, Regina Hartridge, and Kathleen Quigley.<p>I just had the opportunity to talk to doctors, nurses, physician's assistants, and administrators at this extraordinary institution. We spoke about some of the strains on our health care system and some of the strains our health care system places on parents with sick children.<p>We spoke about the amount of time and money wasted on insurance-driven bureaucracy. We spoke about the growing number of Americans who are uninsured and underinsured. We spoke about what's wrong with a system where women can't always afford maternity care and parents can't afford checkups for their kids and end up seeking treatment in emergency rooms like the ones here at Children's. We spoke about the fact that it's very hard even for families who have health insurance to access primary care physicians and pediatricians. In a city like Washington, DC, you've got all the doctors in one half of the city, very few doctors in the other half of the city. And part of that has to do with just the manner in which reimbursement is taking place and the disincentives for doctors, nurses, and physician's assistants in caring for those who are most in need. And we spoke about where we're headed if we once again delay and defer health insurance reform.<p>Now, these health care professionals are doing heroic work each and every day to save the lives of America's children. But they're being forced to fight through a system that works better for drug companies and insurance companies than for the American people that all these wonderful health professionals entered their profession to serve.<p>And over the past decade, premiums have doubled in America, out-of-pocket costs have shot up by a third, deductibles have continued to climb. And yet even as America's families have been battered by spiraling health care costs, health insurance companies and their executives have reaped windfall profits from a broken system.<p>Now, we've talked this problem to death, year after year. But unless we act&mdash;and act now&mdash;none of this will change. Just a quick statistic I heard about this hospital: Just a few years ago, there were approximately 50,000 people coming into the emergency room. Now they've got 85,000. There's been almost a doubling of emergency room care in a relatively short span of time, which is putting enormous strains on the system as a whole. That's the status quo, and it's only going to get worse.<p>If we do nothing, then families will spend more and more of their income for less and less care; the number of people who lose their insurance because they've lost or changed jobs will continue to grow; more children will be denied coverage on account of asthma or a heart condition; jobs will be lost, take-home pay will be lower, businesses will shutter, and we will continue to waste hundreds of billions of dollars on insurance company boondoggles and inefficiencies that add to our financial burdens without making us any healthier.<p>So the need for reform is urgent and it is indisputable. No one denies that we're on an unsustainable path. We all know there are more efficient ways of doing it. We just&mdash;I spoke to the chief information officer here at the hospital, and he talked about some wonderful ways in which we could potentially gather up electronic medical records and information for every child, not just that comes to this hospital but in the entire region, and how much money could be saved and how the health of these kids could be improved. But it requires an investment.<p>Now, there are some in these&mdash;this town who are content to perpetuate the status quo, are in fact fighting reform on behalf of powerful special interests. There are others who recognize the problem, but believe&mdash;or perhaps, hope&mdash;that we can put off the hard work of insurance reform for another day, another year, and another decade.<p>Just the other day, one Republican Senator said, and I'm quoting him now, \\"If we're able to stop Obama on this, it will be his Waterloo. It will break him.\\" Think about that: This isn't about me; this isn't about politics. This is about a health care system that is breaking America's families, breaking America's businesses, and breaking America's economy.<p>And we can't afford the politics of delay and defeat when it comes to health care. Not this time&mdash;not now. There are too many lives and livelihoods at stake. There are too many families who will be crushed if insurance premiums continue to rise three times as fast as wages. There are too many businesses that will be forced to shed workers, scale back benefits, or drop coverage unless we get spiraling health care costs under control.<p>The reforms we seek would bring greater competition, choice, savings, and inefficiencies [efficiencies]* to our health care system and greater stability and security to America's families and businesses. For the average American, it will mean lower costs, more options, and coverage you can count on. It will save you and your family money, if we have a more efficient health care system. You won't have to worry about being priced out of the market. You won't have to worry about one illness leading your family into financial ruin. You won't have to worry that you won't be able to afford treatment for a child who gets sick.<p>We can and we must make all these reforms, and we can do it in a way that does not add to our deficits over the next decade. I've said this before. Let me repeat: The bill I sign must reflect my commitment and the commitment of Congress to slow the growth of health care costs over the long run. That's how we can ensure that health care reforms strengthens our national&mdash;our Nation's fiscal health at the same time.<p>Now, we always knew that passing health care reform wouldn't be easy. We always knew that doing what is right would be hard. There's just a tendency towards inertia in this town. I understand that as well as anybody. But we're a country that chooses the harder right over the easier wrong. That's what we have to do this time. We have to do that once more.<p>So let's fight our way through the politics of the moment. Let's pass reform by the end of this year. Let's commit ourselves to delivering our country a better future. And that future will be seen in a place like Children's Hospital, when young people are getting the care that they deserve and they need, when they need it, and we don't have an overcrowded emergency room that's putting enormous burdens on this excellent institution. I think we can accomplish that, but we're going to have to do some work over the next few weeks and the next few months.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"214" "\"Very rarely do I have such an extraordinary pleasure as I have today to welcome three iconic figures, three genuine American heroes. To have Neil Armstrong, Michael Collins, and Buzz Aldrin here beside me is just wonderful. And I think that all of us recall the moment in which mankind finally was untethered from this planet and was able to explore the stars, the moment in which we had one of our own step on the Moon and leave that imprint that is there to this day. And it's because of the heroism, the calm under pressure, the grace with which these three gentlemen operated, but also the entire NASA family that was able to&mdash;at great risk oftentimes, and with great danger&mdash;was somehow able to lift our sights, not just here in the United States but around the world.<p>We now have a wonderful NASA Administrator in Charles Bolden and the Deputy Administrator Lori Garver. We are confident that they are going to be doing everything that they can in the decade to come to continue the inspirational mission of NASA. But I think it's fair to say that the touchstone for excellence in exploration and discovery is always going to be represented by the men of <i>Apollo 11</i>.<p>And so I'm grateful to them for taking the time to visit with us. The country continues to draw inspiration from what you've done. I should note, just personally, I grew up in Hawaii, as many of you know, and I still recall sitting on my grandfather's shoulders when those capsules would land in the middle of the Pacific, and they'd get brought back, and we'd go out, and we'd pretend like they could see us as we were waving at the folks coming home. And I remember waving American flags and my grandfather telling me that the Apollo mission was an example of how Americans can do anything they put their minds to.<p>I also know that, as a consequence of the extraordinary work of NASA generally, that you inspired an entire generation of scientists and engineers that ended up really sparking the innovation, the drive, the entrepreneurship, the creativity back here on Earth. And I think it's very important for us to constantly remember that NASA was not only about feeding our curiosity, that sense of wonder, but also had extraordinary practical applications. And one of the things that I've committed to doing as President is making sure that math and science are cool again, and that we once again achieve the goal by 2020 of having the highest college graduation rates of any country on Earth, especially in the maths and science fields.<p>So I think on this 40th anniversary, we are&mdash;all of us thankful and grateful to all of you for what you've done, and we expect that there's, as we speak, another generation of kids out there who are looking up at the sky and are going to be the next Armstrong, Collins, and Aldrins. And we want to make sure that NASA is going to be there for them when they want to take their journey.<p>All right. Thank you so much.\" "
"215" "\"<i>Defense Spending</i><p>Good afternoon, everybody. Before I talk about the progress we're making on health insurance reform, I want to say a few words about a very important vote that just took place in Congress. <p>Now, long before I took this office, I argued that meeting our greatest challenges would require not only changing policies in Washington but changing the way we do business in Washington. I also promised that part of that change would be eliminating waste and inefficiency in our defense projects, reform that will better protect our Nation, better protect our troops, and save taxpayers tens of billions of dollars. <p>As Commander in Chief, I will do whatever it takes to defend the American people, which is why we've increased our funding for our military and why we will always give our men and women in uniform the equipment and support that they need to get the job done. <p>But I reject the notion that we have to waste billions of taxpayer dollars on outdated and unnecessary defense projects to keep this Nation secure. And that's why I've taken steps to greatly reduce no-bid defense contracts. That's why I've signed overwhelmingly bipartisan legislation to limit cost overruns on weapons systems before they spiral out of control. And that's why I'm grateful that the Senate just voted against an additional $1.75 billion to buy F-22 fighter jets that military experts and members of both parties say we do not need. <p>At a time when we're fighting two wars and facing a serious deficit, this would have been an inexcusable waste of money. Every dollar of waste in our defense budget is a dollar we can't spend to support our troops, or prepare for future threats, or protect the American people. Our budget is a zero-sum game, and if more money goes to F-22s, it is our troops and our citizens who lose. <p>So I want to thank Secretary Gates for his outspoken leadership on this issue. I want to thank every Member of Congress who put politics aside to do what's right for the American military and the American taxpayers. And I particularly want to thank Senators Levin and McCain for helping to make this happen. <p>Now, I've also said that health care costs are the biggest drivers of our deficit. Nobody disputes that. So I'm looking forward to meeting with several Members of Congress who are working to pass health insurance reform that will bring down long-term costs, expand coverage, and provide more choice. <p>I know that there are those in this town who openly declare their intention to block reform. It's a familiar Washington script that we've seen many times before. These opponents of reform would rather score political points than offer relief to Americans who've seen premiums double and costs grow three times faster than wages. They would maintain a system that works for the insurance and the drug companies, while becoming increasingly unaffordable for families and for businesses.<p>But there are many others who are working hard to address this growing crisis. I know that there is a tendency in Washington to accentuate the differences instead of underscoring common ground. But make no mistake: We are closer than ever before to the reform that the American people need, and we're going to get the job done. I have urged Congress to act, and the health care reform bills making their way through the respective committees in the House and the Senate reflect a hard-earned consensus about how to move forward. So let me just lay out the substantial common ground in the current bills.<p>We've agreed that our health reform bill will extend coverage and include unprecedented insurance protections for the American people. Under each of these bills, you won't be denied coverage if you've got a preexisting medical condition. You won't lose your health care if you change jobs, if you lose your job, or if you start a business. And you won't lose your insurance if you get sick.<p>We've agreed that our health reform bill will promote choice. America&mdash;Americans will be able to compare the price and quality of different plans and pick the plan that they want. If you like your current plan, you will be able to keep it. Let me repeat that: If you like your plan, you'll be able to keep it. And each bill provides for a public option that will keep insurance companies honest, ensuring the competition necessary to make coverage affordable.<p>We've agreed that our health reform bill will emphasize prevention and wellness. By investing in programs that help Americans live healthier lives, we will save money, prevent illness, and increase the competitiveness of our country. We've agreed that our health reform bill will protect American families from financial catastrophe if they get sick. That's why each of these bills has out-of-pocket limits that will help ensure that families don't go bankrupt because of illness. And we have agreed that our health reform bill will include dramatic measures to cut costs while improving quality. <p>Each of these bills improves oversight while cracking down on waste. Each will help reduce unwarranted giveaways to insurance companies in Medicare. And each of these bills will provide incentives so that patients get the best care, not just the most expensive care. <p>The consensus that we've forged is not limited to Congress. Indeed, we've forged a level of consensus on health care that has never been reached in the history of this country. Health care providers have agreed to do their part to reduce the road of&mdash;the rate of growth in health care spending. The pharmaceutical industry has agreed to spending reductions that will make prescription drugs more affordable for seniors. Hospitals have agreed to bring down costs. The American Nurses Association and the American Medical Association, who represent millions of nurses and doctors who know our health care system best, have announced their support for reform. <p>So we have traveled long and hard to reach this point. I know that we have further to go. But I have to say that the American people are absolutely clear that this won't be easy but that the road that we have traveled doesn't just stretch back through the 6 months of my administration, it stretches back year after year, decade after decade, through all the times that Washington has failed to tackle this problem. <p>Time and again, we've heard excuses to delay and defeat reform. Time and again, the American people have suffered because people in Washington played the politics of the moment instead of putting the interests of the American people first. That's how we ended up with premiums rising three times faster than wages. That's how we ended up with businesses choosing between shedding benefits and shutting their doors. That's how we've been burdened with runaway costs and huge gaps in coverage.<p>That's the status quo. That's what we have right now. And the American people understand that the status quo is unacceptable. They don't care who's up or who's down politically in Washington; they care about what's going on in their own lives. They don't care about the latest line of political attack; they care about whether their families will be crushed by rising premiums, whether the businesses they work for will have to cut jobs, or whether their children are going to be saddled with debt. <p>So I understand that some will try to delay action until the special interests can kill it, while others will simply focus on scoring political points. We've done that before. And we can choose to follow that playbook again, and then we'll never get over the goal line, and we'll face an even greater crisis in the years to come. That's one path we can travel. <p>Or we can come together and insist that this time it will be different. We can choose action over inaction. We can choose progress over the politics of the moment. We can build on the extraordinary common ground that's been forged, and we can do the hard work needed to finally pass the health insurance reform that the American people deserve.<p>And I can guarantee you that when we do pass this bill, history won't record the demands for endless delay or endless debates in the news cycle, it will record the hard work done by the Members of Congress to pass the bill and the fact that the people who sent us here to Washington insisted upon change. That's the work that we've come here to do, and I look forward to working with Congress in the days ahead to getting the job done.<p>Thank you, everybody.\" "
"216" "\"Welcome to the White House. Tonight marks the second in a series of&mdash;that we are using to celebrate the music that's contributed to the life of this Nation and chronicled the history of our people. We began this tradition last month with an evening of jazz. And tonight we celebrate another uniquely American art form: country music.<p>We are thrilled and honored to be joined by three of country music's biggest acts, three of music's biggest acts, period: Alison Krauss and Union Station, Brad Paisley, and Charley Pride. And I want to thank and applaud Alison and Brad for taking some time earlier today to lead a country music workshop here at the White House for the next generation of young musicians.<p>Now, I know folks think I'm a city boy&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;but I do appreciate listening to country music because like all Americans, I appreciate the broad and indelible impact that country has had on our Nation. It's touched countless lives; it's influenced all genres of music; it's helped us make the American people more hopeful; it's captured our restlessness and resilience, and told so much of our story in the process.<p>After all, that's what country music is all about: storytelling. It's about folks telling their life story the best way they know how: stories of love and longing, hope and heartbreak, pride and pain. Stories that help us celebrate the good times and get over the bad times. Stories that are quintessentially American. After all, name me any other country that would have produced a Hank Williams or a Willie Nelson. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And like all great art, a great country song also has a commitment to truth, to telling the truth like it is, without pulling any punches. And generations of performers have honored that commitment. Harlan Howard proclaimed country music \\"three chords and the truth.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Garth Brooks said it's \\"honesty, sincerity, and real life to the hilt.\\" And Dierks Bentley called it \\"the best shrink that 15 bucks can buy.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So to all those watching, either here or at home, here's a free session with some of the best storytellers and truthsellers around. We hope that you have a wonderful time this evening. Thank you. Enjoy.\" "
"217" "\"Thank you. Everybody have a seat. Thank you for the outstanding introduction from Matthew. And Matthew's teacher, you're doing, obviously, an outstanding job, although I understand Matthew's mom is also a teacher who has also won awards for her outstanding work. So the acorn doesn't fall far from the tree. We are very proud of him.<p>Obviously, I want to thank my wonderful Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan, who has helped to lead us. I want to thank all the Members of Congress who are here, the Governors who are in attendance. And I want to give a special shout-out to Chairman George Miller of the Education Committee in the House, who has just been a outstanding partner for reform. Please give him a big round of applause.<p>You know, from the moment I entered office, my administration has worked to beat back this recession by creating jobs and unfreezing credit markets and extending unemployment insurance and health benefits to Americans who are out of work. But even as we've worked to end this immediate crisis, we've also taken some historic measures to build a new foundation for growth and prosperity that can help secure our economic future for generations to come.<p>One pillar of this new foundation is health insurance reform that can control deficits and reduce costs for families and businesses and provide quality affordable health care for every American. Another pillar is energy reform that makes clean energy profitable and creates green jobs that can't be outsourced and frees America from the grip of foreign oil. We're also working to enact financial reforms that will set up firm rules of the road to help prevent an economic crisis like the one we've just gone through from ever happening again.<p>But even if we do all of those things, America will not succeed in the 21st century unless we do a far better job of educating our sons and daughters, unless every child is performing the way Matthew is performing. In an economy where knowledge is the most valuable commodity a person and a country have to offer, the best jobs will go to the best educated, whether they live in the United States or India or China. In a world where countries that outeducate us today will outcompete us tomorrow, the future belongs to the nation that best educates its people, period. We know this.<p>But we also know that today, our education system is falling short. We've talked about it for decades, but we know that we have not made the progress we need to make. The United States, a country that has always led the way in innovation, is now being outpaced in math and science education. African American, Latino students are lagging behind White classmates in one subject after another, an achievement gap that, by one estimate, costs us hundreds of billions of dollars in wages that will not be earned, jobs that will not be done, and purchases that will not be made. And most employers raise doubts about the qualifications of future employees, rating high school graduates' basic skills as only \\"fair\\" or \\"poor.\\"<p>Of course, we&mdash;as I said before, we've talked about this problem for years. For years, we've talked about bad statistics and an achievement gap. For years, we've talked about overcrowded classrooms and crumbling schools and corridors of shame across this country. We've talked these problems to death, year after year, decade after decade, while doing all too little to solve them.<p>But thanks to Arne's leadership, thanks to George Miller's leadership, thanks to all the dedicated Americans in statehouses and schoolhouses and communities across this country, that's beginning to change. We're beginning to break free from the partisanship and the petty bickering that have stood in the way of progress for so long. We're beginning to move past the stale debates about either more money or more reform, because the fact is, we need both. We're beginning to offer every single American the best education the world has to offer from the cradle to the classroom, from college to careers.<p>In recent months, I've spoken about the different parts of this strategy. I've spoken about what we're doing to prepare community college students to find a job when they graduate, to make college and advanced training more affordable, and to raise the bar in early learning programs. Today I want to talk about what we can do to raise the quality of education from kindergarten through senior year.<p>Because improving education is central to rebuilding our economy, we set aside over $4 billion in the Recovery Act to promote improvements in schools. This is one of the largest investments in education reform in American history. And rather than divvying it up and handing it out, we are letting States and school districts compete for it. That's how we can incentivize excellence and spur reform and launch a race to the top in America's public schools.<p>That race starts today. I'm issuing a challenge to our Nation's Governors, to school boards and principals and teachers, to businesses and non-for-profits, to parents and to students: If you set and enforce rigorous and challenging standards and assessments, if you put outstanding teachers at the front of the classroom, if you turn around failing schools, your State can win a Race to the Top grant that will not only help students outcompete workers around the world, but let them fulfill their God-given potential.<p>This competition will not be based on politics or ideology or the preferences of a particular interest group. Instead, it will be based on a simple principle: whether a State is ready to do what works. We will use the best evidence available to determine whether a State can meet a few key benchmarks for reform, and States that outperform the rest will be rewarded with a grant. Not every State will win, and not every school district will be happy with the results. But America's children, America's economy, America itself will be better for it.<p>Now, one of the benchmarks we will use is whether States are designing and enforcing higher and clearer standards and assessments that prepare a student to graduate from college and succeed in life. Right now some States like Massachusetts are setting high standards, but many others are not. Many others are low-balling expectations for students, telling our kids they're prepared to move on to the next grade even if they aren't, awarding diplomas even if a graduate doesn't have the knowledge and skills to thrive in our economy.<p>That's a recipe for economic decline, and it has to stop. With the Race to the Top fund, we will reward States that come together and adopt a common set of standards and assessments. Now let me be clear: This is not about the kind of testing that has mushroomed under No Child Left Behind. This is not about more tests. It's not about teaching to the test, and it's not about judging a teacher solely on the results of a single test.<p>It is about finally getting testing right, about developing thoughtful assessments that lead to better results, assessments that don't simply measure whether students can use a pencil to fill in a bubble, but whether they possess basic knowledge and essential skills like problem-solving and creative thinking, creativity and entrepreneurship. And already, 46 States are working to develop such standards. I urge those 46 States to finish the job. I urge the other four to get onboard. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>One of the other benchmarks we'll be using in awarding Race to the Top grants is whether outstanding teachers are being placed in our classrooms. From the moment a student enters a school, the single most important factor in their success is the person in front of the classroom. Every one of us can point to a teacher who inspired us and in some way shaped the course of our lives. Great teachers are the bulwark of America. They should be valued, and they should be honored. Few have worked harder to do that than our national union leaders. Randi Weingarten&mdash;is right here&mdash;and Dennis Van Roekel are two union leaders who are here, and I'm very pleased that they're with us today.<p>But if we're honest with ourselves, we'll admit that in too many places, we have no way&mdash;at least no good way of distinguishing good teachers from bad ones. As Arne has pointed out in the past, they have 300,000 teachers in California. The top 10 percent are 30,000 of the best that are out there. The bottom 10 percent are 30,000 of the worst out there. The problem is, we have no way to tell which is which.<p>That's where data comes in. Some places are keeping electronic records of how a student does from one year to the next and how a class does in any given year. This helps students, parents, teachers, principals, and school boards know what's working and what's not in the classroom. You know, basketball coaches have a game tape for the team to see what they did right and what they did wrong after a tough series; teachers and principals should have a way of doing the same.<p>Now, I recognize there's a concern among some that a teacher won't be judged fairly when we start linking students' performance to the performance of their teachers. And that's why we need to bring teachers into the process and make sure their voices are heard. And that's why we need to make sure we use tests as just one part of a broader evaluation of teachers' performance.<p>But let me be clear: Success should be judged by results, and data is a powerful tool to determine results. We can't ignore facts; we can't ignore data. That's why any State that makes it unlawful to link student progress to teacher evaluations will have to change its ways if it wants to compete for a grant. That's why the Race to the Top grants will go to States that use data effectively to reward effective teachers, to support teachers who are struggling, and when necessary, to replace teachers who aren't up to the job.<p>And we also need to reward States that are placing outstanding teachers in schools and subjects, like math and science, where they're needed most. That's one way to foster the next generation of math and science teachers. And by the way, everyone has a role to play in training these teachers. So universities and nonprofit organizations can launch programs like UTeach at UT Austin that allows aspiring teachers to get a math or science degree and teaching certificate at the same time, and businesses can follow the example of Intel and Microsoft by developing the software tools and cutting-edge technologies that prepare today's students to be tomorrow's teachers.<p>So we know we need better standards, and we know we need excellent teachers. But we also know that a number of chronically underperforming schools will require an extra effort to get back on their feet. Roughly 5,000 schools across this country, the bottom 5 percent, fall into this category. In fact, just 2,000 high schools produce over 50 percent of America's dropouts.<p>Now, there's no silver bullet when it comes to turning these schools around. We know that many of these schools are in very tough neighborhoods, and kids are coming to school already with some significant problems. And the most effective and innovative approaches will be developed outside of Washington in communities across this country. The best ideas will come from educators who are helping a young man who's far behind to catch up or helping a young woman master the English language or going the extra mile for a student with special needs. Change will come from the bottom up.<p>But what we can do, all of us in Federal Government, is reward States that are pursuing forceful and effective and consistent approaches with Race to the Top grants. There are a number of different strategies that school districts are employing to fix these schools that are in such tough shape. One strategy involves replacing the principal, replacing much of the staff, and giving the school a second chance. Another strategy involves inviting a great nonprofit to help manage a troubled school. A third strategy involves converting a dropout factory into a successful charter school. These are public schools funded by parents, teachers, and civic or community organizations with broad leeway to innovate.<p>Now, we can't hold charter schools to lower standards than traditional public schools. If a charter school is falling short year after year, it should be shut down. But if we're holding charter schools accountable and if we are holding them to a high standard of excellence, then I believe they can be a force for innovation in our public schools. And that's why I've encouraged States to lift caps on the number of charter schools that are allowed, something being done in Louisiana, Indiana, and across the country. And that's why we will reward States that pursue rigorous and accountable charter schools with Race to the Top fund grants.<p>Better standards, better teaching, better schools, data-driven results, that's what we will reward with our Race to the Top fund. But as I've said before, fixing the problem in our schools is not a task for Washington alone. It will take school administrators, board presidents, and local union leaders making collective bargaining a catalyst, and not an impediment, to reform. It will take business leaders asking what they can do to invest in education in their communities. It will take parents asking the right questions at their child's school and making sure their children are doing their homework at night.<p>And it will take students&mdash;I'm not worried about Matthew, but all the other ones&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;including my daughters, showing up for school on time and paying attention in class. Ultimately, their education is up to them; it's up to their parents; it's up to their teachers; it's up to all of us.<p>I'll never forget a school I visited one day when I was a community organizer in Chicago. As I walked around the school with the principal, I remember saying to her how wonderful it was to see all these kids so full of energy and hope and the spark in their eye. And when he asked them what they were going to be when they grew up, they said, \\"We're going to be doctors and lawyers,\\" and they all had these big dreams for the future. And I remember the principal saying that soon all that would change; that in a year or two, something would shut off inside as they began to realize their hopes wouldn't come to pass, not because they weren't smart enough, not because they weren't talented enough, but because they didn't see a pathway to success.<p>And that's true of too many children in this country. Maybe they don't have a great teacher. Maybe they don't find their classes exciting. Maybe they aren't being challenged at school. Maybe their parents aren't pushing them the way they need to. Maybe nobody is setting high expectations for them. Maybe they can't afford a college education. Maybe they don't know anybody who's ever gone to college. And the reason you're here, the reason Arneis here, the reason I'm here is to make sure that we are giving all of those children, all our children, the pathways they need to make the most of their abilities, to make the most of their opportunities, to make the most of their lives.<p>I am absolutely confident that if I do my part, if Arne does his part, if our teachers do their part, if you do yours, if the American people do theirs, then we will not only strengthen our economy over the long run, and we will not only make America's entire education system the envy of the world, but we will launch a race to the top that will prepare every child, everywhere in America, for the challenges of the 21st century.<p>I'm convinced we can do that. But it's not going to come easy; it's not going to come quick. We're going to have to have staying power; we're going to have to be consistent; we're going to have to put the interests of our children ahead of our own parochial interests. But we have no choice. And I'm absolutely confident that we can make it happen.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"218" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hey, it's a cameo appearance. Sit down, sit down. I need to help Gibbs out a little bit here.<p><i>Audience member.</i> You're the new Press Secretary?<p><i>The President.</i> If you got to do a job, do it yourself.<p>I wanted to address you guys directly because over the last day and a half, obviously, there's been all sorts of controversy around the incident that happened in Cambridge with Professor Gates and the police department there.<p>I actually just had a conversation with Sergeant Jim Crowley, the officer involved. And I have to tell you that as I said yesterday, my impression of him was that he was a outstanding police officer and a good man, and that was confirmed in the phone conversation. And I told him that.<p>And I&mdash;because this has been ratcheting up&mdash;and I obviously helped to contribute ratcheting it up&mdash;I want to make clear that in my choice of words, I think I unfortunately gave an impression that I was maligning the Cambridge Police Department or Sergeant Crowley specifically. And I could have calibrated those words differently, and I told this to Sergeant Crowley.<p>I continue to believe, based on what I have heard, that there was an overreaction in pulling Professor Gates out of his home to the station. I also continue to believe, based on what I heard, that Professor Gates probably overreacted as well. My sense is you've got two good people in a circumstance in which neither of them were able to resolve the incident in the way that it should have been resolved and the way they would have liked it to be resolved.<p>The fact that it has garnered so much attention, I think, is a testimony to the fact that these are issues that are still very sensitive here in America. And so to the extent that my choice of words didn't illuminate, but rather contributed to more media frenzy, I think that was unfortunate.<p>What I'd like to do then is make sure that everybody steps back for a moment, recognizes that these are two decent people, not extrapolate too much from the facts, but as I said at the press conference, be mindful of the fact that because of our history, because of the difficulties of the past, you know, African Americans are sensitive to these issues. And even when you've got a police officer who has a fine track record on racial sensitivity, interactions between police officers and the African American community can sometimes be fraught with misunderstanding.<p>My hope is, is that as a consequence of this event, this ends up being what's called a teachable moment, where all of us instead of pumping up the volume, spend a little more time listening to each other and try to focus on how we can generally improve relations between police officers and minority communities, and that instead of flinging accusations, we can all be a little more reflective in terms of what we can do to contribute to more unity. Lord knows we need it right now, because over the last 2 days as we've discussed this issue, I don't know if you've noticed, but nobody has been paying much attention to health care. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I will not use this time to spend more words on health care, although I can't guarantee that that will be true next week. But I just wanted to emphasize that&mdash;one last point I guess I'd make. There are some who say that as President I shouldn't have stepped into this at all because it's a local issue. I have to tell you that that thing&mdash;that part of it I disagree with. The fact that this has become such a big issue, I think, is indicative of the fact that race is still a troubling aspect of our society. Whether I were Black or White, I think that me commenting on this and, hopefully, contributing to constructive, as opposed to negative, understandings about the issue is part of my portfolio.<p>So at the end of the conversation, there was a discussion about&mdash;my conversation with Sergeant Crowley, there was discussion about he and I and Professor Gates having a beer here in the White House. We don't know if that's scheduled yet&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;but we may put that together.<p>He also did say he wanted to find out if there was a way of getting the press off his lawn. [<i>Laughter</i>] I informed him that I can't get the press off my lawn. [<i>Laughter</i>] He pointed out that my lawn is bigger than his lawn. [<i>Laughter</i>] But if anybody has any connections to the Boston press as well as national press, Sergeant Crowley would be happy for you to stop trampling his grass.<p>All right. Thank you, guys.\" "
"219" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. Please, everybody be seated. Thank you. First of all, how about my Secretary of State? Give it up for Senator Hillary Clinton. She is doing an unbelievable job. She's traveling all around the world delivering a message that America is back and ready to lead. And everywhere she goes she is representing us with grace and strength, and we are very fortunate to have her.<p>I'm also lucky to have an outstanding Attorney General in Eric Holder, so I wanted to make sure that we thank him for being here; my Secretary of Labor, who's committed to these issues, Hilda Solis. We've got a couple of Governors in the house&mdash;at least I see one of them over here, Governor David Paterson of New York. And I think that Christine Gregoire was here. There she is, right here&mdash;from Washington State.<p>I want to thank the outstanding Members of Congress who are on the stage: Senator Dan Inouye, Representative Steny Hoyer, Representative Robert Andrews, Representative James Sensenbrenner, Representative Jim Langevin, thank you so much. Please give them a big round of applause.<p>And not on the stage, but extraordinarily important, are three key figures who helped to get the original ADA passed. I want to acknowledge them. First of all, not able to attend, but this guy is a fierce warrior on behalf of the disabilities community, Tom Harkin. He couldn't be here, but give him a round of applause. Another person who could not be here but was instrumental in guiding the passage of this landmark legislation, Bob Dole, but his wonderful partner, Elizabeth Dole&mdash;Senator Elizabeth Dole&mdash;is here, so please give her a round of applause on behalf of Bob Dole. And Attorney General and somebody who worked very hard on this issue, Richard Thornburgh; please give him a big round of applause. Where's Richard? There he is. <p>Well, welcome to the White House. We are thrilled to have you all here for a historic announcement regarding our global commitment to fundamental human rights for persons with disabilities. I'm also honored to mark the anniversary of a historic piece of civil rights legislation with so many of the people who helped make it possible, and I'd like to reflect on that for a few moments.<p>I'm reminded today of my father-in-law&mdash;some of you have heard his story&mdash;Fraser Robinson. He was Michelle's hero. When you talk to her about her dad, even today she just lights up. He was a vibrant and athletic man who provided for his family as a shift worker at a water treatment plant in Chicago. And in his early thirties, he was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. And even as it progressed, even as he struggled to get dressed in the morning and used two canes to get himself to work every day, despite the fact that he had to wake up a little bit earlier and work a little harder to overcome the barriers he faced every day, he never complained. He never asked for special treatment. He just wanted to be given the opportunity to do right by his family. Never missed a day of work; would have trouble buttoning his own shirts, but he would make sure that he woke up in time to do it.<p>And by the time I met him, he would struggle with those two canes, but even if he had to go over a bumpy patch of grass to watch his son's ball games or go up a flight of stairs so that he could see his daughter dance, he would do it. This was before the ADA passed. And I think about him all the time when I think about these issues.<p>It's a reminder of the very promise of the ADA. Nineteen years ago this weekend, Democrats and Republicans, advocates and ordinary Americans, came together here at the White House to watch President George H.W. Bush sign the ADA into law. Folks traveled from all across America to witness a milestone in the long march to achieve equal opportunity for all.<p>But like all great movements, this one did not begin or end in Washington, DC. It began in small towns and big cities across this country. It began with people like Fraser Robinson showing that they can be full contributors to society regardless of the lack of awareness of others. It began when people refused to accept a second-class status in America. It began when they not only refused to accept the way the world saw them, but also the way they had seen themselves.<p>And when quiet acts of persistence and perseverance were coupled with vocal acts of advocacy, a movement grew, and people marched and organized and testified. And parents of children with disabilities asked why their children, who had the same hopes and dreams as children everywhere else, were left out and left behind. And wounded veterans came home from war only to find that, despite their sacrifice for America, they now felt excluded from America's promise.<p>We had a little meeting before we came out, and Tony Coelho, who was instrumental on this issue, spoke in just incredibly moving terms about what it meant for him to be an epileptic and the fact that discrimination was rife. He was rejected from the priesthood because that was considered unacceptable. He was rejected from the Army because that was considered unacceptable.<p>Those experiences could have just been internalized and people could have felt doubt, but instead, it became a source of strength. And step by step, progress was won, laws were changed. Americans with disabilities were finally guaranteed the right to vote, a right that only carries real meaning when you can enter the voting booth to cast that vote. Folks were extended certain protections from discrimination and given the needed rehabilitation and training to go to the job. And even though we still have a long way to go with regard to education, children with disabilities were no longer excluded, no longer kept separate, and then no longer denied the opportunity to learn the same skills in the same classroom as other children.<p>Now, even two decades ago, too many barriers still stood, too many Americans suffered under segregation and discrimination. Americans with disabilities were still measured by what folks thought they couldn't do, not by what they can. Employers often assumed disabled meant unable. Millions of Americans with disabilities were eager to work, but couldn't find a job. An employer could have told a person with a disability, \\"No, we don't hire your kind.\\" That person then could have tried to find recourse at the courthouse, only to find that she couldn't enter the building and wouldn't find a receptive audience even if she did.<p>What was needed was a bill of rights for persons with disabilities, and that's what the ADA was. It was a formal acknowledgment that Americans with disabilities are Americans first, and they are entitled to the same rights and freedoms as everybody else: a right to belong and participate fully in the American experience, a right to dignity and respect in the workplace and beyond, the freedom to make of our lives what we will.<p>In a time when so many doubted that people with disabilities could participate in our society, contribute to our economy, or support their families, the ADA assumed they could. Americans with disabilities didn't ask for charity or demand special treatment; they only wanted a fair shot at opportunity. They didn't want to be isolated, they wanted to be integrated; not dependent, but independent. And allowing all Americans to engage in our society and our economy is in our national interest, especially now, when we all have a part to play to build a new foundation for America's lasting prosperity.<p>So the ADA showed the world our full commitment to the rights of people with disabilities, and now we have an opportunity to live up to that commitment. Today, 650 million people&mdash;10 percent of the world's population&mdash;live with a disability. In developing countries, 90 percent of children with disabilities don't attend school. Women and girls with disabilities are too often subject to deep discrimination.<p>Disability rights aren't just civil rights to be enforced here at home; they're universal rights to be recognized and promoted around the world. And that's why I'm proud to announce that next week the United States of America will join 140 other nations in signing the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It's the first new human rights convention of the 21st century.<p>This extraordinary treaty calls on all nations to guarantee rights like those afforded under the ADA. It urges equal protection and equal benefits before the law for all citizens, reaffirms the inherent dignity and worth and independence of all persons with disabilities worldwide. I've instructed Ambassador Susan Rice to formally sign the Convention at the United Nations in New York next week, and I hope that the Senate can give swift consideration and approval to the Convention once I submit it for their advice and consent.<p>And even as we extend our commitment to persons for&mdash;with disabilities around the world, we're working to deepen that commitment here at home. We've lifted the ban on stem cell research. We've reauthorized the Children's Health Insurance Program, continuing coverage for 7 million children and covering an additional 4 million children in need, including children with disabilities. I was proud to sign the landmark Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Act, the first piece of comprehensive legislation specifically aimed at addressing the challenges that are faced by Americans living with paralysis.<p>We've nearly doubled funding for the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. We're strengthening antidiscrimination enforcement at the Justice Department. We're creating a new special assistant position at the Department of Transportation just to focus on accessible transportation. We've launched the \\"Year of Community Living\\" to affirm the fundamental right of people with disabilities to live with dignity and respect wherever they choose.<p>So I'm proud of the progress we've made. But I'm not satisfied, and I know you aren't either. Until every American with a disability can learn in their local public school in the manner best for them, until they can apply for a job without fear of discrimination, and live and work independently in their communities if that's what they choose, we've got more work to do. As long as we as a people still too easily succumb to casual discrimination or fear of the unfamiliar, we've still got more work to do.<p>As we continue that work, we should remember just who it was that the ADA was all about. It was about the young girl with cerebral palsy who just wanted to see a movie at her local theater, but was turned away. It was about the Vietnam veteran who returned home paralyzed and said he felt like he'd fought for everyone but himself. It was about the thousands of people with disabilities who showed up at public hearings all across the country to share their stories of exclusion and injustice, and the millions more they spoke up for.<p>Because they did, we live in a country where our children can grow up with every opportunity to learn and compete, where our disabled veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan can navigate public places more easily, and where 54 million Americans with disabilities can pursue their full measure of happiness. And what we've learned&mdash;what we've&mdash;what they have taught us is that it is far more noble and worthwhile and valuable to make it possible for these Americans to live up to their full potential. Because when we do, it makes all of us more whole, it makes our Union more perfect, it makes the United States of America strong.<p>Every morning, I walk along the Colonnade that connects this house to the Oval Office. And there's something you might not notice unless you're really paying attention&mdash;and I'll be honest, when I take that walk, I usually have a lot on my mind&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;but there's a gentle slope at the end of that Colonnade, a ramp that was installed during a renovation of the West Wing 75 years ago, making it much easier for one of my predecessors to get to work.<p>Back then, fear and prejudice towards Americans with disabilities was the norm, but most Americans didn't even know that President Roosevelt had a disability. That means that what most Americans also didn't know was that President Roosevelt's disability made absolutely no difference to his ability to renew our confidence or rescue our economy and mobilize our greatest generation to save our way of life.<p>Let me correct that: I actually think it did make a difference in a positive way. What he told us was that \\"further progress must, of necessity, depend on a deeper understanding on the part of every man and woman in the United States.\\" I believe we're getting there. And today, because more than one in five Americans live with a disability, and chances are, the rest of us love somebody with one, we remember our obligation to ensuring their every chance to pursue the American Dream. We celebrate the courage and commitment of those who brought us to this point. And we recommit ourselves to building a world free of unnecessary barriers and full of that deeper understanding.<p>So thank you all, for being here. Let's sign this bill.<p>[<i>At this point, the President signed the proclamation.</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> There you go. Thank you, everybody.\" "
"220" "\"I recently heard from a small-business owner from New Jersey who wrote that he employs eight people and provides health insurance for all of them. But his policy goes up at least 20 percent each year, and today, it costs almost $1,400 per family per month&mdash;his highest business expense beside his employees' salaries. He's already had to let two of them go, and he may be forced to eliminate health insurance altogether. He wrote, simply: \\"I am not looking for free health care. I would just like to get my premiums reduced enough to be able to afford it.\\"<p>Day after day, I hear from people just like him: workers worried they may lose their coverage if they become too sick or lose their job or change jobs; families who fear they may not be able to get insurance, or change insurance, if someone in their family has a preexisting condition; and small-business owners trying to make a living and do right by the people they employ.<p>These are the mom and pop stores and restaurants, beauty shops and construction companies that support families and sustain communities. They're the tiny startups with big ideas, hoping to become the next Google or Apple or HP. And, as shown in a new report released today by the White House Council of Economic Advisers, right now they are getting crushed by skyrocketing health care costs.<p>Because they lack the bargaining power that large businesses have and faced higher administrative costs per person, small businesses pay up to 18 percent more for the very same health insurance plans, costs that eat into their profits and get passed on to their employees.<p>As a result, small businesses are much less likely to offer health insurance. Those that do tend to have less generous plans. In a recent survey, one-third of small businesses reported cutting benefits. Many have dropped coverage altogether, and many have shed jobs or shut their doors entirely. This is unsustainable, it's unacceptable, and it's going to change when I sign health insurance reform into law.<p>Under the reform plans in Congress, small businesses will be able to purchase health insurance through an insurance exchange, a marketplace where they can compare the price, quality, and services of a wide variety of plans, many of which will provide better coverage at lower costs than the plans they have now. They can then pick the one that works best for them and their employees.<p>Small businesses that choose to insure their employees will also receive a tax credit to help them pay for it. If a small business chooses not to provide coverage, its employees can purchase high-quality, affordable coverage through the insurance exchange on their own. Low-income workers, folks who are more likely to be working at small businesses, will qualify for a subsidy to help them cover the costs.<p>And no matter how you get your insurance, insurance companies will no longer be allowed to deny you coverage because of a preexisting condition. They won't be able to drop your coverage if you get too sick or lose your job or change jobs, and we'll limit the amount your insurance company can force you to pay out of your own pocket.<p>To view the new report and learn more about how health insurance reform will help small businesses, go to whitehouse.gov and send us your questions and comments. We'll answer as many of them as we can later this week.<p>Over the past few months, I've been pushing hard to make sure we finally address the need for health insurance reform, which has been deferred year after year, decade after decade. And today, after a lot of hard work in Congress, we are closer than ever before to finally passing reform that will reduce costs, expand coverage, and provide more choices for our families and businesses.<p>It's taken months to reach this point, and once this legislation passes, we'll need to move thoughtfully and deliberately to implement these reforms over a period of several years. That's why I feel such a sense of urgency about moving this process forward.<p>Now, I know there are those who are urging us to delay reform. And some of them have actually admitted that this is a tactic designed to stop any reform at all. Some have even suggested that, regardless of its merits, health care reform should be stopped as a way to inflict political damage on my administration. I'll leave it to them to explain that to the American people.<p>What I'm concerned about is the damage that's being done right now to the health of our families, the success of our businesses, and the long-term fiscal stability of our government. I'm concerned about hard-working folks who want nothing more than the security that comes with knowing they can get the care they need, when they need it. I'm concerned about the small-business owners who are asking for nothing more than a chance to seize their piece of the American Dream. I'm concerned about our children and our grandchildren who will be saddled with deficits that will continue piling up year after year unless we pass reform.<p>This debate is not a political game for these Americans, and they cannot afford to keep waiting for reform. We owe it to them to finally get it done, and to get it done this year. Thanks.\" "
"221" "\"<i>The President. </i>Hey, guys. Hello, hello, hello. Please, everybody, be seated. Be seated. Well, welcome to the White House, everybody. And we are so pleased to have the Detroit Shock here. We want to congratulate them and all your fans for your third WNBA championship in 6 years. Give them a big round of applause.<p>We've got some special fans from Capitol Hill here who take great pride in Detroit: Senator Carl Levin is in the house; Representative Sandy Levin is in the house; and Representative Carolyn Kilpatrick is in the house.<p>I want to thank Donna Orender, the president of the WNBA, who's here today. Where's&mdash;Donna is right back&mdash;there she is right there. Congratulations on the success of this league and the inspiration it provides to young women everywhere.<p>I also want to thank the owner of the Detroit Shock and the Detroit Pistons, Karen Davidson, for coming. Your husband&mdash;go ahead, give him a round of applause. [<i>Applause</i>] Your husband Bill had a great impact not just in the NBA and the WNBA, but also on countless individuals who benefit from his giving spirit.<p>Now, I have to say, everybody knows I'm a Chicago Bulls fan. And a few years ago, when the Bulls and the Pistons were thick in the middle of their rivalry, I never imagined that I'd be saying, \\"Congratulations, Bill Laimbeer,\\" or, \\"Congratulations, Rick Mahorn.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And if I knew I was President then, to think that I'd be inviting them to the White House is hard to take. [<i>Laughter</i>] But let's face it: These guys are winners. They always have been. They know how to win. And I want to congratulate the finals MVP Katie Smith, team captain Cheryl Ford, and all the other women that make this such an outstanding team.<p>I also want to salute this organization&mdash;this team for donating so much time and energy to lifting up the Detroit community. They've given free tickets to underprivileged youth, mentored abused women and children, donated backpacks filled with school supplies to foster kids, restored a rundown library into a safe, clean place for kids to play and to grow.<p>And I want to thank them for participating in our United We Serve summer of service. Earlier today these players took time to host a WNBA Fit Clinic for young boys and girls at a local's Boys and Girls Club to teach fitness and nutrition and self-confidence, and I understand they brought some of the young participants along with them to the White House. I suspect it must be these young people here today.<p>Let me also say something as a father&mdash;I was mentioning it to the team before we came out&mdash;it's hard to believe the WNBA has already been around for 12 years, and that means that my daughters have never known a time when women couldn't play professional sports.<p>They look at the TV, and they see me watching \\"SportsCenter,\\" and they see young women who look like them on the screen. And that lets them and all our young women, as well as young men, know that we should take for granted that women are going to thrive and excel as athletes. And it makes my daughters look at themselves differently; to see that they can be champions too. So as a father, I want to say thank you and thank you to all the WNBA athletes who work hard each day to set a positive example to which all our daughters can aspire.<p>Congratulations again on your championship season. Good luck this year. And, Coach, congratulations.<p><i>Former Detroit Shock Head Coach William </i><i>Laimbeer.</i> Thank you.<p><i>The President.</i> Congratulations. All right, thank you.\" "
"222" "\"Thank you. Good morning. It is a great honor to welcome you to the first meeting of the Strategic Economic Dialogue between the United States and China. This is an essential step in advancing a positive, constructive, and comprehensive relationship between our countries. I'm pleased that President Hu shares my commitment to a sustained dialogue to enhance our shared interests.<p>President Hu and I both felt that it was important to get our relationship off to a good start. Of course, as a new President and also as a basketball fan, I have learned from the words of Yao Ming, who said, \\"No matter whether you are new or an old team member, you need time to adjust to one another.\\" Well, through the constructive meetings that we've already had, and through this dialogue, I'm confident that we will meet Yao's standard.<p>I want to acknowledge the remarkable American and Chinese leaders who will cochair this effort. Hillary Clinton and Tim Geithner are two of my closest advisers, and they have both obtained extraordinary experience working with China. And I know that they will have extremely capable and committed Chinese counterparts in State Councilor Dai and Vice Premier Wang. Thank you very much for being here.<p>I'm also looking forward to the confirmation of an outstanding U.S. Ambassador to China, Governor Jon Huntsman, who is here today. Jon has deep experience living and working in Asia, and unlike me, he speaks fluent Mandarin Chinese. He also happens to be a Republican who cochaired Senator McCain's campaign. And I think that demonstrates Jon's commitment to serving his country and the broad, bipartisan support for positive and productive relations between the United States and China. So thank you, Jon, for your willingness to serve.<p>Today we meet in a building that speaks to the history of the last century. It houses a national memorial to President Woodrow Wilson, a man who held office when the 20th century was still young and America's leadership in the world was emerging. It is named for Ronald Reagan, a man who came of age during two World Wars and whose Presidency helped usher in a new era of history. And it holds a piece of the Berlin Wall, a decades-long symbol of division that was finally torn down, unleashing a rising tide of globalization that continues to shape our world.<p>One hundred years ago, in the early days of the 20th century, it was clear that there were momentous choices to be made, choices about the borders of nations and the rights of human beings. But in Woodrow Wilson's day, no one could have foreseen the arc of history that led to a wall coming down in Berlin, nor could they have imagined the conflict and upheaval that characterized the years in between. For people everywhere, from Boston to Beijing, the 20th century was a time of great progress, but that progress also came with a great price.<p>Today, we look out on the horizon of a new century. And as we launch this dialogue, it's important for us to reflect upon the questions that will shape the 21st century. Will growth be stalled by events like our current financial crisis, or will we cooperate to create balanced and sustainable growth, lifting more people out of poverty and creating a broader prosperity around the world? Will the need for energy breed competition and climate change, or will we build partnerships to produce clean power and to protect our planet? Will nuclear weapons spread unchecked, or will we forge a new consensus to use this power for only peaceful purposes? Will extremists be able to stir conflict and division, or will we unite on behalf of our shared security? Will nations and peoples define themselves solely by their differences, or can we find common ground necessary to meet our common challenges and to respect the dignity of every human being?<p>We can't predict with certainty what the future will bring, but we can be certain about the issues that will define our times. And we also know this: The relationship between the United States and China will shape the 21st century, which makes it as important as any bilateral relationship in the world. That really must underpin our partnership. That is the responsibility that together we bear.<p>As we look to the future, we can learn from our past, for history shows us that both our nations benefit from engagement that is grounded in mutual interest and mutual respect. During my time in office, we will mark the 40th anniversary of President Nixon's trip to China. At that time, the world was much different than it is today. America had fought three wars in East Asia in just 30 years, and the cold war was in a stalemate. China's economy was cut off from the world, and a huge percentage of the Chinese people lived in extreme poverty.<p>Back then, our dialogue was guided by a narrow focus on our shared rivalry with the Soviet Union. Today, we have a comprehensive relationship that reflects the deepening ties among our people. Our countries have now shared relations for longer than we were estranged. Our people interact in so many ways. And I believe that we are poised to make steady progress on some of the most important issues of our times.<p>My confidence is rooted in the fact that the United States and China share mutual interests. If we advance those interests through cooperation, our people will benefit and the world will be better off, because our ability to partner with each other is a prerequisite for progress on many of the most pressing global challenges.<p>Let me name some of those challenges. First, we can cooperate to advance our mutual interests in a lasting economic recovery. The current crisis has made it clear that the choices made within our borders reverberate across the global economy, and this is true not just in New York and Seattle, but in Shanghai and Shenzhen as well. That is why we must remain committed to strong bilateral and multilateral coordination. And that is the example we have set by acting aggressively to restore growth, to prevent a deeper recession, and to save jobs for our people.<p>Going forward, we can deepen this cooperation. We can promote financial stability through greater transparency and regulatory reform. We can pursue trade that is free and fair and seek to conclude an ambitious and balanced Doha round agreement. We can update international institutions so that growing economies like China play a greater role that matches their greater responsibility. And as Americans save more and Chinese are able to spend more, we can put growth on a more sustainable foundation, because just as China has benefited from substantial investment and profitable exports, China can also be an enormous market for American goods.<p>Second, we can cooperate to advance our mutual interest in a clean, secure, and prosperous energy future. The United States and China are the two largest consumers of energy in the world. We are also the two largest emitters of greenhouse gases in the world. Let's be frank: Neither of us profits from a growing dependence on foreign oil, nor can we spare our people from the ravages of climate change unless we cooperate. Common sense calls upon us to act in concert.<p>Both of our countries are taking steps to transform our energy economies. Together, we can chart a low carbon recovery, we can expand joint efforts at research and development to promote the clean and efficient use of energy, and we can work together to forge a global response at the climate change conference in Copenhagen and beyond. And the best way to foster the innovation that can increase our security and prosperity is to keep our markets open to new ideas, new exchanges, and new sources of energy.<p>Third, we can cooperate to advance our mutual interests in stopping the spread of nuclear weapons. Make no mistake: The more nations acquire these weapons, the more likely it is that they will be used. Neither America nor China has an interest in a terrorist acquiring a bomb or a nuclear arms race breaking out in East Asia. That is why we must continue our collaboration to achieve the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and make it clear to North Korea that the path to security and respect can be traveled if they meet their obligations. And that is why we must also be united in preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon and urging the Islamic Republic to live up to its international obligations.<p>This is not about singling out any one nation. It is about the responsibility of all nations. Together, we must cooperate to secure all vulnerable nuclear materials around the world, which will be a focus of our global nuclear summit next year. And together, we must strengthen the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty by renewing its basic bargain: Countries with nuclear weapons will move towards disarmament, countries without nuclear weapons will not acquire them, and all countries can access peaceful nuclear energy. A balance of terror cannot hold. In the 21st century, a strong and global regime is the only basis for security from the world's deadliest weapons.<p>And fourth, we can cooperate to advance our mutual interests in confronting transnational threats. The most pressing dangers we face no longer come from competition among great powers. They come from extremists who would murder innocents, from traffickers and pirates who pursue their own profits at the expense of others, from diseases that know no borders, and from suffering and civil wars that breed instability and terror. These are the threats of the 21st century, and that is why the pursuit of power among nations must no longer be seen as a zero-sum game. Progress, including security, must be shared.<p>Through increased ties between our militaries, we can diminish causes for dispute while providing a framework for cooperation. Through continued intelligence sharing, we can disrupt terrorist plots and dismantle terrorist networks. Through early warning and coordination, we can check the spread of disease. And through determined diplomacy, we must meet our responsibility to seek the peaceful resolution of conflict, and that can begin with a renewed push to end the suffering in Darfur and to promote a comprehensive peace in Sudan.<p>All of these issues are rooted in the fact that no one nation can meet the challenges of the 21st century on its own nor effectively advance its interests in isolation. It is this fundamental truth that compels us to cooperate. I have no illusion that the United States and China will agree on every issue nor choose to see the world in the same way. This was already noted by our previous speaker. But that only makes dialogue more important, so that we can know each other better and communicate our concerns with candor.<p>For instance, the United States respects the progress that China has made by lifting hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. Just as we respect China's ancient and remarkable culture, its remarkable achievements, we also strongly believe that the religion and culture of all peoples must be respected and protected and that all people should be free to speak their minds, and that includes ethnic and religious minorities in China as surely as it includes minorities within the United States.<p>Support for human rights and human dignity is ingrained in America. Our Nation is made up of immigrants from every part of the world. We have protected our unity and struggled to perfect our Union by extending basic rights to all our people, and those rights include the freedom to speak your mind, to worship your God, and to choose your leaders. These are not things that we seek to impose; this is who we are. It guides our openness to one another and to the world.<p>China has its own distinct story that shapes its own worldview. And Americans know the richness of China's history because it helped to shape the world and it helped to shape America. We know the talent of the Chinese people because they have helped to create this great country. My own Cabinet contains two Chinese Americans. And we know that despite our differences, America is enriched through deeper ties with a country of 1.3 billion people that is at once ancient and dynamic, ties that can be forged through increased exchanges among our people and constructive bilateral relations between our governments. That is how we will narrow our divisions.<p>Let us be honest: We know that some are wary of the future. Some in China think that America will try to contain China's ambitions; some in America think that there is something to fear in a rising China. I take a different view, and I believe President Hu takes a different view as well. I believe in a future where China is a strong, prosperous, and successful member of the community of nations, a future when our nations are partners out of necessity, but also out of opportunity. This future is not fixed, but it is a destination that can be reached if we pursue a sustained dialogue like the one that you will commence today and act on what we hear and what we learn.<p>Thousands of years ago, the great philosopher Mencius said: \\"A trail through the mountains, if used, becomes a path in a short time, but, if unused, becomes blocked by grass in an equally short time.\\" Our task is to forge a path to the future that we seek for our children, to prevent mistrust or the inevitable differences of the moment from allowing that trail to be blocked by grass, to always be mindful of the journey that we are undertaking together.<p>This dialogue will help determine the ultimate destination of that journey. It represents a commitment to shape our young century through sustained cooperation and not confrontation. I look forward to carrying this effort forward through my first visit to China, where I hope to come to know better your leaders, your people, and your majestic country. Together, I'm confident that we can move steadily in the direction of progress and meet our responsibility to our people and to the future that we will all share.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"223" "\"Hello. Thank you very much. Well, I want to welcome all of you to the White House. Michelle and I are honored to host you here tonight to get to know you and to underscore the importance of cooperation between our nations. <p>Now, diplomacy has always been critically important to all nations. But in many ways, it grows more important with each passing year, because the interconnectedness of our world means that in the 21st century, we cannot solve our problems until we solve them together. For centuries, diplomats have come together to discuss war and peace, commerce and exchange. But now it is hard to think of an issue that matters to our people that does not depend in some way upon cooperation among nations: health and education, energy, the environment, the arts, and even athletics. <p>And that's one reason why I came into office with a strong commitment to renew American diplomacy and to start a new era of engagement with the world. This must be a moment when we engage on the basis of mutual interest and mutual respect, so that we can build new partnerships for progress. And it is in that spirit that I welcome all of you here tonight. <p>I'm also pleased that we've put together an extraordinary team to lead America's diplomacy. I have an extraordinary Secretary of State in Hillary Clinton. I'm so pleased to have Susan Rice, our talented Ambassador to the United Nations, here with us tonight, as well as our outstanding Trade Representative, Ron Kirk. And I couldn't be more proud of the job that American diplomats are doing around the world as well. <p>In the months and years ahead, I know that we are going to do important work with each of you. We will depend on you to connect us to your Government, to help make progress on our common challenges, and to build bridges among our people. <p>Of course, one of the wonderful things about America is that so much of the world is represented in our own cities and towns. I think we likely have immigrants who have come to our shores from every country that is represented here tonight. In fact, my own hometown of Chicago is probably pretty close to being able to make that claim all by itself. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I hope that you all know that this fact guides our respect for different peoples, for different cultures, and for different countries. For here in America we see the capacity for people from all corners of the world to come together to advance their common dreams. <p>Of course, I'm mindful that many of you have been in Washington longer than I have, so some of you already know your way around. But whether you've been here for years, or whether this is your first time in the White House, I hope you feel welcome. I look forward to working together to advance the peace and prosperity of the people not only of the United States but also people all around the world.<p>So thank you very much. Have a wonderful evening. We'll see you soon.\" "
"224" "\"Well, I just wanted to say a few words about the economic numbers that we received this morning. The gross domestic product, or GDP, is a measure of our overall economic growth as a nation. This morning the GDP revealed that the recession we faced when I took office was even deeper than anyone thought at the time; it told us how close we were to the edge. <p>But the GDP also revealed that in the last few months, the economy has done measurably better than we had thought, better than expected. And as many economists will tell you, that part of the progress is directly attributable to the Recovery Act. This and other difficult but important steps that we've taken over the last 6 months have helped us put the brakes on the recession. <p>We took unprecedented action to stem the spread of foreclosures by helping responsible homeowners stay in their homes and pay their mortgages. We helped revive the credit markets and open up loans for families and small businesses. And we enacted a Recovery Act that put tax cuts directly in the pockets of middle class families and small businesses, extended unemployment insurance and health insurance for those who've lost their jobs, provided relief to struggling States to prevent layoffs, and made investments that are putting people back to work building bridges and roads, schools and hospitals.<p>Now, I realize that none of this is much comfort to those Americans who are still out of work and struggling to make ends meet. And when we receive our monthly jobs report next week, it's likely to show that we're still continuing to lose far too many jobs. As far as I'm concerned, we won't have a recovery as long as we keep losing jobs. And I will not rest until every American who wants a job can find one. <p>But history does show that you need to have economic growth before you have job growth. And today's GDP is an important sign that the economy is headed in the right direction and that business investment, which had been plummeting in the last several months, is showing signs of stabilizing. This means that eventually, businesses will start growing, and they'll start hiring again. And that's when it will truly feel like a recovery to the American people. <p>This won't happen overnight. As I've said before, it took us many more months to fully dig ourselves out of a recession that we now know was even deeper than anyone thought. But I will continue to work every single day and take every step that's necessary to make sure that happens. I also intend to make sure that we don't return to an economy where our growth is based on inflated profits and maxed-out credit cards, because that doesn't create a lot of jobs. We need a robust growth based on a highly educated, well trained workforce, health care costs that aren't dragging down businesses and families, and clean energy jobs and industries. That's where our future is, and that's where the jobs are. <p>Now, one of the steps we've taken to boost our economy is an initiative known as Cash for Clunkers. Basically, this allows folks to trade in their older, less fuel-efficient cars for credits that go towards buying fewer, more&mdash;newer, more fuel-efficient cars. This gives consumers a break, replaces dangerous carbon pollution and our dependence on foreign oil, and strengthens the American auto industry. Not more than a few weeks ago, there were skeptics who weren't sure that this Cash for Clunkers program would work. But I'm happy to report that it has succeeded well beyond our expectations and all expectations, and we're already seeing a dramatic increase in showroom traffic at local car dealers. <p>It's working so well that there are legitimate concerns that the funds in this program might soon be exhausted. So we're now working with Congress on a bipartisan solution to ensure that the program can continue for everyone out there who's still looking to make a trade. And I'm encouraged that Republicans and Democrats in the House are working to pass legislation today that would use some Recovery Act funding to keep this program going, funding that we would work to replace down the road. Thanks to quick bipartisan responses, we're doing everything possible to continue this program and to continue helping consumers and the auto industry contribute to our recovery.<p>So I'm very pleased with the progress that's been made in the House today on the Cash for Clunkers program. I am guardedly optimistic about the direction that our economy is going. But we've got a lot more work to do. And I want to make sure that all the Americans out there who are still struggling because they're out of work or not having enough work know that this administration will not rest until the movement that we're seeing on the business side starts translating into jobs for those people and their families.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"225" "\"Today I'd like to talk with you about a subject that I know is on everybody's mind, and that's the state of our economy. Yesterday we received a report on our Gross Domestic Product; that's a measure of our overall economic performance. The report showed that in the first few months of this year, the recession we faced when I took office was even deeper than anyone thought at the time. It told us how close we were to the edge. <p>But it also revealed that in the last few months, the economy has done measurably better than expected. And many economists suggest that part of this progress is directly attributable to the Recovery Act. This and the other difficult but important steps that we have taken over the last 6 months have helped put the brakes on this recession. <p>We took unprecedented action to stem the spread of foreclosures by helping responsible homeowners stay in their homes and pay their mortgages. We helped revive the credit markets and opened up loans for families and small businesses. And we enacted a Recovery Act that puts tax cuts directly into the pockets of middle class families and small businesses, extended unemployment insurance and health insurance for folks who have lost their jobs, provided relief to struggling States to prevent layoffs of teachers and police officers, and made investments that are putting people back to work rebuilding and renovating roads, bridges, schools, and hospitals. <p>Now, I realize that none of this is much comfort for Americans who are still out of work or struggling to make ends meet. And when we receive our monthly job report next week, it's likely to show that we are continuing to lose far too many jobs in this country. As far as I'm concerned, we will not have a recovery as long as we keep losing jobs, and I won't rest until every American who wants a job can find one. <p>But history shows that you need to have economic growth before you have job growth. And the report yesterday on our economy is an important sign that we're headed in the right direction. Business investment, which had been plummeting in the past few months, is showing signs of stabilizing. This means that eventually, businesses will start growing and hiring again. And that's when it will really feel like a recovery to the American people. <p>This won't happen overnight. As I've said before, it will take many more months to fully dig ourselves out of a recession, a recession that we've now learned was even deeper than anyone thought. But I'll continue to work every day and take every step necessary to make sure that happens. I also want to make sure that we don't return to an economy where our growth is based on inflated profits and maxed-out credit cards, because that doesn't create a lot of jobs. Even as we rescue this economy, we must work to rebuild it stronger than before. We've got to build a new foundation strong enough to withstand future economic storms and support lasting prosperity. <p>Next week, I'll be talking about that new foundation when I head to Elkhart County in Indiana, a city hard hit not only by the economic crisis of recent months but by the broader economic changes of recent decades. For communities like Elkhart to thrive, we need to recapture the spirit of innovation that has always moved America forward. <p>That means once again having the best educated, highest skilled workforce in the world. That means a health care system that makes it possible for entrepreneurs to innovate and businesses to compete without being saddled with skyrocketing insurance costs. That means leading the world in building a new clean energy economy with the potential to unleash a wave of innovation&mdash;and economic growth&mdash;while ending our dependence on foreign oil. And that means investing in the research and development that will produce the technologies of the future, which in turn will help create the industries and jobs of the future. <p>Innovation has been essential to our prosperity in the past, and it will be essential to our prosperity in the future. But it's only by building a new foundation that we will once again harness that incredible generative capacity of the American people. All it takes are the policies to tap that potential, to ignite that spark of creativity and ingenuity which has always been at the heart of who we are and how we succeed. At a time when folks are experiencing real hardship, after years in which we've seen so many fail to take responsibility for our collective future, it's important to keep our eyes fixed on that horizon. <p>Every day I hear from Americans who are feeling firsthand the pain of this recession. These are folks who share their stories with me in letters and at town hall meetings, folks who remain in my mind and on my agenda each and every day. I know that there are countless families and businesses struggling to just hang on until this storm passes. But I also know that if we do the things we know we must, this storm will pass, and it will yield a brighter day.\" "
"226" "\"Hello. Thank you. Please, have a seat. Good morning, everybody. It is wonderful to see all of you, and wonderful to have one of the best partners that anybody could have in elected office, our Vice President, Joe Biden&mdash;thrilled to have him here.<p>I want to thank Staff Sergeant Miller for the gracious introduction. I want to thank President Merten for his hospitality. There are a couple of people here who deserve all the credit, because they got a very tough bill done, and part of the reason they were able to get it done was just because of their extraordinary personal credibility. These are&mdash;one is new to the Senate, and one had been there a while, and yet together they formed an incredibly formidable team. They're both class acts. Please give a big round of applause to Virginia's own, John Warner and Jim Webb.<p>I know that we've got a number of Member of Congress who are here, and I want to thank them all for their outstanding work. I want to point out that Senator Mark Warner could not be here, but we appreciate him. We've got the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, a hero in his own right, General Eric Shinseki, and I want everybody to please acknowledge him. And of the original bill sponsors who could not be here today, we've got Senator Chuck Hagel, Senator Frank Lautenberg, Representative Harry Mitchell, Representative Bobby Scott, Representative Ginny Brown-Waite, and Representative Peter King. All of them worked hard along with the delegation that is present, and so we are very grateful to all of them.<p>I want to join all of today's speakers in thanking those of you who worked so hard to make this occasion possible. But above all, I want to pay tribute to the veterans who are now advancing their dreams by pursuing an education.<p>Obviously, I'm honored to be here and to renew our commitment to ensure that the men and women who wear the uniform of the United States of America get the opportunities that they have earned. I was a proud cosponsor of the post-9/11 GI bill as Senator. I'm committed to working with Secretary Shinseki to see that it is successfully implemented as President. And we do this not just to meet our moral obligation to those who've sacrificed greatly on our behalf and on behalf of the country, we do it because these men and women must now be prepared to lead our Nation in the peaceful pursuit of economic leadership in the 21st century.<p>This generation of service men and women has already earned a place of honor in American history. Each of them signed up to serve, many after they knew that they would be sent into harm's way. Over the last 8 years, they have endured tour after tour of duty in dangerous and distant places. They've experienced grueling combat, from the streets of Fallujah to the harsh terrain of Helmand Province. They've adapted to complex insurgencies, protected local populations, and trained foreign security forces. So by any measure, they are the authors of one of the most extraordinary chapters of military service in the history of our Nation. And I don't make that statement lightly. For we know that anyone who puts on the uniform joins an unbroken line of selfless patriots that stretches back to Lexington and Concord. The freedom and prosperity that we enjoy would not exist without the service of generations of Americans who were willing to bear the heaviest and most dangerous burden.<p>But we also know this: The contributions that our service men and women can make to this Nation do not end when they take off that uniform. We owe a debt to all who serve. And when we repay that debt to those bravest Americans among us, then we are investing in our future, not just their future, but also the future of our own country.<p>Now, this was the lesson that America was sometimes too slow to learn. After the Civil War and World War I, we saw far too many veterans who were denied the chance to live their dreams, men who were unable to find in peace the hope that they had fought for in war.<p>And FDR knew this. In 1943, before the beaches of Normandy were stormed and the treacherous terrain of Iwo Jima was taken, he told the Nation that the veterans of World War II would be treated differently. He said that they must not be demobilized, and I quote, \\"to a place on a breadline,\\" demobilized, \\"to a place on a breadline or on a corner selling apples.\\" Instead, Roosevelt said, \\"The American people will insist on fulfilling this American obligation to the men and women in the Armed Forces who are winning this war for us.\\"<p>That is precisely what the American people did. The GI bill was approved just weeks after D-Day, and carried with it a simple promise to all who had served: You pick the school; we'll help pick up the bill. And what followed was not simply an opportunity for our veterans; it was a transformation for our country. By 1947, half of all Americans enrolled in college were veterans. Now, ultimately, this would lead to 3 Presidents, 3 Supreme Court Justices, 14 Nobel Prize winners, and two dozen Pulitzer Prize winners. But more importantly, it produced hundreds of thousands of scientists and engineers, doctors and nurses&mdash;the backbone of the largest middle class in history. All told, nearly 8 million Americans were educated under the original GI bill, including my grandfather.<p>No number can sum up this sea change in our society. Reginald Wilson, a fighter pilot from Detroit, said, \\"I didn't know anyone who went to college. I never would have gone to college had it not been for the GI bill.\\" H.G. Jones, a Navy man from North Carolina, said, \\"What happened in my rural Caswell County community happened all over the country going to college was no longer a novelty.\\" Indeed, one of the men who went to college on the GI bill, as I mentioned, was my grandfather, and I would not be standing here today if that opportunity had not led him West in search of opportunity.<p>So we owe the same obligations to this generation of service men and women, as was afforded that previous generation. That is the promise of the post-1911 [9/11]* GI bill. It's driven by the same simple logic that drove the first GI bill: You pick the school; we'll help pick up the bill. And looking out at the audience today, I'm proud to see so many veterans who will be able to pursue their education with this new support from the American people.<p>And this is even more important than it was in 1944. The first GI bill helped build a postwar economy that has been transformed by revolutions in communications and technology. And that's why the post-1911&mdash;9/11 GI bill must give today's veterans the skills and training they need to fill the jobs of tomorrow. Education is the currency that can purchase success in the 21st century, and this is the opportunity that our troops have earned.<p>I'm also proud that all who have borne the burden of service these last several years will have access to this opportunity. We are including reservists and National Guard members, because they have carried out unprecedented deployments in Afghanistan and Iraq. We are including the military families who have sacrificed so much, by allowing the transfer of unused benefits to family members. And we are including those who pay the ultimate price, by making this benefit available to the children of those who lost their life in service of their country.<p>This is not simply a debt that we are repaying to the remarkable men and women who have served; it is an investment in our own country. The first GI bill paid for itself many times over through the increased revenue that came from a generation of men and women who received the skills and education that they needed to create their own wealth. The veterans who are here today&mdash;like the young post-9/11 veterans around the country&mdash;can lead the way to a lasting economic recovery and become the glue that holds our communities together. They too can become the backbone of a growing American middle class.<p>And even as we help our veterans learn the skills they need to succeed, I know that all of us can learn something from the men and women who serve our country. We have lived through an age when many people and institutions acted irresponsibly, when service often took a backseat to short-term profits, when hard choices were put aside for somebody else, for some other time. It's a time when easy distractions became the norm and the trivial has been taken too seriously.<p>The men and women who have served since 9/11 tell us a different story. While so many were reaching for the quick buck, they were heading out on patrol. While our discourse often produced more heat than light, especially here in Washington, they have put their very lives on the line for America. They have borne the responsibility of war. And now, with this policy, we are making it clear that the United States of America must reward responsibility and not irresponsibility. Now, with this policy, we are letting those who have borne the heaviest burden lead us into the 21st century.<p>And so today we honor the service of an extraordinary generation and look to America that they will help build tomorrow. With the post-9/11 GI bill, we can give our veterans the chance to live their dreams, and we can help unleash their talents and tap their creativity and be guided by their sense of responsibility to their fellow citizens and to this country that we all love so much.<p>And may God bless our troops and our veterans, and may God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"227" "\"Good morning, everybody. I want to just make a brief comment about the fact that the two young journalists, Euna Lee and Laura Ling, are safely back with their families. We are, obviously, extraordinarily relieved. I had an opportunity to speak with the families yesterday once we knew that they were on the plane. The reunion that we've all seen on television, I think, is a source of happiness not only for the families but for the entire country.<p>I want to thank President Bill Clinton&mdash;I had a chance to talk to him&mdash;for the extraordinary humanitarian effort that resulted in the release of the two journalists. I want to thank Vice President Al Gore, who worked tirelessly in order to achieve a positive outcome.<p>I think that not only is this White House, obviously, extraordinarily happy, but all Americans should be grateful to both former President Clinton and Vice President Gore for their extraordinary work. And my hope is, is that the families that have been reunited can enjoy the next several days and weeks, understanding that because of the efforts of President Clinton and Gore, they are able to be with each other once again.<p>So we are very pleased with the outcome, and I'm hopeful that the families are going to be able to get some good time together in the next few days.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"228" "\"<i>The President</i>. Thank you. Please, everybody, have a seat. Thank you so much. Well, it is wonderful to be in Wakarusa. Thank you so much for the wonderful welcome. Herman, thanks for the great introduction. It is great to be back in Indiana. This is as close as I've gotten to home in a while. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And I flew out here with somebody who I think the people of Indiana have known for a long time, have trusted for a long time because he's fighting for working families in Indiana each and every day, and that is our great Senator, Evan Bayh. Please give Evan a big round of applause. <p>And it's nice to get out of Washington and spend some time with people who actually sent me to Washington. Too often, there are those in Washington who focus on the ups and downs of politics. But my concern is the ups and downs in the lives of the American people: the families feeling the pain of this recession; the folks I've met across this country who've lost jobs and savings and health insurance but haven't lost hope; the men and women who still believe in the capacity, the ability of this Nation to meet the challenges of our times.<p>Now, these are challenges you know all too well here in Wakarusa and in Elkhart County. This area has been hit with a perfect storm of economic troubles. Over the last few decades, you've borne the brunt of a steadily weakening of American manufacturing in the face of global competition. You've felt the impact of the struggles of the American auto industry and the repercussions that have hit the Midwest especially hard. And you're living every day with the consequences of this recession and the financial meltdown, and you've felt it in the form of lost jobs and lost savings.<p>So as a result, the Elkhart area has experienced the second greatest increase in the rate of unemployment in the country, up 10 points in a year. It's an astonishing statistic. And there have been times where nearly one in five people in this area have been looking for work. You've seen factories close and your sons and daughters move away in searches of jobs and opportunity. So this is more than an economic crisis. This goes to the heart and soul of a community. It tests the strength of families and the spirit of good people, hard-working folks who've given their all to a company and now don't know where to turn.<p>There are some who see what's taking place here and suggest that it's all somehow inevitable, and that the only way for America to get ahead is for places like Elkhart to be left behind. You hear that argument sometime in Washington. But I know and you know that the truth is exactly the opposite. I'm here because I believe our ability to recover, and to prosper as a nation, depends on what happens in communities just like this one. <p>The battle for America's future will be fought and won in places like Elkhart and Detroit and Goshen and Pittsburgh, South Bend, Youngstown, in cities and towns across Indiana and across the Midwest and across the country that have been the backbone of America. It will be won by making places like Elkhart what they once were and can be again, and that's centers of innovation and entrepreneurship and ingenuity and opportunity, the bustling, whirring, humming engines of American prosperity.<p>For as the world grows more competitive, we can't afford to run the race at half strength or half speed. If we hope to lead this century like we did the last century, we have to create the conditions and the opportunities for places like Elkhart to succeed. We have to harness the potential, the innovative and creative spirit that's waiting to be awakened all across America. That's how we'll rebuild this economy stronger than before: strong enough to compete in the global economy; strong enough to avoid the cycles of boom and bust that have wreaked on&mdash;so much havoc on our economy; strong enough to support the jobs of the 21st century; and strong enough to unleash prosperity for everybody, not just some. <p>But before we can rebuild our economy for tomorrow, we have to rescue it today. Now, that's why we passed a Recovery Act less than 1 month after I took office, and we did so without any of the earmarks or porkbarrel spending that's so common in Washington, DC. And let me just talk about the so-called stimulus package, or the Recovery Act, because there's been a lot of misinformation out there about the Recovery Act. Let me tell you what it is and what it's not. <p>The plan was divided into three parts. One-third of the money has gone to tax relief for families and small businesses. One-third of the money is cutting people's taxes. For Americans struggling to pay rising bills with shrinking wages, we kept a campaign promise to put a middle class tax cut in the pockets of 95 percent of working families, a tax cut that began showing up in paychecks of 4.8 million Indiana households about 3 months ago. We also cut taxes for small businesses on the investments that they make. And more than 425 small businesses in Indiana have received SBA loans through the recovery package. So that's&mdash;one-third of the money was tax cuts.<p>Another third of the money in the Recovery Act has been for emergency relief that is helping folks who've borne the brunt of this recession. For Americans who were laid off, we expanded unemployment benefits, and that's already made a difference for 12 million Americans, including 220,000 folks right here in Indiana. We're making health insurance 65 percent cheaper for families relying on COBRA while looking for work. Some of you know people who lost their jobs, were worried about losing their health care, couldn't afford COBRA. We were able to reduce their costs by 65 percent so they could keep their health care while they were looking for jobs. <p>And for States facing historic budget shortfalls, we provided assistance that has saved the jobs of tens of thousands of teachers and public&mdash;and police officers and other public servants so that you wouldn't see the recession get even worse. So that's the second half. First half, tax relief; second half, support for individuals, small businesses, and States that had fallen on hard times.<p>The last third of the Recovery Act&mdash;and that's what we're going to talk about here today&mdash;is for investments that are not only putting people back to work in the short term but laying a new foundation for growth and prosperity in the long run. These are the jobs of building the future of America, upgrading our roads and our bridges, renovating schools and hospitals. The Elkhart area has seen the benefits: Dozens were employed to resurface the runway at Elkhart Airport; a 4-mile stretch of highway is being upgraded on US-33; the Heart City Health Center has received recovery dollars to expand services and hire additional staff.<p>And as part of the recovery plan, we're making a historic commitment to innovation. The Recovery Act creates jobs doubling our capacity to generate renewable energy, building a new smart grid that carry electricity from coast to coast, laying down broadband lines and high-speed rail lines, and providing the largest boost in basic research in history to ensure that America leads in the breakthrough discoveries of the new century, just as we led in the last. Because that's what we do best in America, we turn ideas into inventions and inventions into industries.<p>Now, history should be our guide. The United States led the world's economies in the 20th century because we led the world in innovation. Today, the competition is keener, the challenge is tougher, and that's why innovation is more important than ever. That's the key to good, new jobs in the 21st century. That's how we will ensure a high quality of life for this generation and future generations. With these investments, we're planting the seeds of progress for our country and good-paying, private sector jobs for the American people.<p>So that's why I'm here today, to announce $2.4 billion in highly competitive grants to develop the next generation of fuel-efficient cars and trucks powered by the next generation of battery technologies all made right here in the U.S. of A. Right here in America, made in America.<p>For too long, we failed to invest in this kind of innovative work, even as countries like China and Japan were racing ahead. And that's why this announcement is so important. This represents the largest investment in this kind of technology in American history. <p>See, I'm committed to a strategy that ensures America leads in the design and the deployment of the next generation of clean energy vehicles. This is not just an investment to produce vehicles today; this is an investment in our capacity to develop new technologies tomorrow. This is about creating the infrastructure of innovation. <p>Indiana is the second largest recipient of grant funding, and it's a perfect example of what this will mean. You've got Purdue University, Notre Dame, Indiana University, and Ivy Tech, and they're all going to be receiving grant funding to develop degree and training programs for electric vehicles. That's number one. We've got EnerDel, a small business in Indianapolis that will develop batteries for hybrid and electric vehicles. You've got Allison Transmission in Indianapolis, Delphi in Kokomo, Remy in Pendleton, and Magna located in Muncie, all who will help develop electric-drive components for commercial and passenger vehicles. <p>And right here in Elkhart County, Navistar&mdash;which has taken over two Monaco Coach manufacturing facilities&mdash;will receive a $39 million grant to build 400 advanced battery electric trucks with a range of a hundred miles, like the trucks here today&mdash;right there. Just a few months ago, folks thought that these factories might be closed for good. But now they're coming back to life. <p><i>Audience member</i>. Thank you!<p><i>The President</i>. You're welcome. [<i>Laughter</i>] Thank the American people. <p>The company estimates that this investment will help create or save hundreds of jobs in the area. And already, folks like Herman are being rehired. So, overall, the companies believe these investments in battery technology will save or create thousands of Hoosier jobs. And I want to point out, these thousands of jobs wouldn't be possible if it weren't for the leaders in Congress who supported the Recovery Act, leaders like Evan Bayh and Joe Donnelly, who's here today, and Andre Carson and Brad Ellsworth and Peter Visclosky. <p>And these grants will create tens of thousands of jobs all across America. In fact, today Vice President Biden is announcing grant winners in Michigan. Members of my Cabinet are fanning out across the country announcing recipients elsewhere. We're providing the incentives to those businesses, large and small, that stand ready to help us lead a new clean energy economy by developing new technologies for new kinds of vehicles. <p>See, I don't want to just reduce our dependence on foreign oil and then end up being dependent on their foreign innovations. I don't want to have to import a hybrid car; I want to be able to build a hybrid car here. I don't want to have to import a hybrid truck; I want to build a hybrid truck here. I don't want to have to import a windmill from someplace else; I want to build a windmill right here in Indiana. I want the cars of the future and the technologies that power them to be developed and deployed right here, in America.<p>And that's just the beginning. In no area will innovation be more important than in the development of new ways to produce, use, and save energy. So we're not only doubling our capacity to generate renewable energy and building a stronger and smarter electric grid, we've helped reach an agreement to raise fuel economy standards. And for the first time in history, we passed a bill to create a system of clean energy incentives, which will help make renewable energy the profitable kind of energy in America, while helping to end our dependence on foreign oil and protect our planet for future generations. <p>The bill passed the House; we're now working to pass legislation through the Senate. Because we know that real innovation depends not on government, but on the generative potential of the American people. If the American people get a clear set of rules, if they know what's needed, what challenges we've got to meet, they'll figure out how to do it.<p>In fact, that's why our budget makes the research and experimentation tax credit permanent, the R&D tax credit. This is a tax credit that helps companies afford what are sometimes very high costs in developing new ideas and new technologies and new products, and that means new jobs. This tax credit returns $2 to the economy for every $1 we spend. And for a long time we were just trying to renew it once every year, and companies didn't know whether or not they were going to be able to get it for the next year. That's changed. We've now made it permanent. <p>I've also proposed reducing to zero the capital gains tax for investments in small or startup businesses, because small businesses are innovative businesses; small businesses produce 13 times more patents per employee than large companies.<p>Of course, in order to lead in the global economy and ensure that our businesses can grow and innovate, we also have to pass health insurance reform that brings down costs and provides more security for folks who have insurance and affordable options for those who don't. I promise you: We will pass reform by the end of this year because the American people need it. The American people need some relief. Now, it's going&mdash;we're going to have to make it happen.<p>In fact, the recovery plan began the process of reform by modernizing our health care infrastructure. We took some long-overdue steps of computerizing America's health records, which can reduce all the waste and errors that cost billions of dollars and thousands of lives, while protecting patients' privacy. It's important also to know that these records hold the potential of offering patients the chance to be more active participants in the prevention and treatment of illnesses. You won't have to fill out the same form a dozen times. You won't have to rely on your memory when talking to your doctor about your medical history. All those things make people healthier, but they also reduce your costs, lower your premiums, give you more security in your health care.<p>Now, in addition to energy and in addition to health care, we also know that the nation that outeducates us today will outcompete us tomorrow. So we're making a historic commitment to strengthening and improving education, from cradle through career. Right now our schools continue to trail many of our competitors. And that's why I've challenged States to dramatically improve achievement by raising standards and modernizing science labs, upgrading curriculum, forming new partnerships to promote math and science, and improving the use of technology in the classroom. <p>And I've set this goal: In the next decade, by 2020, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. We used to be number one. We will be number one again when it comes to college graduates. <p>Now, to reach this goal, we've provided tax credits and grants to make college education more affordable, and we've made a historic commitment to community colleges, which are the unsung heroes in America's education system. America can and must have the best educated, highest skilled workforce in the world, because if we're building new cars here in America, if we're building a new clean energy grid in America, then we're also going to need to build engineers in America and scientists in America and skilled technicians right here in America, so all these pieces end up fitting together.<p>Energy and innovation, health care and education, these are the pillars of the new foundation that we have to build. This is how we won't just rescue the economy, but we're going to rebuild it stronger than before. <p>Now, there are a lot of people out there who are looking to defend the status quo. There are those who want to seek political advantage. They want to oppose these efforts. Some of them caused the problems that we got now in the first place, and then suddenly, they're blaming other folks for it. They don't want to be constructive. They don't want to be constructive; they just want to get in the usual political fights back and forth. And sometimes that's fed by all the cable chatter on the media.<p>But you and I know the truth. We know that even in the hardest times, against the toughest odds, we have never surrendered. We don't give up. We don't surrender our fates to chance. We have always endured. We have worked hard, and we have fought for our future. Our parents had to fight for their future; our grandparents had to fight for their future. That's the tradition of America. This country wasn't built just by griping and complaining; it was built by hard work and taking risks. And that's what we have to do today.<p>So I know these are tough times. If you haven't lost a job, you know somebody who has, maybe a family member, a neighbor, a friend. You know that as difficult as the financial struggle can be, the sense of loss when you lose your job is about more than just a paycheck. We as Americans, we define ourselves by the work we do. It's a source of pride, a sense that you're contributing, that you're supporting your family, that you're doing the right thing, that you're responsible. And the truth is, it can be easy to lose hope, especially when you see a lot of folks out there who failed to meet their responsibilities, from Wall Street to Washington. It can be easy to grow cynical when you see politicians say one thing and then do another, or say one thing and then do nothing; when you've seen decades of broken promises and broken politics. <p>But this is a rare moment in which we're called upon to rise above the failures of the past. This is a chance to restore that spirit of optimism and opportunity which has always been central to our success. We've got to set our sights higher, not lower. We've got to imagine a future in which new American cars are powered by new American innovation; a future in which cities that led the global economy before are leading it again; a brighter future for Elkhart, a brighter future for Indiana, and for the United States of America. <p>That's what we're fighting for. That's what this plant's about. That's what you're about. That's what we're going to achieve in the weeks and months to come. So thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"229" "\"Hello, everyone. I'm sorry I couldn't be there with you in person. But please know that for me and for my family, the memories from our recent trip to Ghana are still fresh. We will always remember the warmth of the Ghanaian people and the promise of Africa's potential.<p>I hope you're enjoying Kenya and the hospitality of the Kenyan people as much as I always have. When I first came in 1987, it was to discover the story of my father, who had grown up herding goats in the tiny village of Alego. When I visited as a Senator, I promised to work for a U.S. foreign policy that gives hope and opportunity to the people of this great continent.<p>Today it is my privilege to address you as President. And I want to repeat what I said 3 weeks ago in Accra: I do not see the countries and the peoples of Africa as a world apart, I see Africa as a fundamental part of our interconnected world. In our global economy, our economic fortunes are shared. And history shows that economic growth is among the greatest forces for progress in lifting people out of poverty.<p>That's why the African Growth and Opportunity Act is so important. That's why the AGOA Forum is so critical. By breaking down old barriers and opening new markets, we not only increase trade between our countries, we create powerful incentives for African entrepreneurs to grow their businesses, to create jobs, and build a brighter tomorrow for their children. That is what AGOA is all about.<p>So I thank President Kibaki and Prime Minister Odinga for hosting this forum. And I pledge to you the full support and partnership of the United States. That is why my administration is represented there today by outstanding members of my Cabinet.<p>Over the last decade, AGOA has transformed the U.S.-African trade relationship. Opening America's doors to your exports has been good for Africa: creating African jobs, bringing millions of dollars of investment to sub-Saharan Africa, and sparking new trade across the continent. And it's been good for America, with African exporters seeking U.S. expertise, investments, and joint ventures. And today, we're your single largest trade partner.<p>At the same time, it's clear that U.S.-African trade has yet to realize its full potential. And if the current recession teaches us anything, it's that in a global economy not only the opportunities are shared, so are the risks. So there's so much more we can do together to plant the seeds of our economic recovery and to achieve lasting prosperity.<p>Only Africans can unlock Africa's potential. It will take your entrepreneurship, your innovation. And only Africans can ensure the good governance and strong institutions upon which development depends. Open markets alone are not enough. Development requires the rule of law, transparency, accountability, and an atmosphere that welcomes investment. And I encourage every country to set concrete goals for overcoming the obstacles to economic growth.<p>And to all Africans who are pursuing a future of hope and opportunity, know this: You have a partner and a friend in the United States. That's why we'll work with you to develop strong institutions, clear legal frameworks, and the regulations and infrastructure that help bring new products to market. That's why we'll work together to harness Africa's vast natural resources to generate clean, renewable energy for export. That's why I've pledged substantial increases in our foreign assistance, not simply to help people scrape by, but to unleash transformational change. And that's why we've joined with our international partners to promote food security by investing $20 billion in agricultural development, not simply to hand out American food, but to promote African self-sufficiency.<p>These are the things we can do together to unleash the skills and talents of our people and to ensure our common prosperity in the 21st century. And if we do, I'm confident that Africans can live their dreams from Nairobi to Accra, from Lagos to Kigali, from Kinshasa to Cape Town.<p>Thank you for your work at this important forum. Enjoy Nairobi.\" "
"230" "\"Hello, Virginia. It is good to be in Virginia. It's not that far away, but&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;it's still just good to be here. I still get a good vibe from Virginia. And I just want to begin by telling you, one of the reasons I love Virginia is because early in my campaign, January of 2007&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I'm trying to remember it; it's all a blur&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;right after I announced, I called up the new Governor of Virginia, and obviously, he was new, not very experienced&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;because he decided he was going to endorse my candidacy at a time when nobody could pronounce my name. [<i>Laughter</i>] And he has been at my side ever since, and he's been on the side of the people of Virginia every since. Give it up for Tim Kaine.<p>Now, there's a pattern that's emerged in Virginia. You had a guy named Mark Warner who recognized that the old tired politics of division and slash-and-burn weren't serving the American people and the people of Virginia anymore. So he came in with a different message. He said, \\"I'm going to figure out what works. I'm going to figure out how we can get parties to work together, to invest in education and make sure that every child in Virginia can get a great education. I'm going to figure out how we can start making the long-term investments that will make Virginia competitive in a global economy.\\" And working together with a whole bunch of folks, he was able to put Virginia on the path of extraordinary growth.<p>Then, Tim Kaine comes in and builds on that legacy, and even in tough times has continued to keep Virginia on an upward trajectory where it has been able to survive tough times better than most because of the long-term investments, the vision that Tim Kaine has maintained as Governor of Virginia. He hasn't been distracted by the petty politics and the trivial politics and the game-playing. He constantly asks himself each and every day, what do I need to do to make life a little bit better for the people of Virginia?<p>So now this great Commonwealth of Virginia has the opportunity to continue that tradition with somebody who has that same spirit of pragmatism, of cooperation, of listening to people even when other people don't agree with him, of civility, an ability to focus not on the short-term politics of an issue but the long term that will make a difference, and that is Creigh Deeds. And I know that the people of Virginia are going to continue that tradition.<p>Now, I'll admit I'm a little biased&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;because I was a State senator for 8 years, and lo and behold, Creigh Deeds has been a Senator for 8 years. He has some wonderful daughters; I've got wonderful daughters. He's got kind of a funny name&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I've got kind of a funny name. [<i>Laughter</i>] So there's some things that just create a bond between the two of us. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But the reason I'm standing here is because when I look at his record as a prosecutor, when I look at the way that he was able to marshal support for things like Megan's Law and AMBER Alerts that have practical consequences in making sure that our children are safe, when I think about the way he was able to partner with Mark Warner and Tim Kaine in order to create strong investments in education even when they were confronting a fiscal crisis, doing it in a responsible way that didn't undermine the long-term growth of Virginia, when I look at the way he conducts himself in his campaign, speaking truth to power, but always doing it in a way that reminds us that we have to bring people together instead of driving them apart, I know he is the right person for Virginia. And you know it too; that's why you're supporting him.<p>But look, let's be honest. This is going to be a tough race. This is not going to be easy. Now, Tim and I, as we were walking in, we said, we don't like doing easy&mdash;we never&mdash;we don't do things easy. [<i>Laughter</i>] We like kind of squeaking it out to create more excitement, enthusiasm, and give reporters something better to write about. [<i>Laughter</i>] We don't believe in blowout victories. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But this is going to be a tough race. It's going to be a tough race because Virginia, although it has been moving in the right direction, is still a purple State. It still has traditions that make a lot of people independent, a lot of people suspicious of ideologies on other side&mdash;either side. That's part of what's going to make this tough. And it's also going to be tough because the economic environment is tough. I don't think any of us can deny it. Virginia has weathered this economic storm better than most States, but unemployment is still high, people are still losing their homes, folks are still looking at their 401(k) and wondering whether it's going to bounce back.<p>And so in that kind of environment, wherever the incumbent party is, it's always going to have some challenges. Even if people, when they really stop to think about it, recognize that this is mostly a mess that was inherited, people are still going to, rightly, hold the party in power responsible. What's your plan? What's your agenda? How are you going to move this State forward? And that's right and proper, because we can't spend all our time looking backwards or making excuses. Our job is to look forward and to determine how are we going to&mdash;regardless of what cards we're dealt&mdash;how are we going to make sure that families here in Virginia and all across America are able to succeed.<p>Now, I think that we have the best case to make that having brought this economy back from the brink, having inherited an unprecedented crisis, still we are now on the path where markets have stabilized, the banks are no longer in meltdown mode; we're starting to see housing for the first time increase in prices in 3 years; that we're starting to see a kind of resurgence of optimism that in this environment, if we are willing to make the investments in the new foundation for long-term growth, then we're going to succeed.<p>And the kinds of things that we need for that new foundation are exactly the kinds of things that Creigh is talking about: making sure that we continue to invest in early childhood education and everything that's necessary for our children to succeed in math and science; making sure that they can finance their college educations, because we know that whoever trains their children best today, that's going to be the country that's able to compete tomorrow; making sure that we are tapping into a new clean energy economy that is focused on harnessing the innovation and the dynamism of the American people, and making sure that we're creating a business environment in which small businesses and large businesses are rewarded for success; making sure that we've got a transportation infrastructure that works for people to get to and fro from work, but also allows businesses to succeed.<p>Those are the kinds of measures and steps that Creigh has stood for since he first entered into politics. That's what's going to help guide this economy into the future, into the 21st century. So the key right now for all of us is making sure that we fight through the doubts, we fight through the cynicism, we hit the ground. I want to make sure that everybody who was as activated around my campaign just a few months ago is not sitting back and suddenly saying their work is done. I need everybody who was in Virginia and helped give us a big win during the primary and helped give us a historic win in the general election&mdash;that everybody is working just as hard, knocking on doors, making phone calls, talking to their friends, talking to their neighbors. <p>We have just started to change this country, and we need a partner like Creigh Deeds to finish the work that we just began. <p>Thank you very much, Virginia. Love you.\" "
"231" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. I'd like to say a few words about the state of our economy and what we're doing to put Americans back to work and build a new foundation for growth.<p>Last week, we received a report on America's Gross Domestic Product, a key measure of our economic's health, and it showed marked improvement over the last few months. This morning we received additional signs that the worst may be behind us. Though we lost 247,000 jobs in July, that was nearly 200,000 fewer jobs lost than in June and far fewer than the nearly 700,000 jobs a month that we were losing at the beginning of the year.<p>Today, we're pointed in the right direction. We're losing jobs at less than half the rate we were when I took office. We've pulled the financial system back from the brink, and a rising market is restoring value to those 401(k)s that are the foundation of a secure retirement. We've enabled families to reduce the payments on their mortgages, making their homes more affordable and reducing the number of foreclosures. We helped revive the credit markets and opened up loans for families and small businesses.<p>While we've rescued our economy from catastrophe, we've also begun to build a new foundation for growth. That's why we passed an unprecedented Recovery Act less than a month after I took office and did so without any of the earmarks or porkbarrel spending that's so common in Washington. Now, there's a lot of misinformation about the Recovery Act, so let me repeat what it is and what it is not. The plan is divided into three parts.<p>One-third of the money is for tax relief that's going directly to families and small businesses. For Americans struggling to pay rising bills with shrinking wages, we've kept a campaign promise to put a middle class tax cut in the pocket of 95 percent of working families, a tax cut that began showing up in paychecks about 4 months ago. We also cut taxes for small businesses on the investments they make and substantially increased loans through the Small Business Administration.<p>Another third of the money in the Recovery Act is for emergency relief that is helping folks who have borne the brunt of this recession. For Americans who were laid off, we expanded unemployment benefits, a measure that's already made a difference in the lives of 12 million Americans. We're making health insurance 65 percent cheaper for families that rely on COBRA while they're looking for work. And for States facing historic budget shortfalls, we provided assistance that saved jobs of tens of thousands of teachers and police officers and other public service workers.<p>So these two thirds of the Recovery Act have helped people weather the worst phase of this recession, while saving jobs and stabilizing our economy. The last third is dedicated to the vital investments that are putting people back to work today to create a stronger economy tomorrow. Part of that is the largest new investment of infrastructure in America since Eisenhower built the Interstate Highway System back in the 1950s. These are jobs rebuilding America: upgrading roads and bridges and renovating schools and hospitals.<p>Now, as we begin to put an end to this recession, we have to consider what comes next, because we can't afford to return to an economy based on inflated profits and maxed-out credit cards, an economy where we depend on dirty and outdated sources of energy, an economy where we're burdened by soaring health care costs that serve only the special interests. This won't create sustainable growth, it won't shrink our deficit, and it won't create jobs.<p>And that's why we've put an end to the status quo that got us into this crisis. We cannot turn back to the failed policies of the past, nor can we stand still. Now is the time to build a new foundation for a stronger, more productive economy that creates the jobs of the future. <p>And this foundation has to be supported by several pillars to our economy. We need a historic commitment to education so that America is the most highly educated, well trained workforce in the world. We need health insurance reform that brings down costs, provides more security for folks who have insurance and affordable options for those who don't. And we need to provide incentives that will create new clean energy sources for our industries. That's where the jobs of the future are, that is the competition that will shape the 21st century, and that's a race that America must win.<p>So we have a lot further to go. As far as I'm concerned, we will not have a true recovery as long as we're losing jobs, and we won't rest until every American that is looking for work can find a job. I have no doubt that we can make these changes. It won't be easy, though. Change is hard, especially in Washington. We have a steep mountain to climb, and we started in a very deep valley. But I have faith in the American people, in their capacity for hard work and innovation, in their commitment to one another, and their courage to face adversity.<p>We've seen already that strength of character over the course of this recession. Across the country, people have persevered even as bills have piled up and work has been hard to come by. Everywhere I go, I meet Americans who've kept their confidence in their country and in our future. That's how we've pulled the economy back from the brink. That's why we're turning this economy around. I am convinced that we can see a light at the end of the tunnel, but now we're going to have to move forward with confidence and conviction to reach the promise of a new day.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"232" "\"On Friday, we received better news than we expected about the state of our economy. We learned that we lost 247,000 jobs in July, some 200,000 fewer jobs lost than in June and far fewer than the nearly 700,000 a month we were losing at the beginning of the year. Of course, this is little comfort to anyone who saw their job disappear in July and to the millions of Americans who are looking for work, and I will not rest until anyone who's looking for work can find a job.<p>Still, this month's job numbers are a sign that we've begun to put the brakes on this recession and that the worst may be behind us. But we must do more than rescue our economy from this immediate crisis. We must rebuild it stronger than before. We must lay a new foundation for future growth and prosperity, and a key pillar of a new foundation is health insurance reform, reform that we are now closer to achieving than ever before.<p>There are still details to be hammered out. There are still differences to be reconciled, but we are moving toward a broad consensus on reform. Four committees in Congress have produced legislation, an unprecedented level of agreement on a difficult and complex challenge. In addition to the ongoing work in Congress, providers have agreed to bring down costs. Drug companies have agreed to make prescription drugs more affordable for seniors. The AARP supports reform because of the better care it will offer to seniors. And the American Nurses Association and the American Medical Association, which represent the millions of nurses and doctors who know our health care system best, all support reform as well.<p>As we draw close to finalizing and passing real health insurance reform, the defenders of the status quo and political point-scorers in Washington are growing fiercer in their opposition. In recent days and weeks, some have been using misleading information to defeat what they know is the best chance of reform we have ever had. And that's why it is important, especially now, as Senators and Representatives head home and meet with their constituents, for you the American people to have all the facts.<p>So let me explain what reform will mean for you. And let me start by dispelling the outlandish rumors that reform will promote euthanasia or cut Medicaid or bring about a government takeover of health care. That's simply not true. This isn't about putting government in charge of your health insurance; it's about putting you in charge of your health insurance. Under the reforms we seek, if you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. If you like your health care plan, you can keep your health care plan.<p>And while reform is obviously essential for the 46 million Americans who don't have health insurance, it will also provide more stability and security to the hundreds of millions who do. Right now we have a system that works well for the insurance industry, but that doesn't always work well for you. What we need, and what we will have when we pass health insurance reform, are consumer protections to make sure that those who have insurance are treated fairly and that insurance companies are held accountable.<p>We'll require insurance companies to cover routine checkups and preventive care, like mammograms, colonoscopies, or eye and foot exams for diabetics, so we can avoid chronic illnesses that cost too many lives and too much money.<p>We'll stop insurance companies from denying coverage because of a person's medical history. I will never forget watching my own mother as she fought cancer in her final days, worrying about whether her insurer would claim her illness was a preexisting condition. I have met so many Americans who worry about the same thing. That's why under these reforms, insurance companies will no longer be able to deny coverage because of a previous illness or injury. And insurance companies will no longer be allowed to drop or water down coverage for someone who has become seriously ill. Your health insurance ought to be there for you when it counts and reform will make sure it is.<p>With reform, insurance companies will also have to limit how much you can be charged for out-of-pocket expenses. And we'll stop insurance companies from placing arbitrary caps on the amount of coverage you can receive in a given year or a lifetime, because no one in America should go broke because of illness.<p>In the end, the debate about health insurance reform boils down to a choice between two approaches. The first is almost guaranteed to double health costs over the next decade, leave millions more Americans uninsured, leave those with insurance vulnerable to arbitrary denials of coverage, and bankrupt State and Federal governments. That's the status quo. That's the health care system we have right now.<p>So we can either continue this approach, or we can choose another one, one that will protect people against unfair insurance practices, provide quality, affordable insurance to every American, and bring down rising costs that are swamping families, businesses, and our budgets. That's the health care system we can bring about with reform.<p>There are those who are focused on the so-called politics of health care, who are trying to exploit differences or concerns for political gain. And that's to be expected. That's Washington. But let's never forget that this isn't about politics. This is about people's lives. This is about people's businesses. This is about America's future. That's what is at stake. And that's why health insurance reform is so important. And that's why we must get this done and why we will get this done by the end of this year.<p>Thank you.\" "
"233" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. Please be seated. There are many honors and privileges bestowed on the occupant of this house, but few mean as much to me as the chance to award America's highest civilian medal to the recipients that are here today. This is a chance for me, and for the United States of America, to say thank you to some of the finest citizens of this country and of all countries.<p>The men and women we honor today have led very different lives and pursued very different careers. They're pioneers in science and medicine. They're gifted artists and indomitable athletes. They have made their mark in the courtroom, in the community, and in Congress. And what unites them is a belief, that most&mdash;forgive me to those of you who are not Americans&mdash;but what we consider to be that most American of beliefs&mdash;that our lives are what we make of them, that no barriers of race, gender, or physical infirmity can restrain the human spirit, and that the truest test of a person's life is what we do for one another. <p>The recipients of the Medal of Freedom did not set out to win this or any other award. They did not set out in pursuit of glory or fame or riches. Rather, they set out guided by passion, committed to hard work, aided by persistence, often with few advantages but the gifts, grace, and good name God gave them. <p>So let them stand as an example here in the United States and around the world of what we can achieve in our own lives. Let them stand as an example of the difference we can make in the lives of others. Let each of their stories stand as an example of a life well lived.<p>One of the last things Suzy Komen did before she passed away was ask her sister Nancy to make her a promise. Nancy promised her she would prevent other families battling breast cancer from hurting the way theirs had. What began with $200 and a list of friends has become a global Race for the Cure, a campaign that has eased the pain and saved the lives of millions around the world. In the months after her sister's death, Nancy lay awake at night, thinking about the promise she had made and wondering whether one person could really make a difference. Nancy's life is the answer.<p>While an intern at Miami's Jackson Memorial, Dr. Pedro Jose Greer came across a patient in a coma without a known name or address, a homeless man found by firefighters, suffering from tuberculosis. In the days that followed, the physician Little Havana knows as Dr. Joe searched for clues about the patient's life in the squalor under Miami's highways. Deciding that Miami's homeless deserved better, Dr. Greer founded Camillus Health Concern, a clinic that now offers care to over 4,000 poor and homeless patients. It's a life that might be distilled into a question Dr. Greer asks all of us: \\"If we don't fight injustice, who will?\\"<p>Professor Stephen Hawking was a brilliant man and a mediocre student&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;when he lost his balance and tumbled down a flight of stairs. Diagnosed with a rare disease and told he had just a few years to live, he chose to live with new purpose. And happily, in the four decades since, he has become one of the world's leading scientists. His work in theoretical physics, which I will not attempt to explain further here&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;has advanced our understanding of the universe. His popular books have advanced the cause of science itself. From his wheelchair, he's led us on a journey to the farthest and strangest reaches of the cosmos. In so doing, he has stirred our imagination and shown us the power of the human spirit here on Earth.<p>Now, told he was too small to play college football, Jack Kemp became a pro quarterback. Cut by four teams, he led the Buffalo Bills to two championships. Football, he once said, gave him a good sense of perspective about politics: He'd \\"already been booed, cheered, cut, sold, [and traded].\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] So makes me feel better. [<i>Laughter</i>] A conservative thinker, a Republican leader, and a defender of civil rights, he was that rare patriot who put country over party, never forgetting what he learned on the gridiron: that it takes each of us doing our part and all of us working together to achieve a common goal. It's a life from which we can all draw lessons, Democrat and Republican alike.<p>After purchasing an $8 racket with money earned from chores, 11-year-old Billie Jean declared a goal to be the number-one tennis player in the world. Yet what we honor are not simply her 12 Grand Slam titles, 101 doubles titles, and 67 singles titles&mdash;pretty good, Billie Jean&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;we honor what she calls \\"all of the off-the-court stuff,\\" what she did to broaden the reach of the game, to change how women athletes and women everywhere view themselves, and to give everyone, regardless of gender or sexual orientation, including my two daughters, a chance to compete both on the court and in life. As Billie Jean once said, we should \\"never, ever underestimate the human spirit.\\" Nor should we underestimate Billie Jean King's spirit.<p>Born and raised in Jim Crow Alabama, preaching in his blood, the Reverend Joseph Lowery is a giant of the Moses generation of civil rights leaders. It was just King, Lowery, and a few others huddled in Montgomery who laid the groundwork for the bus boycott and the movement that was to follow. A founder of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, Lowery was later asked to serve as president. He agreed to serve for 1 year, but wound up serving, as he puts it, for 20 1-year terms. [<i>Laughter</i>] Throughout his life, some have called him crazy. But one of my favorite sermons that I heard Dr. Lowery once deliver, he said: \\"There's good crazy, and there's bad crazy\\"&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;\\"and sometimes you need a little bit of that good crazy to make the world a better place.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Born just a generation past the Battle of the Little Big Horn, a grandson of a scout for General Custer himself, Dr. Joseph Medicine Crow was the first member of his tribe to attend college and earn a master's. Before completing his Ph.D., he left to serve in World War II. Wearing war paint beneath his uniform and a sacred feather beneath his helmet, Joseph Medicine Crow completed the four battlefield deeds that made him the last Crow war chief. Historian, educator, and patriot&mdash;a good man, a <i>bacheitche</i> in Crow&mdash;Dr. Medicine Crow's life reflects not only the warrior spirit of the Crow people, but America's highest ideals. <p>His name was Harvey Milk, and he was here to recruit us&mdash;all of us&mdash;to join a movement and change a nation. For much of his early life, he had silenced himself. In the prime of his life, he was silenced by the act of another. But in the brief time in which he spoke and ran and led his voice stirred the aspirations of millions of people. He would become, after several attempts, one of the first openly gay Americans elected to public office. And his message of hope&mdash;hope unashamed, hope unafraid&mdash;could not ever be silenced. It was Harvey who said it best: \\"You gotta give 'em hope.\\"<p>When a young Sandra Day graduated from Stanford Law School near the top of her class in 2 years instead of the usual 3, she would&mdash;she was offered just one job in the private sector. Her prospective employer asked her how well she typed and told her there might be work for her as a legal secretary. Now, I cannot know how she would have fared as a legal secretary&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;but she made a mighty fine Justice of the United States Supreme Court. [<i>Laughter</i>] A judge and Arizona legislator, cancer survivor, child of the Texas plains, Sandra Day O'Connor is like the pilgrim in the poem she sometime quotes who has forged a new trail and built a bridge behind her for all young women to follow.<p>It's been said that Sidney Poitier does not make movies, he makes milestones: milestones of artistic excellence, milestones of America's progress. On screen and behind the camera, in films such as \\"The Defiant Ones,\\" \\"Guess Who's Coming to Dinner,\\" \\"Uptown Saturday Night,\\" \\"Lilies of the Field\\"&mdash;for which he became the first African American to win an Academy Award for Best Actor&mdash;Poitier not only entertained but enlightened, shifting attitudes, broadening hearts, revealing the power of the silver screen to bring us closer together. The child of a Bahamian tomato farmers, Poitier once called his driving purpose to make himself a better person. He did. And he made us all a little bit better along the way.<p>Dolores Conchita Figueroa del Rivero knows the adversity that comes with a difficult name. [<i>Laughter</i>] I can relate. [<i>Laughter</i>] Known to the world by the name that has lit up Broadway marquees, Chita Rivera's career had an improbable start. Accompanying a nervous classmate on an audition, she decided to audition herself, and impressed the choreographer, Jerome Robbins, who would make her famous as Anita in \\"West Side Story.\\" Sassy, electric&mdash;that rare performer who can sing, dance, and act&mdash;Chita Rivera revealed that still rarer ability to overcome when she recovered from a car accident that shattered her leg. She ended up retaking the stage, won a Tony for \\"Kiss of the Spider Woman.\\" And like her unforgettable Anita, Chita Rivera has shown that life can indeed be bright in America.<p>The only girl in a family of four brothers, Mary Robinson learned early on what it takes to make sure all voices are heard. As a crusader for women and those without a voice in Ireland, Mary Robinson was the first woman elected President of Ireland, before being appointed U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights. When she traveled abroad as President, she would place a light in her window that would draw people of Irish descent to pass by below. Today, as an advocate for the hungry and the hunted, the forgotten and the ignored, Mary Robinson has not only shone a light on human suffering, but illuminated a better future for our world.<p>After graduating from the University of Chicago School of Medicine in 1948, Janet Rowley got married and gave birth to four sons, making medicine a hobby and making family her priority. It was not until she was almost 40 that she took up serious medical research, and not until almost a decade later that she discovered, hunched over her dining room table, examining small photos of chromosomes, that leukemia cells are notable for changes in their genetics, a discovery that showed cancer is genetic and transformed how we fight the disease. All of us have been touched in some way by cancer, including my family, and so we can all be thankful that what began as a hobby became a life's work for Janet.<p>The glint in the eye and the lilt in the voice are familiar to us all. But the signature quality of Archbishop Desmond Tutu, says Nelson Mandela, is \\"a readiness to take unpopular stands without fear.\\" Perhaps that explains what led the Arch, as he's known, to preach amid tear gas and police dogs, rallying a people against apartheid. And later, when a free South Africa needed a heart big enough to forgive its sins, Archbishop Desmond Tutu was called to serve once more, as chairman of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. Tribune of the downtrodden, voice of the oppressed, cantor of our conscience, Desmond Tutu possesses that sense of generosity, that spirit of unity, that essence of humanity that South Africans know simply as <i>Ubuntu</i>.<p>Thirty-five years ago, a young economics professor at a university in Bangladesh was struck by the disconnect between the theories he was teaching in class and the reality of the famine outside. So, determined to help, Muhammad Yunus left the classroom for a village and discovered that just $27 would free dozens of artisans, vendors, and rickshaw pullers from debt. Offering himself as a guarantor, he withdrew a loan, paid off their debts, and founded Grameen Bank, a bank that has disbursed over $8 billion, lifting millions of people from poverty with microloans. Muhammad Yunus was just trying to help a village, but he somehow managed to change the world. <p>There's a story Ted Kennedy sometimes tells. It's about a boy who sees an old man tossing starfish stranded by a receding tide back into the sea. \\"There are so many,\\" asks the boy, \\"what difference can your efforts possibly make?\\" The old man studies the starfish in his hand and tosses it to safety, saying, \\"It makes a difference to that one.\\" For nearly half a century, Ted Kennedy has been walking that beach, making a difference for that soldier fighting for freedom, that refugee looking for a way home, that senior searching for dignity, that worker striving for opportunity, that student aspiring to college, that family reaching for the American Dream. The life of Senator Edward M. Kennedy has made a difference for us all.<p>These are the 2009 recipients of the Medal of Freedom. At a moment when cynicism and doubt too often prevail, when our obligations to one another are too often forgotten, when the road ahead can seem too long or hard to tread, these extraordinary men and women&mdash;these agents of change&mdash;remind us that excellence is not beyond our abilities, that hope lies around the corner, and that justice can still be won in the forgotten corners of this world. They remind us that we each have it within our powers to fulfill dreams, to advance the dreams of others, and to remake the world for our children. <p>And it is now my distinct and extraordinary honor to ask each of them to come forward to receive their award, as a military aide reads their citation. <p>[<i>At this point, Lt. Col. Gina C. Humble, USAF, Air Force Aide to the President, read the citations, and the President presented the medals.</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Before we break up, why don't we all give an extraordinary round of applause to these remarkable men and women. <p>Thank you very much for joining us, everyone. Thank you very much.\" "
"234" "\"Good morning, everybody, and welcome to the White House. I am glad all of you could be with us today as we honor the newest member of our highest Court, who I'm proud to address, for the very first time, as Justice Sonia Sotomayor.<p>We are also honored to be joined by Justice Sotomayor's new colleagues. We have Justice Ginsburg who is here, as well as Justice Stevens. And so I just want to thank both Justice Stevens and Justice Ginsburg not only for being here today but for your extraordinary service on the Court. And I know you'll be giving Justice Sotomayor some good tips. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I also want to thank everyone who's worked so hard to bring us to this day. I want to thank especially our Judiciary Committee chairman, Senator Patrick Leahy, as well as our Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, for their outstanding work to complete this process before the August recess.<p>I want to thank Senator Schumer and Senator Gillibrand, both of whom are Justice Sotomayor's home-State Senators, for their extraordinary work on her behalf. I want to thank all the Members of Congress who've taken the time to join us here at the White House event. And I want to acknowledge all the advocates and groups who organized and mobilized and supported these efforts from the very beginning. Your work was absolutely critical to our success, and I appreciate all that you've done. So pat yourselves on the back. Congratulations.<p>Two Members of Congress that I just especially want to acknowledge: Senator Bob Menendez, who worked so hard on the Senate side, and Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez, who is our chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.<p>And I think we all want to take a moment to recognize the woman who, in so many ways, truly made this day possible, Justice Sotomayor's mother, Celina Sotomayor. Mrs. Sotomayor is here with her husband, Omar, and Justice Sotomayor's brother, Juan, and other members of their family. And we're thrilled that they could join us here today. And by the way, I don't normally do this, but let me also just thank my extraordinary White House staff who helped to usher this stuff through. We're very proud of them. Thank you very much.<p>Of course, we're here not just to celebrate our extraordinary new Supreme Court Justice and all those who've been a part of her journey to this day; we're here as well to celebrate an extraordinary moment for our Nation. We celebrate the impact Justice Sotomayor has already had on people across America who have been inspired by her exceptional life story. We celebrate the greatness of a country in which such a story is possible. And we celebrate how, with their overwhelming vote to confirm Justice Sotomayor, the United States Senate, Republicans and Democrats, tore down yet one more barrier and affirmed our belief that in America, the doors of opportunity must be open to all.<p>And with that vote, the Senate looked beyond the old divisions, and they embraced excellence. They recognized Justice Sotomayor's intellect, her integrity, and her independence of mind, her respect for the proper role of each branch of Government, her fidelity to the law in each case that she hears, and her devotion to protecting our core constitutional rights and liberties.<p>Justice William Brennan once said that in order for government to ensure those rights for all its citizens, government officials must be attentive to the concrete human realities at stake in the decisions they make. They must understand, as Justice Brennan put it, \\"the pulse of life beneath the official version of events\\"&mdash;the pulse of life beneath the official version of events.<p>Justice Sotomayor understands those realities because she's witnessed them firsthand as a prosecutor, a litigator, and a judge, working to uphold our laws, keep our communities safe, and give people the chance to live out their dreams, work that she has done with devotion, with distinction, and with an unyielding commitment to give back to this country that has given her so much. And she understands these things because she's lived these things, because her life is one of those \\"only in America\\" stories: raised by a single mom in the south Bronx determined to give her every opportunity to succeed; propelled by the talent and hard work that would earn her scholarships and honors at the best schools in the country; driven always by the belief that it doesn't matter where you come from, or what you look like, or what challenges life throws your way, no dream is beyond reach in the United States of America.<p>And with her extraordinary breadth and depth of experience, Justice Sotomayor brings to the Court both a mastery of the letter of the law and an understanding of how the law actually unfolds in our daily lives, its impact on how we work and worship and raise our families, on whether we have the opportunities we need to live the lives we imagine.<p>That understanding is vital for the work of a Supreme Court Justice, as Justice Stevens and Justice Ginsburg will testify, the work of applying principles set forth at our founding to the cases and controversies of our time. For as visionary as our Founders were, they did not presume to know exactly how the times would change, what new questions fate and history would set before us. Instead, they sought to articulate ideals that would be timeless, ideals that would accommodate the ever-changing circumstances of our lives and preserve for each new generation our most sacred rights and freedoms.<p>And when Justice Sotomayor put her hand on that Bible and took that oath, we took yet another step towards realizing those ideals. We came yet another step closer to the more perfect union that we all seek, because while this is Justice Sotomayor's achievement, the result of her ability and determination, this moment is not just about her. It's about every child who will grow up thinking to him or herself, \\"If Sonia Sotomayor can make it, then maybe I can too.\\" It's about every mother or father who looks at the sacrifices Justice Sotomayor's mother made and the successes she and her brother have had and thinks, \\"I may not have much in my own life, but if I work hard enough, maybe my kids can have more.\\" It's about everyone in this Nation facing challenges and struggles in their lives who hear Justice Sotomayor's story and thinks to themselves, \\"If she could overcome so much and go so far, then why can't I?\\"<p>Nearly 80 years ago, as the cornerstone was laid for the building that became our Supreme Court, Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes declared, \\"The Republic endures, and this is the symbol of its faith.\\" Justice Sotomayor's rise from humble beginnings to the height of achievement is yet another symbol of that faith&mdash;faith that the American Dream still endures; faith that \\"equal justice under the law\\" is not just an inscription in marble, but an animating ideal of our democracy; faith that in this great Nation, all things are still possible for all people.<p>This is a great day for America, and I know that all of us here are proud and honored to have been a part of it. And so with that, I would like to introduce the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Sonia Sotomayor.\" "
"235" "\"This week, I've been traveling across our country to discuss health insurance reform and to hear directly from folks like you: your questions, your concerns, and your stories. <p>Now, I know there's been a lot of attention paid to some of the town hall meetings that are going on around the country, especially those where tempers have flared. You know how TV loves a ruckus. But what you haven't seen, because it's not as exciting, are the many constructive meetings going on all over the country where Americans are airing their hopes and concerns about this very important issue. <p>I've been holding some of my own, and the stories I've heard have really underscored why I believe so strongly that health insurance reform is a challenge we can't ignore.<p>They're stories like Lori Hitchcock's, who I met in New Hampshire this week. Lori's got a preexisting condition, so no insurance company will cover her. She's self-employed, and in this economy, she can't find a job that offers health care, so she's been uninsured for 2 years.<p>Or they're stories like Katie Gibson's, who I met in Montana. When Katie tried to change insurance companies, she was sure to list her preexisting conditions on the application and even called her new company to confirm she'd be covered. Two months later, she was dropped, after she'd already gone off her other insurance.<p>These are stories that aren't being told, stories of a health care system that works better for the insurance industry than it does for the American people. And that's why we're going to pass health insurance reform that finally holds the insurance companies accountable.<p>But now's the hard part, because the history is clear: Every time we come close to passing health insurance reform, the special interests with a stake in the status quo use their influence and political allies to scare and mislead the American people.<p>As an example, let's look at one of the scarier-sounding and more ridiculous rumors out there: that so-called death panels would decide whether senior citizens get to live or die. That rumor began with the distortion of one idea in a congressional bill that would allow Medicare to cover voluntary visits with your doctor to discuss your end-of-life care, if and only if you decide to have those visits. It had nothing to do with putting government in control of your decisions; in fact, it would give you all the information you need, if you want it, to put you in control of your decisions. When a conservative Republican Senator who supported this idea&mdash;in fact, had long fought for even more far-reaching proposals&mdash;found out how folks were twisting the idea, he called their misrepresentation, and I quote, \\"nuts.\\"<p>So when folks with a stake in the status quo keep inventing these bogeymen in an effort to scare people, it's disappointing, but it's not surprising. We've seen it before. When President Roosevelt was working to create Social Security, opponents warned it would open the door to Federal snooping and force Americans to wear dog tags. When President Kennedy and President Johnson were working to create Medicare, opponents warned of socialized medicine. Sound familiar? Not only were those fears never realized, but more importantly, those programs have saved the lives of tens of millions of seniors, the disabled, and the disadvantaged.<p>Those who would stand in the way of reform will say almost anything to scare you about the cost of action, but they won't say much about the cost of inaction. If you're worried about rationed care, higher costs, denied coverage, or bureaucrats getting between you and your doctor, then you should know that's what's happening right now. In the past 3 years, over 12 million Americans were discriminated against by insurance companies due to a preexisting condition or saw their coverage denied or dropped just when they got sick and needed it most. Americans whose jobs and health care are secure today just don't know if they'll be next to join the 14,000 who lose their health insurance every single day. And if we don't act, average family premiums will keep rising to more than $22,000 within a decade.<p>On the other hand, here's what reform will mean for you. First, no matter what you've heard, if you like your doctor or health care plan, you can keep it. If you don't have insurance, you'll finally be able to afford insurance. And everyone will have the security and stability that's missing today.<p>Insurance companies will be prohibited from denying you coverage because of your medical history, dropping your coverage if you get sick, or watering down your coverage when it counts, because there's no point in having health insurance if it's not there when you need it. <p>Insurance companies will no longer be able to place some arbitrary cap on the amount of coverage you can receive in a given year or lifetime, and we will place a limit on how much you can be charged for out-of-pocket expenses, because no one in America should go broke just because they get sick.<p>Finally, we'll require insurance companies to cover routine checkups and preventive care, like mammograms and colonoscopies, because there's no reason we shouldn't be saving lives and dollars by catching diseases like breast cancer and prostate cancer on the front end.<p>So that's what reform means. For all the chatter and the noise out there, what every American needs to know is this: If you don't have health insurance, you will finally have quality, affordable options once we pass reform. If you do have health insurance, we will make sure that no insurance company or government bureaucrat gets between you and the care that you need. And we will deliver this in a fiscally responsible way.<p>Now, I know there's plenty of real concern and skepticism out there. I know that in a time of economic upheaval, the idea of change can be unsettling, and I know that there are folks who believe that government should have no role at all in solving our problems. These are legitimate differences worthy of the real discussion that America deserves, one where we lower our voices, listen to one another, and talk about differences that really exist. Because while there may be disagreements over how to go about it, there is widespread agreement on the urgent need to reform a broken system and finally hold insurance companies accountable.<p>Nearly 50 years ago, in the midst of the noisy early battles to create what would become Medicare, President Kennedy said, \\"I refuse to see us live on the accomplishments of another generation. I refuse to see this country, and all of us, shrink from these struggles which are our responsibility in our time.\\" Now it falls to us to meet the challenges of our time. And if we can come together and listen to one another, I believe, as I always have, that we will rise to this moment, we will build something better for our children, and we will secure America's future in this new century.\" "
"236" "\"Thank you. Please, be seated. Thank you so much. Commander Gardner, thank you for your introduction and for your lifetime of service. I was proud to welcome Glen and your executive director, Bob Wallace, to the Oval Office just before the Fourth of July, and I look forwarding to working with your next commander, Tommy Tradewell. I want to also acknowledge Jean Gardner and Sharon Tradewell, as well as Dixie Hild and Jan Tittle and all the spouses and family of the Ladies Auxiliary. America honors your service as well.<p>Also Governor Jan Brewer is here, of Arizona, and Mayor Phil Gordon, our host here in Phoenix. I want to acknowledge President&mdash;Dr. Joe Shirley, Jr., President of the Navajo Nation. And this wasn't on my original card, but this is just an extraordinary story. And you may have already heard from her, but I just want to publicly acknowledge and thank Ms. Helen Denton, the secretary to Dwight Eisenhower, who typed up the orders for the Normandy invasion and is here today, and what an extraordinary story that is.<p>Members of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, I am honored and humbled to stand before you as Commander in Chief of the finest military the world has ever known. And we're joined by some of those who make it the finest force in the world, from Luke Air Force Base, members of the 56th Fighter Wing.<p>Whether you wear the uniform today or wore it decades ago, you remind us of a fundamental truth: It's not the powerful weapons that make our military the strongest in the world. It's not the sophisticated systems that make us the most advanced. The true strength of our military lies in the spirit and skill of our men and women in uniform. And you know this.<p>You know this because it's the story of your lives. When fascism seemed unstoppable and our harbor was bombed, you battled across rocky Pacific islands and stormed the beaches of Europe, marching across a continent&mdash;my own grandfather and uncle among your ranks&mdash;liberating millions and turning enemies into allies.<p>When communism cast its shadow across so much of the globe, you stood vigilant in a long cold war, from an airlift in Berlin to the mountains of Korea to the jungles of Vietnam. When that cold war ended and old hatreds emerged anew, you turned back aggression from Kuwait to Kosovo.<p>And long after you took off the uniform, you've continued to serve: supporting our families, our troops when they go to war and welcoming them when they come home; working to give our veterans the care they deserve; and when America's heroes are laid to rest, giving every one of them that final fitting tribute of a grateful nation. We can never say it enough: For your service in war and peace, thank you VFW. Thank you.<p>Today, the story of your service is carried on by a new generation, dedicated, courageous men and women who I have the privilege to lead and meet every day.<p>They're the young sailors, the midshipmen at the Naval Academy, who raised their right hand at graduation and committed themselves to a life of service. They're the soldiers I met in Baghdad who have done their duty, year after year, on a second, third, or fourth tour. They're the marines of Camp Lejeune, preparing to deploy and now serving in Afghanistan to protect Americans here at home. They're the airmen, like those here today, who provide the close air support that saves the lives of our troops on the ground. They're the wounded warriors at Landstuhl and Walter Reed and Bethesda and across America for whom the battle is not to fight, but simply to speak, to stand, to walk once more. They're the families that my wife Michelle has met at bases across the country: the spouses back home doing the parenting of two; the children who wonder when mom and dad may be coming home; the parents who watch their sons and daughters go off to war; and the families who lay a loved one to rest, and the pain that lasts a lifetime.<p>To all those who have served America, our forces, your families, our veterans, you have done your duty. You have fulfilled your responsibilities, and now a grateful nation must fulfill ours. And that is what I want to talk about today.<p>First, we have a solemn responsibility to always lead our men and women in uniform wisely. And that starts with a vision of American leadership that recognizes that military power alone cannot be the first or only answer to the threats facing our Nation.<p>In recent years, our troops have succeeded in every mission America has given them, from toppling the Taliban to deposing a dictator in Iraq to battling brutal insurgencies. At the same time, forces trained for war have been called upon to perform a whole host of missions. Like mayors, they've run local governments and delivered water and electricity. Like aid workers, they've mentored farmers and built new schools. Like diplomats, they've negotiated agreements with tribal sheikhs and local leaders.<p>But let us never forget: We are a country of more than 300 million Americans; less than 1 percent wears the uniform. And that 1 percent&mdash;our soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, and coastguardsmen&mdash;have borne the overwhelming burden of our security. In fact, perhaps never in American history have so few protected so many.<p>So the responsibility for our security must not be theirs alone. That is why I have made it a priority to enlist all elements of our national power in defense of our national security&mdash;our diplomacy and development, our economic might and our moral example&mdash;because one of the best ways to lead our troops wisely is to prevent the conflicts that cost American blood and treasure tomorrow.<p>As President, my greatest responsibility is the security and safety of the American people. As I've said before, that is the first thing I think about when I wake up in the morning, it's the last thing that I think about when I go to sleep at night. And I will not hesitate to use force to protect the American people or our vital interests.<p>But as we protect America, our men and women in uniform must always be treated as what they are, America's most precious resource. As Commander in Chief, I have a solemn responsibility for their safety. And there is nothing more sobering than signing a letter of condolence to the family of service men or women who have given their lives for our country.<p>And that's why I have made this pledge to our Armed Forces: I will only send you into harm's way when it is absolutely necessary. And when I do, it will be based on good intelligence and guided by a sound strategy. I will give you a clear mission, defined goals, and the equipment and support you need to get the job done. That's my commitment to you.<p>Which brings me to our second responsibility to our Armed Forces: giving them the resources and equipment and strategies to meet their missions. We need to keep our military the best trained, the best led, the best equipped fighting force in the world. And that's why, even with our current economic challenges, my budget increases defense spending.<p>We will ensure that we have the force structure to meet today's missions. And that's why we've increased the size of the Army and the Marine Corps 2 years ahead of schedule and have approved another temporary increase in the Army. And we've halted personnel reductions in the Navy and Air Force. And this will give our troops more time home between deployments, which means less stress on families and more training for the next mission. And it will help us put an end, once and for all, to stop-loss for those who've done their duty.<p>We will equip our forces with the assets and technologies they need to fight and win. So my budget funds more of the Army helicopters, crews, and pilots urgently needed in Afghanistan; the intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance that gives our troops the advantage; the special operations forces that can deploy on a moment's notice; and for all those serving in Afghanistan and Iraq, including our National Guard and Reserve, more of the protective gear and armored vehicles that save lives.<p>As we fight in two wars, we will plan responsibly, budget honestly, and speak candidly about the costs and consequences of our actions. And that's why I've made sure my budget includes the costs of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.<p>In Iraq, after more than 6 years, we took an important step forward in June. We transferred control of all cities and towns to Iraq's security forces. The transition to full Iraqi responsibility for their own security is now underway. This progress is a testament to all those who have served in Iraq, both uniformed and civilian. And our Nation owes these Americans, and all who have given their lives, a profound debt of gratitude.<p>Now, as Iraqis take control of their destiny, they will be tested and targeted. Those who seek to sow sectarian division will attempt more senseless bombings and more killing of innocents. This we know.<p>But as we move forward, the Iraqi people must know that the United States will keep its commitments. And the American people must know that we will move forward with our strategy. We will begin removing our combat brigades from Iraq later this year. We will remove all our combat brigades by the end of next August. And we will remove all our troops from Iraq by the end of 2011. And for America, the Iraq war will end.<p>By moving forward in Iraq, we're able to refocus on the war against Al Qaida and its extremist allies in Afghanistan and Pakistan. That's why I announced a new, comprehensive strategy in March, a strategy that recognizes that Al Qaida and its allies had moved their base from the remote, tribal areas&mdash;to the remote, tribal areas of Pakistan. This strategy acknowledges that military power alone will not win this war, that we also need diplomacy and development and good governance. And our new strategy has a clear mission and defined goals: to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat Al Qaida and its extremist allies.<p>In the months since, we have begun to put this comprehensive strategy into action. And in recent weeks, we've seen our troops do their part. They've gone into new areas, taking the fight to the Taliban in villages and towns where residents have been terrorized for years. They're adapting new tactics, knowing that it's not enough to kill extremists and terrorists; we also need to protect the Afghan people and improve their daily lives. And today, our troops are helping to secure polling places for this week's election so that Afghans can choose the future that they want.<p>Now, these new efforts have not been without a price. The fighting has been fierce. More Americans have given their lives. And as always, the thoughts and prayers of every American are with those who make the ultimate sacrifice in our defense.<p>As I said when I announced this strategy, there will be more difficult days ahead. The insurgency in Afghanistan didn't just happen overnight, and we won't defeat it overnight. This will not be quick, nor easy. But we must never forget this is not a war of choice, this is a war of necessity. Those who attacked America on 9/11 are plotting to do so again. If left unchecked, the Taliban insurgency will mean an even larger safe haven from which Al Qaida would plot to kill more Americans. So this is not only a war worth fighting, this is a&mdash;this is fundamental to the defense of our people.<p>And going forward, we will constantly adapt to new tactics to stay ahead of the enemy and give our troops the tools and equipment they need to succeed. And at every step of the way, we will assess our efforts to defeat Al Qaida and its extremist allies and to help the Afghan and Pakistani people build the future that they seek.<p>Now, even as we lead and equip our troops for the missions of today, we have a third responsibility to fulfill. We must prepare our forces for the missions of tomorrow. Our soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, and coastguardsmen adapt to new challenges every day. But as we know, much of our defense establishment has yet to fully adapt to the post-cold war world, with doctrine and weapons better suited to fight the Soviets on the plains of Europe than insurgents in the rugged terrain of Afghanistan. Twenty years after the cold war ended, this is simply not acceptable. It's irresponsible. Our troops and our taxpayers deserve better.<p>And that's why our defense review is taking a top-to-bottom look at our priorities and posture, questioning conventional wisdom, rethinking old dogmas, and challenging the status quo. We're asking hard questions about the forces we need and the weapons we buy. And when we're finished, we'll have a new blueprint for the 21st-century military that we need. And in fact, we're already on our way.<p>We're adopting new concepts because the full spectrum of challenges demands a full range of military capabilities, both the conventional and the unconventional: the ability to defeat both an armored division and the lone suicide bomber, the intercontinental ballistic missile and the improvised explosive device, 18th-century-style piracy and 21st-century cyber threats. No matter the mission, we must maintain America's military dominance.<p>So even as we modernize our conventional forces, we're investing in the capabilities that will reorient our force to the future: an Army that's more mobile and expeditionary and missile defenses that protect our troops in the field; a Navy that not only projects power across the oceans, but operates nimbly in shallow, coastal waters; an Air Force that dominates the airspace with next-generation aircraft, both manned and unmanned; a Marine Corps that can move ashore more rapidly in more places.<p>And across the force, we're investing in new skills and specialties, because in the 21st century, military strength will be measured not only by the weapons our troops carry, but by the languages they speak and the cultures that they understand. But here's the simple truth: We cannot build the 21st-century military we need and maintain the fiscal responsibility that America demands unless we fundamentally reform the way our defense establishment does business. It's a simple fact. Every dollar wasted in our defense budget is a dollar we can't spend to care for our troops or protect America or prepare for the future.<p>You've heard the stories: the indefensible no-bid contracts that cost taxpayers billions and make contractors rich, the special interests and their exotic projects that are years behind schedule and billions over budget, the entrenched lobbyists pushing weapons that even our military says it doesn't want. The impulse in Washington to protect jobs back home building things we don't need has a cost that we can't afford.<p>This waste would be unacceptable at any time, but at a time when we're fighting two wars and facing a serious deficit, it's inexcusable. It's an affront to the American people and to our troops, and it's time for it to stop. <p>And this is not a Democratic issue or a Republican issue. This is not a Democratic issue or a Republican issue; it's about giving our troops the support that they need. And that's something that all Americans should be able to agree to. So I'm glad I have as a partner in this effort, a great veteran, a great Arizonan, and a great American who has shown the courage to stand and fight this waste, Senator John McCain. And I'm also proud to have Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, who has served under eight Presidents of both parties, leading this fight at the Pentagon.<p>So already I've put an end to unnecessary no-bid contracts. I've signed bipartisan legislation to reform defense procurement so weapons systems don't spin out of control. And even as we increase spending on the equipment and weapons our troops do need, we've proposed cutting tens of billions of dollars in waste we don't need.<p>Think about it: hundreds of millions of dollars for an alternate second engine for the Joint Strike Fighter when one reliable engine will do just fine; nearly $2 billion to buy more F-22 fighter jets when we can move ahead with a fleet of newer, more affordable aircraft; tens of billions of dollars to put an antimissile laser on a fleet of vulnerable 747s; and billions of dollars for a new Presidential helicopter&mdash;now, maybe you've heard about this&mdash;among its other capabilities, it would let me cook a meal while under nuclear attack. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, let me tell you something, if the United States of America is under nuclear attack, the last thing on my mind will be whipping up a snack. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So this is pretty straightforward: Cut the waste, save taxpayer dollars, support the troops. That's what we should be doing. The special interests, contractors, and entrenched lobbyists, they're invested in the status quo, and they're putting up a fight. But make no mistake, so are we. If a project doesn't support our troops, if it does not make America safer, we will not fund it. If a system doesn't perform, we will terminate it. And if Congress sends me a defense bill loaded with a bunch of pork, I will veto it. We will do right by our troops and taxpayers, and we will build the 21st-century military that we need.<p>Finally, we will fulfill our responsibility to those who serve by keeping our promises to our people. We will fulfill our responsibility to our forces and our families. That's why we're increasing military pay. That's why we're building better family housing and funding more childcare and counseling to help families cope with the stresses of war. And we've changed the rules so military spouses can better compete for Federal jobs and pursue their careers.<p>We will fulfill our responsibility to our wounded warriors. For those still in uniform, we're investing billions of dollars for more treatment centers, more case managers, and better medical care so our troops can recover and return where they want to be, with their units. <p>But as the VFW well knows, for so many veterans, the war rages on: the flashbacks that won't go away, the loved ones who now seem like strangers, the heavy darkness of depression that has led to too many of our troops taking their own lives. Posttraumatic stress and traumatic brain injury are the defining injuries of today's wars. So caring for those affected by them is a defining purpose of my budget&mdash;billions of dollars more for treatment and mental health screenings to reach our troops on the frontier&mdash;on the frontlines and more mobile and rural clinics to reach veterans back home. We are not going to abandon these American heroes. We are going to do right by them.<p>We will fulfill our responsibility to our veterans as they return to civilian life. I was proud to cosponsor the post-9/11 GI bill as a Senator. And thanks to VFW members across the country and leaders like Arizona's Harry Mitchell in Congress, it is now the law of the land. And as President, I'm committed to seeing that it is successfully implemented.<p>For so many of you, like my grandfather, the original GI bill changed your life, helping you to realize your dreams. But it also transformed America, helping to build the largest middle class in history. We're saying the same thing to today's post-9/11 veterans: You pick the school; we'll help pick up the bill.<p>And as these veterans show&mdash;start showing up on campuses, I'm proud that we're making this opportunity available to all those who have sacrificed, including Reservists and National Guard members and spouses and children, including kids who've lost their mom or dad. In an era when so many people and institutions have acted irresponsibly, we choose to reward the responsibility and service of our forces and their families.<p>Whether you've left the service in 2009 or 1949, we will fulfill our responsibility to deliver the benefits and care that you earned. And that's why I've pledged to build nothing less than a 21st-century VA. And I picked a lifelong soldier and wounded warrior from Vietnam to lead this fight, General Ric Shinseki.<p>We're dramatically increasing funding for veterans health care. This includes hundreds of millions of dollars to serve veterans in rural areas, as well as the unique needs of our growing number of women veterans. We're restoring access to VA health care for a half a million veterans who lost their eligibility in recent years, our Priority 8 veterans.<p>And since there's been so much misinformation out there about health insurance reform, let me say this: One thing that reform won't change is veterans' health care. No one is going to take away your benefits; that is the plain and simple truth. We're expanding access to your health care, not reducing it.<p>We're also keeping our promise on concurrent receipt. My budget ensures that our severely disabled veterans will receive both their military retired pay and their VA disability benefits. And I look forward to signing legislation on advanced appropriations for the VA so the medical care you need is never held up by budget delays.<p>I've also directed Secretary Shinseki to focus on a top priority, reducing homelessness among veterans. After serving their country, no veteran should be sleeping on the streets&mdash;no veteran. We should have zero tolerance for that.<p>And we're keeping our promise to fulfill another top priority at the VA, cutting the redtape and inefficiencies that cause backlogs and delays in the claims process. This spring, I directed the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs to create one unified lifetime electronic health record for the members of the Armed Forces, a single electronic record, with privacy guaranteed, that will stay with them forever. Because after fighting for America, you should not have to fight over paperwork to receive the benefits that you've earned.<p>Today I can announce that we're taking another step. I've directed my Chief Performance Officer, my Chief Technology Officer, and my Chief Information Officer to join with Secretary Shinseki in a new reform effort. We're launching a new competition to capture the very best ideas of our VA employees who work with you every day.<p>We're going to challenge each of our 57 regional VA offices to come up with the best ways of doing business, of harnessing the best information technologies, of cutting redtape and breaking through the bureaucracy. And then we're going to fund the best ideas and put them into action, all with a simple mission: cut those backlogs, slash those wait times, deliver your benefits sooner. I know you've heard this for years, but the leadership and resources we're providing this time means that we're going to be able to do it. That is our mission, and we are going to make it happen.<p>Now, taken together, these investments represent a historic increase in our commitment to America's veterans, a 15-percent increase over last year's funding levels and the largest increase in the VA budget in more than 30 years. And over the next 5 years, we'll invest another $25 billion to make sure that our veterans are getting what they need.<p>These are major investments, and these are difficult times. Fiscal discipline demands that we make hard decisions, sacrificing certain things we can't afford. But let me be clear: America's commitment to its veterans are not just lines on a budget, they are bonds that are sacred, a sacred trust we're honor bound to uphold. These are commitments that we make to the patriots who serve, from the day they enlist to the day that they are laid to rest. Patriots like you. Patriots like a man named Jim Norene.<p>His story is his own, but in it we see the larger story of all who serve. He's a child of the Depression who grew up to join that greatest generation, a paratrooper in the 502d Parachute Infantry Regiment of the 101st Airborne, jumping in a daring daylight raid into Holland to liberate captive people, rushing to Bastogne at the Battle of the Bulge, where his commanding general&mdash;surrounded by the Germans and asked to surrender&mdash;declared, famously, \\"Nuts.\\"<p>For his bravery, Jim was awarded the Bronze Star. But like so many others, he rarely spoke of what he did or what he saw, reminding us that true love of country is not boisterous or loud, but rather, the \\"tranquil and steady dedication of a lifetime.\\"<p>Jim returned home and built a life. He went to school on the GI bill. He got married. He raised a family in his small Oregon farming town. And every Veterans Day, year after year, he visited schoolchildren to speak about the meaning of service. And he did it all as a proud member of the Veterans of Foreign Wars.<p>Then, this spring, Jim made a decision. He would return to Europe once more. Eighty-five years old, frail and gravely ill, he knew he might not make it back home. But like the paratrooper he always was, he was determined.<p>So near Bastogne, he returned to the places he knew so well. At a Dutch town liberated by our GIs, schoolchildren lined the sidewalks and sang \\"The Star-Spangled Banner.\\" And in the quiet clearing of an American cemetery, he walked among those perfect lines of white crosses of fellow soldiers who had fallen long ago, their names forever etched in stone. And then, back where he had served 65 years before, Jim Norene passed away, at night, in his sleep, quietly, peacefully&mdash;the \\"tranquil and steady dedication of a lifetime.\\"<p>The next day, I was privileged to join the commemoration at Normandy to mark the day when the beaches were stormed and a continent was freed. There were Presidents and Prime Ministers and veterans from the far corners of the Earth, but long after the bands stopped playing and the crowds stopped cheering, it was the story of a departed VFW member that echoed in our hearts.<p>Veterans of Foreign Wars, you have done your duty to your fallen comrades, to your communities, to your country. You have always fulfilled your responsibilities to America, and so long as I am President of the United States, America will always fulfill its responsibilities to you.<p>God bless you. God bless all our veterans, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much.\" "
"237" "\"Good afternoon, everyone. Please have a seat. Welcome to the White House. Just before I begin, there are a couple of acknowledgements I want to make. First of all, we've got some wounded warriors from Walter Reed and the National Naval Medical Center, and I want everybody to give them a big round of applause. We are grateful to them. They're some big NASCAR fans. I also want to thank a good friend and a terrific Governor, Brad Henry from Oklahoma is here. Stand up, Brad.<p>You know, it is not every day that we have a championship stock car parked out on the South Lawn. Fortunately, we got Jimmie to agree not to do any burnouts or tear up my backyard. I also suggested to Jimmie that, in exchange for free parking, he should let me take the 48 out for a few laps. He said that was fine, but Secret Service didn't think it was fine. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But that's okay, because I'm just glad Jimmie could be here so we can honor him for winning his third consecutive Sprint Cup Championship. Give him a big round of applause. Jimmie got his start racing in motor cross events at the age of 5 and has been racking up trophies and titles for nearly three decades now. But like me, I think his greatest achievement is probably just how far he married up. I had a chance to meet his wife Chandra, and I'm so glad that she could be here today as well. And congratulations for your family's success.<p>We want to keep&mdash;everyone who keeps the 48 upfront&mdash;we want to congratulate all of them: owner Rick Hendrick, the crew chief&mdash;go ahead&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;Rick deserves a round of applause; crew chief Chad Knaus&mdash;did I say that right?&mdash;and all the folks at Hendrick Motorsports. Because we all know that NASCAR, winning isn't just about who's behind the wheel during the race; it's also about who's got your back in the pit and everyone back at the shop who preps these cars week after week. <p>With these folks at his side, Jimmie's hoping for a fourth series championship in a row this year. But I think there's another group of guys back here who may have something to say about that. Jeff, good luck in your \\"drive for five.\\" And good luck to all the other chase drivers joining us today. I'm extraordinarily grateful to them.<p>We're also joined today by one of NASCAR's alltime greats, \\"The King,\\" Richard Petty, sitting right in the front row where he belongs. With a family tradition that's generations strong, the Pettys are about as close as you can get to a NASCAR dynasty.<p>And finally, I want to recognize Mike Helton, NASCAR's president, for his dedicated leadership, and of course, Brian France, NASCAR's chairman, and his wonderful wife Amy, who've done so much for the sport. Please give them a big round of applause. Let me also take an opportunity to say that our thoughts are with the NASCAR community at the recent passing of Tom Murphy, a man who put his heart and soul into NASCAR over the years.<p>You know, it's fitting that you've all come here to the White House, the American people's house, because NASCAR is a uniquely American sport. Since its humble beginnings, when moonshiners raced on the sands of Daytona Beach during Prohibition, it's grown into a sport with tens of millions of fans here in America and around the world. <p>But NASCAR's about a lot more than just racing cars. It's as much about what you give back off the track as you give on the track. It's about what you're doing to protect our environment and help America become energy independent: using solar energy and working to offset carbon emissions and even hiring a director of green innovation to take your commitment to the next level. <p>It's about supporting our troops and our veterans, from flyovers and red, white, and blue paint jobs on Memorial Day to your visits to Walter Reed and Iraq and Afghanistan that show our appreciation for the brave men and women who are serving our country. <p>And it's about all the foundations NASCAR has started to support schools and hospitals, combat hunger and homelessness, and work to help folks in our communities, like the campers here from Victory Junction, kids who can teach all of us a thing or two about courage and hope and I hope had the time of their lives at summer camp. <p>After all, one of the core values of the NASCAR community is the belief that service isn't just something you do once in a while when it's convenient; it's a way of life. I think Jeff Gordon put it best when he said, simply, \\"Any person out there should do something some way to give back to their community.\\" <p>And that's what folks from more than 150 countries see around the world when they tune in to your races: not just your speed and your skill, but also your compassion, your dedication to your families and your communities, how much you love this country, and how strongly you support the heroes who serve it. And that's the face of America that you show to the world.<p>So today I want to thank all of you for that and for everything you do to make this country a better country. And I wish you all the best of luck in this year's chase. God bless all of you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much, everybody.<p>I think I've got to take a shot next to the cup here.\" "
"238" "\"On behalf of the American people, including Muslim communities in all 50 States, I want to extend best wishes to Muslims in America and around the world: <i>Ramadan Kareem</i>.<p>Ramadan is the month in which Muslims believe the Koran was revealed to the prophet Muhammad, beginning with a simple word, <i>iqra</i>. It is therefore a time when Muslims reflect upon the wisdom and guidance that comes with faith and the responsibility that human beings have to one another and to God.<p>Like many people of different faiths who have seen Ramadan through our communities and families, I know this to be a festive time, a time when families gather and meals are shared. But I also know that Ramadan is a time of intense devotion and reflection, a time when Muslims fast during the day and perform <i>tarawih</i> prayers at night, reciting and listening to the entire Koran over the course of the month.<p>These rituals remind us of the principles that we hold in common and Islam's role in advancing justice, progress, tolerance, and the dignity of all human beings. For instance, fasting is a concept shared by many faiths, including my own Christian faith, as a way to bring people closer to God and to those among us who cannot take their next meal for granted. And the support that Muslims provide to others recalls our responsibility to advance opportunity and prosperity for people everywhere. For all of us must remember that the world we want to build and the changes that we want to make must begin in our own hearts and our own communities.<p>This summer, people across America have served in their communities, educating children, caring for the sick, and extending a hand to those who have fallen on hard times. Faith-based organizations, including many Islamic organizations, have been at the forefront in participating in this summer of service. And in these challenging times, this is a spirit of responsibility that we must sustain in the months and years to come.<p>Beyond America's borders, we're also committed to keeping our responsibility to build a world that is more peaceful and secure. That's why we're responsibly ending the war in Iraq. That's why we are isolating violent extremists while empowering the people in places like Afghanistan and Pakistan. And that is why we strongly and actively support a two-state solution that recognizes the rights of Israelis and Palestinians to live in peace and security. That's also why America will always stand for the universal rights of all people to speak their mind, practice their religion, contribute fully to their society, and have confidence in the rule of law.<p>All of these efforts are a part of America's commitment to engage Muslims and Muslim-majority nations on the basis of mutual interest and mutual respect. And at this time of renewal, I want to reiterate my commitment to a new beginning between America and Muslims around the world.<p>As I said in Cairo, this new beginning must be borne out in a sustained effort to listen to each other, to learn from each other, to respect one another, and to seek common ground. I believe an important part of this is listening, and in the last 2 months, American Embassies around the world have reached out not just to governments, but directly to people in Muslim-majority countries. And from around the world, we have received an outpouring of feedback about how America can be a partner on behalf of peoples' aspirations.<p>We have listened, and like you, we are focused on pursuing concrete actions that will make a difference over time, both in terms of the political and security issues that I have discussed and in the areas that you have told us will make the most difference in peoples' lives.<p>These consultations are helping us implement the partnerships that I called for in Cairo, to expand education exchange programs, to foster entrepreneurship and create jobs, and to increase collaboration on science and technology, while supporting literacy and vocational learning. We're also moving forward in partnering with the OIC and the OIC member states to eradicate polio, while working closely with the international community to confront the common health challenges like H1N1, which I know is of particular concern to many Muslims preparing for the Hajj.<p>All of these efforts are aimed at advancing our common aspirations: to live in peace and security, to get an education and to work with dignity, to love our families, our communities, and our faith. It will take time and patient effort. We cannot change things overnight, but we can honestly resolve to do what must be done, while setting off in a new direction, toward the destination that we seek for ourselves and for our children. That is the journey that we must travel together.<p>I look forward to continuing this critically important dialogue and turning it into action. And today I want to wish Muslims across America and around the world a blessed month as you welcome the beginning of Ramadan. May God's peace be upon you.\" "
"239" "\"Each and every day in this country, Americans are grappling with health care premiums that are growing three times the rate of wages and insurance company policies that limitcoverage and raise out-of-pocket costs. Thousands are losing their insurance coverage each day.<p>Without real reform, the burdens on America's families and businesses will continue to multiply. We've had a vigorous debate about health insurance reform, and rightly so. This is an issue of vital concern to every American, and I'm glad that so many are engaged.<p>But it also should be an honest debate, not one dominated by willful misrepresentations and outright distortions, spread by the very folks who would benefit the most by keeping things exactly as they are. So today I want to spend a few minutes debunking some of the more outrageous myths circulating on the Internet, on cable TV, and repeated at some town halls across this country.<p>Let's start with the false claim that illegal immigrants will get health insurance under reform. That's not true. Illegal immigrants would not be covered. That idea has never even been on the table. Some are also saying that coverage for abortions would be mandated under reform&mdash;also false. When it comes to the current ban on using tax dollars for abortions, nothing will change under reform. And as every credible person who has looked into it has said, there are no so-called death panels&mdash;an offensive notion to me and to the American people. These are phony claims meant to divide us.<p>And we've all heard the charge that reform will somehow bring about a Government takeover of health care. I know that sounds scary to many folks; it sounds scary to me too. But here's the thing: It's not true. I no sooner want Government to get between you and your doctor than I want insurance companies to make arbitrary decisions about what medical care is best for you, as they do today. As I've said from the beginning, under the reform we seek, if you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor; if you like your private health insurance plan, you can keep your plan, period.<p>Now, the source of a lot of these fears about Government-run health care is confusion over what's called the public option. This is one idea among many to provide more competition and choice, especially in the many places around the country where just one insurer thoroughly dominates the marketplace. This alternative would have to operate as any other insurer, on the basis of the premiums it collects. And let me repeat: It would just be an option; those who prefer their private insurers would be under no obligation to shift to a public plan.<p>The insurance companies and their allies don't like this idea or any that would promote greater competition. I get that. And I expect there would be a lot of discussion about it when Congress returns. But this one aspect of the health care debate shouldn't overshadow the other important steps we can and must take to reduce the increasing burdens families and businesses face.<p>So let me stress them again: If you don't have insurance, you will finally have access to quality coverage you can afford. If you do have coverage, you will benefit from more security and more stability when it comes to your insurance. If you move, lose your job, or change jobs, you will not have to worry about losing health coverage. And we will set up tough consumer protections that will hold insurance companies accountable and stop them from exploiting you with unfair practices. <p>We'll prohibit insurance companies from denying coverage because of a person's medical history. They will not be able to drop your coverage if you get sick. They will not be able to water down your coverage when you need it most. They will no longer be able to place some arbitrary cap on the amount of coverage you can receive in a given year or a lifetime. We'll place a limit on how much you can be charged for out-of-pocket expenses, because no one in America should go broke because they get sick. <p>And we will require insurance companies to cover routine checkups and preventive care, like mammograms and colonoscopies. There's no reason we shouldn't be catching diseases like breast cancer and colon cancer on the front end. That makes sense, it saves lives, and it will also save money over the long run. Taken together, the reforms we're seeking will help bring down skyrocketing costs, which will mean real savings for families, businesses, and Government. <p>We know what a failure to act would bring: More of the same; more of the same exploding costs; more of the same diminished coverage. If we fail to act, the crisis will grow. More families will go without coverage. More businesses will be forced to drop or water down their plans.<p>So we can push off the day of reckoning and fail to deal with the flaws in the system, just as Washington has done year after year, decade after decade. Or we can take steps that will provide every American family and business a measure of security and stability that they lack today.<p>It's never been easy moving this Nation forward. There are always those who oppose it and those who use fear to block change. But what has always distinguished America is that when all the arguments have been heard and all the concerns have been voiced and the time comes to do what must be done, we rise above our differences, grasp each other's hands, and march forward as one Nation and one people, some of us Democrats, some of us Republicans, all of us Americans. <p>This is our chance to march forward. I can't promise you that the reforms we seek will be perfect or make a difference overnight. But I can promise you this: If we pass health insurance reform, we will look back many years from now and say, this was the moment we summoned what's best in each of us to make life better for all of us. This was the moment when we built a health care system worthy of the Nation and the people we love. This was the moment we earned our place alongside the greatest generations. And that is what our generation of Americans is called to do right now.\" "
"240" "\"I wanted to say a few words this morning about the passing of an extraordinary leader, Senator Edward Kennedy.<p>Over the past several years, I've had the honor to call Teddy a colleague, a counselor, and a friend. And even though we have known this day was coming for some time now, we awaited it with no small amount of dread.<p>Since Teddy's diagnosis last year, we've seen the courage with which he battled his illness. And while these months have no doubt been difficult for him, they've also let him hear from people in every corner of our Nation and from around the world just how much he meant to all of us. His fight has given us the opportunity we were denied when his brothers John and Robert were taken from us: the blessing of time to say thank you and goodbye.<p>The outpouring of love, gratitude, and fond memories to which we've all borne witness is a testament to the way this singular figure in American history touched so many lives. His ideas and ideals are stamped on scores of laws and reflected in millions of lives: in seniors who know new dignity, in families that know new opportunity, in children who know education's promise, and in all who can pursue their dream in an America that is more equal and more just, including myself. <p>The Kennedy name is synonymous with the Democratic Party. And at times, Ted was the target of partisan campaign attacks. But in the United States Senate, I can think of no one who engendered greater respect or affection from members of both sides of the aisle. His seriousness of purpose was perpetually matched by humility, warmth, and good cheer. He could passionately battle others and do so peerlessly on the Senate floor for the causes that he held dear, and yet still maintain warm friendships across party lines. <p>And that's one reason he became not only one of the greatest Senators of our time but one of the most accomplished Americans ever to serve our democracy. His extraordinary life on this Earth has come to an end. And the extraordinary good that he did lives on. For his family, he was a guardian. For America, he was the defender of a dream.<p>I spoke earlier this morning to Senator Kennedy's beloved wife Vicki, who was to the end such a wonderful source of encouragement and strength. Our thoughts and prayers are with her, his children Kara, Edward, and Patrick, his stepchildren Curran and Caroline, the entire Kennedy family, decades' worth of his staff, the people of Massachusetts, and all Americans who, like us, loved Ted Kennedy.\" "
"241" "\"Your Eminence, Vicki, Kara, Edward, Patrick, Curran, Caroline, members of the Kennedy family, distinguished guests, and fellow citizens: Today we say goodbye to the youngest child of Rose and Joseph Kennedy. The world will long remember their son Edward as the heir to a weighty legacy, a champion for those who had none, the soul of the Democratic Party, and the lion of the United States Senate, a man who graces nearly 1,000 laws and who penned more than 300 laws himself.<p>But those of us who loved him and ache with his passing know Ted Kennedy by the other titles he held: father; brother; husband; grandfather; Uncle Teddy, or as he was often known to his younger nieces and nephews, \\"the Grand Fromage,\\" or \\"the Big Cheese.\\" I, like so many others in the city where he worked for nearly half a century, knew him as a colleague, a mentor, and above all, as a friend.<p>Ted Kennedy was the baby of the family who became its patriarch, the restless dreamer who became its rock. He was the sunny, joyful child who bore the brunt of his brothers' teasing but learned quickly how to brush it off. When they tossed him off a boat because he didn't know what a jib was, 6-year-old Teddy got back in and learned to sail. When a photographer asked the newly elected Bobby to step back at a press conference because he was casting a shadow on his younger brother, Teddy quipped, \\"It'll be the same in Washington.\\"<p>That spirit of resilience and good humor would see Teddy through more pain and tragedy than most of us will ever know. He lost two siblings by the age of 16. He saw two more taken violently from a country that loved them. He said goodbye to his beloved sister, Eunice, in the final days of his life. He narrowly survived a plane crash, watched two children struggle with cancer, buried three nephews, and experienced personal failings and setbacks in the most public way possible.<p>It's a string of events that would have broken a lesser man. And it would have been easy for Ted to let himself become bitter and hardened, to surrender to self-pity and regret, to retreat from public life and live out his years in peaceful quiet. No one would have blamed him for that.<p>But that was not Ted Kennedy. As he told us: \\"[I]ndividual faults and frailties are no excuse to give in and no exemption from the common obligation to give of ourselves.\\" Indeed, Ted was the \\"Happy Warrior\\" that the poet Wordsworth spoke of when he wrote:<blockquote>As tempted more; more able to endure,<p>As more exposed to suffering and distress;<p>Thence, also, more alive to tenderness.</blockquote><p>Through his own suffering, Ted Kennedy became more alive to the plight and the suffering of others: the sick child who could not see a doctor; the young soldier denied her rights because of what she looks like or who she loves or where she comes from. The landmark laws that he championed&mdash;the Civil Rights Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, immigration reform, children's health insurance, the Family and Medical Leave Act&mdash;all have a running thread: that's Kennedy's life work was not to champion the causes of those with wealth or power or special connections; it was to give a voice to those who were not heard, to add a rung to the ladder of opportunity, to make real the dream of our founding. He was given the gift of time that his brothers were not, and he used that gift to touch as many lives and right as many wrongs as the years would allow.<p>We can still hear his voice bellowing through the Senate Chamber, face reddened, fists pounding the podium, a veritable force of nature, in support of health care or workers' rights or civil rights. And yet, as has been noted, while his causes became deeply personal, his disagreements never did. While he was seen by his fiercest critics as a partisan lightning rod, that's not the prism through which Ted Kennedy saw the world, nor was it the prism through which his colleagues saw Ted Kennedy. He was a product of an age when the joy and nobility of politics prevented differences of party and platform and philosophy from becoming barriers to cooperation and mutual respect, a time when adversaries still saw each other as patriots.<p>And that's how Ted Kennedy became the greatest legislator of our time. He did it by hewing to principle, yes, but also by seeking compromise and common cause, not through deal-making and horse-trading alone, but through friendship and kindness and humor. There was the time he courted Orrin Hatch for support of the Children's Health Insurance Program by having his chief of staff serenade the Senator with a song Orrin had written himself, the time he delivered shamrock cookies on a china plate to sweeten up a crusty Republican colleague, the famous story of how he won the support of a Texas committee chairman on an immigration bill. Teddy walked into a meeting with a plain manila envelope and showed only the chairman that it was filled with the Texan's favorite cigars. When the negotiations were going well, he would inch the envelope closer to the chairman. [<i>Laughter</i>] When they weren't, he'd pull it back. [<i>Laughter</i>] Before long, the deal was done. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>It was only a few years ago, on St. Patrick's Day, when Teddy buttonholed me on the floor of the Senate for my support of a certain piece of legislation that was coming up for a vote. I gave him my pledge, but I expressed skepticism that it would pass. But when the roll call was over, the bill garnered the votes that it needed and then some. I looked at Teddy with astonishment and asked how had he done it. He just patted me on the back and said, \\"Luck of the Irish.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Of course, luck had little to do with Ted Kennedy's legislative success; he knew that. A few years ago, his father-in-law told him that he and Daniel Webster just might be the two greatest Senators of all time. Without missing a beat, Teddy replied, \\"What did Webster do?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But though it is Teddy's historic body of achievements that we will remember, it is his giving heart that we will miss. It was the friend and the colleague who was always the first to pick up the phone and say, \\"I'm sorry for your loss,\\" or, \\"I hope you feel better,\\" or, \\"What can I do to help?\\" It was the boss so adored by his staff that over 500, spanning five decades, showed up for his 75th birthday party. It was the man who sent birthday wishes and thank-you notes and even his own paintings to so many who never imagined that a U.S. Senator of such stature would take the time to think about somebody like them. I have one of those paintings in my private study off the Oval Office, a Cape Cod seascape that was a gift to a freshman legislator who had just arrived in Washington and happened to admire it when Ted Kennedy welcomed him into his office. That, by the way, is my second gift from Teddy and Vicki after our dog Bo. And it seems like everyone has one of those stories, the ones that often start with \\"You wouldn't believe who called me today.\\"<p>Ted Kennedy was the father who looked not only after his own three children, but John's and Bobby's as well. He took them camping and taught them to sail. He laughed and danced with them at birthdays and weddings, cried and mourned with them through hardship and tragedy, and passed on that same sense of service and selflessness that his parents had instilled in him. Shortly after Ted walked Caroline down the aisle and gave her away at the altar, he received a note from Jackie that read: \\"On you the carefree youngest brother fell a burden a hero would have begged to have been spared. We are all going to make it because you were always there with your love.\\"<p>Not only did the Kennedy family make it because of Ted's love, he made it because of theirs, especially because the love and the life he found in Vicki. After so much loss and so much sorrow, it could not have been easy for Ted to risk his heart again. And that he did is a testament to how deeply he loved this remarkable woman from Louisiana. And she didn't just love him back. As Ted would often acknowledge, Vicki saved him. She gave him strength and purpose, joy and friendship, and stood by him always, especially in those last, hardest days.<p>We cannot know for certain how long we have here. We cannot foresee the trials or misfortunes that will test us along the way. We cannot know what God's plan is for us. What we can do is to live out our lives as best we can with purpose and with love and with joy. We can use each day to show those who are closest to us how much we care about them and treat others with the kindness and respect that we wish for ourselves. We can learn from our mistakes and grow from our failures. And we can strive at all costs to make a better world so that someday, if we are blessed with the chance to look back on our time here, we know that we spent it well, that we made a difference, that our fleeting presence had a lasting impact on the lives of others.<p>This is how Ted Kennedy lived. This is his legacy. He once said, as has already been mentioned, of his brother Bobby that he need not be idealized or enlarged in death because what he was in life, and I imagine he would say the same about himself. The greatest expectations were placed upon Ted Kennedy's shoulders because of who he was, but he surpassed them all because of who he became. We do not weep for him today because of the prestige attached to his name or his office. We weep because we loved this kind and tender hero who persevered through pain and tragedy, not for the sake of ambition or vanity, not for wealth or power, but only for the people and the country that he loved.<p>In the days after September 11th, Teddy made it a point to personally call each one of the 177 families of this State who lost a loved one in the attack. But he didn't stop there. He kept calling and checking up on them. He fought through redtape to get them assistance and grief counseling. He invited them sailing, played with their children, and would write each family a letter whenever the anniversary of that terrible day came along. To one widow, he wrote the following: \\"As you know so well, the passage of time never really heals the tragic memory of such a great loss, but we carry on, because we have to, because our loved ones would want us to, and because there is still light to guide us in the world from the love they gave us.\\" We carry on.<p>Ted Kennedy has gone home now, guided by his faith and by the light of those that he has loved and lost. At last he is with them once more, leaving those of us who grieve his passing with the memories he gave, the good that he did, the dream he kept alive, and a single, enduring image, the image of a man on a boat, white mane tousled, smiling broadly as he sails into the wind, ready for whatever storms may come, carrying on toward some new and wondrous place just beyond the horizon. May God bless Ted Kennedy, and may he rest in eternal peace.\" "
"242" "\"This weekend marks the fourth anniversary of Hurricane Katrina's devastation of the Gulf Coast. As we remember all that was lost, we must take stock of the work being done on recovery, while preparing for future disasters. And that's what I want to speak with you about today.<p>None of us can forget how we felt when those winds battered the shore, the floodwaters began to rise, and Americans were stranded on rooftops and in stadiums. Over a thousand people would lose their lives. Over a million people were displaced. Whole neighborhoods of a great American city were left in ruins. Communities across the Gulf Coast were forever changed, and many Americans questioned whether government could fulfill its responsibilities to respond in a crisis or contribute to a recovery that covered parts of four States.<p>Since taking office in January, my administration has focused on helping citizens finish the work of rebuilding their lives and communities, while taking steps to prevent similar catastrophes going forward. Our approach is simple: Government must keep its responsibility to the people so that Americans have the opportunity to take responsibility for their own future.<p>That's the work that we're doing. To date, 11 members of my Cabinet have visited the Gulf Coast, and I'm looking forward to going to New Orleans later this year. To complete a complex recovery that addresses nearly every sector of society, we have prioritized coordination among different Federal agencies and with State and local governments. No more turf wars; all of us need to move forward together, because there's much more work to be done.<p>I've also made it clear that we will not tolerate the redtape that stands in the way of progress or the waste that can drive up the bill. Government must be a partner, not an opponent, in getting things done. And that's why we've put in place innovative review and dispute-resolution programs to expedite recovery efforts and have freed up hundreds of millions of dollars of Federal assistance that had not been distributed. This is also allowing us to move forward with stalled projects across the Gulf Coast building and improving schools, investing in public health and safety, and repairing broken roads, bridges, and homes. And this effort has been dramatically amplified by the Recovery Act, which has put thousands of Gulf Coast residents to work.<p>As we complete this effort, we see countless stories of citizens holding up their end of the bargain. In New Orleans, hundreds of kids just started the school year at Langston Hughes Elementary, the first school built from scratch since Katrina. The St. Bernard Project has drawn together volunteers to rebuild hundreds of homes, where people can live with dignity and security. To cite just one hopeful indicator, New Orleans is the fastest growing city in America, as many who've been displaced are now coming home.<p>As we rebuild and recover, we must also learn the lessons of Katrina so that our Nation is more protected and resilient in the face of disaster. That means continuing to rebuild hundreds of miles of levees and floodwalls around New Orleans and working to strengthen the wetlands and barrier islands that are the Gulf Coast's first line of defense. In Washington, that means a focus on competence and accountability, and I'm proud that my FEMA Administrator has 25 years of experience in disaster management in Florida, a State that has known its share of hurricanes. And across the country, that means improving coordination among different agencies, modernizing our emergency communications, and helping families plan for a crisis.<p>On this anniversary, we are focused on the threat from hurricanes. But we must also be prepared for a broad range of dangers, from wildfires to earthquakes to terrorist attacks and pandemic disease. In particular, my administration is working aggressively with State and local governments, and with partners around the world, to prepare for the risk posed by the H1N1 virus. To learn more about the simple steps that you can take to keep you and your family safe from all these dangers, please visit www.ready.gov.<p>So on this day, we commemorate a tragedy that befell our people, but we also remember that with every tragedy comes the chance of renewal. It's a quintessentially American notion that adversity can give birth to hope and that the lessons of the past hold the key to a better future. From the streets of New Orleans to the Mississippi coast, folks are beginning the next chapter in their American stories. And together, we can ensure that the legacy of a terrible storm is a country that is safer and more prepared for the challenges that may come. Thank you.\" "
"243" "\"<i>The President</i>. Please, everybody, have a seat. Thank you. Well, it is my great pleasure to host all of you here at the White House to mark this special occasion. <i>Ramadan Kareem</i>.<p><i>Audience members.</i><i>Ramadan Kareem</i>.<p><i>The President.</i> I want to say that I'm deeply honored to welcome so many members of the diplomatic corps, as well as several members of my administration and distinguished Members of Congress, including the first two Muslims to serve in Congress, Keith Ellison and Andre Carson. Where are they? Give them a big round of applause.<p>Just a few other acknowledgements I want to make. We have Senator Richard Lugar here, who's our ranking member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Where is Dick Lugar? There he is; thank you. Representative John Conyers, chairman of the Judiciary Committee; Representative Rush Holt is here. Thank you, Rush. Have we found you a seat, Rush? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Representative Rush D. Holt</i>. I'm on my way to the train. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President</i>. I got you. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Rep. Holt</i>. Thank you, Mr. President.<p><i>The President</i>. We also have here&mdash;Secretary of Defense Gates is here, Secretary Gates; our Attorney General, Eric Holder; and Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius is here. <p>And most of all, I want to welcome all the American Muslims from many walks of life who are here. This is just one part of our effort to celebrate Ramadan and continues a long tradition of hosting iftars here at the White House. <p>For well over a billion Muslims, Ramadan is a time of intense devotion and reflection. It's a time of service and support for those in need. And it is also a time for family and friends to come together in a celebration of their faith, their communities, and the common humanity that all of us share. It is in that spirit that I welcome each and every one of you to the White House. <p>Tonight's iftar is a ritual that is also being carried out this Ramadan at kitchen tables and mosques in all 50 States. Islam, as we know, is part of America. And like the broader American citizenry, the American Muslim community is one of extraordinary dynamism and diversity, with families that stretch back generations and more recent immigrants, with Muslims of countless races and ethnicities, and with roots in every corner of the world. <p>Indeed, the contribution of Muslims to the United States are too long to catalog because Muslims are so interwoven into the fabric of our communities and our country. American Muslims are successful in business and entertainment, in the arts and athletics, in science and in medicine. Above all, they are successful parents, good neighbors, and active citizens.<p>So on this occasion, we celebrate the holy month of Ramadan, and we also celebrate how much Muslims have enriched America and its culture, in ways both large and small. And with us here tonight, we see just a small sample of those contributions. Let me share a few stories with you briefly. <p>Elsheba Khan's son Kareem, made the ultimate sacrifice for his country when he lost his life in Iraq. Kareem joined the military as soon as he finished high school. He would go on to win the Purple Heart and Bronze Star, along with the admiration of his fellow soldiers. In describing her son, Elsheba said, \\"He always wanted to help any way that he could.\\" Tonight, he's buried alongside thousands of heroes in Arlington National Cemetery. A crescent is carved into his grave, just as others bear the Christian cross or the Jewish star. These brave Americans are joined in death as they were in life, by a common commitment to their country and the values that we hold dear.<p>And one of those values is the freedom to practice your religion, a right that is enshrined in the First Amendment of the Constitution. Nashala Hearn, who joins us from Muskogee, Oklahoma, took a stand for that right at an early age. When her district&mdash;school district told her that she couldn't wear the <i>hijab</i>, she protested that it was a part of her religion. The Department of Justice stood behind her, and she won her right to practice her faith. She even traveled to Washington to testify before Congress. Her words spoke to a tolerance that is far greater than mistrust; when she first wore her headscarf to school, she said, \\"I received compliments from the other kids.\\" <p>Another young woman who has thrived in her school is Bilqis Abdul-Qaadir. She's not even 55&mdash;where's Bilqis? Right here. Stand up, Bilqis, just so that we&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I want everybody to know&mdash;she's got heels on. She's 55&mdash;Bilqis broke Rebecca Lobo's record for the most points scored by any high school basketball player in Massachusetts history. She recently told a reporter, \\"I'd like to really inspire a lot of young Muslim girls if they want to play basketball. Anything is possible. They can do it too.\\" As an honor student, as an athlete on her way to Memphis, Bilqis is an inspiration not simply to Muslim girls, she's an inspiration to all of us. <p>Of course, we know that when it comes to athletes who have inspired America, any list would include the man known simply as \\"The Greatest.\\" And while Muhammad Ali could not join us tonight, it is worth reflecting upon his remarkable contributions, as he's grown from an unmatched fighter in the ring to a man of quiet dignity and grace who continues to fight for what he believes, and that includes the notion that people of all faiths hold things in common. I love this quote. A few years ago, he explained this view&mdash;and this is part of why he's \\"The Greatest\\"&mdash;saying, \\"Rivers, ponds, lakes, and streams&mdash;they all have different names, but they all contain water. Just as religions do&mdash;they all contain truths.\\" <p>They all contain truths. Among those truths are the pursuit of peace and the dignity of all human beings. That must always form the basis upon which we find common ground. And that is why I am so pleased that we are joined tonight not only by so many outstanding Muslim Americans and representatives of the diplomatic corps, but people of many faiths&mdash;Christians, Jews, and Hindus&mdash;along with so many prominent Muslims. <p>Together, we have a responsibility to foster engagement grounded in mutual interest and mutual respect. And that's one of my fundamental commitments as President, both at home and abroad. That's the&mdash;that is central to the new beginning that I've sought between the United States and Muslims around the world. And that is a commitment that we can renew once again during this holy season. <p>So tonight we celebrate a great religion and its commitment to justice and progress. We honor the contributions of America's Muslims and the positive example that so many of them set through their own lives. And we rededicate ourselves to the work of building a better and more hopeful world. <p>So thanks to all of you for taking the time to be here this evening. I wish you all a very blessed Ramadan. And with that, I think we can start a feast. I don't know what's on the menu, but I'm sure it will be good. [<i>Laughter</i>] Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"244" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. Before I say a few words about the meeting we just had, I'd like to mention some good news that came out today about our economy. Now, for the first time in 18 months, our manufacturing sector has expanded, and the statistics used to measure manufacturing output is the highest it's been in over 2 years.<p>This means greater production of transportation equipment like cars and electronic equipment like computers and appliances, and it means these companies are starting to invest more and produce more, and it is a sign that we're on the path to economic recovery.<p>And there's no doubt that we have a long way to go, and I and the other members of this administration will not let up until those Americans who are looking for jobs can find them. But this is another important sign that we're heading in the right direction and that the steps we've taken to bring our economy back from the brink are working.<p>Now, we just had a good meeting about our ongoing efforts to prepare this country for the H1N1 flu virus this fall. And I want to thank John Brennan; our CDC Director, Tom Frieden; and Secretaries Sebelius, Napolitano, Duncan, and Locke for all the good work that they've been doing to get us ready today.<p>As I said when we saw the first cases of this virus back in the spring, I don't want anybody to be alarmed, but I do want everybody to be prepared. We know that we usually get a second, larger wave of these flu viruses in the fall, and so response plans have been put in place across all levels of government. Our plans and decisions are based on the best scientific information available, and as the situation changes, we will continue to update the public.<p>And we're also making steady progress on developing a safe and effective H1N1 flu vaccine, and we expect a flu shot program will begin soon. This program will be completely voluntary, but it will be strongly recommended.<p>For all that we do in the Federal Government, however, every American has a role to play in responding to this virus. We need State and local governments on the frontlines to make antiviral medications and vaccines available and be ready to take whatever steps are necessary to support the health care system. We need hospitals and health care providers to continue preparing for an increased patient load and to take steps to protect health care workers. We need families and businesses to ensure that they have plans in place if a family member, a child, or a coworker contracts the flu and needs to stay home.<p>And most importantly, we need everyone to get informed about individual risk factors, and we need everyone to take the commonsense steps that we know can make a difference. Stay home if you're sick; wash your hands frequently; cover your sneezes with your sleeve, not your hands; and take all the necessary precautions to stay healthy. I know it sounds simple, but it's important, and it works. Finally, for people who want to learn more about this virus, please go to www.flu.gov or talk to your doctor.<p>I want to commend every member of our team. I think we've done an extraordinary job in preparing for this flu outbreak. We anticipate that there will be some issues coming up over the next several months. The way it's moving is still somewhat unpredictable, but what I'm absolutely confident about is that our team that's assembled here has done an extraordinary job in preparing for whatever may happen.<p>So we appreciate all of you for being here, and I want to publicly again thank you for all your extraordinarily hard work. All right.\" "
"245" "\"As we spend time with family and friends this Labor Day weekend, many of us will also be thinking about the state of working America. Yesterday we received a report showing that job losses have slowed dramatically compared to just a few months ago. Earlier in the week, we learned that the manufacturing sector has posted its first gains in 18 months and that many of the banks that borrowed money at the height of the financial crisis are now returning it to taxpayers with interest.<p>These are only the most recent signs that the economy is turning around, though these signs are of little comfort to those who've experienced the pain of losing a job in the previous month or in the previous 2 years of this recession. That's why it's so important that we remain focused on speeding our economic recovery. Throughout America today, tens of thousands of recovery projects are underway, repairing our Nation's roads, bridges, ports, and waterways, renovating schools, and developing renewable energy. We're putting Americans back to work doing the work America needs done, and mostly in private sector jobs.<p>But even as we take aggressive steps to put people back to work, it's also important that we keep faith with men and women looking back on a lifetime of labor, hard-working Americans who deserve to know that their efforts have resulted in a secure future, including a secure retirement. For this recession has not only led to the loss of jobs, but also the loss of savings. The drop in home values, for example, has also meant a drop in the value of the single largest investment most families have. And the decline in the financial markets has led to a decline in the value of 401(k)s and other sources of savings and retirement security. As a result, over the past 2 years, the American people have lost about $2 trillion in retirement savings.<p>This carries a painful toll. I've heard from so many who have had to put off retirement or come out of retirement to make ends meet. I've heard from seniors who worked hard their whole lives, but now, in their golden years, are unsure of where to turn to pay the bills, afford the prescriptions, or keep the home in which they raised a family. And having too little in savings not only leaves people financially ill-prepared for retirement, but also for whatever challenges life brings. It places in jeopardy so many dreams, from owning a home to attending college.<p>The fact is, even before this recession hit, the savings rate was essentially zero, while borrowing had risen and credit card debt had increased. Many were simply struggling to stay afloat as incomes were stagnant or falling and jobs were scarce; that's important to remember. But there were also those who spent beyond their means. And more broadly, tens of millions of families have been, for a variety of reasons, unable to put away enough money for a secure retirement. Half of America's workforce doesn't have access to a retirement plan at work. And fewer than 10 percent of those without workplace retirement plans have one of their own.<p>We cannot continue on this course. And we certainly can't go back to an economy based on inflated profits and maxed-out credit cards, the cycles of speculative boom and painful busts, a system that put the interests of the short term ahead of the needs of long term. We have to revive this economy and rebuild it stronger than before. And making sure that folks have the opportunity and incentive to save&mdash;for a home or college, for retirement or a rainy day&mdash;is essential to that effort. If you work hard and meet your responsibilities, this country is going to honor our collective responsibility to you, to ensure that you can save and secure your retirement. That's why we're announcing several commonsense changes that will help families put away money for the future.<p>First, we're going to make it easier for small businesses to do what large businesses do: allow workers to automatically enroll in a 401(k) or an individual retirement account. We know that automatic enrollment has made a big difference in participation rates by making it simpler for workers to save, and that's why we're going to expand it to more people.<p>Second, we'll make it easier for people to save their Federal tax refunds, which 100 million families receive. Today, if you have a retirement account, you can have your refund deposited directly into your account. With this change, we'll make it easier for those without retirement plans to save their refunds as well. You'll be able to check a box on your tax return to receive your refund as a savings bond.<p>Third, we'll make it possible for employees to put payments for unused vacation and sick days into their retirement plans if they wish. Right now most workers don't have that option.<p>And fourth, the IRS and the Treasury Department are creating a plain English, easy-to-follow guide, as well as a web site, to help folks navigate what are often very complicated waters, especially for workers changing jobs, who often are unsure how best to continue saving for retirement, because the rules ought to be written to encourage people to save, instead of discouraging them.<p>We'll also build on these steps by working with Congress. As part of my budget, I've proposed ensuring that nearly every American has access to a retirement savings account through his or her job. This plan would make it possible for workers to automatically enroll in IRAs through payroll contributions. And the budget simplifies and expands a tax credit for millions of families, matching half of a family's savings up to $1,000 per year and depositing the tax credit directly into a retirement account.<p>This is a difficult time for our country, but I am confident that we can meet the challenges we face and leave behind something better, that we're ready to take responsibility for our future once again, as individuals and as a nation.<p>I hope that all of you have the chance to enjoy this Labor Day weekend with family and friends. But my larger hope and expectation is that next Labor Day, the economic storms we're weathering now will have given way to brighter and more prosperous times.<p>Thank you.\" "
"246" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, Cincinnati! Thank you. Thank you, Ohio! Thank you. Thank you, labor! All righty. It is good to be back in Cincinnati; it's good to be back in Ohio; it's good to be back among great friends, great leaders. And I want everybody to give a big round of applause to Charlie Dilbert for that great introduction. And I want to thank Kathy Mattea and the band for the entertainment. Give Kathy a big round of applause. <p>How you all feeling today? Are you fired up? Are you ready to go? I can't think of a better place to be on Labor Day than at America's biggest Labor Day picnic and with the workers and families of the Cincinnati AFL-CIO. <p>I'm so proud to be on the stage with Charlie, because Charlie reminds us that in these tough times, America's working men and women are ready to roll up their sleeves and get back to work. <p>I want to salute your local AFL-CIO local leaders: Executive Secretary-Treasurer Doug Sizemore, President Joe Zimmer, State President Joe Rugola. And your outstanding national leaders: a man who we thank for devoting his life to working Americans, President John Sweeney&mdash;he's right there; and the man who will pick up the mantle, who will take the baton of leadership, who we need to succeed because a strong labor movement is part of a strong economy, Secretary-Treasurer Rich Trumka.<p>Although Ohio's wonderful Governor and great friend of mine Ted Strickland couldn't be here, we've got Lieutenant Governor Lee Fisher in the house, Secretary of State Jennifer Brunner, Attorney General Richard Cordray, Cincinnati Mayor Mark Mallory, Hamilton County commissioner&mdash;Commission President David Pepper.<p>We're joined by members of Ohio's outstanding congressional delegation: Congressman Steve Driehaus; and a great friend who is at the forefront of every fight for Ohio's working men and women, including the battle for health insurance reform, Senator Sherrod Brown. <p>I'm also proud to be here with a leader who is reenergizing the Department of Labor, who realizes that it's not the department of management, it's the Department of Labor, a daughter of union members, a daughter of a Teamster, Secretary Hilda Solis. My Director of Recovery for Auto Communities and Workers, Ed Montgomery, is in the house, and he's doing outstanding work. <p>Now, Cincinnati, like a lot of Americans, you're having some fun today, taking the day off, spending time with the kids. Some of you may be proud of your grilling skills. [<i>Laughter</i>] Every man thinks he can grill&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;whether he can or not. That's what Michelle says. [<i>Laughter</i>] Michelle says she's a better griller than me. I don't know. We'll have to have a grill-off someday. But you're enjoying some good music, some good food, some famous Cincinnati chili. <p>But today we also pause; we pause to remember and to reflect and to reaffirm. We remember that the rights and benefits we enjoy today weren't simply handed to America's working men and women. They had to be won. They had to be fought for, by men and women of courage and conviction, from the factory floors of the Industrial Revolution to the shopping aisles of today's superstores. They stood up, and they spoke out to demand a fair shake and an honest day's pay for an honest day's work. Many risked their lives. Some gave their lives. Some made it a cause of their lives, like Senator Ted Kennedy, who we remember today.<p>So let us never forget: Much of what we take for granted&mdash;the 40-hour work week, the minimum wage, health insurance, paid leave, pensions, Social Security, Medicare&mdash;they all bear the union label. It was the American worker&mdash;men and women just like you&mdash;who returned from World War II to make our economy the envy of the world. It was labor that helped build the largest middle class in history. Even if you're not a union member, every American owes something to America's labor movement.<p>So as we remember this history, let's reflect on its meaning in our own time. Like so many Americans, you work hard. You meet your responsibilities. You play by the rules. You pay your bills. But in recent years, the American Dream seems like it's been slipping away, because from Washington to Wall Street, too often a different attitude prevailed. Wealth was valued over work, selfishness over sacrifice, greed over responsibility. The right to organize was undermined rather than strengthened. That's what we saw. And it may have worked out well for those folks at the top, but it didn't work out for you, and it didn't work out well for our country. That culture and the policies that flowed from it undermined the middle class and helped create the greatest economic crisis of our time.<p>So today, on this Labor Day, we reaffirm our commitment to rebuild, to live up to the legacy of those who came before us, to combine the enduring values that have served us so well for so long&mdash;hard work and responsibility&mdash;with new ideas for a new century, to ensure that our great middle class remains the backbone of our economy, not just a vanishing ideal we celebrate at picnics once a year as summer turns to fall. We want it a reality for the families of Ohio and the families of America. <p>That's what we've been working to do ever since I took office. Now, I notice some people have already forgotten how bad it was just 7 months ago. You notice that? They've got, sort of, selective amnesia. [<i>Laughter</i>] So let's just remind them for a second: a financial system on the verge of collapse, about 700,000 workers losing their jobs each month, the worst recession of our lifetimes threatening to become another Great Depression. <p>That's what was happening just 7 months ago. And that's why we took bold, swift action. That's why we passed an unprecedented Recovery Act, and we did it without the usual Washington earmarks and porkbarrel spending. And, Ohio, it is working.<p>Times are still tough. Times are still tough; I know that. But we have given 95 percent of America's working families a tax cut&mdash;4.5 million families in Ohio, including here in Cincinnati&mdash;a promise we made during the campaign, a promise I kept as President of the United States. <p>We cut taxes for small businesses, made new loans to more than 1,000 small businesses in Ohio so they could grow and hire more workers. We extended unemployment benefits for 12 million Americans, including Charlie and nearly 570,000 Ohio citizens. Across America, we've saved the jobs of tens of thousands of State and local workers, including teachers and first-responders right here in Ohio. Don't take my word for it. Ask folks here in Ohio what they would have done if we hadn't passed the Recovery Act&mdash;the cuts they would have had to made, the taxes they would have had to raise. <p>We're rebuilding America's infrastructure, including improvements to I-75 in Hamilton County, led by a local Cincinnati contractor. We've got more than 200 other highway projects across Ohio, and we're making a historic commitment to innovation, much of it still to come in the months and years ahead: doubling our capacity to generate renewable energy, building a new smart grid to carry electricity from coast to coast, laying down broadband lines and high-speed rail lines and providing the largest boost in basic research in our history, all of which will put people back to work: steelworkers, plumbers, pipefitters, engineers, you name it.<p>So our recovery plan is working.<p><i>Audience member</i>. What about the bricklayers? <p><i>The President</i>. Bricklayers too. The financial system has been saved from collapse. Home sales are up. We're seeing signs of life in the auto industry. Business investment is starting to stabilize. For the first time in 18 months, we're seeing growth in manufacturing. When was the last time you heard that here in the United States of America?<p>Now, on Friday, we learned that the economy lost another 216,000 jobs in August. And whenever Americans are losing jobs, that's simply unacceptable. But for the second straight month, we lost fewer jobs than the month before, and it was the fewest jobs that we had lost in a year. So make no mistake, we're moving in the right direction. We're on the road to recovery, Ohio. Don't let anybody tell you otherwise. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can!<p><i>The President</i>. Yes we will. Yes we are.<p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes we will! Yes we will! Yes we will!<p><i>The President</i>. But, my friends, we still have got a long way to go. We're not going to rest; we're not going to let up. Not until workers looking for jobs can find them&mdash;good jobs that sustain families and sustain dreams. Not until responsible mortgage owners can stay in their homes. Not until we've got a full economic recovery and all Americans have their shot at the American Dream.<p>Now, we can't do that if we go back to that old economy: overleveraged banks, inflated profits, maxed-out credit cards, CEOs and bankers getting multimillion-dollar bonuses&mdash;&mdash;<p><i>Audience members</i>. Boo!<p><i>The President</i>. &mdash;&mdash;an economy of bubbles and bursts, your wages and incomes stagnant while corporate profits soar. So even as we recover from the recession and work to cut the deficit, we have to build a new foundation for prosperity.<p>We need an America with a reformed financial system. We got to have regulations in place that protect consumers so that we never have a crisis like this again. I don't want to have to bail out any more banks, and we got to make sure we've got regulations in place to prevent it. An America where energy reform creates green jobs that can never be outsourced and that finally frees America from the grip of foreign oil. An America that commits to education, because the countries that outeducate us today will outcompete us tomorrow, and the best jobs will go to the best educated. So we got to do a better job educating our sons and our daughters. And, yes, I'm going to have something to say tomorrow to our children, telling them to stay in school and work hard, because that's the right message to send.<p>We need an America that once again invests in the middle class, which is why I've created our task force for middle class working families, led by my outstanding Vice President, Joe Biden, to make sure that our policies always benefit you, the American worker.<p>Today we're taking another step. I'm naming Ron Bloom, who's right here&mdash;raise your hand, Ron; he's right down in the front here. I'm naming Ron Bloom to lead our efforts to revitalize the sector that helped build the middle class: American manufacturing. Ron has worked with steelworkers, service employees, and management to create jobs. He helped guide our auto task force. And as my new point person on manufacturing, he's going to help us craft the policies that will create the next generation of great manufacturing jobs and ensure American competitiveness in the 21st century.<p>Oh and by the way, just in case you were wondering, we're also going to build an America where health reform delivers more stability and security to every American. We are going to reform the system for those who have insurance and those who don't. Now, I'll have a lot more to say about this on Wednesday night. I might have to save my voice a little bit&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;not get too excited. I don't want to give anything away. I want you all to tune in.<p>But let me just say a few things about this health care issue. We've been fighting for quality, affordable health care for every American for nearly a century, since Teddy Roosevelt. Think about that.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Long time.<p><i>The President. </i>Long time. [<i>Laughter</i>] The Congress and the country have now been vigorously debating the issue for many months. The debate's been good, and that's important because we've got to get this right. But every debate at some point comes to an end. At some point, it's time to decide. At some point, it's time to act. Ohio, it's time to act and get this thing done.<p>We have never been this close. We've never had such broad agreement on what needs to be done. And because we're so close to real reform, suddenly the special interests are doing what they always do, which is just try to scare the heck out of people.<p>But I've got a question for all these folks who say, you know, we're going to pull the plug on grandma and this is all about illegal immigrants and&mdash;you've heard all the lies. I've got a question for all those folks: What are you going to do? What's your answer? What's your solution? And you know what? They don't have one. Their answer is to do nothing. Their answer is to do nothing, and we know what that future looks like: insurance companies raking in the profits while discriminating against people because of preexisting conditions, denying or dropping coverage when you get sick. It means you're never negotiating about higher wages, because all you're spending your time doing is just trying to protect the benefits that you already fought for. It means premiums continuing to skyrocket three times faster than your wages. It means more families pushed into bankruptcy, more businesses cutting more jobs, more Americans losing health insurance, 14,000 every day. It means more Americans dying every day just because they don't have health insurance.<p>That's not the future I see for America. I see reform where we bring stability and security to folks who have insurance today, where you never again have to worry about going without coverage if you lose your job or you change your job or you get sick. You've got coverage there for you. Where there is a cap on your out-of-pocket expenses, so you don't have to worry that a serious illness will break you and your family even if you have health insurance. Where you never again have to worry that you or someone you love will be denied coverage because of a preexisting condition.<p>I see reform where Americans and small businesses that are shut out of health insurance today will be able to purchase coverage at a price they can afford. Where they'll be able to shop and compare in a new health insurance exchange, a marketplace where competition and choice will continue to hold down costs and help deliver them a better deal. And I continue to believe that a public option within that basket of insurance choices will help improve quality and bring down costs. <p>I see reform where we protect our senior citizens by closing the gaps in their prescription drug coverage under Medicare that costs older Americans thousands of dollars every years out of their pockets, reforms that will preserve Medicare and put it on a sounder financial footing and cut waste and fraud and the more than $100 billion in unwarranted public subsidies to already profitable insurance companies.<p>I want a health insurance system that works as well for the American people as it does for the insurance industry. They should be free to make a profit. But they also have to be fair; they also have to be accountable.<p>That's what we're talking about&mdash;security and stability for folks who have health insurance, help for those who don't&mdash;the coverage they need at a price they can afford, finally bringing costs under control. That's the reform that's needed, that's the reform we're fighting for, and that's why it's time to do what's right for America's working families and put aside partisanship, stop saying things that aren't true, come together as a nation, pass health insurance reform now, this year. <p>Few have fought harder and longer for health care in America's workers than you, our brothers and sisters of organized labor. And just as we know that we have to adapt to all the changes and challenges of a global economy, we also know this: In good economic times and in bad, labor is not the problem; labor is part of the solution.<p>That's why Secretary Solis made it her priority at the Labor Department to protect workers&mdash; your safety, your benefits, your right to organize, your right to bargain collectively. That's why some of the first Executive orders I issued overturned the previous administration's attempts to stifle organized labor. That's why I support EFCA, to level the playing field so it's easier for employees who want a union to form a union. Nothing wrong with that. Because when labor is strong, America's strong. When we all stand together, we all rise together.<p>That's why the first piece of legislation I signed into law was the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, guaranteeing equal pay for equal work. Lilly works at a factory in Alabama. She did her job, and she did it well. And then, after nearly two decades, she discovered that for years she was paid less than her male colleagues for doing the very same work. Over the years, she had lost hundreds of thousands of dollars in wages and in pension and Social Security benefits.<p>Now, Lilly could have just moved on. Instead, this Alabama grandmother made a decision. She said a principle was at stake. She stood up, and she spoke out for what was right, all the way to the Supreme Court and then Congress and finally the White House, where she stood next to me as I signed the law that bore her name.<p>Ohio, that's the lesson this day, that some things are worth fighting for: equal pay; fair wages; dignity in the workplace; justice on the job; an economy that works for everybody, because in America, there are no second-class citizens; an economy where you can make a living and care for your families, where you're leaving your kids something better, where we live up to our fundamental ideals. Those words put on paper some 200 years ago&mdash;that we're all created equal, that we all deserve a chance to pursue our happiness&mdash;that's the calling to which we are summoned this Labor Day. That's the cause of my Presidency. And that is the commitment we must fulfill to preserve the American Dream for all of America's working families.<p>But I'm going to need you to do it. At the beginning of this speech, I talked about whether you were fired up. I know that over the last couple months, the economy has been bad, the recession has been wearing on folks: people losing their jobs, people losing their health care, people losing their homes in some cases. It's been the usual bickering in Washington; doesn't seem like that ever stops. Pundits on TV, they're saying how, oh, this isn't working and that's not working. You know, you start getting into a funk, and whenever I see folks in that negative place, I always think back to a story I told during the campaign. Some of you have heard it. But I just thought I'd say it again. <p>It's about where the phrase \\"fired up\\" comes from. So this is when we were right at the beginning of the campaign for the Presidency; nobody gave us a chance; none of you all could pronounce my name. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I went down to South Carolina. I went down&mdash;I think I was&mdash;where was I? [<i>Laughter</i>] I was in Greenville&mdash;am I right?&mdash;Greenville. And the legislators were having a little banquet, and they had invited me to come down to speak. And I sat next to a State representative. I had nobody supporting me back then, so I had to ask everybody. I said, will you support my campaign for the Presidency of the United States? And this State rep looked me up and down, and she said, \\"You know, I will give you my endorsement if you come to my hometown at Greenwood, South Carolina.\\"<p>Now, I had had a glass of wine, so I said right away, I said, \\"Okay.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"Let's shake on it.\\" Come to find out that Greenwood is about an hour and a half from everyplace else. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So about a month later, I fly in. I've been campaigning for 2 weeks straight, haven't seen my family, I'm exhausted, I'm tired. Get to the hotel room, I'm dragging my bag into my room, about to go to bed. I get a tap on my shoulder. It's my staff member, says, \\"Excuse me, sir.\\" I said, \\"What?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] He said, \\"You have to be in the car tomorrow at 6:30 in the morning.\\" I said, \\"Why?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] He said, \\"Because we got to go to Greenwood like you promised.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So the next day, I wake up, and I feel worse than when I went to bed. I stagger over to the window, open up the blinds&mdash;it's pouring down rain outside, ugly day. I go out, get my newspaper, open it up, there's a bad story about me in the New York Times. I pack up my stuff, I go downstairs. My umbrella breaks, and I get soaked. So that by the time I'm in the car, I'm sleepy, I'm wet, and I'm mad. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we start driving, and we just keep on driving&mdash;we're driving, we're driving, we drive&mdash;goes on forever&mdash;hour and a half we're driving. <p>Finally we get to Greenwood, although you don't know that you're in Greenwood right away. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's kind of&mdash;a lot of fields and&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]. We pull up next to a little field house in a park, and I get back out, and I get a little more wet, and I go inside. And after this hour-and-a-half drive, lo and behold, there are only 20 people inside. [<i>Laughter</i>] And most of them are wet and don't look like they really want to be there either. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So you know, I'm a professional. I go and shake everybody's hands, and I've got kind of a tight smile on my face. \\"How do you do? What do you do? Nice to meet you.\\" Suddenly I hear this voice behind me shouting out: \\"Fired up?\\" And I'm surprised. I'm scared, almost. [<i>Laughter</i>] But everybody else acts like this was normal, and they all say, \\"Fired up!\\" \\"Ready to go?\\" People around me, they all say, \\"Ready to go!\\" <p>I don't know what's going on. I look behind me. There is a little woman. She couldn't be more than 52. <p><i>Audience member.</i> [<i>Inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Watch out&mdash;[<i>inaudible</i>]&mdash;you're little too. [<i>Laughter</i>] Little lady, she's about 50, 60 years old. She dressed like she just came from church. She got a big church hat. And she's smiling at me. She looks at me, and she says, \\"Fired up!\\" <p>Turns out this woman is a city council member from Greenwood who is famous for her chant. Every event she goes to, she likes chanting&mdash;she goes: \\"Fired up?\\" \\"Fired up!\\" \\"Ready to go?\\" \\"Ready to go!\\" And she does a little dance while she's doing it. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So for the next 5 minutes, it seems like, she just keeps on saying this little chant: \\"Fired up?\\" \\"Fired up!\\" \\"Ready to go?\\" \\"Ready to go!\\" And I'm standing there, and I'm thinking, this woman is upstaging me. [<i>Laughter</i>] I don't know what to do. I'm looking at my staff. I'm thinking, when is this thing going to be over? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But here's the thing, Ohio. After about a minute or two, I'm starting to feel kind of fired up. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm starting to feel like I'm ready to go. So I start joining in the chant, and it's making me feel good. And for the rest of the day, whenever&mdash;we campaigned the whole day. Whenever I saw my staff, I said, \\"Are you fired up?\\" They said, \\"I'm fired up, boss. Are you ready to go?\\" I'd say, \\"I'm ready to go.\\"<p>It just goes to show you how one voice can change a room. And if it can change a room, it can change a city. And if it can change a city, it can change a State. And if it can change a State, it can change a nation. And if it can change a nation, it can change the world. Your voice can change the world. Your voice will get health care passed. Your voice will make sure that the American worker is protected. You can build America. I need your help.<p>Thank you, Cincinnati. Are you fired up? <p><i>Audience members</i>. Fired up! <p><i>The President</i>. Ready to go? <p><i>Audience members</i>. Ready to go!<p><i>The President</i>. Fired up?<p><i>Audience members</i>. Fired up! <p><i>The President</i>. Ready to go? <p><i>Audience members</i>. Ready to go!<p><i>The President</i>. Fired up?<p><i>Audience members</i>. Fired up! <p><i>The President</i>. Ready to go? <p><i>Audience members</i>. Ready to go!<p><i>The President</i>. I love you. Bye-bye.\" "
"247" "\"Hello, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. All right, everybody go ahead and have a seat. How is everybody doing today? How about Tim Spicer? I am here with students at Wakefield High School in Arlington, Virginia. And we've got students tuning in from all across America, from kindergarten through 12th grade. And I am just so glad that all could join us today. And I want to thank Wakefield for being such an outstanding host. Give yourselves a big round of applause. <p>Now, I know that for many of you, today is the first day of school. And for those of you in kindergarten or starting middle or high school, it's your first day in a new school, so it's understandable if you're a little nervous. I imagine there are some seniors out there who are feeling pretty good right now&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;with just 1 more year to go. And no matter what grade you're in, some of you are probably wishing it were still summer and you could've stayed in bed just a little bit longer this morning.<p>I know that feeling. When I was young, my family lived overseas. I lived in Indonesia for a few years. And my mother, she didn't have the money to send me where all the American kids went to school, but she thought it was important for me to keep up with an American education. So she decided to teach me extra lessons herself, Monday through Friday. But because she had to go to work, the only time she could do it was at 4:30 in the morning. Now, as you might imagine, I wasn't too happy about getting up that early. And a lot of times, I'd fall asleep right there at the kitchen table. But whenever I'd complain, my mother would just give me one of those looks, and she'd say, \\"This is no picnic for me either, buster.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So I know that some of you are still adjusting to being back at school. But I'm here today because I have something important to discuss with you. I'm here because I want to talk with you about your education and what's expected of all of you in this new school year.<p>Now, I've given a lot of speeches about education. And I've talked about responsibility a lot. I've talked about teachers' responsibility for inspiring students and pushing you to learn. I've talked about your parents' responsibility for making sure you stay on track and you get your homework done and don't spend every waking hour in front of the TV or with the Xbox. I've talked a lot about your Government's responsibility for setting high standards and supporting teachers and principals and turning around schools that aren't working, where students aren't getting the opportunities that they deserve.<p>But at the end of the day, we can have the most dedicated teachers, the most supportive parents, the best schools in the world, and none of it will make a difference, none of it will matter, unless all of you fulfill your responsibilities, unless you show up to those schools, unless you pay attention to those teachers, unless you listen to your parents and grandparents and other adults and put in the hard work it takes to succeed. And that's what I want to focus on today: the responsibility each of you has for your education. <p>I want to start with the responsibility you have to yourself. Every single one of you has something that you're good at. Every single one of you has something to offer. And you have a responsibility to yourself to discover what that is. That's the opportunity an education can provide.<p>Maybe you could be a great writer, maybe even good enough to write a book or articles in a newspaper, but you might not know it until you write that English paper&mdash;that English class paper that's assigned to you. Maybe you could be an innovator or an inventor, maybe even good enough to come up with the next iPhone or the new medicine or vaccine, but you might not know it until you do your project for your science class. Maybe you could be a mayor or a Senator or a Supreme Court Justice, but you might not know that until you join student government or the debate team.<p>And no matter what you want to do with your life, I guarantee that you'll need an education to do it. You want to be a doctor or a teacher or a police officer? You want to be a nurse or an architect, a lawyer or a member of our military? You're going to need a good education for every single one of those careers. You cannot drop out of school and just drop into a good job. You've got to train for it and work for it and learn for it.<p>And this isn't just important for your own life and your own future. What you make of your education will decide nothing less than the future of this country. The future of America depends on you. What you're learning in school today will determine whether we as a nation can meet our greatest challenges in the future.<p>You'll need the knowledge and problem-solving skills you learn in science and math to cure diseases like cancer and AIDS and to develop new energy technologies and protect our environment. You'll need the insights and critical-thinking skills you gain in history and social studies to fight poverty and homelessness, crime and discrimination, and make our Nation more fair and more free. You'll need the creativity and ingenuity you develop in all your classes to build new companies that will create new jobs and boost our economy.<p>We need every single one of you to develop your talents and your skills and your intellect so you can help us old folks solve our most difficult problems. If you don't do that, if you quit on school, you're not just quitting on yourself, you're quitting on your country.<p>Now, I know it's not always easy to do well in school. I know a lot of you have challenges in your lives right now that can make it hard to focus on your schoolwork. I get it. I know what it's like. My father left my family when I was 2 years old, and I was raised by a single mom who had to work and who struggled at times to pay the bills and wasn't always able to give us the things that other kids had. There were times when I missed having a father in my life. There were times when I was lonely and I felt like I didn't fit in.<p>So I wasn't always as focused as I should have been on school, and I did some things that I'm not proud of, and I got in more trouble than I should have. And my life could have easily taken a turn for the worse.<p>But I was lucky. I got a lot of second chances, and I had the opportunity to go to college and law school and follow my dreams. And my wife, our First Lady, Michelle Obama, she has a similar story. Neither of her parents had gone to college, and they didn't have a lot of money. But they worked hard, and she worked hard, so that she could go to the best schools in this country.<p>But some of you might not have those advantages. Maybe you don't have adults in your life who give you the support that you need. Maybe someone in your family has lost their job and there's not enough money to go around. Maybe you live in a neighborhood where you don't feel safe, or have friends who are pressuring you to do things you know aren't right.<p>But at the end of the day, the circumstances of your life&mdash;what you look like, where you come from, how much money you have, what you've got going on at home&mdash;none of that is an excuse for neglecting your homework or having a bad attitude in school. That's no excuse for talking back to your teacher, or cutting class, or dropping out of school. There is no excuse for not trying. Where you are right now doesn't have to determine where you'll end up. No one's written your destiny for you, because here in America, you write your own destiny. You make your own future. That's what young people like you are doing every day, all across America.<p>Young people like Jazmin Perez from Roma, Texas. Jazmin didn't speak English when she first started school. Neither of her parents had gone to college. But she worked hard, earned good grades, and got a scholarship to Brown University&mdash;is now in graduate school studying public health, on her way to becoming Dr. Jazmin Perez.<p>I'm thinking about Andoni Schultz from Los Altos, California, who's fought brain cancer since he was 3. He's had to endure all sorts of treatments and surgeries, one of which affected his memory, so it took him much longer&mdash;hundreds of extra hours&mdash;to do his schoolwork. But he never fell behind. He's headed to college this fall.<p>And then there's Shantell Steve from my hometown of Chicago, Illinois. Even when bouncing from foster home to foster home in the toughest neighborhoods in the city, she managed to get a job at a local health care center, start a program to keep young people out of gangs, and she's on track to graduate high school with honors and go on to college.<p>And Jazmin, Andoni, and Shantell aren't any different from any of you. They face challenges in their lives just like you do. In some cases, they've got it a lot worse off than many of you. But they refused to give up. They chose to take responsibility for their lives, for their education, and set goals for themselves. And I expect all of you to do the same.<p>And that's why today I'm calling on each of you to set your own goals for your education and do everything you can to meet them. Your goal can be something as simple as doing all your homework, paying attention in class, or spending some time each day reading a book. Maybe you'll decide to get involved in an extracurricular activity or volunteer in your community. Maybe you'll decide to stand up for kids who are being teased or bullied because of who they are or how they look, because you believe, like I do, that all young people deserve a safe environment to study and learn. Maybe you'll decide to take better care of yourself so you can be more ready to learn. And along those lines, by the way, I hope all of you are washing your hands a lot and that you stay home from school when you don't feel well so we can keep people from getting the flu this fall and winter. But whatever you resolve to do, I want you to commit to it. I want you to really work at it.<p>I know that sometimes you get that sense from TV that you can be rich and successful without any hard work, that your ticket to success is through rapping or basketball or being a reality TV star. Chances are you're not going to be any of those things.<p>The truth is, being successful is hard. You won't love every subject that you study. You won't click with every teacher that you have. Not every homework assignment will seem completely relevant to your life right at this minute. And you won't necessarily succeed at everything the first time you try.<p>That's okay. Some of the most successful people in the world are the ones who've had the most failures. J.K. Rowling, who wrote Harry Potter, her first Harry Potter book was rejected 12 times before it was finally published. Michael Jordan was cut from his high school basketball team. He lost hundreds of games and missed thousands of shots during his career. But he once said, \\"I have failed over and over and over again in my life, and that's why I succeed.\\"<p>These people succeeded because they understood that you can't let your failures define you, you have to let your failures teach you. You have to let them show you what to do differently the next time. So if you get into trouble, that doesn't mean you're a troublemaker, it means you need to try harder to act right. If you get a bad grade, that doesn't mean you're stupid, it just means you need to spend more time studying.<p>No one's born being good at all things. You become good at things through hard work. You're not a varsity athlete the first time you play a new sport. You don't hit every note the first time you sing a song. You've got to practice. The same principle applies to your schoolwork. You might have to do a math problem a few times before you get it right. You might have to read something a few times before you understand it. You definitely have to do a few drafts of a paper before it's good enough to hand in.<p>Don't be afraid to ask questions. Don't be afraid to ask for help when you need it. I do that every day. Asking for help isn't a sign of weakness, it's a sign of strength, because it shows you have the courage to admit when you don't know something, and that then allows you to learn something new. So find an adult that you trust&mdash;a parent, a grandparent, or a teacher, a coach, or a counselor&mdash;and ask them to help you stay on track to meet your goals.<p>And even when you're struggling, even when you're discouraged and you feel like other people have given up on you, don't ever give up on yourself, because when you give up on yourself, you give up on your country.<p>The story of America isn't about people who quit when things got tough. It's about people who kept going, who tried harder, who loved their country too much to do anything less than their best. It's the story of students who sat where you sit 250 years ago and went on to wage a Revolution, and they founded this Nation; young people, students who sat where you sit 75 years ago who overcame a depression and won a world war, who fought for civil rights and put a man on the Moon; students who sat where you sit 20 years ago who founded Google and Twitter and Facebook and changed the way we communicate with each other.<p>So today I want to ask all of you, what's your contribution going to be? What problems are you going to solve? What discoveries will you make? What will a President who comes here in 20 or 50 or 100 years say about what all of you did for this country?<p>Now, your families, your teachers, and I are doing everything we can to make sure you have the education you need to answer these questions. I'm working hard to fix up your classrooms and get you the books and the equipment and the computers you need to learn. But you've got to do your part too. So I expect all of you to get serious this year. I expect you to put your best effort into everything you do. I expect great things from each of you. So don't let us down. Don't let your family down or your country down. Most of all, don't let yourself down. Make us all proud. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless America. Thank you.\" "
"248" "\"<i>The President.</i>Madam Speaker, Vice President Biden, Members of Congress, and the American people: When I spoke here last winter, this Nation was facing the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. We were losing an average of 700,000 jobs per month, credit was frozen, and our financial system was on the verge of collapse.<p>Now, as any American who is still looking for work or a way to pay their bills will tell you, we are by no means out of the woods. A full and vibrant recovery is still many months away. And I will not let up until those Americans who seek jobs can find them, until those businesses that seek capital and credit can thrive, until all responsible homeowners can stay in their homes. That is our ultimate goal. But thanks to the bold and decisive action we've taken since January, I can stand here with confidence and say that we have pulled this economy back from the brink.<p>I want to thank the Members of this body for your efforts and your support in these last several months, and especially those who've taken the difficult votes that have put us on a path to recovery. I also want to thank the American people for their patience and resolve during this trying time for our Nation. But we did not come here just to clean up crises. We came here to build a future. So tonight, I return to speak to all of you about an issue that is central to that future, and that is the issue of health care.<p>I am not the first President to take up this cause, but I am determined to be the last. It has now been nearly a century since Theodore Roosevelt first called for health care reform, and ever since, nearly every President and Congress, whether Democrat or Republican, has attempted to meet this challenge in some way. A bill for comprehensive health reform was first introduced by John Dingell, Sr., in 1943. Sixty-five years later, his son continues to introduce that same bill at the beginning of each session.<p>Our collective failure to meet this challenge, year after year, decade after decade, has led us to the breaking point. Everyone understands the extraordinary hardships that are placed on the uninsured who live every day just one accident or illness away from bankruptcy. These are not primarily people on welfare; these are middle class Americans. Some can't get insurance on the job. Others are self-employed and can't afford it, since buying insurance on your own costs you three times as much as the coverage you get from your employer. Many other Americans who are willing and able to pay are still denied insurance due to previous illnesses or conditions that insurance companies decide are too risky or too expensive to cover.<p>We are the only democracy&mdash;the only advanced democracy on Earth&mdash;the only wealthy nation that allows such hardship for millions of its people. There are now more than 30 million American citizens who cannot get coverage. In just a 2-year period, one in every three Americans goes without health care coverage at some point. And every day, 14,000 Americans lose their coverage. In other words, it can happen to anyone.<p>But the problem that plagues the health care system is not just a problem for the uninsured. Those who do have insurance have never had less security and stability than they do today. More and more Americans worry that if you move, lose your job, or change your job, you'll lose your health insurance too. More and more Americans pay their premiums only to discover that their insurance company has dropped their coverage when they get sick or won't pay the full cost of care. It happens every day.<p>One man from Illinois lost his coverage in the middle of chemotherapy because his insurer found that he hadn't reported gallstones that he didn't even know about. They delayed his treatment, and he died because of it. Another woman from Texas was about to get a double mastectomy when her insurance company canceled her policy because she forgot to declare a case of acne. By the time she had her insurance reinstated, her breast cancer had more than doubled in size. That is heartbreaking, it is wrong, and no one should be treated that way in the United States of America.<p>Then there's the problem of rising cost. We spend one and a half times more per person on health care than any other country, but we aren't any healthier for it. This is one of the reasons that insurance premiums have gone up three times faster than wages. It's why so many employers, especially small businesses, are forcing their employers&mdash;employees to pay more for insurance or are dropping their coverage entirely. It's why so many aspiring entrepreneurs cannot afford to open a business in the first place and why American businesses that compete internationally, like our automakers, are at a huge disadvantage. And it's why those of us with health insurance are also paying a hidden and growing tax for those without it, about $1,000 per year that pays for somebody else's emergency room and charitable care.<p>Finally, our health care system is placing an unsustainable burden on taxpayers. When health care costs grow at the rate they have, it puts greater pressure on programs like Medicare and Medicaid. If we do nothing to slow these skyrocketing costs, we will eventually be spending more on Medicare and Medicaid than every other Government program combined. Put simply, our health care problem is our deficit problem. Nothing else even comes close. Nothing else.<p>Now, these are the facts. Nobody disputes them. We know we must reform this system. The question is how. Now, there are those on the left who believe that the only way to fix the system is through a single-payer system like Canada's, where we would severely restrict the private insurance market and have the Government provide coverage for everybody. On the right, there are those who argue that we should end employer-based systems and leave individuals to buy health insurance on their own.<p>I've said&mdash;I have to say that there are arguments to be made for both these approaches. But either one would represent a radical shift that would disrupt the health care most people currently have. Since health care represents one-sixth of our economy, I believe it makes more sense to build on what works and fix what doesn't, rather than try to build an entirely new system from scratch. And that is precisely what those of you in Congress have tried to do over the several&mdash;past several months. <p>During that time, we've seen Washington at its best and at its worst. We've seen many in this Chamber work tirelessly for the better part of this year to offer thoughtful ideas about how to achieve reform. Of the five committees asked to develop bills, four have completed their work, and the Senate Finance Committee announced today that it will move forward next week. That has never happened before. Our overall efforts have been supported by an unprecedented coalition of doctors and nurses, hospitals, seniors' groups, and even drug companies, many of whom opposed reform in the past. And there is agreement in this Chamber on about 80 percent of what needs to be done, putting us closer to the goal of reform than we have ever been.<p>But what we've also seen in these last months is the same partisan spectacle that only hardens the disdain many Americans have towards their own Government. Instead of honest debate, we've seen scare tactics. Some have dug into unyielding ideological camps that offer no hope of compromise. Too many have used this as an opportunity to score short-term political points, even if it robs the country of our opportunity to solve a long-term challenge. And out of this blizzard of charges and countercharges, confusion has reigned.<p>Well, the time for bickering is over. The time for games has passed. Now is the season for action. Now is when we must bring the best ideas of both parties together and show the American people that we can still do what we were sent here to do. Now is the time to deliver on health care. Now is the time to deliver on health care.<p>The plan I'm announcing tonight would meet three basic goals: It will provide more security and stability to those who have health insurance; it will provide insurance for those who don't; and it will slow the growth of health care costs for our families, our businesses, and our Government. It's a plan that asks everyone to take responsibility for meeting this challenge, not just government, not just insurance companies, but everybody, including employers and individuals. And it's a plan that incorporates ideas from Senators and Congressmen, from Democrats and Republicans, and yes, from some of my opponents in both the primary and general election.<p>Here are the details that every American needs to know about this plan. First, if you are among the hundreds of millions of Americans who already have health insurance through your job or Medicare or Medicaid or the VA, nothing in this plan will require you or your employer to change the coverage or the doctor you have. Let me repeat this: Nothing in our plan requires you to change what you have.<p>What this plan will do is make the insurance you have work better for you. Under this plan, it will be against the law for insurance companies to deny you coverage because of a preexisting condition. As soon as I sign this bill, it will be against the law for insurance companies to drop your coverage when you get sick or water it down when you need it the most. They will no longer be able to place some arbitrary cap on the amount of coverage you can receive in a given year or in a lifetime. We will place a limit on how much you can be charged for out-of-pocket expenses, because in the United States of America, no one should go broke because they get sick. And insurance companies will be required to cover, with no extra charge, routine checkups and preventive care, like mammograms and colonoscopies, because there's no reason we shouldn't be catching diseases like breast cancer and colon cancer before they get worse. That makes sense, it saves money, and it saves lives.<p>Now, that's what Americans who have health insurance can expect from this plan, more security and more stability. Now, if you're one of the tens of millions of Americans who don't currently have health insurance, the second part of this plan will finally offer you quality, affordable choices. If you lose your job or you change your job, you'll be able to get coverage. If you strike out on your own and start a small business, you'll be able to get coverage. We'll do this by creating a new insurance exchange, a marketplace where individuals and small businesses will be able to shop for health insurance at competitive prices. Insurance companies will have an incentive to participate in this exchange because it lets them compete for millions of new customers. As one big group, these customers will have greater leverage to bargain with the insurance companies for better prices and quality coverage. This is how large companies and Government employees get affordable insurance, it's how everyone in this Congress gets affordable insurance, and it's time to give every American the same opportunity that we give ourselves.<p>Now, for those individuals and small businesses who still can't afford the lower priced insurance available in the exchange, we'll provide tax credits, the size of which will be based on your need. And all insurance companies that want access to this new marketplace will have to abide by the consumer protections I already mentioned. This exchange will take effect in 4 years, which will give us time to do it right. In the meantime, for those Americans who can't get insurance today because they have preexisting medical conditions, we will immediately offer low-cost coverage that will protect you against financial ruin if you become seriously ill. This was a good idea when Senator John McCain proposed it in the campaign, it's a good idea now, and we should all embrace it.<p>Now, even if we provide these affordable options, there may be those, especially the young and the healthy, who still want to take the risk and go without coverage. There may still be companies that refuse to do right by their workers by giving them coverage. The problem is, such irresponsible behavior costs all the rest of us money. If there are affordable options and people still don't sign up for health insurance, it means we pay for these people's expensive emergency room visits. If some businesses don't provide workers health care, it forces the rest of us to pick up the tab when their workers get sick and gives those businesses an unfair advantage over their competitors. And unless everybody does their part, many of the insurance reforms we seek, especially requiring insurance companies to cover preexisting conditions, just can't be achieved.<p>And that's why under my plan, individuals will be required to carry basic health insurance, just as most States require you to carry auto insurance. Likewise, businesses will be required to either offer their workers health care or chip in to help cover the cost of their workers. There will be a hardship waiver for those individuals who still can't afford coverage, and 95 percent of all small businesses, because of their size and narrow profit margin, would be exempt from these requirements. But we can't have large businesses and individuals who can afford coverage game the system by avoiding responsibility to themselves or their employees. Improving our health care system only works if everybody does their part.<p>And while there remain some significant details to be ironed out, I believe a broad consensus exists for the aspects of the plan I just outlined: consumer protections for those with insurance, an exchange that allows individuals and small businesses to purchase affordable coverage, and a requirement that people who can afford insurance get insurance.<p>And I have no doubt that these reforms would greatly benefit Americans from all walks of life as well as the economy as a whole. Still, given all the misinformation that's been spread over the past few months, I realize that many Americans have grown nervous about reform. So tonight I want to address some of the key controversies that are still out there.<p>Some of people's concerns have grown out of bogus claims spread by those whose only agenda is to kill reform at any cost. The best example is the claim made not just by radio and cable talk show hosts, but by prominent politicians, that we plan to set up panels of bureaucrats with the power to kill off senior citizens. Now, such a charge would be laughable if it weren't so cynical and irresponsible. It is a lie, plain and simple.<p>Now, there are also those who claim that our reform efforts would insure illegal immigrants. This too is false. The reforms I'm proposing would not apply to those who are here illegally. <p><i>Representative Addison G. \\"Joe\\" Wilson.</i> You lie!<p><i>The President.</i> It's not true. And one more misunderstanding I want to clear up, under our plan, no Federal dollars will be used to fund abortions, and Federal conscience laws will remain in place.<p>Now, my health care proposal has also been attacked by some who oppose reform as a Government takeover of the entire health care system. As proof, critics point to a provision in our plan that allows the uninsured and small businesses to choose a publicly sponsored insurance option, administered by the Government just like Medicaid or Medicare.<p>So let me set the record straight here. My guiding principle is, and always has been, that consumers do better when there is choice and competition. That's how the market works. Unfortunately, in 34 States, 75 percent of the insurance market is controlled by 5 or fewer companies. In Alabama, almost 90 percent is controlled by just one company. And without competition, the price of insurance goes up and quality goes down. And it makes it easier for insurance companies to treat their customers badly by cherry-picking the healthiest individuals and trying to drop the sickest, by overcharging small businesses who have no leverage, and by jacking up rates.<p>Insurance executives don't do this because they're bad people; they do it because it's profitable. As one former insurance executive testified before Congress, insurance companies are not only encouraged to find reasons to drop the seriously ill, they are rewarded for it. All of this is in service of meeting what this former executive called \\"Wall Street's relentless profit expectations.\\"<p>Now, I have no interest in putting insurance companies out of business. They provide a legitimate service and employ a lot of our friends and neighbors. I just want to hold them accountable. And the insurance reforms that I've already mentioned would do just that. But an additional step we can take to keep insurance companies honest is by making a not-for-profit public option available in the insurance exchange. Now, let me be clear. Let me be clear. It would only be an option for those who don't have insurance. No one would be forced to choose it, and it would not impact those of you who already have insurance. In fact, based on Congressional Budget Office estimates, we believe that less than 5 percent of Americans would sign up.<p>Despite all this, the insurance companies and their allies don't like this idea. They argue that these private companies can't fairly compete with the Government. And they'd be right if taxpayers were subsidizing this public insurance option. But they won't be. I've insisted that like any private insurance company, the public insurance option would have to be self-sufficient and rely on the premiums it collects. But by avoiding some of the overhead that gets eaten up at private companies by profits and excessive administrative costs and executive salaries, it could provide a good deal for consumers and would also keep pressure on private insurers to keep their policies affordable and treat their customers better, the same way public colleges and universities provide additional choice and competition to students without in any way inhibiting a vibrant system of private colleges and universities.<p>Now, it's worth noting that a strong majority of Americans still favor a public insurance option of the sort I've proposed tonight. But its impact shouldn't be exaggerated by the left or the right or the media. It is only one part of my plan and shouldn't be used as a handy excuse for the usual Washington ideological battles. To my progressive friends, I would remind you that for decades, the driving idea behind reform has been to end insurance company abuses and make coverage available for those without it. The public option is only a means to that end, and we should remain open to other ideas that accomplish our ultimate goal. And to my Republican friends, I say that rather than making wild claims about a Government takeover of health care, we should work together to address any legitimate concerns you may have.<p>Now, for example, some have suggested that the public option go into effect only in those markets where insurance companies are not providing affordable policies. Others have proposed a co-op or another nonprofit entity to administer the plan. These are all constructive ideas worth exploring. But I will not back down on the basic principle that if Americans can't find affordable coverage, we will provide you with a choice. And I will make sure that no Government bureaucrat or insurance company bureaucrat gets between you and the care that you need.<p>Finally, let me discuss an issue that is a great concern to me, to Members of this Chamber, and to the public, and that's how we pay for this plan. And here's what you need to know. First, I will not sign a plan that adds one dime to our deficits, either now or in the future. I will not sign it if it adds one dime to the deficit, now or in the future, period. And to prove that I'm serious, there will be a provision in this plan that requires us to come forward with more spending cuts if the savings we've promised don't materialize. Now, part of the reason I faced a trillion-dollar deficit when I walked in the door of the White House is because too many initiatives over the last decade were not paid for, from the Iraq war to tax breaks for the wealthy. I will not make that same mistake with health care.<p>Second, we've estimated that most of this plan can be paid for by finding savings within the existing health care system, a system that is currently full of waste and abuse. Right now too much of the hard-earned savings and tax dollars we spend on health care don't make us any healthier. That's not my judgment; it's the judgment of medical professionals across this country. And this is also true when it comes to Medicare and Medicaid.<p>In fact, I want to speak directly to seniors for a moment, because Medicare is another issue that's been subjected to demagoguery and distortion during the course of this debate. More than four decades ago, this Nation stood up for the principle that after a lifetime of hard work, our seniors should not be left to struggle with a pile of medical bills in their later years. That's how Medicare was born, and it remains a sacred trust that must be passed down from one generation to the next. And that is why not a dollar of the Medicare trust fund will be used to pay for this plan.<p>The only thing this plan would eliminate is the hundreds of billions of dollars in waste and fraud as well as unwarranted subsidies in Medicare that go to insurance companies, subsidies that do everything to pad their profits but don't improve the care of seniors. And we will also create an independent commission of doctors and medical experts charged with identifying more waste in the years ahead.<p>Now, these steps will ensure that you, America's seniors, get the benefits you've been promised. They will ensure that Medicare is there for future generations. And we can use some of the savings to fill the gap in coverage that forces too many seniors to pay thousands of dollars a year out of their own pockets for prescription drugs. That's what this plan will do for you. So don't pay attention to those scary stories about how your benefits will be cut, especially since some of the same folks who are spreading these tall tales have fought against Medicare in the past and just this year supported a budget that would essentially have turned Medicare into a privatized voucher program. That will not happen on my watch. I will protect Medicare.<p>Now, because Medicare is such a big part of the health care system, making the program more efficient can help usher in changes in the way we deliver health care that can reduce costs for everybody. We have long known that some places, like the Intermountain Healthcare in Utah or the Geisinger Health System in rural Pennsylvania, offer high-quality care at costs below average. So the commission can help encourage the adoption of these commonsense best practices by doctors and medical professionals throughout the system, everything from reducing hospital infection rates to encouraging better coordination between teams of doctors.<p>Reducing the waste and inefficiency in Medicare and Medicaid will pay for most of this plan. Now, much of the rest would be paid for with revenues from the very same drug and insurance companies that stand to benefit from tens of millions of new customers. And this reform will charge insurance companies a fee for their most expensive policies, which will encourage them to provide greater value for the money, an idea which has the support of Democratic and Republican experts. And according to these same experts, this modest change could help hold down the costs of health care for all of us in the long run.<p>Now, finally, many in this Chamber, particularly on the Republican side of the aisle, have long insisted that reforming our medical malpractice laws can help bring down the cost of health care. Now&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;there you go. There you go. Now, I don't believe malpractice reform is a silver bullet, but I've talked to enough doctors to know that defensive medicine may be contributing to unnecessary costs. So I'm proposing that we move forward on a range of ideas about how to put patient safety first and let doctors focus on practicing medicine. I know that the Bush administration considered authorizing demonstration projects in individual States to test these ideas. I think it's a good idea, and I'm directing my Secretary of Health and Human Services to move forward on this initiative today.<p>Now, add it all up, and the plan I'm proposing will cost around $900 billion over 10 years, less than we have spent on the Iraq and Afghanistan wars and less than the tax cuts for the wealthiest few Americans that Congress passed at the beginning of the previous administration. Now, most of these costs will be paid for with money already being spent, but spent badly, in the existing health care system. The plan will not add to our deficit. The middle class will realize greater security, not higher taxes. And if we are able to slow the growth of health care costs by just one-tenth of 1 percent each year&mdash;one-tenth of 1 percent&mdash;it will actually reduce the deficit by $4 trillion over the long term.<p>Now, this is the plan I'm proposing. It's a plan that incorporates ideas from many of the people in this room tonight, Democrats and Republicans. And I will continue to seek common ground in the weeks ahead. If you come to me with a serious set of proposals, I will be there to listen. My door is always open.<p>But know this: I will not waste time with those who have made the calculation that it's better politics to kill this plan than to improve it. I won't stand by while the special interests use the same old tactics to keep things exactly the way they are. If you misrepresent what's in this plan, we will call you out. And I will not accept the status quo as a solution. Not this time. Not now.<p>Everyone in this room knows what will happen if we do nothing. Our deficit will grow, more families will go bankrupt, more businesses will close, more Americans will lose their coverage when they are sick and need it the most, and more will die as a result. We know these things to be true.<p>That is why we cannot fail, because there are too many Americans counting on us to succeed, the ones who suffer silently and the ones who share their stories with us at town halls, in e-mails, and in letters. I received one of those letters a few days ago. It was from our beloved friend and colleague Ted Kennedy. He had written it back in May, shortly after he was told that his illness was terminal. He asked that it be delivered upon his death.<p>In it he spoke about what a happy time his last months were, thanks to the love and support of family and friends, his wife Vicki, his amazing children, who are all here tonight. And he expressed confidence that this would be the year that health care reform, \\"that great unfinished business of our society,\\" he called it, would finally pass. He repeated the truth that health care is decisive for our future prosperity, but he also reminded me that \\"it concerns more than material things.\\" \\"What we face,\\" he wrote, \\"is above all a moral issue; at stake are not just the details of policy, but fundamental principles of social justice and the character of our country.\\"<p>I've thought about that phrase quite a bit in recent days&mdash;the character of our country. One of the unique and wonderful things about America has always been our self-reliance, our rugged individualism, our fierce defense of freedom, and our healthy skepticism of government. And figuring out the appropriate size and role of government has always been a source of rigorous and, yes, sometimes angry, debate. That's our history.<p>For some of Ted Kennedy's critics, his brand of liberalism represented an affront to American liberty. In their minds, his passion for universal health care was nothing more than a passion for big Government. But those of us who knew Teddy and worked with him here, people of both parties, know that what drove him was something more. His friend Orrin Hatch, he knows that. They worked together to provide children with health insurance. His friend John McCain knows that. They worked together on a patient's bill of rights. His friend Chuck Grassley knows that. They worked together to provide health care to children with disabilities.<p>On issues like these, Ted Kennedy's passion was born not of some rigid ideology, but of his own experience. It was the experience of having two children stricken with cancer. He never forgot the sheer terror and helplessness that any parent feels when a child is badly sick. And he was able to imagine what it must be like for those without insurance, what it would be like to have to say to a wife or a child or an aging parent, there is something that could make you better, but I just can't afford it.<p>That large-heartedness, that concern and regard for the plight of others, is not a partisan feeling; it's not a Republican or a Democratic feeling. It too is part of the American character, our ability to stand in other people's shoes, a recognition that we are all in this together, and when fortune turns against one of us, others are there to lend a helping hand, a belief that in this country, hard work and responsibility should be rewarded by some measure of security and fair play, and an acknowledgment that sometimes government has to step in to help deliver on that promise.<p>This has always been the history of our progress. In 1935, when over half of our seniors could not support themselves and millions had seen their savings wiped away, there were those who argued that Social Security would lead to socialism, but the men and women of Congress stood fast, and we are all the better for it. In 1965, when some argued that Medicare represented a Government takeover of health care, Members of Congress, Democrats and Republicans, did not back down. They joined together so that all of us could enter our golden years with some basic peace of mind.<p>You see, our predecessors understood that government could not, and should not, solve every problem. They understood that there are instances when the gains in security from government action are not worth the added constraints on our freedom. But they also understood that the danger of too much government is matched by the perils of too little, that without the leavening hand of wise policy, markets can crash, monopolies can stifle competition, the vulnerable can be exploited. And they knew that when any government measure, no matter how carefully crafted or beneficial, is subject to scorn, when any efforts to help people in need are attacked as un-American, when facts and reason are thrown overboard and only timidity passes for wisdom, and we can no longer even engage in a civil conversation with each other over the things that truly matter, that at that point, we don't merely lose our capacity to solve big challenges, we lose something essential about ourselves.<p>That was true then; it remains true today. I understand how difficult this health care debate has been. I know that many in this country are deeply skeptical that government is looking out for them. I understand that the politically safe move would be to kick the can further down the road, to defer reform one more year or one more election or one more term.<p>But that is not what the moment calls for. That's not what we came here to do. We did not come to fear the future. We came here to shape it. I still believe we can act even when it's hard. I still believe. I still believe that we can act when it's hard. I still believe we can replace acrimony with civility and gridlock with progress. I still believe we can do great things and that here and now we will meet history's test, because that's who we are. That is our calling. That is our character.<p>Thank you, God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"249" "\"Thank you very much. Thank you.<p>To Chip, Kathy, and Nancy, who graciously shared your father with a nation that loved him; to Walter's friends, colleagues, proteges, and all who considered him a hero; to the men of the <i>Intrepid</i>; to all of you who are gathered here today: I am honored to be here to pay tribute to the life and times of the man who chronicled our time.<p>I did not know Mr. Cronkite personally, and my regret is made more acute by the stories that have been shared here today. Nor, for that matter, did I know him any better than the tens of millions who turned to him each night in search of the answer to a simple question: What happened today? But like them and like all of you, I have benefited as a citizen from his dogged pursuit of the truth, his passionate defense of objective reporting, and his view that journalism is more than just a profession; it is a public good vital to our democracy.<p>Even in his early career, Walter Cronkite resisted the temptation to get the story first in favor of getting it right. He wanted to get it first, but he understood the importance of getting it right. During one of his first jobs in Kansas City, Walter's program manager urged him to go on the air reporting a massive blaze&mdash;and we just heard how much he loved fires&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;a massive blaze at city hall that had already claimed lives. When Walter reached for the telephone, his boss asked, \\"What are you doing? Get on the air!\\" Walter replied that he was calling the fire department to confirm the story. \\"You don't need to confirm it,\\" the manager shouted, \\"my wife's watching the whole thing!\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Needless to say, Walter made the call, and even as the program manager took the air himself to broadcast the unfolding tragedy, Walter discovered that it had been nothing more than a small fire that hadn't resulted in any injuries. He lost his job, but he got the story right.<p>Walter wasn't afraid to rattle the high and the mighty, but he never dared to compromise his integrity. He got along with elected officials, even if they were wary of one another's motives. One politician once remarked, \\"Walter, my friend, you've got to believe me; fully 85 percent of everything I told you today is the absolute truth.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>He shared a complicated relationship with Presidents of both parties, who wanted him on their side even as they were convinced that he wasn't. President Johnson called Walter after the evening news from time to time to voice his displeasure over a certain story. But Walter knew that if he was receiving vociferous complaints from both sides, he must be doing his job.<p>His endless inquisitiveness about our world, I can imagine, came from a mother who sold encyclopedias for a living. As a boy, Walter spent countless hours getting lost within their pages, endlessly sidetracked by new and interesting entries that branched off from one another, fascinated by the world around us and how it worked.<p>And that's the way he lived his life, with curiosity, exploring our planet, seeking to make sense of it, and explaining it to others. He went everywhere, and he did everything. He raced cars and boats; he traveled everywhere from the Amazon to the Arctic; he plunged 8,000 feet below the sea, trekked 18,000 feet up into the Himalayas, and experienced weightlessness in the upper reaches of our atmosphere, all with one mission: to make it come alive for the rest of us.<p>And as our world began to change, he helped us understand those changes. He was forever there, reporting through World War and cold war, marches and milestones, scandal and success, calmly and authoritatively telling us what we needed to know. He was a voice of certainty in a world that was growing more and more uncertain. And through it all, he never lost the integrity or the plain-spoken speaking style that he gained growing up in the heartland. He was a familiar and welcome voice that spoke to each and every one of us personally.<p>So it may have seemed inevitable that he was named the most trusted man in America. But here's the thing: That title wasn't bestowed on him by a network. We weren't told to believe it by some advertising campaign. It was earned. It was earned by year after year and decade after decade of painstaking effort, a commitment to fundamental values, his belief that the American people were hungry for the truth, unvarnished and unaccompanied by theater or spectacle. He didn't believe in dumbing down. He trusted us.<p>When he was told of this extraordinary honor that he was the most trusted man in America, he naturally downplayed it by saying the people had not polled his wife. [<i>Laughter</i>] When people of both political parties actually tried to recruit him to run for office, without even asking for his stances on the issues, he said no, to the relief of all potential opponents. And when, even a decade and a half after his retirement, he still ranked first in seven of eight categories for television journalists, he was disbelieving that he hadn't won the eighth category, attractiveness. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Through all the events that came to define the 20th century, through all our moments of deepest hurt and brightest hope, Walter Cronkite was there, telling the story of the American age. And this is how we remember him today. But we also remember and celebrate the journalism that Walter practiced, a standard of honesty and integrity and responsibility to which so many of you have committed your careers. It's a standard that's a little bit harder to find today. We know that this is a difficult time for journalism. Even as appetites for news and information grow, newsrooms are closing. Despite the big stories of our era, serious journalists find themselves all too often without a beat. Just as the news cycle has shrunk, so has the bottom line.<p>And too often, we fill that void with instant commentary and celebrity gossip and the softer stories that Walter disdained, rather than the hard news and investigative journalism he championed. \\"What happened today?\\" is replaced with \\"Who won today?\\" The public debate cheapens. The public trust falters. We fail to understand our world or one another as well as we should, and that has real consequences in our own lives and in the life of our Nation. We seem stuck with a choice between what cuts to our bottom line and what harms us as a society. Which price is higher to pay? Which cost is harder to bear?<p>\\"This democracy,\\" Walter said, \\"cannot function without a reasonably well informed electorate.\\" That's why the honest, objective, meticulous reporting that so many of you pursue with the same zeal that Walter did is so vital to our democracy and our society. Our future depends on it.<p>Now, Walter was no naive idealist. He understood the challenges and the pressures and the temptations facing journalism in this new era. He believed that a media company has an obligation to pursue a profit, but also an obligation to invest a good chunk of that profit back into news and public affairs. He was excited about all the stories that a high-tech world of journalism would be able to tell and all the newly emerging means with which to tell it.<p>Naturally, we find ourselves wondering how he would have covered the monumental stories of our time. In an era where the news that city hall is on fire can sweep around the world at the speed of the Internet, would he still have called to doublecheck? Would he have been able to cut through the murky noise of the blogs and the tweets and the sound bites to shine the bright light on substance? Could he still offer the perspective that we value? Would he have been able to remain a singular figure in an age of dwindling attention spans and omnipresent media?<p>And somehow, we know that the answer is yes. The simple values Walter Cronkite set out in pursuit of&mdash;to seek the truth, to keep us honest, to explore our world the best he could&mdash;they are as vital today as they ever were.<p>Our American story continues. It needs to be told. And if we choose to live up to Walter's example, if we realize that the kind of journalism he embodied will not simply rekindle itself as part of a natural cycle, but will come alive only if we stand up and demand it and resolve to value it once again, then I'm convinced that the choice between profit and progress is a false one and that the golden days of journalism still lie ahead.<p>Walter Cronkite invited a nation to believe in him, and he never betrayed that trust. That's why so many of you entered the profession in the first place, that's why the standards he set for journalists still stand, and that's why he loved and valued all of you. But we loved and valued Walter not only as the rarest of men, but as an indispensable pillar of our society.<p>He's reunited with his beloved Betsy now, watching the stories of this century unfold with boundless optimism, every so often punctuating the air with a gleeful \\"Oh, boy!\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] We are grateful to him for altering and illuminating our time and for the opportunity he gave to us to say that, yes, we too were there.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"250" "\"<i>The President. </i>Thank you. Please, everybody, have a seat.<p>First of all, I'm sorry to keep you guys waiting. I&mdash;the&mdash;I have all these things I've got to do&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;as President. This is by far the most fun thing that I'm doing today. So welcome to the White House. We are extraordinarily pleased to have the world champion Pittsburgh Penguins with their third Stanley Cup.<p>Just a couple of acknowledgements in the house: Pittsburgh mayor, Luke Ravenstahl&mdash;where's Luke? Where's the mayor? I thought he was around here. Well, he should be. [<i>Laughter</i>] Senator Bob Casey&mdash;is he around? Come on, Bob Casey; Senator Arlen Specter in the house; Representative Mike Doyle&mdash;I know he's a fan; Representative Jason Altmire; Representative Chris Carney; Representative Tim Murphy; and Representative Glenn Thompson. And even though he's from Iowa, this guy grew up in Pittsburgh, is still a fanatic, and that is Secretary Tom Vilsack, Agricultural Secretary.<p>I have to say all of you look pretty good without your playoff beards. They're pretty good looking guys without all that. [<i>Laughter</i>] I want to congratulate all the fans back home who made Mellon Arena such a tough place for visiting teams this year. With the Steelers and the Penguins, I guess it's a good time to be a sports fan in Pittsburgh.<p>I was complaining about this&mdash;it's been a while since Chicago won anything, coach. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I'm not happy about that. But as many of you know, I have a special place in my heart for Pittsburgh, and so if it can't be the Blackhawks, then the Penguins aren't a bad choice.<p>The last time this team was here was during the playoffs against the Washington Capitals. It was a hard fought series, but it showed everybody how enthusiastic our hockey fans are also here in the Nation's Capital.<p>I want to thank Coach Dan for being here. Not only did Dan win the Stanley Cup in his first season as head coach&mdash;that does not happen very often&mdash;but he also brought a new sense of purpose and excitement to the team and made sure his players had a little fun along the way.<p>Having Mario Lemieux here is a pretty big deal. He won a couple of these trophies as a player, but this is his first as an owner, and he's still got a big smile on his face, so I guess it feels pretty good this way too.<p>I want to thank Willie O'Ree for joining us. Willie is a hockey pioneer in his own right, who has worked tirelessly to make sure kids from every background can learn the lessons that hockey has to offer. So we are grateful to you, sir. Please give him a big round of applause.<p>And this team would not be here without two of its youngest members. So first of all, I want to congratulate Sidney Crosby on becoming the youngest captain in history to win the Stanley Cup and Evgeni Malkin for being the third-youngest player ever to be named playoff MVP.<p>You know, we've had a lot of championship teams visit the White House&mdash;I've seen a lot of trophies&mdash;there is something special about the Stanley Cup, other than it just being really big. [<i>Laughter</i>] Winning this trophy takes a whole new level of sacrifice. It takes a group of players who can persevere through injuries and pain and setbacks and seven game series. Above all, it takes a team that is willing to stick together, because nobody wins the Stanley Cup on their own.<p>And that's why, after the last buzzer sounded back in June, these players took the Cup on the road to say thank you to all the people who helped get them here. They took it on fishing trips and stopped by neighborhood barbeques; they visited elementary schools and brightened the days of children who were in hospitals. I think this Cup has even held a baby or two. So this is a team that understands that being a champion doesn't end when you step off the ice.<p>Service is a way of life for these players back in Pittsburgh. Earlier today, Willie and the guys put on a clinic for kids here at Fort Dupont as part of our United We Serve summer of service. And besides teaching the kids a few moves, they stressed the importance of staying in school and leading active and healthy lifestyles. I understand we've got some of those young players from Washington, DC, and Pittsburgh here with us; go ahead and wave, guys. There you go.<p>And that's what the Stanley Cup is all about, not just having your names engraved alongside the best players in history, but also giving back to others along the way. And this spirit of service helps to strengthen our communities, it strengthens our country, and I know this team gets a lot in return for it as well.<p>So I want again to just say congratulations for your outstanding season, for not just your athleticism, but also your sportsmanship. Coach, we're very proud of you. Thank you very much.<p><i>Dan </i><i>Bylsma</i>. Mr. President, it's certainly an honor and a privilege to receive the invitation to come here today, and the hospitality you showed our team and our families and the organization, it was very gracious, and we appreciate it very much. And on behalf of all the people in our organization, but especially the players behind me, we'd like to present you with a jersey&mdash;our captain, Sidney&mdash;&mdash;<p><i>The President. </i>This is what I'm talking about. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Can I just make one more point? Sidney must be really fast because there are some big hockey players, and he's not one of them. [<i>Laughter</i>] But you know, he's got some speed and some skill. So thank you everybody. We are thrilled&mdash;can we get a picture with the Cup in the background here?\" "
"251" "\"All righty. Hey, guys. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. It is good to be with all of you. Please sit down, everybody. [<i>Laughter</i>] It is just great to be with nurses again. It is great to be with Becky. I want to acknowledge&mdash;I want to make sure I get them in order&mdash;Nate; this is Linda; and that is Sonia. Right? I got it right? And I want to thank all of them for appearing with us today. And I want to also acknowledge Dr. Mary Wakefield, our Health Resources and Services Administrator, our highest ranking nurse in the administration.<p>Thank you, Becky, for your leadership on behalf of nurses. And I want to just thank you for leading an extraordinary organization: the American Nurses Association. I was mentioning to Becky the first time we met that when I was in the State legislature, I was the chairman of the health and human services committee, and one of my strongest allies in Springfield, Illinois, in the State capital there, was the Nurses Association. And we did a lot of work together to make sure that nurses were getting treated properly, were getting paid properly, getting the overtime they needed, getting time off that they needed, getting the ratios that they needed.<p>And so I've got a wonderful history working side by side with all of you to make sure that we've got the best health care system in the world. And as a consequence, I want to say thank you for all the support you're providing for health insurance reform for the American people. I am so pleased to be joined by all of you. And I've said it before, and I will say it again: I just love nurses. I don't know what it is. I love nurses. Michelle knows about it. It's okay. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'll never forget how compassionate, how professional, and how dedicated nurses have been to Michelle and I when we needed them most.<p>And when our daughters were born, one of our best friends was&mdash;is an ob-gyn, and she presided over the delivery. But the truth of the matter is, we only saw her for 10 minutes. [<i>Laughter</i>] That was it. This was one of our best friends. [<i>Laughter</i>] The rest of the time we spent with nurses who not only eased the nerves of an anxious father but made sure Michelle was doing all right, cared for our newborn babies.<p>When our youngest daughter, Sasha, was diagnosed with meningitis when she was just 3 months old, it was one of the scariest moments of my life. And we had to have a spinal tap administered, and she ended up being in the hospital for 3 or 4 days. And it was touch and go; we didn't know whether she'd be permanently affected by it. It was the nurses who walked us through what was happening and made sure that Sasha was okay.<p>So that continues in joy of birth, but also, obviously, in tougher times. When my mother passed away from cancer, when my grandmother passed away, each time nurses were there to provide extraordinary care, but also extraordinary support. And so I'm thankful for that.<p>And as a father and as a son and a grandson, I will forever be in debt to the women and men of your profession. And I know that millions of other families feel the same way. You're the bedrock of our medical profession. You're on the frontlines of health care in small clinics and in large hospitals, in rural towns and big cities all across this country.<p>So few people understand as well as you why today's health care system so badly needs reform. One&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;now, one part of the problem is the uninsured. And this morning, the Census Bureau released new data showing not only that the poverty rate increased last year at the highest rate since the early 1990s, but also that the number of uninsured rose in 2008. And we know from more up-to-date surveys that since the recession intensified last September, the situation's grown worse. Over the last 12 months, it's estimated that the ranks of the uninsured have swelled by nearly 6 million people; that's 17,000 men and women every single day. And we know that during this period of time, the number of adults who get their coverage at the workplace has dropped by 8 million people.<p>But I don't have to tell you about all the problems plaguing the health care system and the fact that they don't just affect the uninsured. Most Americans do have insurance and have never had less security and stability than they do right now. Because they're subject to the whims of health insurance companies, many people fear that they'll lose their health insurance if they move or if they lose their job, they change jobs, or that insurance just won't cover them when they need it the most. Because insurance companies can deny coverage if a person has a preexisting condition, many people fear they won't be covered when they get sick. Because there's no cap on how much a person can pay in out-of-pocket expenses each year, many others fear that a single illness will lead them into financial ruin even if they have insurance.<p>And I&mdash;every day I get letters from people. I just got a letter 2 days ago from a woman who had been changing jobs, had just gone to sign up for her new Blue Cross Blue Shield policy, but in January, before she had taken her new job, she had felt a lump and had been referred to do a mammogram and found out, unfortunately, she had breast cancer. Well, the new insurance policy just said, this is a preexisting condition; won't cover it. She now owes $250,000.<p>This happens all the time all across the country. You see it every day. It is heartbreaking, it is wrong, and as I said last night, nobody should be treated that way in the United States of America, nobody.<p>So the reason I need nurses so badly is because now is the time to act, and I will not permit reform to be postponed or imperiled by the usual ideological diversions or&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]. We don't need more partisan distractions. If there are real concerns about any aspect of my plan, then let's address them. If there are real differences, let's resolve them. But we have talked this issue to death, year after year, decade after decade. And the time for talk is winding down; the time for bickering has passed. We're not the first generation to take up this cause, but we can and have to be the last.<p>So just in case folks weren't tuned in last night&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;if they were watching \\"So You Think You Can Dance\\"&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;a show Michelle likes, by the way&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;let me explain&mdash;just explain, more briefly than I did last night, what health insurance reform will mean for ordinary Americans. Simply put, it will mean that as folks go about their everyday lives, one thing they won't have to worry about as much is their health care. It will provide more security and stability to those who have health insurance. It will provide insurance to those who don't and slow the growth of health care costs for our families, our businesses, and our Government.<p>Now, for the hundreds of millions of Americans who have health insurance, nothing in this plan will require you or your employer to change the coverage or the doctor you have. Nothing will change for you if you have insurance. Nothing in the plan will require any changes. What this plan will do is make the insurance you have work better for you, will put in place strong consumer protections that will make it illegal for insurance companies to deny a person coverage on the basis of a preexisting condition.<p>We will make sure that we place a limit on how much folks have to pay for out-of-pocket expenses. For the tens of millions of Americans who are uninsured, we'll create a new insurance exchange, a marketplace where uninsured Americans and small businesses can choose health insurance at competitive prices from a different&mdash;a number of different options.<p>And by pooling the uninsured and small businesses together as one big group, we give insurance companies an incentive to participate and give consumers leverage to bargain for better prices and quality coverage. And as I've said from the outset, and repeated last night, one way to give people a real choice when it comes to their health care and keep insurance companies honest is by making one of the options available in such a marketplace a non-for-profit public option.<p>But let me just repeat, because this is the source of the rumor that we're plotting some Government takeover of health care&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;it would just be one option among many. No one would be forced to choose it. And everybody believes that the vast majority of people will still be getting their insurance through private insurance.<p>Add it all up, and the plan I'm proposing will cost around $900 billion over 10 years, $90 billion a year. That's real money. But it's far less than we've spent on the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. And it's less than the tax cuts for the wealthiest few Americans that Congress passed at the beginning of the previous administration. The cost of this plan will not add to our deficit. The middle class will be rewarded with greater security, not higher taxes. And if we're able to slow the growth of health care costs by just a fraction of 1 percent each year, we will actually reduce the deficit by $4 trillion over the long term.<p>And by the way, when we stop spending money on things that don't improve quality, then we can start spending money on things that do improve quality, which means, for example, that we can start paying our nursing professors more money to train more nurses so that we can actually have the kind of quality care that we need. Just one example, a random example that I chose. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now, amid all the chatter and the noise on radio and TV, with all the falsehoods that are promoted by not just talk show hosts, but sometimes prominent politicians, sometimes it can be easy to lose sight of what the debate over reform is all about. It's about stories like the one told by an oncology nurse named Theresa Brown. A few weeks ago, Theresa wrote a blog post about a patient of hers. He was in his sixties, a recent grandfather, a Steelers fan, spent the last 3 months of his life worrying about mounting medical bills. And she wrote: \\"My patient thought he had planned well for his health care needs. He just never thought he would wake up one day with a diagnosis of leukemia. But which of us does?\\" she asked. And then she wrote: \\"That's why we need health care reform.\\"<p>Nurses, that's why we need health care reform. I am absolutely confident that if you continue to do your part&mdash;nurses, you guys have a lot of credibility; you touch a lot of people's lives; people trust you&mdash;if you're out there saying, it's time for us to act, we need to go ahead and make a change, if all of us do our parts, not just here in Washington but all across the country, then we will bid farewell to the days when our health care system was a source of worry to families and a drag on our economy, and America will finally join the ranks of every other advanced nation by providing quality, affordable health insurance to all of its citizens. That's our goal. We are going to meet it this year with your help.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"252" "\"Secretary Gates, Admiral Mullen, and members of the Armed Forces, fellow Americans, family and friends of those that we lost this day: Michelle and I are deeply humbled to be with you. Eight Septembers have come and gone. Nearly 3,000 days have passed&mdash;almost one for each of those taken from us&mdash;but no turning of the seasons can diminish the pain and the loss of that day. No passage of time and no dark skies can ever dull the meaning of this moment. <p>So on this solemn day, at this sacred hour, once more we pause. Once more we pray as a nation and as a people, in city streets where our two towers were turned to ashes and dust, in a quiet field where a plane fell from the sky, and here, where a single stone of this building is still blackened by the fires.<p>We remember with reverence the lives we lost. We read their names; we press their photos to our hearts. And on this day that marks their death, we recall the beauty and meaning of their lives, men and women and children of every color and every creed, from across our Nation and from more than 100 others. They were innocent. Harming no one, they went about their daily lives. Gone in a horrible instant, they now \\"dwell in the House of the Lord forever.\\"<p>We honor all those who gave their lives so that others might live and all the survivors who battled burns and wounds and helped each other rebuild their lives, men and women who gave life to that most simple of rules: I am my brother's keeper; I am my sister's keeper. <p>We pay tribute to the service of a new generation, young Americans raised in a time of peace and plenty who saw their Nation in its hour of need and said, \\"I choose to serve. I will do my part.\\" And once more we grieve. For you and your families, no words can ease the ache of your heart, no deeds can fill the empty places in your homes. But on this day and all that follow, you may find solace in the memory of those you loved, and know that you have the unending support of the American people.<p>Scripture teaches us a hard truth: The mountains may fall and the Earth may give way; the flesh and the heart may fail. But after all our suffering, God and grace will \\"restore you and make you strong, firm, and steadfast.\\" So it is, so it has been for these families, so it must be for our Nation.<p>Let us renew our resolve against those who perpetrated this barbaric act and who plot against us still. In defense of our Nation, we will never waver; in pursuit of Al Qaida and its extremist allies, we will never falter. <p>Let us renew our commitment to all those who serve in our defense, our courageous men and women in uniform and their families and all those who protect us here at home. Mindful that the work of protecting America is never finished, we will do everything in our power to keep America safe.<p>Let us renew the true spirit of that day. Not the human capacity for evil, but the human capacity for good. Not the desire to destroy, but the impulse to save and to serve and to build. On this first National Day of Service and Remembrance, we can summon once more that ordinary goodness of America to serve our communities, to strengthen our country, and to better our world. <p>Most of all, on a day when others sought to sap our confidence, let us renew our common purpose. Let us remember how we came together as one Nation, as one people, as Americans, united not only in our grief, but in our resolve to stand with one another, to stand up for the country we all love. <p>This may be the greatest lesson of this day, the strongest rebuke to those who attacked us, the highest tribute to those taken from us, that such sense of purpose need not be a fleeting moment. It can be a lasting virtue. For through their own lives and through you, the loved ones that they left behind, the men and women who lost their lives 8 years ago today leave a legacy that still shines brightly in the darkness and that calls on all of us to be strong and firm and united. That is our calling today and in all the Septembers still to come.<p>May God bless you and comfort you. And may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"253" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Minnesota! Hello, Minneapolis! Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Are you fired up? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can!<p><i>The President.</i> Thank you. Thank you, everybody. All right, all right. Thank you. Everybody take a seat. Take a seat. Great to see you. It is good to see you all. It's good to be back in Minnesota.<p>Now, before I do anything else, I want to get to some very important news. I hear the Gophers have their home opener in their brand new stadium a little later today. I want to make sure you know I wish the Gophers luck. But they are playing Air Force, and I have to fly back home on one of their planes in a few hours. [<i>Laughter</i>] So I got to be careful about what I say.<p>We've got some wonderful people who are here today with me, and I just want to make some special acknowledgments. First of all, your two outstanding Senators, Senator Amy Klobuchar and Senator Al Franken, are in the house. My great friend who was part of the Obama for President movement before I decided to run for President, R.T. Rybak, mayor of Minneapolis, is in the house. The mayor of the great city of St. Paul, Chris Coleman, is in the house. Your attorney general, Lori Swanson, is in the house. Your State auditor, Rebecca Otto, is here. And one of the finest public servants in the country, my Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius, is here.<p>Also, the biggest Obama fan in the country is in the house. Love this guy. Michelle has a picture where she looks like Sasha next to this guy. [<i>Laughter</i>] He's a great supporter, and it's great to see you again.<p>You know, I don't know if any of you caught it on television&mdash;you may have been watching \\"So You Think You Can Dance\\"&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;but&mdash;Michelle loves that show, by the way&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;but the other night, I gave a speech to Congress about health care. And I have to say, I can already see that this crowd is a lot more fun. [<i>Laughter</i>] But listen, I didn't go to Congress to&mdash;just to speak to Senators or Representatives; I went to speak on behalf of the American people. Because, you see, I ran for this office because I believed it was time for a Government that once again made possible the dreams of middle class Americans&mdash;that we're looking out for ordinary people&mdash;a Government that understands the quiet struggles that you wrestle with at the kitchen table when you're going through all the bills, or when you're lying awake at night at the end of a long day and trying to figure out what you're going to do about health care for your children or what you're going to do about the situation with your mortgage; worrying about how stable your job is and what's happening with the economy; seniors who are worrying about their retirement security.<p>You know and I know that health care is one of those fundamental struggles, because if you're one of the tens of millions of Americans who have no health insurance, you live every day just one accident or illness away from bankruptcy. And contrary to some of the myths out there, these aren't primarily people who are deep in poverty. A lot of those folks are on Medicaid. These are people who are working every day; these are middle class Americans. Maybe your employer doesn't offer coverage. Maybe you're self-employed and you can't afford it because it costs you three times more in the marketplace than it does for big companies. Maybe you're one of the millions of Americans who's denied coverage because of a previous illness or condition, no fault of your own, but insurance companies decide it's too risky or too expensive for you to cover.<p>In the last 12 months alone, 6 million more Americans lost their health insurance&mdash;6 million more. Today we received more disturbing news. A new report from the Treasury Department found that nearly half of all Americans under 65 will lose their health coverage at some point over the next 10 years.<p><i>Audience members. </i>Boo!<p><i>The President. </i>Think about that. More than one-third will go out&mdash;go without coverage for longer than 1 year.<p><i>Audience member.</i> We got to do something.<p><i>The President.</i> We got to do something. We've got to do something because it can happen to anyone. There but for the grace of God go I. It could happen to anyone.<p>But I don't need to tell you that our health care problems don't stop with the uninsured. How many of you who have insurance have ever worried that you might lose it if you lost your jobs or you changed jobs or you had to move? How many stories have you heard about folks whose insurance company decided to drop their coverage or water it down when they get sick and need it the most? How many of you know somebody who paid their premiums every month only to find out that their insurance company wouldn't cover the full cost of their care like they thought they would get?<p>We've all heard these stories. There's the father I met in Colorado whose child was diagnosed with severe hemophilia the day after he was born. Now, they had insurance, but there was a cap on their coverage. So once the child's medical bills began to pile up, the father was left to frantically search for another option or face tens of thousands of dollars in medical bills. Another woman from Texas was about to get a double mastectomy when her insurance company canceled her policy because they said she forgot to declare a case of acne&mdash;true story. By the time she had her insurance reinstated, her breast cancer had more than doubled in size. Small-businesspeople&mdash;I got a letter just this week from a small-business man. He said: \\"I don't know what to do. I've always provided health insurance for my families, but here, the attached bill shows that the premiums have gone up 48 percent in the last year, and I think that I'm probably going to have to stop providing health insurance for my employees. I don't want to, but I don't have a choice.\\"<p>These stories are wrong; they are heartbreaking. Nobody should be treated that way in the United States of America, and that's why we're going to bring about change this year. It has now been nearly a century since Teddy Roosevelt first called for health reform. It's been attempted by nearly every President and Congress since. And our failure to get it done, year after year, decade after decade, it has placed a burden on families, on businesses, and on taxpayers, and we can't stand it any longer. We cannot sustain it any longer.<p>If we do nothing, your premiums will continue to rise faster than your wages. If we do nothing, more businesses will close down, fewer will face&mdash;fewer will be able to open in the first place. If we do nothing, we will eventually spend more on Medicare and Medicaid than every other Government program combined. That's not an option for the United States of America. So Minnesota, I may not be the first President to take up the cause of health care reform, but I am determined to be the last. We are going to get it done this year. We are going to get it done this year.<p>The good news&mdash;here's the good news: We are closer now to reform than we've ever been. We've debated this issue for better than a year now. And there's actually some solid agreement on about 80 percent of what needs to be done. That's never happened before. We've got&mdash;our overall efforts have been supported by an unprecedented coalition of doctors and nurses and hospitals and seniors' groups, even drug companies, many of whom were opposed to reform in the past. This time they recognize, you know what, this is not going to be stopped; we've got to get on board.<p>Now, what we've also seen in these last few months is the same partisan spectacle that has left so many of you disappointed in Washington for so long. We've heard scare tactics instead of honest debate. Too many have used this opportunity to score short-term political points instead of working together to solve long-term challenges. I don't know if you agree with me, but I think the time for bickering is over. The time for games has passed. Now is the time for action. Now is the time to deliver on health care for every American.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can!<p><i>The President.</i> Now, because even after the speech, there's been a lot of misinformation out there, I want you to know about this plan that I announced on Wednesday so that when you go talk to your neighbors and your friends, and you're at the water cooler or buying Starbucks or whatever it is that you're doing&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I want you to be able to say to people, here's what's going on.<p>The plan I announced will provide more security and stability to those who have health insurance. It will provide insurance to those who don't. And it will slow the growth of health care costs for our families, our businesses, and our Government.<p>Let me give you some details. First of all, if you're among the hundreds of millions of Americans who already have health insurance through your job, or you've got health insurance through Medicare or Medicaid or the VA, nothing in this plan will require you or your employer to change your coverage or your doctor. All right? I want you to be clear about that. Let me repeat: Nothing in this plan requires you to change what you have if you're happy with it.<p>What this plan will do is to make your insurance work better for you. So under this plan, it will be against the law for insurance companies to deny you coverage because of a preexisting condition. When I sign this bill, it will be against the law for insurance companies to drop your coverage when you get sick or water it down when you need it the most. They will no longer be able to place some arbitrary cap on the amount of coverage you can receive in a given year or a lifetime. We will place a limit on how much you can be charged for out-of-pocket expenses, because in the United States of America, nobody should go broke because they got sick. And insurance companies will be required to cover, at no extra charge, routine checkups and preventive care, like mammograms and colonoscopies, because there's no reason we shouldn't be catching diseases like breast cancer or colon cancer before they get worse. That makes sense, it saves money, it saves lives.<p>Now, if you're one of the 10 million&mdash;tens of millions of Americans who don't currently have health insurance, the second part of this plan is going to finally offer you affordable choices. So if you lose your job or change jobs or want to start a business, you'll be able to get coverage. You will have confidence that affordable coverage is out there for you, and we will do this not, contrary to what folks say, by some Government takeover of health care. We will do this by setting up a new insurance exchange, a marketplace where individuals and small businesses will be able to shop for an affordable health insurance plan that works for them. And because they'll be one big group, these uninsured Americans will have the leverage to drive down costs and get a much better deal than they get right now. That's how large companies do it. That's how Government employees get their health insurance. That's how Members of Congress get good deals on their insurance. You should get the same deal that Members of Congress get.<p>Now, if you still can't afford the lower priced insurance available in the exchange, we're going to provide you or a small-business owner tax credits so that they can do it. And in the first few years that it takes up to the&mdash;it takes to set up the exchange, because it will take a few years to get this all set up, even after it passes, but in the meantime, we want to make sure people get some immediate help. So we're going to immediately offer Americans with preexisting conditions who can't get coverage right now&mdash;we want to give them some low-cost coverage that will provide them protection from financial ruin if they become seriously ill.<p>Now, I've also said that one of the options in the insurance exchange, one of the options&mdash;most of the folks who are going to be offering insurance through the exchange are going to be private insurers&mdash;Blue Cross Blue Shield, Aetna, all these. Well, I think one of the options should be a public insurance option. Now let me be clear&mdash;let me be clear: It would only be an option. Nobody would be forced to choose it. No one with insurance would be affected by it. But what it would do is it would provide more choice and more competition. It would keep pressure on private insurers to keep their policies affordable, to treat their customers better.<p>I mean, think about it. It's the same way that public colleges and universities provide additional choice and competition to students. That doesn't inhibit private colleges and universities from thriving out there. The same should be true on the health care front.<p>Now, Minnesota, I have said that I'm open to different ideas on how to set this up. But I'm not going to back down from the basic principle that if Americans can't find affordable coverage, we're going to provide you a choice. And I will make sure that no Government bureaucrat or insurance company bureaucrat gets between you and the coverage that you need. That's a promise I will make.<p>Now, a lot of you might think this plan sounds pretty good, or when you're talking to your friends or neighbors, they might say, \\"Yes, that sounds all right, but let me ask you this: How are you going to pay for it?\\" And that's a legitimate concern. We've got&mdash;we inherited some big deficits and some big debt, and we've had a big economic crisis that has required us to take some extraordinary steps. So we're going to have to get control of our Federal budget. We have to do it.<p>So it's a legitimate question, but here's what you need to know. First of all, I will not sign a plan that adds one dime to our deficits, either now or in the future, no ifs, ands, or buts. Part of the reason that I faced these trillion-dollar deficits when I walked into the door of the White House is because there were a lot of initiatives over the last decade that weren't paid for, from the Iraq war to tax breaks for the wealthy. I will not make the same mistake when it comes to health care.<p>Second of all, we've estimated that most of this plan can be paid for by finding savings within the existing health care system, money that's already being spent, but spent badly, wasted and abused. Right now too much of your taxpayer dollars and too much of your savings, frankly, are spent on health care that doesn't make us healthier. That's not my judgment; that is the judgment of medical experts and doctors and nurses, health care professionals all across the country.<p><i>Audience member. </i>[<i>Inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President. </i>We love nurses. I love you.<p>As I said on Wednesday night, this is also true when it comes to Medicare and Medicaid. And Medicare is one of these issues that has been really distorted in the debate. So I want&mdash;I spoke directly to seniors on Wednesday; I want to repeat what I said. We have stood up for four decades for the principle that after a lifetime of hard work, our seniors should not be left to struggle with medical bills they can't pay. That's the essence of Medicare; that's how Medicare was born. It remains a sacred trust. It needs to be passed on from one generation to the next.<p>That's why not a dollar of the Medicare trust fund will be used to pay for this plan&mdash;not one dollar. We will not be lowering benefits for senior citizens. The only thing that we will be doing is eliminating hundreds of billions of dollars of waste and fraud, as well as subsidies that are going to insurance company HMOs, subsidies that pad their profits but don't improve care.<p>The other thing we want to do is we want to create an independent commission of doctors and medical experts charged with identifying more waste in the years ahead. And that's going to ensure that Americans, seniors, get the benefits that they've been promised. We'll ensure that Medicare is there for future generations, and we can use some of the savings we get to actually fill the gap of costs on prescription drugs that so many seniors are struggling with. We can save them thousands of dollars on prescription drug costs. That's what the plan will do for senior citizens.<p>So don't pay attention to these scary stories about how your benefits will be cut. That will not happen on my watch. In fact, the folks who are making the accusations, they're the ones who have been talking about cutting Medicare in the past. I will protect Medicare.<p>And here's the best thing&mdash;and this is important, especially for Minnesota, because Medicare is such a big part of the health care system&mdash;making that program more efficient can help usher in changes in the way that we deliver health care that reduces costs for everybody. We have long known that some places, including Minnesota, offer high-quality care at costs below average. Look at what the Mayo Clinic is able to do. It's got the best quality and the lowest cost of just about any system in the country. So what we want to do is we want to help the whole country learn from what Mayo is doing. We want to help the whole country learn some of the good things that are going on in Minnesota. That will save everybody money.<p>The commission can help encourage the adoption of commonsense best practices, everything from reducing infection rates for hospitals to helping teach doctors how to work together so when you go to the doctor's office, you don't have to take a test each time you see a doctor; you take one test, and they e-mail it to every doctor. Commonsense stuff like that.<p>Now, this is the plan I'm proposing. It incorporates ideas from Democrats and Republicans. And I'm going to keep on seeking common ground in the weeks ahead, and I've said to everybody in Congress, if you come to me with a set of serious proposals, I'm going to be there to listen, and my door is going to be open. But I also said&mdash;some of you heard me on Wednesday night&mdash;I will not waste time with people who think that it's just good politics to kill health care.<p>I'm not going to allow the special interests to use the same old tactics to keep things the way they are. I'm not going to let people misrepresent what's in my plan. I will not accept the status quo&mdash;not this time, not now. Minnesota, we are closer to reform than we've ever been before, but this is the hard part. This is when the special interests and the insurance companies and the folks who think, you know, this is a good way to bring Obama down.<p>This is when they're going to fight with everything they've got. This is when they'll spread all kinds of wild rumors designed to scare and intimidate people. That's why I need your help.<p>You know, there have been some of the pundits in Washington who have been saying, well, maybe you've been trying to do too much. Maybe you've been pushing too far too fast.<p>And I try to remind them&mdash;I said, listen, I never said change would be easy. Change is hard. It's always been hard. When FDR decided that Social Security was something that seniors needed, when FDR decided&mdash;when FDR introduced Social Security, you know what happened? They called it socialism. But senior citizens decided that you know what, if I've got some protection in my golden years, that's something that's worth fighting for. When Medicare was introduced as an idea, they said, \\"This is going to be a Government takeover of Medicare.\\" But imagine what seniors would be dealing with right now if they didn't have Medicare. Every time we've made progress, it's because ordinary people banded together, and they stood up, and they said, \\"We've got to make progress. And we're going to push and we're going to prod until Washington finally reacts, finally responds.\\"<p>I've always believed&mdash;because I've always believed that change doesn't come from the top down, it comes from the bottom up. It doesn't start in Washington, DC, it begins in places like Minneapolis, it begins in places like St. Paul. It begins with you sharing your stories, fighting for something better. That's how change happens. That's what's happening right now.<p>So, you know, I asked you at the beginning of the rally whether you were fired up. And some of you may have heard where that story comes from. But for those of you who don't know, I want to just tell this story real quick. My staff loves this story, so they always tell me, \\"Tell that story.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] But it bears on what's happening with health care today.<p>This is back at the beginning, when I was running for President. Nobody thought I could win; nobody could pronounce my name&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and&mdash;nobody except R.T.; that was the only person who believed.<p>So I went down to&mdash;it was right at the beginning of the campaign&mdash;I went down to South Carolina to a legislative conference where I was supposed to be one of the speakers. And I was sitting next to a State representative there; nobody was that excited to see me. [<i>Laughter</i>] You know, I was&mdash;but I really needed some support and endorsements because South Carolina was an early State. So I said to this State representatives, \\"Will you endorse my campaign?\\" And she looked at me, and she said, \\"I will endorse your campaign if you come to my hometown of Greenwood, South Carolina.\\" So I had had a&mdash;some wine, and I was feeling kind of desperate. [<i>Laughter</i>] I said, \\"Yes, I'll come to Greenwood. Be happy to do it.\\" Only to find out that Greenwood is like an hour and a half from everyplace else. [<i>Laughter</i>] You can't fly into Greenwood.<p>About a month later, I've been campaigning in Iowa for weeks, haven't seen my family. I'm&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;got some Iowa folks in the house. I'm exhausted. I get into Greenville, South Carolina, about midnight. I get to my hotel about 1 o'clock. I'm dragging to the hotel. I'm carrying my bags, ready to hit the pillow. And suddenly my staff says, \\"Sir?\\" I said, \\"What?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] They said, \\"Sir, you have to be in the car at 6:30 tomorrow&mdash;in the morning.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] I said, \\"Why is that?\\" They said, \\"Because you've got to go to Greenwood like you promised.\\"<p>Next morning, I wake up, and I feel awful. I feel terrible. I'm exhausted. And I stagger over to the window to pull open the blinds, and it's pouring down rain outside, terrible day. And I go out, and I get some coffee and open up the newspaper&mdash;bad story about me in the New York Times. [<i>Laughter</i>] I pack up; I go downstairs. As I'm walking to the car, my umbrella blows open&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and I get drenched. So by the time I'm in the car, I'm wet, and I'm sleepy, and I'm mad. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And I drive&mdash;and we drive, and we drive, and we drive&mdash;hour and a half, we just keep on driving. Finally, we get to Greenwood, although you don't know that you're in Greenwood right away. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's not like Minneapolis. [<i>Laughter</i>] So there's a little field house in a park, and we go into the field house. I walk in&mdash;I get a little more wet. I walk in there, lo and behold, 20 people there&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;20 people. And I'm already thinking about the fact I've got another hour and a half I've got to drive back. [<i>Laughter</i>] And they're all kind of damp, and they don't look like they're that happy to be there. The State rep had dragged them to the meeting. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But that's okay. I have a job to do; I'm running for President. I shake their hand, I say, \\"How do you do? What do you do? Nice to meet you.\\" Suddenly I hear this voice shout out behind me: \\"Fired up?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And I almost jumped out of my shoes. [<i>Laughter</i>] But everybody else acts like this is normal, and they all say, \\"Fired up!\\" And then I hear this voice: \\"Ready to go?\\" And the people around me, they just say, \\"Ready to go!\\" I don't know what's going on. So I look behind me, and there's this little woman there. She's about 52, 53, she's maybe 50, 60 years old, and she looks like she's dressed for church. She's got a big church hat. [<i>Laughter</i>] And she's just grinning at me, just smiling. And she points at me, and she says \\"Fired up?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;wait, wait, the story gets better here. It turns out that she is a city councilwoman from Greenwood named Edith Childs&mdash;that's her name&mdash;and she's also known as the chant lady because she does this chant wherever she goes. She goes: \\"Fired up?\\" \\"Fired up!\\" \\"Ready to go?\\" \\"Ready to go!\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And she does this at every event she goes to. She's also&mdash;by the way, we discovered later, she also moonlights as a private detective, but that's a&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;true story&mdash;true story.<p>But she's well known for her chant, so for the next 5 minutes, she starts chanting. She says, \\"Fired up?\\" And everybody says, \\"Fired up!\\" \\"Ready to go?\\" \\"Ready to go!\\" And this just keeps on going on. And I realize I'm being upstaged by this woman. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I'm&mdash;she's getting all the attention, and I'm standing there looking at my staff, and they're shrugging their shoulders. [<i>Laughter</i>] But here's the thing, Minneapolis: After about a minute, maybe 2, I'm feeling kind of fired up. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm feeling like I'm ready to go.<p>And so for the rest of the day, every time I saw my staff, I'd say, \\"Are you fired up?\\" They'd say, \\"I'm fired up.\\" \\"Are you ready to go?\\" They'd say, \\"I'm ready to go.\\" And it goes to show you how one voice can change a room. And if it changes a room, it can change a city. And if it can change a city, it can change a State. And if it can change a State, it can change a nation. If it change the nation, it can change the world. It can bring health care to every American. It can lower our costs. It can make your insurance more secure. I want to know, Minnesota, are you fired up?<p><i>Audience members.</i> Fired up!<p><i>The President.</i> Ready to go?<p><i>Audience members.</i> Ready to go!<p><i>The President.</i> Fired up?<p><i>Audience members.</i> Fired up!<p><i>The President.</i> Ready to go?<p><i>Audience members.</i> Ready to go!<p><i>The President.</i> Fired up?<p><i>Audience members.</i> Fired up!<p><i>The President.</i> Ready to go?<p><i>Audience members.</i> Ready to go!<p><i>The President.</i> They can't stop us. Let's go get this done. Thank you, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"254" "\"On Wednesday, I addressed a joint session of Congress and the American people about why we need health insurance reform and what it will take to do it. Since then, I've continued to hear from many Americans across the country about why this is so urgent and important.<p>I've heard from Americans who can't get health coverage, men and women who worry that one accident or illness could drive them into bankruptcy. And I've heard from Americans with insurance who thought that \\"the uninsured\\" always referred to someone else, but between skyrocketing costs and insurance company practices, they're beginning to worry that they could find themselves uninsured too.<p>It's an anxiety that's keeping more and more Americans awake at night. Over the last 12 months, nearly 6 million more Americans lost their health coverage; that's 17,000 men and women every single day. We're not just talking about Americans in poverty, either; we're talking about middle class Americans. In other words, it can happen to anyone.<p>And based on a brand new report from the Treasury Department, we can expect that about half of all Americans under 65 will lose their health coverage at some point over the next 10 years. If you're under the age of 21 today, chances are more than half that you'll find yourself uninsured at some point in that time. And more than one-third of Americans will go without coverage for longer than 1 year.<p>I refuse to allow that future to happen. In the United States of America, no one should have to worry that they'll go without health insurance, not for 1 year, not for 1 month, not for 1 day. And once I sign my health reform plan into law, they won't. My plan will provide more security and stability to those who have health insurance, offer quality, affordable choices to those who currently don't, and bring health care costs for our families, our businesses, and our Government under control.<p>First of all, if you are among the hundreds of millions of Americans who already have insurance through your job or Medicare or Medicaid or the VA, nothing in my plan will require you or your employer to change the coverage or the doctor you have.<p>What my plan will do is make the insurance you have work better for you. We'll make it illegal for insurance companies to deny you coverage because of a preexisting condition or drop your coverage when you get sick or water it down when you need it the most. They'll no longer be able to place some arbitrary cap on the amount of coverage you can receive in a given year or over a lifetime, and we will place a limit on how much you can be charged for out-of-pocket expenses, because no one should go broke just because they get sick.<p>Second, if you're one of the more than 30 million Americans who can't get coverage, you'll finally have quality, affordable choices. If you lose your job, change your job, or start your own business, you will be able to get coverage. <p>And as I have said over and over again, I will not sign a plan that adds one dime to our deficits, period. This plan will be paid for. The middle class will realize greater security, not higher taxes. And if we can successfully slow the growth of health care costs by just one-tenth of 1 percent each year, it will actually reduce the deficit by $4 trillion over the long term.<p>Affordable, quality care within the reach of tens of millions of Americans who don't have it today, stability and security for the hundreds of millions who do, that's the reform we seek. We have had a long and important debate, but now is the time for action. Because every day we wait, more Americans will lose their health care, their businesses, and their homes, but also the dreams they've worked for and the peace of mind they deserve. They are why we have to succeed.<p>So if you're willing to put country before party and the interests of our children above our own, if you refuse to settle for a politics where scoring points is more important than solving problems, and if you believe, as I do, that America can still come together to do great things, then join us. Give us your help, and we will finally get health insurance reform done this year.\" "
"255" "\"Thank you. Please have a seat. Thank you very much. It is wonderful to be back in New York after having just been here last week. It is a beautiful day, and we have some extraordinary guests here in the Hall today. I just want to mention a few.<p>First of all, from my economic team, somebody who I think has done extraordinary work on behalf of all Americans and has helped to strengthen our financial system immeasurably, Secretary Tim Geithner; please give him a big round of applause. Somebody who is continually guiding me and keeping me straight on the numbers, the Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers, Christina Romer, is here. We have an extraordinary Economic Recovery Board, and as chairman, somebody who knows more about the financial markets and the economy generally than just about anybody in this country, Paul Volcker. Thank you, Paul. The outstanding mayor of the city of New York, Mr. Michael Bloomberg; we have&mdash;Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver is here as well&mdash;thank you.<p>We have a host of Members of Congress, but there's one that I have to single out because he is going to be helping to shape the agenda going forward to make sure that we have one of the strongest, most dynamic, and most innovative financial markets in the world for many years to come, and that's my good friend Barney Frank. I also want to thank our hosts from the National Park Service here at Federal Hall and all the other outstanding public officials who are here.<p>Thanks for being here. Thank you for your warm welcome. It's a privilege to be in historic Federal Hall. It was here more than two centuries ago that our First Congress served and our first President was inaugurated. And I just had a chance to glance at the Bible upon which George Washington took his oath. It was here, in the early days of the Republic, that Hamilton and Jefferson debated how best to administer a young economy and ensure that our Nation rewarded the talents and drive of its people. And two centuries later, we still grapple with these questions, questions made more acute in moments of crisis.<p>Now, it was 1 year ago today that we experienced just such a crisis. As investors and pension holders watched with dread and dismay and after a series of emergency meetings often conducted in the dead of the night, several of the world's largest and oldest financial institutions had fallen, either bankrupt, bought, or bailed out: Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, AIG, Washington Mutual, Wachovia. A week before this began, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had been taken over by the Government. Other large firms teetered on the brink of insolvency. Credit markets froze as banks refused to lend not only to families and businesses, but to one another. Five trillion dollars of Americans' household wealth evaporated in the span of just 3 months. That was just 1 year ago.<p>And Congress and the previous administration took difficult but necessary action in the days and months that followed. Nonetheless, when this administration walked through the door in January, the situation remained urgent. The markets had fallen sharply, credit was not flowing. It was feared that the largest banks, those that remained standing, had too little capital and far too much exposure to risky loans. And the consequences had spread far beyond the streets of lower Manhattan. This was no longer just a financial crisis, it had become a full-blown economic crisis, with home prices sinking and businesses struggling to access affordable credit and the economy shedding an average of 700,000 jobs every single month.<p>We could not separate what was happening in the corridors of our financial institutions from what was happening on the factory floors and around the kitchen tables. Home foreclosures linked those who took out home loans and those who repackaged those loans as securities. A lack of access to affordable credit threatened the health of large firms and small businesses, as well as all those whose jobs depended on them. And a weakened financial system weakened the broader economy, which in turn further weakened the financial system.<p>So the only way to address successfully any of these challenges was to address them together. And this administration, under the outstanding leadership of Tim Geithner and Christy Romer and Larry Summers and others, moved quickly on all fronts, initializing a financial stability plan to rescue the system from the crisis and restart lending for all those affected by the crisis. By opening and examining the books of large financial firms, we helped restore the availability of two things that had been in short supply: capital and confidence. By taking aggressive and innovative steps in credit markets, we spurred lending not just to banks, but to folks looking to buy homes or cars, take out student loans, or finance small businesses. Our homeownership plan has helped responsible homeowners refinance to stem the tide of lost homes and lost home values.<p>And the recovery plan is providing help to the unemployed and tax relief for working families, all the while spurring consumer spending. It's prevented layoffs of tens of thousands of teachers and police officers and other essential public servants. And thousands of recovery projects are underway all across America, including right here in New York City, putting people to work building wind turbines and solar panels, renovating schools and hospitals, repairing our Nation's roads and bridges.<p>Eight months later, the work of recovery continues. And though I will never be satisfied while people are out of work and our financial system is weakened, we can be confident that the storms of the past 2 years are beginning to break. In fact, while there continues to be a need for Government involvement to stabilize the financial system, that necessity is waning. After months in which public dollars were flowing into our financial system, we're finally beginning to see money flowing back to taxpayers. This doesn't mean taxpayers will escape the worst financial crisis in decades entirely unscathed. But banks have repaid more than $70 billion, and in those cases where the Government's stakes have been sold completely, taxpayers have actually earned a 17-percent return on their investment. Just a few months ago, many experts from across the ideological spectrum feared that ensuring financial stability would require even more tax dollars. Instead, we've been able to eliminate a $250 billion reserve included in our budget because that fear has not been realized.<p>While full recovery of the financial system will take a great deal more time and work, the growing stability resulting from these interventions means we're beginning to return to normalcy. But here's what I want to emphasize today: Normalcy cannot lead to complacency.<p>Unfortunately, there are some in the financial industry who are misreading this moment. Instead of learning the lessons of Lehman and the crisis from which we're still recovering, they're choosing to ignore those lessons. I'm convinced they do so not just at their own peril, but at our Nation's. So I want everybody here to hear my words: We will not go back to the days of reckless behavior and unchecked excess that was at the heart of this crisis, where too many were motivated only by the appetite for quick kills and bloated bonuses. Those on Wall Street cannot resume taking risks without regard for consequences and expect that next time American taxpayers will be there to break their fall.<p>And that's why we need strong rules of the road to guard against the kind of systemic risks that we've seen. And we have a responsibility to write and enforce these rules to protect consumers of financial products, to protect taxpayers, and to protect our economy as a whole. Yes, there must&mdash;these rules must be developed in a way that doesn't stifle innovation and enterprise. And I want to say very clearly here today, we want to work with the financial industry to achieve that end. But the old ways that led to this crisis cannot stand. And to the extent that some have so readily returned to them underscores the need for change, and change now. History cannot be allowed to repeat itself.<p>So what we're calling for is for the financial industry to join us in a constructive effort to update the rules and regulatory structure to meet the challenges of this new century. That is what my administration seeks to do. We've sought ideas and input from industry leaders and policy experts, academics, consumer advocates, and the broader public. And we've worked closely with leaders in the Senate and the House, including not only Barney, but also Senators Chris Dodd and Richard Shelby. And Barney is already working with his counterpart, Sheldon [Spencer]* Bachus, and we intend to pass regulatory reform through Congress.<p>And taken together, we're proposing the most ambitious overhaul of the financial regulatory system since the Great Depression. But I want to emphasize that these reforms are rooted in a simple principle: We ought to set clear rules of the road that promote transparency and accountability. That's how we'll make certain that markets foster responsibility, not recklessness. That's how we'll make certain that markets reward those who compete honestly and vigorously within the system, instead of those who are trying to game the system.<p>So let me outline specifically what we're talking about. First, we're proposing new rules to protect consumers and a new consumer financial protection agency to enforce those rules. This crisis was not just the result of decisions made by the mightiest of financial firms. It was also the result of decisions made by ordinary Americans to open credit cards and take on mortgages. And while there were many who took out loans they knew they couldn't afford, there were also millions of Americans who signed contracts they didn't fully understand, offered by lenders who didn't always tell the truth.<p>This is in part because there is no single agency charged with making sure that doesn't happen. That's what we intend to change. The consumer financial protection agency will have the power to make certain that consumers get information that is clear and concise and to prevent the worst kinds of abuses. Consumers shouldn't have to worry about loan contracts designed to be unintelligible, hidden fees attached to their mortgage, and financial penalties, whether through a credit card or a debit card, that appear without warning on their statements. And responsible lenders, including community banks, doing the right thing shouldn't have to worry about ruinous competition from unregulated competitors.<p>Now, there are those who are suggesting that somehow this will restrict the choices available to consumers. Nothing could be further from the truth. The lack of clear rules in the past meant we had the wrong kind of innovation: The firm that could make its products look the best by doing the best job of hiding the real costs ended up getting the business. For example, we had teaser rates on credit cards and mortgages that lured people in and then surprised them with big rate increases. By setting ground rules, we'll increase the kind of competition that actually provides people better and greater choices as companies compete to offer the best products, not the ones that are most complex or the most confusing.<p>Second, we've got to close the loopholes that were at the heart of the crisis. Where there were gaps in the rules, regulators lacked the authority to take action. Where there were overlaps, regulators often lacked accountability for inaction. These weaknesses in oversight engendered systematic and systemic abuse.<p>Under existing rules, some companies can actually shop for the regulator of their choice, and others, like hedge funds, can operate outside of the regulatory system altogether. We've seen the development of financial instruments, like derivatives and credit default swaps, without anyone examining the risks or regulating all of the players. And we've seen lenders profit by providing loans to borrowers who they knew would never repay, because the lender offloaded the loan and the consequences to somebody else. Those who refuse to game the system are at a disadvantage.<p>Now, one of the main reasons this crisis could take place is that many agencies and regulators were responsible for oversight of individual financial firms and their subsidiaries, but no one was responsible for protecting the system as the whole&mdash;as a whole. In other words, regulators were charged with seeing the trees, but not the forest. And even then, some firms that posed a systemic risk were not regulated as strongly as others, exploiting loopholes in the system to take on greater risk with less scrutiny. As a result, the failure of one firm threatened the viability of many others. We were facing one of the largest financial crises in history, and those responsible for oversight were caught off guard and without the authority to act.<p>And that's why we'll create clear accountability and responsibility for regulating large financial firms that pose a systemic risk. While holding the Federal Reserve fully accountable for regulation of the largest, most interconnected firms, we'll create an oversight council to bring together regulators from across markets to share information, to identify gaps in regulation, and to tackle issues that don't fit neatly into an organizational chart. We'll also require these financial firms to meet stronger capital and liquidity requirements and observe greater constraints on their risky behavior. That's one of the lessons of the past year. The only way to avoid a crisis of this magnitude is to ensure that large firms can't take risks that threaten our entire financial system and to make sure that they have the resources to weather even the worst of economic storms.<p>Even as we've proposed safeguards to make the failure of large and interconnected firms less likely, we've also created&mdash;proposed creating what's called resolution authority in the event that such a failure happens and poses a threat to the stability of the financial system. This is intended to put an end to the idea that some firms are too big to fail. For a market to function, those who invest and lend in that market must believe that their money is actually at risk. And the system as a whole isn't safe until it is safe from the failure of any individual institution.<p>If a bank approaches insolvency, we have a process through the FDIC that protects depositors and maintains confidence in the banking system. This process was created during the Great Depression, when the failure of one bank led to runs on other banks, which in turn threatened the banking system as a whole. That system works. But we don't have any kind of process in place to contain the failure of a Lehman Brothers or AIG or any of the largest and most interconnected financial firms in our country.<p>And that's why, when this crisis began, crucial decisions about what would happen to some of the world's biggest companies&mdash;companies employing tens of thousands of people and holding trillions of dollars of assets&mdash;took place in hurried discussions in the middle of the night. That's why we've had to rely on taxpayer dollars. The only resolution authority we currently have that would prevent a financial meltdown involved tapping the Federal Reserve or the Federal Treasury. With so much at stake, we should not be forced to choose between allowing a company to fail into a rapid and chaotic dissolution that threatens the economy and innocent people or, alternatively, forcing taxpayers to foot the bill. So our plan would put the cost of a firm's failures on those who own its stock and loaned it money. And if taxpayers ever have to step in again to prevent a second great depression, the financial industry will have to pay the taxpayer back every cent.<p>Finally, we need to close the gaps that exist not just within this country, but among countries. The United States is leading a coordinated response to promote recovery and to restore prosperity among both the world's largest economies and the world's fastest growing economies. At a summit in London in April, leaders agreed to work together in an unprecedented way to spur global demand but also to address the underlying problems that caused such a deep and lasting global recession. And this work will continue next week in Pittsburgh when I convene the G-20, which has proven to be an effective forum for coordinating policies among key developed and emerging economies and one that I see taking on an important role in the future.<p>Essential to this effort is reforming what's broken in the global financial system, a system that links economies and spreads both rewards and risks. For we know that abuses in financial markets anywhere can have an impact everywhere, and just as gaps in domestic regulation lead to a race to the bottom, so do gaps in regulation around the world. What we need instead is a global race to the top, including stronger capital standards, as I've called for today. As the United States is aggressively reforming our regulatory system, we're going to be working to ensure that the rest of the world does the same. And this is something that Secretary Geithner has already been actively meeting with finance ministers around the world to discuss.<p>A healthy economy in the 21st century also depends on our ability to buy and sell goods in markets across the globe. And make no mistake, this administration is committed to pursuing expanded trade and new trade agreements. It is absolutely essential to our economic future. And each time that we have met&mdash;at the G-20 and the G-8&mdash;we have reaffirmed the need to fight against protectionism. But no trading system will work if we fail to enforce our trade agreements, those that have already been signed. So when&mdash;as happened this weekend&mdash;we invoke provisions of existing agreements, we do so not to be provocative or to promote self-defeating protectionism; we do so because enforcing trade agreements is part and parcel of maintaining an open and free trading system.<p>And just as we have to live up to our responsibilities on trade, we have to live up to our responsibilities on financial reform as well. I have urged leaders in Congress to pass regulatory reform this year, and both Congressman Frank and Senator Dodd, who are leading this effort, have made it clear that that's what they intend to do. Now, there will be those who defend the status quo; there always are. There will be those who argue we should do less or nothing at all. There will be those who engage in revisionist history or have selective memories and don't seem to recall what we just went through last year. But to them I'd say only this: Do you really believe that the absence of sound regulation 1 year ago was good for the financial system? Do you believe the resulting decline in markets and wealth and unemployment, the wrenching hardship that families are going through all across the country, was somehow good for our economy? Was that good for the American people?<p>I have always been a strong believer in the power of the free market. I believe that jobs are best created not by government, but by businesses and entrepreneurs willing to take a risk on a good idea. I believe that the role of the government is not to disparage wealth, but to expand its reach, not to stifle markets, but to provide the ground rules and level playing field that helps to make those markets more vibrant and that will allow us to better tap the creative and innovative potential of our people. For we know that it is the dynamism of our people that has been the source of America's progress and prosperity.<p>So I promise you, I did not run for President to bail out banks or intervene in capital markets. But it is important to note that the very absence of commonsense regulations able to keep up with a fast-paced financial sector is what created the need for that extraordinary intervention, not just with our administration, but the previous administration. The lack of sensible rules of the road, so often opposed by those who claim to speak for the free market, ironically led to a rescue far more intrusive than anything any of us, Democratic or Republican, progressive or conservative, would have ever proposed or predicted.<p>At the same time, we have to recognize that what's needed now goes beyond just the reforms that I've mentioned. For what took place 1 year ago was not merely a failure of regulation or legislation; it wasn't just a failure of oversight or foresight; it was also a failure of responsibility. It was fundamentally a failure of responsibility that allowed Washington to become a place where problems, including structural problems in our financial system, were ignored rather than solved. It was a failure of responsibility that led homebuyers and derivative traders alike to take reckless risks that they couldn't afford to take. It was a collective failure of responsibility in Washington, on Wall Street, and across America that led to the near-collapse of our financial system 1 year ago.<p>So restoring a willingness to take responsibility, even when it's hard to do, is at the heart of what we must do. Here on Wall Street, you have a responsibility. The reforms I've laid out will pass, and these changes will become law. But one of the most important ways to rebuild the system stronger than it was before is to rebuild trust stronger than before, and you don't have to wait for a new law to do that. You don't have to wait to use plain language in your dealings with consumers. You don't have to wait for legislation to put the 2009 bonuses of your senior executives up for a shareholder vote. You don't have to wait for a law to overhaul your pay system so that folks are rewarded for long-term performance instead of short-term gains.<p>The fact is, many of the firms that are now returning to prosperity owe a debt to the American people. They were not the cause of this crisis, and yet American taxpayers, through their Government, had to take extraordinary action to stabilize the financial industry. They shouldered the burden of the bailout, and they are still bearing the burden of the fallout, in lost jobs and lost homes and lost opportunities. It is neither right nor responsible, after you've recovered with the help of your Government, to shirk your obligation to the goal of wider recovery, a more stable system, and a more broadly shared prosperity.<p>So I want to urge you to demonstrate that you take this obligation to heart: to put greater effort into helping families who need their mortgages modified under my administration's homeownership plan; to help small-business owners who desperately need loans and who are bearing the brunt of the decline in available credit; to help communities that would benefit from the financing you could provide or the community development institutions you could support; to come up with creative approaches to improve financial education and to bring banking to those who live and work entirely outside of the banking system; and of course, to embrace serious financial reform, not resist it.<p>Just as we are asking the private sector to think about the long term, I recognize that Washington has to do so as well. When my administration came through the door, we not only faced a financial crisis and costly recession, we also found waiting a trillion-dollar deficit. So yes, we had to take extraordinary action in the wake of an extraordinary economic crisis. But I am absolutely committed to putting this Nation on a sound and secure fiscal footing. And that's why we're pushing to restore pay-as-you-go rules in Congress, because I will not go along with the old Washington ways which said it was okay to pass spending bills and tax cuts without a plan to pay for it. That's why we're cutting programs that don't work or are out of date. That's why I've insisted that health insurance reform, as important as it is, not add a dime to the deficit, now or in the future.<p>There are those who would suggest that we must choose between markets unfettered by even the most modest of regulations and markets weighed down by onerous regulations that suppress the spirit of enterprise and innovation. If there is one lesson we can learn from last year, it is that this is a false choice. Commonsense rules of the road don't hinder the market, they make the market stronger. Indeed, they are essential to ensuring that our markets function fairly and freely.<p>One year ago, we saw in stark relief how markets can spin out of control, how a lack of commonsense rules can lead to excess and abuse, how close we can come to the brink. One year later, it is incumbent upon us to put in place those reforms that will prevent this kind of crisis from ever happening again, reflecting painful but important lessons that we've learned, and that will help us move from a period of reckless irresponsibility, a period of crisis, to one of responsibility and prosperity. That's what we must do, and I'm confident that's what we will do.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"256" "\"<i>The President</i>. Thank you very much, everybody. All right, you guys are making me blush. Thank you.<p>Audience members. Obama! Obama! Obama!<p><i>The President</i>. Thank you so much, everybody. You know, I tell you what, the White House is pretty nice, but there's nothing like being back in the House of Labor. Let me begin by recognizing a man who came to Washington to fight for the working men and women of Pennsylvania and who has a distinguished record of doing just that, Arlen Specter.<p>I want to give my thanks and the thanks of our Nation to one of the great labor leaders of our time, a man whose entire life has been devoted to working people, who brought new life to a movement, and who worked tirelessly on behalf of organized workers, and who will be stepping down tomorrow, your president, John Sweeney. John, I know that Maureen is looking forward to seeing a little more of you, and your granddaughter Kennedy is about to get a whole lot more spoiled by her grandpa. But we are so proud of the work that you've done and grateful for your lifetime of service.<p>I know it's bad luck to congratulate somebody before they're officially elected, but I'm going to go ahead and take my chances and congratulate the man who will pick up John's mantle, the son and grandson of Pennsylvania coal miners, a man who worked his way through college to lead the United Mine Workers, my friend, a fiery advocate for America's ideals, Rich Trumka. I also want to congratulate the officers coming in with Rich: Arlene, who will be continuing her service; and Liz, who will be making history as the first woman elected secretary-treasurer. I am looking forward to working with every single one of you.<p>Now, being here with all of you is a reminder of what we're trying to do in Washington and why I'm there in the first place, because one of the fundamental reasons I ran for President was to stand up for hard-working families, to ease the struggles, to lift the hopes, and make possible the dreams of middle class Americans.<p>Your stories are what drive me each and every day in the White House. Stories I read about in letters, or I hear about in town hall meetings, or somebody grabs me in a rope line and starts telling me something, stories I remember from the campaign trail. Stories like one told by Steve Skvara, a proud member of the United Steelworkers in Indiana. Steve spent 34 years at LTV Steel, until a car accident left him with a disability and forced him to retire. When the company went broke a couple years later, Steve lost his pension, and his family lost their health care. <p>So rising to ask a question at the CFL&mdash;the AFL-CIO debate during the campaign, Steve said&mdash;and I'm quoting him now&mdash;\\"Every day of my life, I sit at the kitchen table across from the woman who devoted 36 years of her life to my family, and I can't afford to pay for her health care.\\" And as he said it, he got choked up, and his voice started to crack.<p>Brothers and sisters, this isn't just about Steve; this is about all of us. Because when hard-working Americans like Steve succeed, that's when organized labor succeeds. And when organized labor succeeds, that's when our middle class succeeds. And when our middle class succeeds, that's when the United States of America succeeds. That's what we're fighting for.<p>For over half a century, the success of America has been built on the success of our middle class. It was the creation of the middle class that lifted this Nation up in the wake of a great depression. It was the expansion of the middle class that opened the doors of opportunity to millions more. It was a strong middle class that powered American industries and propelled America's economy and made the 20th century the American century.<p>And the fundamental test of this century, of our time, is whether we will heed this lesson: whether we will let America become a nation of the very rich and the very poor, of the haves and the have-nots, or whether we will remain true to the promise of this country and build a future where the success of all of us is built on the success of each of us. <p>That's the future I want to build. That's the future the AFL-CIO wants to build. That's the future the American people want to build. That's the future that I've been working to build from the moment I took office.<p>Now, we've been hearing a lot of stuff from folks who aren't that friendly to me&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;or the union movement. So let's just take a stroll down memory lane. [<i>Laughter</i>] See, so let's just remember where we were when I took the oath of office a little over 8 months ago.<p>At the time, folks were fearing the complete collapse of our entire financial system. Our economy was shedding about 700,000 jobs a month. Our credit markets were frozen; folks couldn't get a home loan, they couldn't get a car loan, they couldn't get a student loan if they needed it. What was a deep recession threatened to become a great depression. You remember that, right?<p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes!<p><i>The President</i>. Okay. That's why we acted boldly and swiftly to pass an unprecedented economic Recovery Act. A plan that didn't include any of the usual Washington earmarks or porkbarrel spending, but what it did include was a guarantee to uphold Davis-Bacon and pay prevailing wage.<p>Because of the Recovery Act, we're keeping a promise I made to give all of you&mdash;95 percent of working Americans&mdash;a tax cut, a tax cut that will benefit nearly 5 million families in Pennsylvania. We increased and extended unemployment insurance to 12 million Americans, including hundreds of thousands of Pennsylvanians. We made sure that they could get health insurance if they were looking for a job, because COBRA was too expensive, reduced the cost of it by 65 percent. So a lot of families out there were able to hang onto their health care even during the downturn.<p>We're putting Americans to work across this country rebuilding crumbling roads and bridges and waterways with the largest investment in our infrastructure since Eisenhower created the Interstate Highway System in the 1950s. All in all, many middle class families will see their incomes go up by about $3,000 because of the Recovery Act, helping them get back much of what they've lost due to this recession.<p>So I know times are still tough for working people. I know too many people are still looking for work or worried they'll be the next ones let go. But the Recovery Act is making a difference. We've stopped our economic freefall. That's something everybody can agree on.<p>But here's the problem: Even before this last financial crisis, the economy had problems. Just last week, a census report came out showing that in 2008, before the downturn, family income fell to its lowest point in over a decade, and more families slid into poverty. Folks at the top 1 percent did pretty good. Everybody else saw their wages and incomes flatten. That's unacceptable. And I refuse to let America go back to the culture of irresponsibility and greed that made it possible, back to an economy with soaring CEO salaries and shrinking middle class incomes, back to the days when banks made reckless decisions that hurt Wall Street and Main Street alike. We're not going to go back to those days. It'd be bad for unions, bad for the middle class, and bad for the United States of America. We're not turning back; we're moving forward.<p>We're not turning back; we're moving forward. And that's why we need to build a new foundation for lasting prosperity by creating the jobs of the future, by reforming our health care system, by laying down tough rules of the road to protect consumers from abuse, let the markets function fairly and freely, and ensure that we never experience another crisis like this again. That's how we'll build an economy that works for working Americans. That's how we'll help our children climb higher than we did. That's how we'll grow our great American middle class.<p><i>Audience member</i>. I love you!<p><i>The President</i>. I love you too, sister. [<i>Laughter</i>] We'll&mdash;although, it sounds like you've been hollering too much; your throat was all&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>].<p>We're going to grow our middle class with policies that benefit you, the American worker. And as John Sweeney noted, I've set up a Middle Class Task Force to do just that, run by my outstanding Vice President, that scrappy kid from Scranton, Pennsylvania, Joe Biden.<p>We'll grow our middle class by building a stronger labor movement. That's why I named Hilda Solis, daughter of a union member, as our new Labor Secretary. Hilda and I know that whether we're in economic times&mdash;good economic times or bad economic times, labor is not the problem, labor is part of the solution.<p>That's why we've begun reversing and replacing old antilabor Executive orders and policies with ones that protect your benefits and protect your safety and protect your rights to organize and collectively bargain. That's why the very first bill I signed into law was the Lilly Ledbetter Act to uphold the basic principle of equal pay for equal work. That's why I stand behind the \\"Employee Free Choice Act,\\" because if a majority of workers want a union, they should get a union.<p>We'll grow our middle class by creating jobs for Americans who want one, not just any jobs, but jobs with good wages and good benefits, jobs that give a person the satisfaction of knowing they'll meet their responsibilities to their families, jobs that aren't just a source of income, but a source of pride and self-respect. Every American deserves that much.<p>Earlier today I visited a GM plant in Youngstown, Ohio, that is&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;Youngstown in the house. This plant is rehiring about a thousand workers to make the cars of tomorrow. That's a sign of life in our auto industry, and I'm pleased to see it. But you know what? I don't want to just see jobs returning to our auto industry; I want to see them being created across this country in every industry. That's why we're investing in a clean energy economy that will free America from the grip of foreign oil and create millions of new green jobs that can't be outsourced. That's why I've named a new point person to jump-start American manufacturing so that we can make \\"Made in America\\" not just a slogan, we want to make it a reality.<p>We'll grow our middle class by doing a better job educating our sons and daughters. It was the GI bill that helped strengthen the middle class in the 20th century, and our generation deserves the same kind of commitment. And that's why we've begun improving standards and holding ourselves more accountable and making college and advanced training more affordable and offering students a complete and competitive education, from the cradle to the classroom, from college through a career. That's how we'll prepare every child in America, not just some children, but every child in America to outcompete any worker in the world.<p>And, yes, we'll grow our middle class by finally providing quality, affordable health insurance in this country. Health care can't wait. It can't wait. Few have fought for this cause harder, few have championed it longer than you, our brothers and sisters in organized labor. You're making phone calls, knocking on doors, showing up at rallies, because you know why this is so important. You know this isn't just about the millions of Americans who don't have health insurance; it's about the hundreds of millions more who do: Americans who worry that they'll lose their insurance if they lose their job, who fear their coverage will be denied because of a preexisting condition, who know that one accident or illness could mean financial ruin.<p>In fact, a new report from the Kaiser Family Foundation was released today showing that family premiums rose more than 130 percent over the last 10 years, three times faster than wages. They now average over $13,000 a year, the highest amount on record, which is why when you go in to negotiate, you can't even think about negotiating for a salary&mdash;a wage increase because the whole negotiation is about trying to keep the benefits you already have.<p>That's not just the fault of the employer; it's the fault of a broken health care system that's sucking up all the money. When are we going to stop it? When are we going to say enough is enough? How many more workers have to lose their coverage? How many more families have to go into the red for a sick loved one? How much longer are we going to have to wait? It can't wait.<p><i>Audience members</i>. We can't wait! We can't wait! We can't wait!<p><i>The President</i>. We can't wait. My friends, we have talked this issue to death, year after year, decade after decade. That's why I said last week before a joint session of Congress, I said, the time for bickering is over. The time for games has passed. Now is the time for action. Now is the time to deliver on health insurance reform.<p>The plan I announced will offer more security and more stability to Americans who have insurance. It will offer insurance to Americans who don't. And it will slow the growth of health care costs for our families, our businesses, and our Government.<p>If you already have health insurance through your job&mdash;and because many of you are members of unions, you do&mdash;nothing in this plan will require you or your employer to change your coverage or your doctor. Let me repeat: Nothing in this plan will require you to change your coverage or your doctor.<p>What this plan will do is make your insurance work better for you. It'll be against the law for insurance companies to deny you coverage because of a preexisting condition. It will be against the law for insurance companies to drop your coverage when you get sick or water it down when you need it the most. They won't be able to place some arbitrary cap on how much coverage you can receive in a given year or a given lifetime. We'll place a limit on how much you can be charged for out-of-pocket expenses, because in the United States of America, nobody should go broke just because they got sick.<p>Insurance companies will be required to cover, at no extra charge, routine checkups and preventive care, like mammograms and colonoscopies, because there's no reason we shouldn't be catching diseases like breast cancer or colon cancer before they get worse. It makes sense, it saves money, and it will save lives.<p>So that's what we're offering to people who already have health insurance: more stability and security. For the tens of millions of Americans who don't have health insurance, the second part of this plan will finally offer them&mdash;offer you&mdash;affordable choices. We'll do this with a new insurance exchange, a marketplace where individuals and small businesses, they can shop for affordable health insurance plans that work for them.<p>And because there will be one big group, these uninsured Americans, they have leverage, and they can drive down the cost of care and get a better deal than they're getting right now. That's how large companies and Government employees get affordable insurance. It's how everybody in Congress&mdash;including those who are always critical of Government&mdash;get their insurance. It's time to give every opportunity to Americans that Members of Congress give to themselves.<p>I've also said that one of the options in this exchange should be a public option. Now let me be clear. Let me be clear, because there's been a lot of misinformation out here about this. This would just be an option. Nobody would be forced to choose it. No one with insurance would be affected. But what it would do is offer Americans more choices and promote real competition and put pressure on private insurers to make their policies affordable and treat their customers better.<p>Now, when you're talking with some of your friends and neighbors, they might say, \\"Well, that all sounds pretty good, but how are you going to pay for it?\\" And that's a legitimate question, because I inherited the $1.3 trillion deficit when I came into office. That's the other thing people have been a little selective about; they don't seem to remember how we got into this mess. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it's a legitimate question: How are we going to dig ourselves out of this big financial hole we're in? So let me try and answer it.<p>The plan I'm proposing is going to cost $900 billion over 10 years. That's real money, although, that's less than we've spent on Iraq and Afghanistan wars. It's less than the tax cuts for the wealthiest few Americans that Congress passed during the previous administration&mdash;wars and tax cuts that were not paid for and ballooned our deficits to record levels and didn't help America's working families. We won't make that mistake again. We will not pay for health insurance reform by adding to our deficits. I will not sign a bill that adds a dime to our deficits, either now or in the future.<p>What we will do is pay for it by eliminating hundreds of billions of dollars in fraud and waste and abuse, including billions of dollars in subsidies for insurance companies that pad their profits but aren't improving care. We'll also set up a commission of doctors and medical experts to encourage the adoption of commonsense, best practices that can further reduce costs and raise quality in the years ahead. That's how we'll pay for most of this plan, by using money that's already being spent in the health care system, but spent badly.<p>So don't pay attention to those scary stories about how Medicare benefits will be cut. That will never happen on my watch. We will protect Medicare, so it's a safety net for our seniors that they can count on today, tomorrow, forever. Not a dollar from the Medicare Trust Fund will be used to pay for this plan, not a single dollar.<p>These are the reforms I'm proposing. These are the reforms labor has been championing. These are the reforms the American people need. These are the reforms I intend to sign into law: quality, affordable health insurance; a world-class education; good jobs that pay well and can't be outsourced; a strong labor movement. That's how we'll lift up hard-working families. That's how we'll grow our middle class. That's how we'll put opportunity within reach in the United States of America.<p>Now, the battle for opportunity has always been fought in places like Pittsburgh, places like Pennsylvania. It was here that Pittsburgh rail workers rose up in a great strike. It was here that Homestead steelworkers took on Pinkerton guards at Carnegie mills. It was here that something happened in a town called Aliquippa.<p>It was a tough place for workers in the 1930s, \\"a benevolent dictatorship,\\" said the local steel boss. Labor had no rights. The foreman's whim ruled the day. And the company hired workers from different lands and different races&mdash;the better to keep them divided, it was thought at the time.<p>But despite threats and harassment, despite seeing organizers fired and driven out of town, these steelworkers came together&mdash;Serb and Croat, Italian and Pole, and Irish and Greek, and kin of Alabama slaves and son of Pennsylvania coal miners&mdash;and they took their case all the way to the Supreme Court, securing the right to organize up and down the Ohio River Valley and all across America.<p>And I know that if America can come together like Aliquippa and rise above barriers of faith and race and region and party, then we will not only make life better for steelworkers like Steve in Indiana, not only make life better for members of the AFL-CIO, but will make possible the dreams of middle class families and make real the promise of the United States of America for everybody. That's what we're fighting for. That's what this White House is committed to. That's what the AFL-CIO is committed to. And arm in arm, we are going to get this done.<p>I got a question for you: Are you fired up? <p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes!<p><i>The President</i>. Are you ready to go? <p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes!<p><i>The President</i>. Are you fired up?<p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes!<p><i>The President</i>. Are you ready to go?<p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes!<p><i>The President</i>. Let's go get this done. Thank you, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"257" "\"Thank you, guys. It is good to be back in Ohio. And it's good to be at one of GM's flagship plants with all of you. <p>I've got a list of some wonderful people that I want to make sure I acknowledge real quick. First of all, a former colleague of mine, somebody who is now collaborating with me to make sure that working people are getting a fair shake in this country, please give it up for your United States Senator Sherrod Brown&mdash;where's Sherrod?&mdash;there he is; your Congressman, doing an outstanding job, great young man, Tim Ryan; from the neighboring congressional district, somebody who is responsible for Cash for Clunkers, Betty Sutton; and an outstanding Congressman from Ohio as well, Charlie Wilson&mdash;give Charlie a big round of applause.<p>We've got a great trio of mayors here: Mayor Michael O'Brien of Warren, Michael Chaffee of Lordstown, and Mayor Jay Williams of Youngstown&mdash;give them all a big round of applause. We've got State Senator and Minority Leader Capri Cafaro is here. How are you? She's a fireplug. I remember her.<p>The CEO of General Motors, Fritz Henderson, is in the house; plant manager John Donahue is in the house; UAW servicing agent John Mohan is in the house; president of the UAW Local 1112, Jim Graham's in the house; president of Local 1714, David Green is in the house; chairperson of 1112, Ben Strickland; and chairperson of Local 1714, Will Adams. <p>Well, listen, I just finished having a productive discussion with some of your coworkers about the challenges you're facing, both here and in your communities, and how we can meet them. We talked about the economic troubles that you've been weathering here in Trumbull County since long before our current crisis. Yes, if you've got chairs, go ahead, feel free to sit down. [<i>Laughter</i>] You don't have to stand this whole time. <p>But let's face it, we've been going through some crises since before this economic crisis&mdash;this financial crisis hit. Over the years, you've seen factories close. You've seen friends and neighbors and relatives laid off. Your daughters and sons have had to move away in search of jobs and opportunity. I know it was painful around here earlier this year, when three shifts at this plant were cut down to one. Today, the local unemployment rate is unacceptably high in this region, second highest in Ohio. So I know at times, it seems like this community has been on the brink, over and over and over again. <p>And there's some who see this pain and suggest that somehow it's inevitable, that the only way for America to get ahead is for communities like yours to be left behind. But I know better; we know better. We know that our success as a nation depends on the success of communities just like this one. We know that the battle for America's future is not just going to be won in the big cities, not just on the coasts, but in towns like Elkhart, Indiana, and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and Warren and Youngstown. That's what we're fighting for.<p>That's why I'm proud to be here with all of you. You work hard. You meet your responsibilities. You deserve better. You deserve better than the attitude that's prevailed in Washington and Wall Street and sometimes in Detroit for far too long, an attitude that valued wealth over work and selfishness over sacrifice and greed over responsibility. That's why I want you to know that every day that I step into the Oval Office, I am thinking about you and your families, I am fighting for you and your families, and I'm going to keep on doing it as long as I'm President of the United States.<p>Now, sometimes that involves making tough decisions that have been put off for too long. That's my job: making tough decisions. If it's an easy decision, it doesn't get to my desk. As I've said before, I didn't run for President to manage auto companies. It wasn't something on my to-do list. It wasn't even something on my want-to-do list. [<i>Laughter</i>] I like driving cars. [<i>Laughter</i>] Sometimes, you know, I can change a spark plug or change a tire, but I don't know so much about cars that I wanted to be deeply involved in the car industry. <p>But here's what I knew: I wasn't going to put any more tax dollars on the line if it meant perpetuating bad business decisions that got us to a point where the U.S auto industry was in crisis. But in the midst of a deep recession and financial crisis, for me to have just let the auto industry collapse, to vanish, would have caused unbelievable damage to our economy, not just here in Lordstown, but all across the country. So we intervened for one simple and compelling reason: Your survival and the success of our economy depended on making sure that we got the U.S. auto industry back on its feet. <p>And there were some people who said you can't do it. But our belief was that if GM retooled and reinvented itself for the 21st century, it would be good for American workers, it would be good for American manufacturing, it would be good for America's economy. And I'm pleased to report that that is exactly what has begun to happen at plants like this and others across the country. So I know that some of those decisions may not have been popular, but I will tell you what: I will double down on the American people and the American worker and all of you any day of the week. <p>Now, one of the other efforts we undertook was the Cash for Clunkers program. Folks said that wouldn't work either. That program was good for automakers, it was good for consumers, and, by the way, it was good for our environment. And you know what? The Chevy Cobalt that you build here was one of GM's most sought-after cars under that program. Dealers across the country started running out. You need to build more.<p>And one other thing: For too long, our auto industries faced uncertain and conflicting fuel economy standards. And that made it difficult for you to plan down the road. And that's why today we are launching&mdash;for the first time in history&mdash;a new national standard aimed at both increasing gas mileage and decreasing greenhouse gas pollution for all cars and trucks sold in America. It creates an even playing field. It's an action that is long overdue. It will give our auto companies clarity and stability and predictability. <p>In the past, an agreement like this would have been impossible, but this time it was different because automakers, the UAW, environmental advocates, Democrats, Republicans, States all across the country, all of them came together, pledging to set aside the quarrels of the past for the sake of the future.<p>Because of the steps we've taken, this plant is about to shift into high gear. A hundred and fifty of your coworkers came back to work yesterday. More than 1,000 will be coming back to work in less than 3 weeks as production of the Cobalt ramps up. [<i>Applause</i>] That's worth standing for. <p>And next year, this plant will begin production of the Chevy Cruze, a new car that will get more than 40 miles per gallon. I just sat in the car. I asked for the keys; they wouldn't give me the keys. [<i>Laughter</i>] I was going to take it for a little spin. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it was nice sitting in there. It was a roomy car, 40 miles per gallon.<p>So if you picked up a copy of the Youngstown Vindicator back in January, you would have seen a headline that read: \\"Worries mount in wake of layoffs.\\" A couple weeks ago, you would have read a different story: \\"Good news at Lordstown is good news for all.\\" And today you made, by the way, some more good news: I understand that the one-millionth Cobalt rolled off the assembly line late last night. <p>So I don't want to just congratulate you; I want to thank you. You're doing your part to move us forward and make sure that the high-quality, well engineered, safe, and fuel-efficient cars of the future will be built where they've always been built, right here in Ohio, right across the Midwest, right here in the United States of America. <p>Now, even though you're proving that American automakers are getting back in the game, I think everybody understands our economic troubles are far from over. I don't want to overpromise here. We've still got a lot of work to do. We got in a deep hole over a course of years; it's going to take some years to get back out of this hole. We have a lot of work to do not just to get this community moving again and this economy moving again, but we've got to build a stronger foundation for economic growth into the future. <p>There's some people in Washington, they've already forgotten just what it was that we walked into 8 months ago. So let me just go through&mdash;let me go through the facts here real quick in case you all have forgotten: a financial system near collapse; 700,000 workers losing their jobs every single month; a sudden decline in credit that made it difficult to take out a mortgage, or a student loan, or a small business loan, or an auto loan. You couldn't get an auto loan. It was so bad that experts of all political persuasions feared a second coming of the Great Depression.<p>So we took bold, swift action to make sure that didn't happen. We moved to keep responsible homeowners in their homes. We moved to jump-start lending. We passed a sweeping Recovery Act without the usual Washington earmarks or porkbarrel spending, but putting people back to work. And that plan is now working.<p>I want you to know what's happened here. One-third of our Recovery Act went to tax relief; we cut your taxes. Ninety-five percent of America's working families&mdash;4.5 million families right here in Ohio&mdash;we cut your taxes. And we cut taxes for small businesses on investments that they make.<p>That was a third of our Recovery Act. And that gave everybody a little more money in their pockets to spend, which helped boost the economy. Then what we did was we put another third into emergency relief. All those Americans who were laid off, we extended unemployment benefits, and that's made a difference for 12 million Americans, including 570,000 right here in Ohio. <p>And for all those people who had lost their jobs, they were worried about losing their health care, they were going to have to try to get on COBRA, but you know how much COBRA costs, having to pick up your whole health care premium. So what we did was we made health insurance through COBRA 65 percent cheaper for families while they were looking for work. We saved the jobs of tens of thousands of State and local workers, including 336 police officers right here in Ohio. That was part of our Recovery Act. <p>Now, the last third is investing in your towns and your future. Over in Canfield, we awarded a competitive contract to a local company to repair a bridge on Route 11. That allowed them to avoid layoffs they were otherwise going to make. That allowed local folks to keep coming to work, doing the work America needs done. We've got projects like that all across Ohio and all across the country, rebuilding our roads and our bridges, laying broadband lines, making sure that we're building the wind turbines and solar panels that are going to drive our energy future. That's what the Recovery Act has been all about. <p>Now, we've still got a long way to go, but there is little debate that the decisions we've made and the steps we've taken helped stop our economic freefall. In some places, they've helped us turn the corner. Home sales are up; business investment is starting to stabilize. For the first time in 18 months, we're actually seeing growth in American manufacturing instead of decline.<p>I know that's small consolation when so many people you know are still out of work. It's going to take some time to achieve a complete recovery. But I want you to all know, I will not rest until anybody who's looking for a job can find one, and I'm not talking about just any job, but good jobs that give every American decent wages and decent benefits and a fair shot at the American Dream. That's what I'm fighting for every single day. <p>We're fighting for an America where your children will be armed with the skills they need to compete with any worker, anywhere in the world. We're making a historic commitment to strengthening and improving education from cradle to a career. And I've set a goal: By 2020, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. There's no reason why we can't have that number-one ranking once again. <p>We're fighting for an America where clean energy generates green jobs that can't be outsourced, that help us free ourselves from our grip of foreign oil; jobs that make sure the cars of the future and the technologies like the new batteries that power them are made right here in the United States of America. <p>And yes, just in case you were wondering, we are fighting for an America where no American should have to worry about going without health insurance or feel that one illness could cost them everything they have. We're going to reform the system to provide more security and stability to those of you who have health insurance. We're going to offer quality, affordable choices to those who currently don't have health insurance. And we're going to bring health care costs for our families and our businesses and our Government under control.<p>Think about it: If you're a member of the union right now, you're spending all your time negotiating about health care. You need to be spending some time negotiating about wages, but you can't do it&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;but I want to make sure that you understand&mdash;you've got to understand Fritz's position here; he's trying to build this company back up. And if health care costs are going up 30 percent or 20 percent every year, it's very tough for him. So we all have an interest in reforming the health care system so that the cost for employers don't go up; that means the cost for you don't go up, and that means you can actually start bringing home a little more take-home pay. That's what this is all about if you've already got health insurance.<p>So that's what we're fighting for: to bring Lordstown and Youngstown and Warren back; to make sure that our towns and our middle class&mdash;a middle class forged just like in plants that you're seeing here&mdash;I want them not just to survive today, but to thrive tomorrow. <p>I want you to deliver a message to the GM team members who are manning the line and couldn't join us today: As long as you've still got an ounce of fight left in you, I've got a ton of fight left in me. I've said it before, I'm skinny, but I'm tough. [<i>Laughter</i>] And as long as I have the privilege of being your President, I'm going to keep fighting for a future that is brighter for this community and brighter for Ohio and brighter for the United States of America. <p>I need your help, so give it to me, guys, because we're going to rebuild right here, right now. We're going to make Ohio work again. Thank you, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"258" "\"[<i>The President's remarks were joined in progress.</i>]<p>&mdash;&mdash;the fact is, some of these schools, we've been doing the same things for years, and they're just not working. Okay? If you've got a 50-percent dropout rate, that's just&mdash;that is not just bad for the kids who are dropping out, that's bad for the community, that's bad for the country. The main decision for a lot of companies is where can they find skilled workers. And you guys know as well as anybody that it used to be if you wanted to work in an auto plant, you didn't have to really know much about math or computers or what have you. All you had to do was just be willing to work hard.<p>But these days, even if you're on the line&mdash;I haven't looked at this particular plant, but I know that you've got to be able to do some math, you've got to&mdash;there's some science and technical issues that are involved. And so how we train our young people is absolutely critical, and we've got to try some different things and some new things that we haven't been trying.<p>And the other thing we have to do is set up a system of community colleges so that we're constantly retraining. If there is innovation in the auto industry, we want to make sure that workers who are already working are able to go back to school, even if it's part time, night classes, what have you, so that they can then improve their skills. And that's something that has got to be a top priority.\" "
"259" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, Philadelphia! It is good to be back in Philly with a man who's always put his State before politics, before party, your Senator, Arlen Specter.<p>We've got a number of other luminaries here today, starting with the great Governor and sports fan&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;here in Pennsylvania, Ed Rendell is in the house; the outstanding young mayor of the city of Philadelphia, Michael Nutter, is here. Not here, but I want to give him a shout-out anyway because we're in his district, Congressman Bob Brady, doing great work for us. Senator Bob Casey is on the way and will be here soon, and we love Bob Casey. T.J. Rooney, chairman of the Democratic State party, is here. And I want to acknowledge a special friend, somebody who is a great supporter of mine and is the chairman of this event, David Cohen is in the house. Please give him a round of applause. <p>Now, I want to say a few things about Arlen Specter. Arlen's not someone who came to Washington to fight for a particular ideology. He came to fight for the working men and women of Pennsylvania. And he has a long and successful record of doing just that. This is a man who has voted to raise the minimum wage 20 times, because he understands if you work in this society, you shouldn't be in poverty. This is a man who's fought for workplace safety and mine safety, who stood up for the American steelworker and American manufacturer, who has voted to extend unemployment benefits time and time again. <p>I'll never forget that in the height of this recession, when we had just been sworn in&mdash;you remember? There's some selective memory going on out there. [<i>Laughter</i>] But you remember what it was like. We thought we might be tipping into a great depression, losing 700 [700,000]* jobs per month; financial system on the verge of collapse. We had to act boldly; we had to act swiftly. And Arlen Specter cast the deciding vote in favor of a Recovery Act that has helped pull us back from the brink, a Recovery Act that's already making a difference in the lives of millions of Pennsylvanians.<p>Since the Recovery Act was signed, nearly 5 million Pennsylvanians are seeing a tax cut in their paycheck. Think about that, 5 million people getting tax cuts, as I promised during the campaign. We provided relief to 2.5 million seniors and veterans and other struggling Americans. This puts money in their pockets. That means they're spending it in small businesses and circulating it within the economy. <p>We've extended unemployment benefits for over 800,000 Pennsylvanians who've borne the brunt of this recession. We've approved over 700 loans to small businesses throughout Pennsylvania.<p>You talk to your Governor, Ed Rendell, about the kinds of drastic cuts and layoffs that would have had to occur had it not been for the Recovery Act; tens of thousands of State workers potentially laid off. <p>At the time, this was not an easy vote for Arlen to take. You can imagine the pressure he was under from the other side. But Arlen knew that it was more important to answer to the people who sent him to Washington than to the party he belonged to. And that's why you should send him back to Washington for six more years, because you know he's going to fight for you regardless of what the politics are.<p>For the same reason that Arlen has been fighting so hard for health insurance reform, for him, this is not an issue of politics or party, this is personal. This is a man who has seen the health care system up close, the good and the bad. This is a man who courageously battled cancer and is here today because he was able to receive some of the best health care available in the world, and also because he's a tough son of a gun. [<i>Laughter</i>] And he knows that. And he believes that every American should be able to get that kind of care, no matter who you are or how much money you have. That's why he's spent the summer holding town hall meetings across the State. That's why he hasn't been afraid to take some criticism and some hard questions and occasionally some&mdash;well&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;he knows how important it is to pass health care reform this year. <p>It has now been nearly a century since Teddy Roosevelt first called for health care reform. It's been attempted by nearly every President and every Congress ever since. And our failure to get it done year after year, decade after decade, has placed a burden on families, on businesses, and on taxpayers that we can no longer sustain. <p>We know what will happen if we don't do anything, if we fail again. If we do nothing, premiums will continue to rise faster than your wages. If we do nothing, more businesses will close down; fewer will open in the first place. If you have health insurance, you are going to see more and more of those costs taken out of your paycheck. And eventually, some of your employers are going to decide, we just can't afford to bear the burden. <p>If we do nothing, we will eventually spend more on Medicare and Medicaid than every other Government program combined. We would end up having to use all the money that we currently spend on student loans or national parks or Department of Homeland Security&mdash;all of that would be consumed by Medicare and Medicaid if we don't make a change in the system. That is not an option for the United States of America. Arlen Specter understands it's not an option. That's why he's fighting alongside me to get this thing done. Because as I said last week, I may not be the first President to take up the cause of health care reform, but I'm determined to be the last. <p>The plan we've put forward will offer security to those Americans with health insurance. It will offer health insurance that's affordable to those who don't have it right now. And it will bring down the cost of health care for families and businesses and taxpayers. <p>If you're among the hundreds of millions of Americans who already have health insurance through the job or Medicare or Medicaid or the VA, nothing in this plan will require you or your employer to change your coverage or drop the doctor that you have. But what it will do is it will make sure that even if you lose your job, you can still go get health insurance, even if you have a preexisting condition.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Yeah!<p><i>The President.</i> We'll&mdash;this young lady knows all about that. It will make sure that your out-of-pocket costs are capped, that you are not&mdash;meaning, on the other hand, a lifetime cap, where at a certain point an insurance company just says, \\"You know what? We can't pay anymore.\\" It will make insurance work better for you. That's if you have health insurance. <p>Now, if you don't have health insurance, you're going to be able to buy into an exchange with millions of other Americans, which means you have leverage and you can now get the same kind of better deal that people who work for the biggest companies, or work for the Federal Government, or, by the way, our Members of Congress are able to get for themselves. That's a deal that all Americans should be able to enjoy. <p><i>Audience member</i>. Particularly Joe Wilson! [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President</i>. Now, everybody knows we have to change the system. But people have a legitimate question, and that is, how are we going to pay for all this? Arlen is fiscally conservative. He doesn't want us&mdash;see us wasting taxpayer dollars. Neither do I. We can't afford it, especially when we inherited a $1.3 trillion deficit, in part because the war in Iraq and the war in Afghanistan and the prescription drug plan and tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans were not paid for. I'm not going to make that same mistake when it comes to health care. Arlen Specter will make sure we don't make that same mistake. <p>And that's why what we've said is, let's use the money that's being wasted in the system right now&mdash;subsidies to insurance companies that are already making a profit, tens of billions of dollars in waste and abuse&mdash;the majority of this health care plan can be paid for with money that's already in the system but just not used wisely, not making people healthier.<p>And I want to say to all the senior citizens out there, don't let these folks scare you about Medicare. Nobody has been more of a champion of Medicare than me and the Democratic Party. We are going to keep on doing it. Not a dollar is going to come out of the Medicare trust fund. Don't believe these stories. We want to make Medicare stronger and close that doughnut hole in the Medicare system that is causing seniors to have to shell out thousands of dollars for their prescription drug costs.<p>We're going to get this done. This is going to be a priority because one of the things that Arlen Specter came to Washington to do is to solve problems. He and I, even when we were on the opposite side of the aisle, understood that the American people aren't looking for slogans, they're not looking for ideology, they're not looking for bickering. They're looking for the solutions that can help build a foundation for long-term economic growth and security for the American middle class. That's what they're looking for. That's what we're fighting for.<p>But we can't do it without you. There is a lot of noise out there. There's a lot of misinformation out there, not just on health care. We also need to have a clean energy economy that can produce good jobs that can't be outsourced. We've got to have the school system that works for every American and every young person here in Philadelphia.<p>Those are all parts&mdash;part of a foundation for long-term economic growth. And it's not going to happen unless the American people mobilize and say to themselves, \\"Now is the time. We're going to stop putting off the tough problems.\\"<p>I understand that the American people are feeling anxious and we're going through a recession right now, and people are wondering, can this be the \\"American century\\" the way the 20th century was the \\"American century\\"? I know that there are doubts that creep into people's minds. I know that there's a tendency during tough times for us to turn on each other instead of come together. But the one thing that American history shows us is that each and every time that we confront major challenges, each&mdash;every time where we come to that fork in the road where we can keep on doing the same thing and going into slow decline, or we can go through some transformation and make some changes even when they're hard, we always take the harder, better road.<p>We do it not only for ourselves; we do it for our children, we do it for our grandchildren. We know that the central idea in America is, we don't have to stand pat; we are going to make sure that the next generation has it better off than we do. We're going to build a stronger America, a more prosperous America, a more secure America. <p>That's why Arlen got into politics so many years ago. That's why he was a prosecutor. That's why he has excelled in the United States Senate. That's why he is&mdash;he was a great Senator when he was a Republican; he's going to be a even better Senator now that he's a Democrat. And that's why you are all going to work just as hard as you can to make sure that he gets reelected and is continuing to help me move this country forward.<p>Thank you very much, Philadelphia. I love you, and I love Arlen Specter. I appreciate you guys. Thank you.\" "
"260" "\"Thank you so much, everybody. Please have a seat. Thank you. It was, first of all, wonderful to meet all of you as we were taking pictures. And I want to say that I am so pleased to be here not only because of Arlen's outstanding track record, but because, like me, he married up in life. [<i>Laughter</i>] We are both lawyers. We both appreciate the Constitution. We're both fighters, and sometimes people count us out. So although we come from different parts of the country, we have this bond, this thread. And as Arlen, I think, has mentioned, one of the most important bonds is, we're basically a couple of Kansas kids who somehow got displaced&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;him in Philadelphia and me in Honolulu.<p>I want to make sure that I give a word of thanks to Bob Casey, who is one of the finest people I know, has just been a great friend to me&mdash;and his entire family obviously is just legendary here in Pennsylvania. So please give Bob Casey a big round of applause. And I want to thank David Cohen for being such a great supporter of mine, a great supporter of Arlen's. And I suspect that David is in the middle of just about every civic activity that takes place in Philadelphia, and he does it with just a lot of class and always a smile on his face. So thank you, David, for all your help.<p>You know, if you'd think back to where we were 8 months ago, it's hard to imagine. When I was sworn into office, we were in the midst of the worst recession since the Great Depression. And a lot of economists&mdash;both left and right&mdash;thought that we might be plunging into a great depression. We were shedding 700,000 jobs a month. Credit was almost entirely frozen. Not only could you not get a bank loan or a student loan or a home loan, but banks weren't lending money to each other. <p>And at that point, I think there was a sense that in the absence of effective Government action, we could end up being in a real disaster. And so we determined that we had to move boldly and swiftly to turn this around. And we put together&mdash;after consulting with the best economists in the country from all walks of life and all parties, we decided that we needed to put together a recovery package that would have a variety of elements. It would provide tax cuts to businesses and individuals. It would provide support for States that were seeing their budgets plummet. It would provide help to individuals who were being laid off. And it would start building the kind of infrastructure that would move America into the 21st century.<p>And there's been a little bit of a selective memory about&mdash;a little historical revisionism&mdash;about the situation that we were in. But even then, even as scared as people were, there were some in Washington who decided that this is a political opportunity, this is ideological, that we should fight this and perpetuate the kind of gridlock that has caused us so many problems in the past. <p>I'm pleased that I had a partner in Arlen Specter in getting that recovery package done, because it displayed all the traits that I think makes him such an exceptional Senator. Obviously, the first, independence; he is somebody who has always fought for the people who sent him to Washington and not just party; a terrific intellect, being able to follow all the arguments about how to structure a plan that had the best chance of being effective; toughness, being able to put up with a awful lot of grief in the midst of what was a eventually pretty acrimonious debate; and integrity, willingness to stand for what he believed in.<p>Because of Arlen, we were able to get that recovery package passed. Because the recovery package passed, we are now seeing that this economy has pulled itself back from the brink. The financial markets are working again. The stock market has recovered a lot of its value, which means people's 401(k)s have recovered a lot of their value. Banks aren't lending as much as we'd like, but at least things are functioning. We saw this month, for the first time in 3 years, manufacturing actually ticking up, consumer confidence is up. We are not out of the woods, but we've pulled back from the abyss.<p>Now, the challenge for us is figuring out how do we create an economy that doesn't go through these wild boom and bust cycles. How can we create sustained growth? How can we make sure that we've laid the foundations for a competitive America in the 21st century, just like the foundation was laid for the \\"American Century,\\" the 20th century?<p>And in that process, there are going to be some critical decisions that we're going to have to make. Are we willing to invest in the education of our young people so that we can develop the science and engineering and technology and mathematical skills that keep us at the cutting edge? We're not going to get that for free. It's not just going to be a matter of money; it's also going to be a matter of reform. But we've got to have a sense of urgency about how we pick up the pace in our schools. We're going to have to have an entirely new approach to energy, not just because of climate change and the environment, not just because of our addiction to foreign oil that ends up having us send billions of dollars overseas, but also because it is putting us at a huge competitive disadvantage. <p>We're going to have to fix our health care system. We're in the midst of a major debate about health care. And if you are a liberal, then you're concerned about making sure that 30 million American citizens get coverage. If you're moderate and not all that interested in politics, you should still be concerned about the fact that your health care is less secure and less stable than it has ever been. And if you're a conservative, then you should know that the only thing that is going to allow us to close the structural deficit that we have that is piling on debt for our children and our grandchildren is if we are able to bend the cost curve and reduce the cost of health care inflation over the next 20, 30 years. If we don't do that, there's no way for us to balance our budget. There's so much at stake in fixing our health care system.<p>Now, this is before we start getting into foreign policy and the decisions we're going to have to make in terms of how we project our power effectively. How do we balance diplomacy and our military might in an intelligent way so that we're serving the national security interests of the American people? How do we make sure that we preserve our civil liberties even in the midst of going aggressively after those who would try to do us harm? How do we affirm our constitutional values at a time when the country is becoming more diverse? That can lead to incredible dynamism. That's always been a source of strength for America, but it can also lead to contentiousness and conflict and strife.<p>On each and every one of these questions, the Presidency can only take you so far. I've got a clear sense of where we need to go, and I'm absolutely convinced that if we make the right decisions right now and we battle through some difficult choices and we're willing to make some sacrifices, that we are going to be able to lay that foundation for the next generation. <p>But the President can't do it alone. Every single issue that I just mentioned, I've got to have effective, tough partners with integrity and vision, who feel accountable not to special interests in Washington but feel accountable to the folks who sent him there. That's the kind of Senator you've got in Bob Casey. That's the kind of Senator that you have had for many years and you need to continue to have in Arlen Specter. <p>And that's why I'm here today. I'm here today because I'm going to need all of you to redouble your efforts in the months to come to fight for Arlen, because he's fighting for you, and he's fighting for what's right. And it's not going to be easy. It's not easy because we live in a polarized environment, and politics has become sport, and it's hard to sustain complex arguments about why we have to make choices that don't always seem real attractive on the surface. And so that creates political vulnerabilities for all of us. And all of you who know better, who know why it's so important for us to make these tough decisions, you've got to make sure that you support somebody who's got the savvy and the intelligence and the tenacity to actually get things done.<p>That's who Arlen Specter is. I'm proud to call him a friend. I am glad that he is in the Senate. And I'm going to keep on needing him in the Senate in the years to come. So I hope that all of you work as hard as you can. If you do, then I'm absolutely confident that we're going to get through these tough times and brighter days are going to be ahead not just for Pennsylvania, but for the United States of America.<p>So thank you so much for being here, everybody. God bless you. Thank you.\" "
"261" "\"Thank you so much. What an extraordinary honor to be here tonight. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Let me begin by thanking all of you for supporting this wonderful organization. I want to say how much I appreciate my former colleague and great friend Senator Bob Menendez and all the members of the Hispanic Caucus for their outstanding work.<p>I want to thank the chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Nydia Velazquez, for her extraordinary dedication and leadership. Our great Speaker, who has been a partner in every single tough fight that we have had so far, and none of them have been easy, but she is helping to move this country forward, Nancy Pelosi. To all the House leadership, I'm grateful to you; to a couple of people who I stole from the Congressional Hispanic Caucus&mdash;they were just too good to leave alone&mdash;my great Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis, and my outstanding Secretary of the Interior, Ken Salazar.<p>I want to acknowledge the presence of Her Royal Highness Infanta Cristina of Spain, who is here. And our own royalty, somebody who we have become so extraordinarily proud of, somebody who I've just come to adore and who is going to make us proud for many, many years to come because she is not term limited, the newest Justice of the Supreme Court, Sonia Sotomayor. [<i>Applause</i>] Thank you.<p>Well, Michelle and I are so pleased to be here among such good friends. I want to congratulate Marc Anthony, not only because it's his birthday, but also because he's being honored tonight as an artist who has shared not only his music but his heritage with all of us. And I'm sure it has nothing to do with the fact that Nydia has a crush on you&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;that you were provided this award. She's not alone&mdash;I'm telling you, J. Lo., watch out. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I'm also pleased to have the opportunity to be here as you mark the start of Hispanic Heritage Month. I want you to know that my administration is marking this occasion as well. Later this week, Secretary Salazar will lead the first meeting of a commission to look at the creation of a national museum to honor the historic contributions of Latinos and Latinas in our country.<p>Everybody here understands how important those contributions have been and will be. For more than 30 years, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute has, through scholarships and fellowships and internships, sought to lift up the next generation of Latino leaders. I came here 1 year ago as a candidate and said this was a goal I shared. And today I am here as a President to say that this is a goal my administration is helping to meet.<p>Now, you don't have to take my word for it. You can ask Ken or Hilda or any of the many young Latinos and Latinas, including four from CHCI Fellows, who work tirelessly in the White House and throughout my administration every single day. I mean, I don't mean to brag, but the number of Latinos and Latinas I've nominated to senior positions at this point exceeds that of any administration in history, and we are not finished yet. Nearly half of those appointments, by the way, are Latinas. And every wasn't&mdash;every single one of them wasn't just the best Latino for the job, but the best person for the job.<p>And obviously, one of my proudest moments as President&mdash;in fact, probably the proudest moment as President that I've had&mdash;was the day that Justice Sotomayor formally ascended to our Nation's highest court. We stood where generations of Justices had served, in that ornate chamber, and as she lifted her right hand to take the oath, our Nation took one step closer to fully realizing the founding ideals that the Court itself was established to defend. And across America, millions of children's sights are now set higher. Their dreams are a little bigger. That benefits all of us.<p>Now, we face enormous challenges as a nation. And many of those challenges are felt far more acutely by Latinos. But our ability to solve any of the problems we face, from health care to education, from economic recovery to immigration reform, depends on our willingness to recognize that our destiny is shared. We've seen this starkly throughout this economic crisis, as fortunes linked small-business owners on Main Street to the bond trader on Wall Street, the young family looking to refinance a mortgage to the large bank whose profits depend on their staying out of foreclosure. But this has always been true, in good times and bad. Our success has long depended on our willingness to see our challenges as ones we have to face together, our willingness to live up to a simple ideal: <i>Todos somos Americanos</i>&mdash;we are all Americans.<p>Because when there's a young Latina stuck in a crumbling school who starts to actually believe she's worth less because she doesn't have more, that isn't just a problem for that child. That isn't just a problem for the Hispanic community. That's a problem for our Nation. That's why I've challenged States to raise the bar across their early education programs, so that more of our children enter kindergarten ready to learn. That's why I've called for a new race to the top to reform America's schools and provide students with the knowledge and the skills they need for the 21st century. That's why we will address the dropout crisis that plagues far too many communities and commit to increasing access to college and success at college, so that America can once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. That depends in part on making sure that Latinos and Latinas have access to higher education, and that's a commitment of our administration.<p>We'll provide a complete and competitive education for every student, because our prosperity as a nation requires that we harness the talents of all our people, not just some. <i>Todos somos Americanos</i>.<p>When the unemployment rate for Latinos and Latinas is higher than 10 percent, it isn't just a problem for families worried about paying the bills or keeping their home. This is not just a problem for the Hispanic community. It's a problem for our Nation. And that's why the Recovery Act is providing a tax cut for working families and extended unemployment and health insurance for folks who have lost their jobs. That's why we are not only seeking to revive this economy but to rebuild it stronger than before, by investing in clean energy jobs of tomorrow, by preparing our children to outcompete workers around the world, and by giving every American the security and stability of quality, affordable health insurance. <i>Todos somos Americanos</i>.<p>You know how important it is to pass health insurance reform. You know that Hispanics are more likely to be uninsured and Hispanic small-business owners, like all small-business owners, are struggling with higher health care costs than large companies, costs that are rising all the time. So I'm grateful to so many of you for the support that you've shown from the beginning of this effort. But the problems in our health care system aren't just a Hispanic American problem; they're an American problem.<p>That's why we'll offer tax credits to individuals to help them afford coverage and to small-business owners to help them provide coverage for their workers. That's why we'll provide greater security and stability to those who already have insurance. Because no one in America should have to worry that their coverage will be dropped the moment they need it the most. No one in America should be denied health insurance because of a preexisting condition. No one in America should go broke because they got sick. That's a basic principle that we seek to uphold.<p>Now, as you know, there's been a little controversy about who exactly will be covered under reform, and I want to be clear: If someone's here illegally, they won't be covered under this plan. That's a commitment I've made. But I also want to make this clear: Even though I do not believe we can extend coverage to those who are here illegally, I also don't simply believe we can ignore the fact that our immigration system is broken. That's why I strongly support making sure folks who are here legally have access to affordable, quality health insurance under this plan, just like everybody else. And we certainly should not let this debate on health care, one that's so essential to Hispanic Americans and all Americans, get sidetracked by those looking to exploit divisions and kill reform at any cost. That's what they always try to do.<p>If anything, this debate underscores the necessity of passing comprehensive immigration reform and resolving the issue of 12 million undocumented people living and working in this country, once and for all. That's what I've said from the start. That's what I say tonight.<p>I've asked Secretary Janet Napolitano to lead the conversation with stakeholders both on and off Capitol Hill. And I know that she's met with many of you. This is a tough issue&mdash;we all know that&mdash;which is why it's so important that we develop the strategy and the policy that's going to get us over the finish line. My commitment is real, and so is my desire to get this done. In fact, the changes we've made administratively are already making a difference. The American people did not send us to Washington to ignore problems just because they're tough. They sent us here to solve them, and that's what we can and must do on immigration reform.<p>On all these issues, you understand what's at stake because you see it; you experience it in your communities every single day. Whether it's health insurance reform or immigration reform, fixing our schools or reviving our economy, it is essential that we put aside the petty and the partisan, that we don't fall prey to arguments that would divide us, that would suggest that progress in America is a zero-sum game. We know the opposite is the truth. We know that here in America, we only prosper as one nation, as one people. We know that here in America, we rise or fall together. <i>Todos somos Americanos</i>.<p>We are called to rise above the politics of the moment to meet the challenges of our time. That's why I'm here. That's why the Congressional Hispanic Caucus is here. That's why all of you are here. Because I know and you know that this new generation of Hispanic leaders&mdash;the focus of this gathering and this organization&mdash;all of you know you haven't worked so hard and come so far just to watch history. You came here to make history. Together, that's what we can do. Together, that's what we must do. That's what we're already beginning to do.<p>I am absolutely confident that if all of us work together, if all of us support the extraordinary efforts of the members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, if you support the efforts of this administration to finally fix our immigration system and put our kids into college and make sure that folks can stay in their homes and that job opportunities exist for everybody and not just some, if we can lift the tone of the debate so that we're not scoring political points just by turning on each other, but we're instead scoring points for all of America by solving problems, if that's our attitude, nothing can stop us. Think about how far we have come. But we have so much more to do. We have so much more&mdash;such a longer road to travel. It's going to be up to all of you. And I am grateful for the opportunity to be your partner in this extraordinary journey.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"262" "\"Thank you, everybody. Thank you. It is true that I always wanted to fence&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and I thought that would be cool. So I might get a couple tips from you guys. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now you see one of the reasons that I love Chicago so much: It's the city where I met the woman I love.<p>Sixteen days away&mdash;we are just 16 days away from the deciding vote on which world city will host the 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games, so let's get right down to business here. The United States is eager to welcome the world to our shores. This Nation would be honored to host the 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games and to serve as host to thousands of athletes and millions of visitors from around the world. And within this great country of ours, there is no better city than thatm than Chicago, Illinois.<p>Now, I may live in Washington these days. I love Washington, DC. And our house here is a little bigger than the one we got in Chicago. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I've called Chicago home for nearly 25 years. It's a city of broad shoulders and big hearts and bold dreams; a city of legendary sports figures, legendary sports venues, and legendary sports fans; a city like America itself, where the world&mdash;the world's races and religions and nationalities come together and reach for the dream that brought them here.<p>In Chicago, old and new exist in harmony. It's a city rooted in an industrial past that laid this Nation's railroads, forged this Nation's steel, rebuilt itself after a great fire, and reversed the course of a mighty river. And it's also a city of bustle and gleaming promise that Mayor Daley has pledged to make the greenest in America. And that's why I think that one of the most exciting parts of the Olympic and Paralympic Games is that all of the plans being made in Chicago exist within minutes of the city center, easily accessible to commerce and culture, parkland and water, because we don't want these venues to be far-flung, all over the place. We want to host these games where we live and work and play.<p>We want them in the heart of our proud city, the city that opened the way westward in the 19th century, that showed the way skyward in the 20th century, and that is leading the way forward in the 21st century. So Chicago is ready; the American people are ready. We want these games. We want them.<p>The Olympic and Paralympic Games, they hold a special place in our psyche. They lift us up; they bind us together. They're the sources of fleeting moments, instants, really, that have become permanently seared in our collective memories: the humble victory of Jesse Owens; the perfection of Nadia and Mary Lou; Michael Johnson's astonishment at his own feat; Derek Redmond and Kerri Strug bravely making it through with a little help; Jean Driscoll racing her wheelchair to gold after gold, be it over 100 meters or 26.2 miles. Moments of euphoria after years of hard work and moments when the human spirit triumphed over injury that should have been impossible to overcome, moments of a team's shared glory and moments of lonely disappointment despite one's best efforts, countless moments we live and relive again and again, silently and subconsciously, nodding yes, we do believe in miracles.<p>We find ourselves riveted by the games. Because even as we cheer, even as we live and die for each point or each tenth of a second, what we see reflected in the Olympic and Paralympic Games are simple truths of our common humanity, and that no matter who you are, where you're from, or what you look like, with hard work and dedication and discipline you can achieve your dreams. You can make it if you try.<p>What we see is that although we may come from vastly different stories and very different walks of life, we are one people who possess common values and common ideals, who celebrate individual excellence but also share a recognition that together, we can accomplish great and wonderful things we can't accomplish alone.<p>It's the stuff from which our young Nation was forged, and it is a set of timeless values that serves as the underpinnings of the Olympic spirit. And so the United States of America does more than just stand behind the Olympic and Paralympic Games; we stand behind their ideals.<p>Ands that's why we've created the first ever Office of Olympic, Paralympic, and Youth Sport right here in the White House. Now, this office does the work of coordinating with Federal Agencies to support and promote Olympic and Paralympic Games, but it also works to support and promote the Olympic spirit. We've been working hand in hand with Chicago 2016, the United States Olympic Committee, Olympians and Paralympians, some of whom have joined us here today, to get our young Americans active and involved in sports, because we want to do more than just bring the Olympic Games to America; we want them to create a lasting legacy here in America.<p>I want to thank the members of the International Olympic Committee for their dedication to the Olympic and Paralympic movement and the values it represents. I am confident that they'll find no greater partners than the city of Chicago and the American people to fuel this movement, to ignite it in new generations, and to inspire the world in 2016 with magnificent games that bring this world together in noble competition and shared celebration of our common humanity.<p>The energy, excitement, and enthusiasm on display at the White House here today, these aren't new. The folks gathered here this afternoon have had the Olympic spirit blazing within them for years, working tirelessly to bring these games to the city and the country we love. And I promise you, we are fired up about this.<p>I would make the case in Copenhagen personally, if I weren't so firmly committed to making real the promise of quality, affordable health care for every American. But the good news is I'm sending a more compelling superstar to represent the city and country we love, and that is our First Lady, Michelle Obama. She's going because she and I share the conviction that bringing the games to the United States isn't just important for the city, but for the American people. And I'm confident she and my senior adviser and director of the White House Office of Olympic, Paralympic, and Youth Sport, Valerie Jarrett, will represent the American people well.<p>Our Nation, from the local to the national level, is committed to the success of these games. The Chicago City Council unanimously supports this bid; both Houses of the United States Congress support this bid; I support this bid. And on behalf of the nearly 20,000 volunteers, the more than 1 million who've already signed up for&mdash;in support, and all who've already taken up this cause and made it their own, first as the cause of the city, and now the cause of a nation, the United States supports this bid.<p>Americans, like Chicagoans, we don't like to make small plans. We want to dream big and reach high. We hope deeply. We want these games. And if you choose Chicago, I promise you this: Chicago will make America proud, and America will make the world proud. <p>So, as I said when we first were announcing this bid in Chicago, let the games begin right here in the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"263" "\"<i>The President</i>. Thank you, College Park. Thank you so much. It is good to be back at the University of Maryland. I want to start by wishing \\"The Fridge\\" and the Terps good luck on the game this weekend. Maybe I'll even rub Testudo's nose before I leave.<p>We've got a number of extraordinary elected officials who are here. I just want to introduce them real quick. Your Governor, Martin O'Malley, is in the house. The two outstanding Senators from Maryland, Barbara Mikulski and Ben Cardin, are in the house. One of the finest leaders that we have in Congress, Steny Hoyer, is in the house. Lieutenant Governor Anthony Brown is here. Prince George's County Executive Jack Johnson is here. Mayor Stephen Brayman is here. State Senate Majority Leader Tom Miller is in the house. Congresswoman Donna Edwards is here; Congressman Elijah Cummings; Congressman Chris Van Hollen; Congressman Sarbanes is here; Congressman Butch [Dutch]* Ruppersberger is here.<p>And to your president, Dan Mote, president of the University of Maryland, thank you so much. President Mote.<p>You know&mdash;&mdash;<p><i>Audience member</i>. [<i>Inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President</i>. Who?<p>You know, the last time I was here it was in the heat of a very long and very tough campaign. And in that campaign, I promised to be a President who&mdash;you guys can sit down, by the way. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>In that campaign, I promised to be a President who didn't just clean up yesterday's crises; I didn't want to be a President who was just content with standing still. I promised to be a President who would build a better future, who would move this Nation forward, who would ensure that this generation&mdash;your generation&mdash;had the same chances and the same opportunities that our parents gave us. That's what I'm here to do. That's why I ran for President of the United States of America. I ran for President because of people like Rachel. Did she not do an outstanding job in the introduction?<p>Part of that promise is an economy that leads the world in science and technology and innovation. Part of that promise is a clean energy revolution that protects our planet, protects our security, creates jobs of the future right here in the United States of America. Part of it is giving every citizen the skills and the education they need to compete with any worker in the world, just like you're getting right here at the University of Maryland. And today we are on the cusp of taking another big step forward towards fulfilling that promise.<p>A few miles from here, the House of Representatives will soon be voting on a plan that would finally make student&mdash;the student loan process simpler and more affordable for millions of young Americans. This plan would end the billions upon billions of dollars in unwarranted subsidies that we hand out to banks and financial institutions, money that doesn't do anything to make your loans any cheaper. Instead, we're going to use that money to guarantee access to low-cost loans no matter what the economy looks like. We'll use it to strengthen Pell grants and Perkins loans to make college more affordable. We'll shore up our system of community colleges. And we will simplify the complicated, convoluted financial aid forms so it's easier for you to apply for help and get the financing that you need.<p>Now, these are reforms that have been talked about for years, but they're always blocked by special interests and their lobbyists. Well, because you voted for change in November, we're going to bring change in the House of Representatives today. And then we will take this battle for America's students and America's working families to the Senate. And then I intend to sign this bill into law. Because that's the change you worked for, that's the change you voted for, that's the change we're going to deliver.<p>But, Terps, we can't stop there. There are still those in Washington who are resistant to change, who are more willing to defend the status quo than address the real concerns of the American people.<p><i>Audience members</i>. Boo!<p><i>The President</i>. What can I tell you? [<i>Laughter</i>] They're still out there. We're facing the same kind of resistance on another defining struggle of this generation, and that's the issue of health insurance reform.<p>Now, let me say, when you're young, I know this isn't always an issue that you have at the top of your mind. You think you're invulnerable. That's how I thought.<p><i>Audience member</i>. We love you, Obama!<p><i>The President</i>. I love you back.<p>Now, I'm sure that some of you wondered why this college required that all new students have health insurance this semester. Well, here's why. Here's why. Every day, the one in three adults&mdash;one in three young adults who don't have health insurance live one accident or one illness away from bankruptcy. Think about what would have happened with Rachel if she hadn't had health insurance. Nearly half of these young people have trouble paying their medical bills. Nearly 40 percent are in debt because of them. I mean, think about adding the debt you already have for college, on top of that, another 10,000 or 20,000 or 30,000 or $50,000 worth of debt because you get sick.<p>Some of these Americans don't get insurance because they feel young and healthy. But some work part time or for small businesses, where you aren't offered health insurance. And it's just too expensive to buy coverage on your own.<p>And even if you have coverage, insurance companies today, they can drop it or water it down when you're sick and you need it the most. Or they can decide that they won't pay the full cost of your care and make you pay the rest of it out of pocket, even if it's thousands upon thousands of dollars. That's why more than one-third of all young adults, including those with insurance, have had trouble paying their medical bills. That's why one-fourth of all young adults are paying off medical debt.<p>And we've heard some horror stories during the course of this debate. There's the young father I met in Colorado; his child was diagnosed with severe hemophilia the day after he was born. And they had insurance, but because there was a cap on their coverage, as one child's medical bills piled up, this father was left frantically to search for another option or face tens of thousands of dollars of debt.<p>[<i>At this point, there was an interruption in the audience.</i>]<p>Another woman from Texas was about to get a double mastectomy when her insurance company canceled her policy because she forgot to declare a case of acne. By the time she had her insurance reinstated, her breast cancer&mdash;&mdash;<p>[<i>The interruption in the audience continued.</i>]<p>What's going on, guys? We're doing okay. Relax. Everybody is all right. We're doing fine.<p>Let me talk about&mdash;I want everybody to understand this. You had a young woman who was diagnosed with cancer, but because she had a case of acne that the insurance company said hadn't been declared, they decided they wouldn't cover her. By the time her insurance was reinstated, her breast cancer had more than doubled in size. Now, these stories are heartbreaking; they are wrong. Nobody in America should be treated that way. And we are going to bring about change this year.<p>Now, at its core&mdash;listen up. At its core, that's what this issue is about. Health care is about more than the details of a policy, it's about what kind of country you want to be. Young people, it's about what kind of country you want to be. We are the only nation on Earth that leaves millions of people without health insurance. We spend more than any country on Earth, and we're not any healthier for it. So this is about what kind of country you want your children to grow up in.<p>A lot of you here today and a lot of young people across the country gave your time and your effort to this campaign because you believed that America can still do great things. You believed that in this country, we don't fear the future, we shape the future. We don't feed on division and anger, we feed on hope and possibility. That's what America is about; that's what we're called to affirm right now. <p>It has now been nearly a century since Teddy Roosevelt first called for health care reform. It's been attempted by nearly every President and every Congress since. And our failure to get it done, year after year and decade after decade, has placed a burden on families and on businesses and on taxpayers that we can no longer sustain. So I may not be the first President to take up the cause of health care reform, I am determined to be the last, with your help.<p>We will get this done. Now, the good news is, we are now closer to reform than we've ever been. After debating this issue for the better part of a year, there's now agreement in Congress on about 80 percent of what needs to be done. Four out of five committees in Congress have completed their work. Yesterday the Finance Committee, under the leadership of Max Baucus, put out its own bill. Each bill has its strengths, and there are a lot of similarities between them. And our overall efforts have been supported by an unprecedented coalition of hospitals and seniors' groups, businesses, drug companies even. Most importantly, drugs&mdash;doctors and nurses are supporting this effort. We've got doctors&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;medical students right here in the house.<p>See, I just want to point out, I think it's telling, some of the people who are most enthusiastic about health care reform are the very medical professionals who have firsthand knowledge about how badly the system needs to change. So don't&mdash;stop paying attention to the folks who are spreading false charges and crazy rumors about our plan; pay attention to the health care experts&mdash;the doctors and the nurses&mdash;who know our system best.<p>Now, I think it's fine that we've been hearing constructive criticism about these issues over the last several months because this is a big deal. That's how our democracy works. No one has all the right answers. We've all got a stake in getting this right. That's why I've said I will embrace good ideas, wherever they come from. We already have. But too often during this important debate we've also seen the same kind of partisan spectacle that has left so many people disappointed about Washington. Too many engage in scare tactics instead of honest debates. Too many use this as an opportunity to score short-term political points instead of working together to solve a long-term challenge. I've heard a lot of Republicans say they want to \\"kill Obamacare.\\" Some may even raise money off it. But when you ask these folks what exactly my plan does, they've got it all wrong. When you ask them what their solution is, it amounts to the same old, same old, the same status quo that's given us higher costs and more uninsured and less security than you've ever had. It's more of the same.<p>Well, look, I will not accept the status quo as a solution. Not this time. Not now. The time for bickering is over. The time for games has passed. Now is the season for action. Now is the time to deliver on health care reform for the American people.<p>So just to make sure you're clear, here's what you need to know about our plan. For those who have health insurance, you'll have more security and stability. It will provide insurance to those who don't have insurance. It will slow the growth of health care costs for our families and our businesses and our Government.<p>So let me say, if you already have health insurance, nothing in this plan will require you to change what you have. What this plan will do is make the insurance you have work better for you. Because under this plan&mdash;listen up, young people&mdash;under my plan, if your parents have health insurance and you're currently on their policy, you will automatically be able to keep your coverage until you're 26 years old. That means you will know that you've got health insurance. If your parents don't have access to health insurance, one of the ideas on the table is to give folks under 25 the chance to buy low-cost insurance that will protect you from financial ruin if you get seriously ill.<p>Now, under this plan, it will also be against the law for insurance companies to deny you coverage because of a preexisting condition. You just heard Rachel's story. She's okay right now, she's thriving, but when she goes into the workforce and their insurance companies start asking, well, have you been sick before, right now she'd have trouble getting insurance. Under the bill that we sign, she will still be able to get coverage.<p>When I sign this bill, it will be against the law for insurance companies to drop your coverage when you get sick, water it down when you need it the most. They'll no longer be able to place some arbitrary cap on the amount of coverage you can receive in a given lifetime or a given year. We'll place a limit on how much you can be charged for out-of-pocket expenses. In the United States, nobody should go broke because they get sick. And insurance companies will be required to cover, with no extra charge, routine checkups and preventive care, because there's no reason we shouldn't be catching treatable illnesses, treatable diseases, before they get worse. That makes sense, that saves money, and it saves lives.<p>Now, if you don't have health insurance, the second part of this plan will finally afford&mdash;offer you quality, affordable choices. So if you lose your job or you change jobs, you'll be able to get coverage. If you decide you want to start your own business, you'll still be able to get coverage. We'll do this by creating a new insurance exchange, a marketplace where individuals and small businesses will be able to shop for an affordable health insurance plan that works for them. That's how large companies and Government employees get affordable insurance. That's how I and everyone in Congress gets affordable insurance. You should have the same thing that Congress has.<p>Now, I've also said that one of the options in the insurance exchange should be a public insurance option. Now, let me be clear. Let me be clear: It would only be an option. No one would be forced to choose it. No one with insurance would be affected by it. But what it would do is provide more choice and more competition and put pressure on private insurers to make their policies affordable and treat their customers better.<p>Now, think about it. There's some folks who've said, \\"Well, this is a Government takeover of health care.\\" We've got public universities and private universities; nobody says that we're taking over private colleges. What we're doing is giving students a choice. You should have a choice the same way in your health care.<p>Of course, the only way this plan works is if everybody fulfills their responsibility, not just Government, not just insurance companies, but employees and individuals. This school should be proud that every student is required to have health insurance. Since our plan will make sure that insurance is affordable for everybody, we're going to also say everybody needs to get insurance. Because if there are affordable options and people don't sign up, then the rest of us pay for somebody else's expensive emergency room care. And that's not fair. Improving our health care system only works if everybody does their part, and I think Americans are willing and ready to take on that responsibility.<p>Now, a lot of you may be asking, \\"You know, this plan sounds pretty good, but how are you going to pay for it? How do we make sure this doesn't add to the deficit that the next generation is going to have to be paying?\\" So here is what you need to know.<p>First, I won't sign a bill that adds one dime to our deficit, either now or in the future, period. Part of the reason I faced a trillion-dollar-plus deficit when I walked into the door of the White House is because too many initiatives over the last decade were not paid for, from the Iraq war to tax breaks for the wealthy. I won't make the same mistake when it comes to health care.<p>Second, we've estimated that most of this plan can be paid for by finding savings within the existing health care system. There's all kinds of waste and abuse. The doctors and nurses know this. Right now too much of the hard-earned savings and tax dollars we spend on health care doesn't make you healthier. That's especially true when it comes to Medicare and Medicaid. So without taking any money from the Medicare trust fund that gives benefits to your grandparents&mdash;they depend on it for their health care&mdash;we're going to eliminate hundreds of billions of dollars of waste and fraud and subsidies to insurance companies that pad their profits but don't do anything to make seniors healthier.<p>Now, some of my Republican colleagues have also supported reforming our medical malpractice laws as a way to cut down health care costs. I don't think this is a silver bullet, but I want to explore the idea. So today I directed my Secretary of Health and Human Services to move forward with programs that will help us put patient safety first while allowing doctors to focus on practicing medicine instead of defending against lawsuits.<p>So, Maryland, this is the plan I'm proposing. It's a plan that incorporates ideas from Democrats and Republicans. And I'm going to seek common ground in the weeks ahead. If you come to me with a set of serious proposals, I will be there to listen. My door is always open. But know this: I will not waste time with those who've made the calculation that it's better to kill health reform than to improve our health care system. I won't stand by while special interests do the same old tricks to keep things exactly the way they are. And I said last week at the speech to the joint session, if you misrepresent what's in our plan, we'll call you out. We will call you out.<p>Now, I said we're closer to reform than we've ever been. But this is the hard part. This is when the special interests gear up. This is when the folks who want to kill reform fight back with everything they've got. This is when they spread all kinds of rumors to scare and intimidate Americans. This is what they always do.<p>That's why I need your help. When I was running for President, I never said change would be easy. Change is hard. It's always been hard. Civil rights was hard. Getting women the right to vote, that was hard. Making sure that Social Security was there for our seniors, that was hard. Getting Medicare in place, that was hard. I know there are doubts that creep into people's minds. I know there's a tendency during tough times for folks to turn on each other and get mad and get angry. But our history tells us that each and every time we faced a choice between the easy road that leads to slow decline or the hard road that leads to something better, something higher, we take the higher road.<p>That's how Americans are: We refuse to stand still. We always want to move forward. And that journey doesn't place&mdash;take&mdash;that doesn't start in Washington, DC. It begins right here in College Park. It begins on campuses like this one. It always has. Just like the change that began in our campaign, it starts with people, especially young people, who are determined to take this Nation's destiny into their own hands.<p>You know, some of you remember during the campaign we had a slogan, \\"Fired up!\\"<p><i>Audience members</i>. Ready to go!<p><i>The President</i>. Ready to go! Not everybody here knows how this story came about, so I'm going to tell it again, because it bears on health care reform. This is early in the campaign when none of you knew how to pronounce my name. [<i>Laughter</i>] I had just announced, and I was looking for support. I had to go down to South Carolina; it was an early primary State. I went down to Greenville for a legislative dinner. And I was sitting next to a State representative there, and I wanted her support. I needed some endorsements; nobody supported me at the time.<p>So I said, \\"Madam Representative, I need your endorsement.\\" She said, \\"I will give you my endorsement if you come to my hometown, Greenwood, South Carolina.\\" And I said&mdash;I'd had a glass of wine&mdash;I said, \\"Fine.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"I'm coming.\\" Come to find out that Greenwood is an hour and a half from everyplace else. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's in the middle of nowhere.<p>So about a month later, I fly back into Greenville. I'm tired, I'm sleepy, and I've been campaigning for 2 weeks straight. I mean, I'm dragging my bags to my hotel room, and suddenly, I get a tap on my shoulders&mdash;my staffers&mdash;I said, \\"What?\\" They said, \\"We've got to be in the car at 6:30 tomorrow morning.\\" I said, \\"Why 6:30? Why?\\" \\"Because we've got to go to Greenwood like you promised.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So the next morning I wake up, and I feel terrible, dragging out of bed, feel like a college student, feel like I'm back in college and don't want to wake up, feel like I've been staying up late doing who knows what. [<i>Laughter</i>] I know. I remember how you all are. [<i>Laughter</i>] So I just feel&mdash;I'm exhausted. I go over to the curtains to try to get some sunlight, wake myself up. It's pouring down rain outside&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;miserable day. I go to get some coffee, I open up the newspaper, there's a bad story about me in the New York Times. [<i>Laughter</i>] I go downstairs, and my umbrella busts open&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and I get poured on. So by the time I'm in the car, I'm wet and I'm sleepy and I'm tired and I'm mad. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And we start driving, and we're driving and we're driving, and it's an hour and a half, and I realized I'm going to have to drive an hour and a half back. [<i>Laughter</i>] And when I&mdash;and finally, we get to Greenwood, although you don't know you're in Greenwood right away. [<i>Laughter</i>] But there's a little park district building. We go into this park fieldhouse, I get a little more wet, get inside, and after this long drive, waking up at 6:30, there are only about 20 people in the room&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;twenty people. And they're all kind of damp, and they don't look that excited to see me. [<i>Laughter</i>] And they don't really know how to pronounce my name either. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But you know, I'm running for President, so I'm shaking hands&mdash;\\"How do you do? Nice to meet you.\\" Suddenly, I hear this voice behind me shout out, \\"Fired up?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And I'm startled. [<i>Laughter</i>] But everybody around me, they just think this is normal. They say, \\"Fired up!\\" And suddenly, I hear this voice, \\"Ready to go?\\" And everybody goes, \\"Ready to go!\\" I say, \\"What's going on?\\" I look behind me, there's this small woman, she's about 5 feet, 52. She's about 50, 60 years old. And she's just&mdash;she's dressed like she just came from church&mdash;she's got a big church hat. [<i>Laughter</i>] And she's looking at me, she's smiling, and she says, \\"Fired up?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Come to find out that this is a city council member from Greenwood. She also, by the way, moonlights as a private detective&mdash;true story&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;true, true story. But she's mainly known for her chant. She does this everywhere she goes. Everywhere, at any event&mdash;football game, at a city council meeting&mdash;she says, \\"Fired up?\\" And everybody says, \\"Fired up!\\" And \\"Ready to go?\\"&mdash;everybody says, \\"Ready to go!\\"<p>So for the next 5 minutes, she keeps on doing this&mdash;she says, \\"Fired up?\\" \\"Fired up!\\" \\"Ready to go?\\" \\"Ready to go!\\" And I realize I'm being upstaged&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;by this woman. So I'm looking at my staff, asking what's going on here? When is this going to stop? [<i>Laughter</i>] And they're shrugging their shoulders; they don't know. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But here's the thing, Maryland. After about a minute, a couple minutes of this, suddenly I realize I'm feeling kind of fired up. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm feeling like I'm ready to go. So I start joining in the chant. And for the rest of the day, wherever we went, whenever I saw my staff I said, \\"Are you fired up?\\" They'd say, \\"I'm fired up, boss!\\" \\"Are you ready to go?\\" They'd say, \\"I'm ready to go!\\"<p>So it just&mdash;it goes to show you&mdash;and this is so important for young people&mdash;it goes to show you, one voice can change a room. And if a voice can change a room, it can change a city. And if it can change a city, it can change a State. If it can change a State, it can change a nation. If it can change a nation, it can change the world.<p>We will change the world with your voice. We need the voices of young people to transform this Nation to meet up to the meaning of its dream. I need your voice. So I want to know: Are you fired up?<p><i>Audience members</i>. Fired up!<p><i>The President</i>. Ready to go?<p><i>Audience members</i>. Ready to go!<p><i>The President</i>. Fired up?<p><i>Audience members</i>. Fired up!<p><i>The President</i>. Ready to go?<p><i>Audience members</i>. Ready to go! <p><i>The President</i>. Fired up?<p><i>Audience members</i>. Fired up!<p><i>The President</i>. Ready to go?<p><i>Audience members</i>. Ready to go!<p><i>The President</i>. Let's go change the world. Thank you, everybody.\" "
"264" "\"As members of the Jewish faith here in America and around the world gather to celebrate the High Holidays, I want to extend my warmest wishes for this New Year. <i>L'shanah Tovah Tikatevu</i>&mdash;may you have a good year, and may you be inscribed for blessings in the Book of Life. <p>Rosh Hashanah marks the start of a new year, a time of humble prayer, joyful celebration, and hope for a new beginning. Ten days later, Yom Kippur stands as a day of reflection and repentance. And this sacred time provides not just an opportunity for individual renewal and reconciliation, but for families, communities, and even nations to heal old divisions, seek new understandings, and come together to build a better world for our children and grandchildren.<p>At the dawn of this New Year, let us rededicate ourselves to that work. Let us reject the impulse to harden ourselves to others' suffering, and instead, make a habit of empathy, of recognizing ourselves in each other, and extending our compassion to those in need.<p>Let us resist prejudice, intolerance, and indifference in whatever forms they may take. Let us stand up strongly to the scourge of anti-Semitism, which is still prevalent in far too many corners of our world. Let us work to extend the rights and freedoms so many of us enjoy to all the world's citizens: to speak and worship freely, to live free from violence and oppression, to make of our lives what we will. And let us work to achieve lasting peace and security for the State of Israel, so that the Jewish state is fully accepted by its neighbors, and its children can live their dreams free from fear. That's why my administration is actively pursuing the lasting peace that has eluded Israel and its neighbors for so long.<p>Throughout history, the Jewish people have been, in the words of the Prophet Isaiah, \\"a light unto the nations.\\" Through an abiding commitment to faith, family, and justice, Jews have overcome extraordinary adversity, holding fast to the hope of a better tomorrow.<p>In this season of renewal, we celebrate that spirit, we honor a great and ancient faith, and we rededicate ourselves to the work of repairing this world.<p>Michelle and I wish all who celebrate Rosh Hashanah a healthy, peaceful, and sweet New Year.\" "
"265" "\"Please be seated. Good afternoon, and welcome to the White House.<p>Of all the privileges of serving as President, there's no greater honor than serving as Commander in Chief of the finest military that the world has ever known. And of all the military decorations that a President and a nation can bestow, there is none higher than the Medal of Honor.<p>It has been nearly 150 years since our Nation first presented this medal for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity in action at the risk of life above and beyond the call of duty. And in those nearly 150 years&mdash;through Civil War and two World Wars, Korea and Vietnam, Desert Storm and Somalia, Afghanistan and Iraq, and countless battles in between&mdash;tens of millions of Americans have worn the uniform. But fewer than 3,500 have been recognized with the Medal of Honor. And in our time, these remarkable Americans are literally one in a million. And today we recognize another: Sergeant First Class Jared C. Monti.<p>The Medal of Honor reflects the admiration and gratitude of the Nation. So we are joined by Members of Congress, including from Sergeant Monti's home State of Massachusetts Senator John Kerry and Congressman Barney Frank. We're joined by our Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mike Mullen, and leaders from across the Armed Forces.<p>We are joined by the leaders of the Army to which Sergeant Monti dedicated his life: Secretary Pete Geren; our incoming Secretary&mdash;confirmed by the Senate last night&mdash;John McHugh; Chief of Staff General George Casey; Sergeant Major of the Army Ken Preston; and Jared's fellow soldiers and commanders from the legendary 10th Mountain Division. And we are joined by those who now welcome Sergeant Monti into their storied ranks, members of the Medal of Honor Society.<p>But today is not about high officials and those with stars on their shoulders. It's a celebration of a young soldier and those who loved him, who made him into the man he was and who join us today: his mother Janet, his father Paul, his brother Tim, and his sister Niccole&mdash;and from his grandmother Marjorie to his 6 year old niece Carys and cousins and aunts and uncles from across America&mdash;more than 120 proud family and friends.<p>Duty, honor, country, service, sacrifice, heroism; these are words of weight. But as people&mdash;as a people and as a culture, we often invoke them lightly. We toss them around freely. But do we really grasp the meaning of these values? Do we truly understand the nature of these virtues, to serve and to sacrifice? Jared Monti knew. The Monti family knows. And they know that the actions we honor today were not a passing moment of courage. They were the culmination of a life of character and commitment.<p>There was Jared's compassion. He was the kid at school who, upon seeing a student eating lunch alone, would walk over and befriend him. He was the teenager who cut down a spruce tree in his yard so a single mom in town would have a Christmas tree for her children. He even bought the ornaments and the presents. He was the soldier in Afghanistan who received care packages, including fresh clothes, and gave them away to Afghan children who needed them more.<p>There was Jared's perseverance. Cut from the high school basketball team, he came back next year, and the next year, and the next year&mdash;three times&mdash;finally making varsity and outscoring some of the top players. Told he was too young for the military, he joined the National Guard's delayed entry program as a junior in high school. And that summer, while other kids were at the beach, Jared was doing drills.<p>There was Jared's strength and skill. The championship wrestler and triathlete who went off to basic training, just 18 years old, and then served with distinction as a forward observer, with the heavy responsibility of calling in air strikes. He returned from his first tour in Afghanistan highly decorated, including a Bronze Star and Army Commendation Medal for Valor.<p>And there was Jared's deep and abiding love for his fellow soldiers. Maybe it came from his mom, who was a nurse; maybe it came from his dad, a teacher. Guided by the lessons he learned at home, Jared became the consummate NCO, the noncommissioned officer caring for his soldiers and teaching his troops. He called them his \\"boys.\\" And although, obviously, he was still young himself, some of them called him \\"grandpa.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Compassion, perseverance, strength, a love for his fellow soldiers; those are the values that defined Jared Monti's life and the values he displayed in the actions that we recognize here today.<p>It was June 21, 2006, in the remotest northeast of Afghanistan, near the border with Pakistan. Sergeant Monti was a team leader on a 16-man patrol. They'd been on the move for 3 days, down dirt roads, sloshing through rivers, hiking up steep mountain trails, their heavy gear on their backs, moving at night and in the early morning to avoid the scorching 100-degree heat. Their mission: to keep watch on the valley down below in advance of an operation to clear the area of militants.<p>Those who were there remember that evening on the mountain, a rocky ridge not much bigger than this room. Some were standing guard, knowing they had been spotted by a man in the valley. Some were passing out MREs and water. There was talk of home and plans for leave. Jared was overheard remembering his time serving in Korea. Then, just before dark, there was a shuffle of feet in the woods. And that's when the tree line exploded in a wall of fire.<p>One member of the patrol said it was \\"like thousands of rifles crackling.\\" Bullets and heavy machine gunfire ricocheting across the rocks; rocket-propelled grenades raining down; fire so intense that weapons were shot right out of their hands. Within minutes, one soldier was killed; another was wounded. Everyone dove for cover, behind a tree, a rock, a stone wall. This patrol of 16 men was facing a force of some 50 fighters. Outnumbered, the risk was real. They might be overrun. And they may&mdash;might not make it out alive.<p>And that's when Jared Monti did what he was trained to do. With the enemy advancing, so close they could hear their voices, he got on his radio and started calling in artillery. When the enemy tried to flank them, he grabbed a gun and drove them back. And when they came back again, he tossed a grenade and drove them back again. And when these American soldiers saw one of their own wounded, lying in the open, some 20 yards away, exposed to the approaching enemy, Jared Monti did something no amount of training can instill. His patrol leader said he'd go, but Jared said, \\"No, he is my soldier. I'm going to get him.\\"<p>It was written long ago that \\"the bravest are surely those who have the clearest vision of what is before them, glory and danger alike, and yet, notwithstanding, go out to meet it.\\" Jared Monti saw the danger before him. And he went out to meet it.<p>He handed off his radio. He tightened his chin strap. And with his men providing cover, Jared rose and started to run into all those incoming bullets, into all those rockets. Upon seeing Jared, the enemy in the woods unleashed a firestorm. He moved low and fast, yard after yard, then dove behind a stone wall.<p>A moment later, he rose again. And again, they fired everything they had at him, forcing him back. Faced with overwhelming enemy fire, Jared could have stayed where he was, behind that wall. But that was not the kind of soldier Jared Monti was. He embodied that creed all soldiers strive to meet: \\"I will always place the mission first. I will never accept defeat. I will never quit. I will never leave a fallen comrade.\\" And so for a third time, he rose. For a third time, he ran toward his fallen comrade. Said his patrol leader, it \\"was the bravest thing I had ever seen a soldier do.\\"<p>They say it was a rocket-propelled grenade; that Jared made it within a few yards of his wounded soldier. They say that his final words, there on that ridge far from home, were of his faith and his family: \\"I've made peace with God. Tell my family that I love them.\\"<p>And then, as the artillery that Jared had called in came down, the enemy fire slowed, then stopped. The patrol had defeated the attack. They had held on, but not without a price. By the end of the night, Jared and three others, including the soldier he died trying to save, had given their lives.<p>I'm told that Jared was a very humble guy, that he would have been uncomfortable with all this attention, that he'd say he was just doing his job, and that he'd want to share this moment with others who were there that day. And so, as Jared would have wanted, we also pay tribute to those who fell alongside him: Staff Sergeant Patrick Lybert; Private First Class Brian Bradbury; Staff Sergeant Heathe Craig.<p>And we honor all the soldiers he loved and who loved him back, among them noncommissioned officers who remind us why the Army has designated this \\"The Year of the NCO\\" in honor of all those sergeants who are the backbone of America's Army. They are Jared's friends and fellow soldiers watching this ceremony today in Afghanistan. They are the soldiers who this morning held their own ceremony on an Afghan mountain at the post that now bears his name: Combat Outpost Monti. And they are his \\"boys,\\" surviving members of Jared's patrol from the 10th Mountain Division who are here with us today. And I would ask them all to please stand.<p>Like Jared, these soldiers know the meaning of duty and of honor, of country. Like Jared, they remind us all that the price of freedom is great. And by their deeds, they challenge every American to ask this question: What can we do to be better citizens? What can we do to be worthy of such service and such sacrifice?<p>Sergeant First Class Jared C. Monti, in his proud hometown of Raynham, his name graces streets and scholarships. Across a grateful nation, it graces parks and military posts. From this day forward, it will grace the memorials to our Medal of Honor heroes. And this week, when Jared Monti would have celebrated his 34th birthday, we know that his name and legacy will live forever and shine brightest in the hearts of his family and friends who will love him always.<p>May God bless Jared Monti, and may He comfort the entire Monti family. And may God bless the United States of America.<p>Janet, Paul, would you please join me at the podium for the reading of the citation?\" "
"266" "\"Good morning. As Commander in Chief, I'm committed to doing everything in my power to advance our national security, and that includes strengthening our defenses against any and all threats to our people, our troops, and our friends and allies around the world.<p>And one of those threats is the danger posed by ballistic missiles. As I said during the campaign, President Bush was right that Iran's ballistic missile program poses a significant threat. And that's why I'm committed to deploying strong missile defense systems which are adaptable to the threats of the 21st century.<p>The best way to responsibly advance our security and the security of our allies is to deploy a missile defense system that best responds to the threats that we face and that utilizes technology that is both proven and cost effective.<p>In keeping with that commitment and a congressionally mandated review, I ordered a comprehensive assessment of our missile defense program in Europe. And after an extensive process, I have approved the unanimous recommendations of my Secretary of Defense and my Joint Chiefs of Staff to strengthen America's defenses against ballistic missile attack.<p>This new approach will provide capabilities sooner, build on proven systems, and offer greater defenses against the threat of missile attack than the 2007 European missile defense program.<p>This decision was guided by two principal factors. First, we have updated our intelligence assessment of Iran's missile programs, which emphasizes the threat posed by Iran's short- and medium-range missiles, which are capable of reaching Europe. There's no substitute for Iran complying with its international obligations regarding its nuclear program, and we, along with our allies and partners, will continue to pursue strong diplomacy to ensure that Iran lives up to these international obligations. But this new ballistic missile defense program will best address the threat posed by Iran's ongoing ballistic missile defense program.<p>Second, we have made specific and proven advances in our missile defense technology, particularly with regard to land- and sea-based interceptors and the sensors that support them. Our new approach will therefore deploy technologies that are proven and cost effective and that counter the current threat, and do so sooner than the previous program. Because our approach will be phased and adaptive, we will retain the flexibility to adjust and enhance our defenses as the threat and technology continue to evolve. <p>To put it simply, our new missile defense architecture in Europe will provide stronger, smarter, and swifter defenses of American forces and America's allies. It is more comprehensive than the previous program, it deploys capabilities that are proven and cost effective, and it sustains and builds upon our commitment to protect the U.S. homeland against long-range ballistic missile threats, and it ensures and enhances the protection of all our NATO allies.<p>Now, this approach is also consistent with NATO missile&mdash;NATO's missile defense efforts and provides opportunities for enhanced international collaboration going forward. We will continue to work cooperatively with our close friends and allies, the Czech Republic and Poland, who had agreed to host elements of the previous program. I've spoken to the Prime Ministers of both the Czech Republic and Poland about this decision and reaffirmed our deep and close ties. Together, we are committed to a broad range of cooperative efforts to strengthen our collective defense, and we are bound by the solemn commitment of NATO's Article 5 that an attack on one is an attack on all.<p>We've also repeatedly made clear to Russia that its concerns about our previous missile defense programs were entirely unfounded. Our clear and consistent focus has been the threat posed by Iran's ballistic missile program, and that continues to be our focus and the basis of the program that we're announcing today.<p>In confronting that threat, we welcome Russians' cooperation to bring its missile defense capabilities into a broader defense of our common strategic interests, even as we continue to&mdash;we continue our shared efforts to end Iran's illicit nuclear program.<p>Now, going forward, my administration will continue to consult closely with Congress and with our allies as we deploy this system, and we will rigorously evaluate both the threat posed by ballistic missiles and the technology that we are developing to counter it. I'm confident that with the steps we've taken today, we have strengthened America's national security and enhanced our capacity to confront 21st-century threats.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"267" "\"Leaders of the world's largest economies will gather next week in Pittsburgh for the second time this year. The first meeting of the G-20 nations in April came at the height of the global financial crisis, a crisis that required unprecedented international cooperation to jump-start the world's economies and help break the downward spiral that enveloped all our nations. <p>At next week's summit, we'll have, in effect, a 5-month checkup to review the steps each nation has taken, separately and together, to break the back of this economic crisis. And the good news is that we've made real progress since the last time we met, here at home and around the world. <p>In February, we enacted a Recovery Act, providing relief to Americans who need it, preventing layoffs, and putting Americans back to work. We've worked to unlock frozen credit markets, spurring lending to Americans looking to buy homes or cars, take out student loans, or finance small businesses. And we've challenged other nations to join us not only to spur global demand but to address the underlying problems that caused such a deep global recession in the first place. <p>Because of the steps taken by our Nation and all nations, we can now say that we have stopped our economic freefall. But we also know that stopping the bleeding isn't nearly enough. Our work is far from over. We know we still have a lot to do here at home to build an economy that's producing good jobs for all those who are looking for work today. And we know we still have a lot to do, in conjunction with the nations around the world, to strengthen the rules governing financial markets and ensure that we never again find ourselves in the precarious situation we found ourselves in just 1 year ago. <p>As I told leaders of our financial community in New York City earlier this week, a return to normalcy can't breed complacency. To protect our economy and people from another market meltdown, our Government needs to fundamentally reform the rules governing financial firms and markets to meet the challenges of the 21st century. We can't allow the thirst for reckless schemes that produce quick profits and fat executive bonuses to override the security of our entire financial system and leave taxpayers on the hook for cleaning up the mess. And as the world's largest economy, we must lead, not just by word, but by example, understanding that in the 21st century, financial crises know no borders. All of us need to act more responsibly on behalf of a better economic future. <p>That's why, at next week's G-20 summit, we'll discuss some of the steps that are required to safeguard our global financial system and close gaps in regulation around the world, gaps that permitted the kinds of reckless risk-taking and irresponsibility that led to the crisis. And that's why I've called on Congress to put in place a series of tough, commonsense rules of the road that will protect consumers from abuse, let markets function fairly and freely, and help prevent a crisis like this from ever happening again. <p>Central to these reforms is a new consumer financial protection agency. Part of what led to this crisis were not just decisions made on Wall Street, but also unsustainable mortgage loans made across the country. While many folks took on more than they knew they could afford, too often folks signed contracts they didn't fully understand offered by lenders who didn't always tell the truth. That's why we need clear rules, clearly enforced. And that's what this agency will do. <p>Consumers shouldn't have to worry about loan contracts written to confuse, hidden fees attached to their mortgages, and financial penalties&mdash;whether through a credit card or debit card&mdash;that appear without a clear warning on their statements. And responsible lenders, including community banks, trying to do the right thing shouldn't have to worry about ruinous competition from unregulated and unscrupulous competitors. <p>Not surprisingly, lobbyists for big Wall Street banks are hard at work trying to stop reforms that would hold them accountable, and they want to keep things just the way they are. But we can't let politics as usual triumph so business as usual can reign. We can't let the narrow interests of a few come before the interests of all of us. We can't forget how close we came to the brink and perpetuate the broken system and breakdown of responsibility that made it possible. <p>In the weeks and months ahead, we have an opportunity to build on the work we've already done, an opportunity to rebuild our global economy stronger than before, an opportunity not only to protect the American people and America's economy but to promote sustained and balanced growth and prosperity for our Nation and all nations. And that's an opportunity I am determined to seize. <p>So, thanks for listening and thanks for watching, and to our Jewish friends who are celebrating Rosh Hashanah, have a happy and healthy New Year. <i>Shanah Tovah</i>.\" "
"268" "\"Thank you. Hello, Hudson Valley! Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat. Thank you. Thank you very much. What a wonderful reception. It is great to be here. Thanks for whoever organized the weather. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I want to, first of all, say thank you to Jill Biden, who has been a teacher for almost three decades, and she's spent most of that time in community colleges. She understands, as all of you do, the power of these institutions to prepare students for the 21st-century jobs and to prepare America for a 21st-century global economy. And that's what's happening right here at Hudson Valley Community College. So give yourselves a big round of applause. <p>We've got some special guests here that I want to acknowledge, in addition to Jill. First of all, a wonderful man, the Governor of the great State of New York, David Paterson, is in the house; your shy and retiring attorney general, Andrew Cuomo, is in the house. Andrew is doing great work enforcing the laws that need to be enforced.<p>I want to thank the comptroller&mdash;Thomas DiNapoli is in the house. Speaker Sheldon Silver is in the house; the Democratic conference leader, State Senator John Sampson; Albany Mayor Gerald Jennings; we've got three outstanding Members of Congress who are just doing great work every single day: Maurice Hinchey, Paul Tonko, Scott Murphy&mdash;please give them a big round of applause. <p>The president of Hudson Valley Community College, Andrew Matonak, is in the house. Did I pronounce that right, Andrew? And Joe Sarubbi, executive director of TEC-SMART, who did a&mdash;gave me a wonderful tour&mdash;[<i>applause</i>].<p>Now, you may ask, why are we here at Hudson Valley? We're here because this is a place where anyone with the desire to take their career to a new level or start a new career altogether has the opportunity to pursue that dream. This is a place where people of all ages and backgrounds&mdash;even in the face of obstacles, even in the face of very difficult personal challenges&mdash;can take a chance on a brighter future for themselves and for their family. <p>I was just talking to the mayor of Troy, who was talking&mdash;we were in a room, and he was saying how he had studied calculus in the room where we were taking a picture. And I had to inform him I didn't take calculus. [<i>Laughter</i>] But he was testimony; he was an example of what you can do because of an institution like this.<p>And I know that here in Troy, you want and need that chance after so many years of hard times. Communities like this one were once the heart of America's manufacturing strength. But over the last few decades, you've borne the brunt of a changing economy which has seen manufacturing plants close in the face of global competition. So while all of America has been gripped by the current economic crisis, folks in Troy and upstate New York have been dealing with what amounts to almost a permanent recession for years, an economic downturn that's driven more and more young people from their hometowns.<p>I also know that while a lot of people have come here promising better news, that news has been hard to come by, despite the determined efforts of leaders who are here today and many who are not. And part of the reason is that while people in this city work hard to meet their responsibilities, I have to confess that some in Washington haven't always lived up to theirs. <p>For too long, as old divisions and special interests reigned, Washington has shown neither the inclination, nor the ability, to tackle our toughest challenges. Meanwhile, businesses were saddled with ever-rising health care costs, the economy was weakened by ever-growing dependence on foreign oil, our investment in cutting-edge research declined, our schools fell further short, growth focused on short-term gains and fueled by debt and reckless risk, which led to a cycle of precipitous booms and painful busts. <p>And meanwhile, too many in Washington stood by and let it happen. Now, after so many years of failing to act, there are those who now suggest that there's really not much the Government can or should do to make a difference, that what we've seen in places like Troy is inevitable, that somehow the parts of our country that helped us lead in the last century don't have what it takes to help us lead in this one. And I'm here to tell you that that is just flat out wrong. What we have here in this community is talented people, entrepreneurs, world-class learning institutions. The ingredients are right here for growth and success and a better future.<p>These young people are testimony to it. You are proving that right here in the Hudson Valley. Students here are training full-time while working part time at GE Energy in Schenectady, becoming a new generation of American leaders in a new generation of American manufacturing. IBM is partnered with the University at Albany; their partnership in nanotechnology is helping students train in the industries in which America has the potential to lead. Rensselaer is partnering not only with this institution but with businesses throughout the Tech Valley. And early next year, Hudson Valley Community College state-of-the-art TEC-SMART training facility is set to open side by side with Global Foundry's coming state-of-the-art semiconductor plant. <p>So we know that upstate New York can succeed, just like we know that there are pockets in the Midwest that used to be hubs of manufacturing. They're now retooling; they're reinventing themselves. We know that can happen. We know that in a global economy, where there's no room for error and there's certainly no room for wasted potential, America needs you to succeed. <p>So as we emerge from this current economic crisis, our great challenge will be to ensure that we don't just drift into the future, accepting less for our children, accepting less for America. We have to choose instead what past generations have done: to shape a brighter future through hard work and innovation. That's how we'll not only recover, but that's how we'll also build stronger than before: strong enough to compete in the global economy, strong enough to avoid the cycles of boom and bust that have wreaked so much havoc, strong enough to create and support the jobs of the future in the industries of the future.<p>So today my administration is releasing our strategy to foster new jobs, new businesses, and new industries, by laying the groundwork and the ground rules to best tap our innovative potential. This work began with the recovery plan that we passed several months ago, which devoted well over $100 billion to innovation, from high-tech classrooms to health information technology, from more efficient homes to more fuel-efficient cars, from building a smart electricity grid to laying down high-speed rail. <p>But our efforts don't end there, for this strategy is about far more than just recovery, it's about sustained growth and widely shared prosperity. And it's rooted in a simple idea: That if Government does its modest part, there's no stopping the most powerful and generative economic force that the world has ever known, and that is the American people. <p>Our strategy begin where innovation so often does: in the classroom and in the laboratory and in the networks that connect them to the broader economy. These are the building blocks of innovation: education, infrastructure, research. <p>We know that the nations that outeducate us today will outcompete us tomorrow. The ability of new industries to thrive depends on workers with the knowledge and the know-how to contribute in those fields. Unfortunately, today, our primary and secondary schools continue to trail many of our competitors, especially in the keys&mdash;areas of math and science. Hundreds of thousands of high school graduates who are prepared for college don't go to 4-year or 2-year schools because it's just too expensive; they run out of money. And roughly 40 percent of students who start college don't complete college. So all along that education pipeline, too many people&mdash;too many of our young, talented people&mdash;are slipping through the cracks. It's not only heartbreaking for those students, it's a loss for our economy and our country. <p>Now, I know that for a long time politicians have spoken of training&mdash;of job training as a silver bullet, of college as a cure-all. It's not. I don't want to pretend that it is. We know that. But we also know that in the coming years, jobs requiring at least an associate's degree are projected to grow twice as fast as jobs requiring no college experience. Think about that: twice as fast. We will not fill those jobs or keep those jobs here in America without graduating more students, including millions more students from community colleges. <p>And that's why I've asked Dr. Biden to travel the country promoting the opportunities that community colleges offer. That's why I'm grateful that Senator Chuck Schumer, who couldn't be here today, has shown tremendous leadership on this issue. And that's why I've set this ambitious goal: By 2020, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. We used to be number one; we should be number one again. <p>Now, to achieve this goal, we're going to need motivated students, motivated families, motivated communities, local leaders who are doing their part, State leaders who are doing their part. But the Federal Government has its part to do as well. <p>So to reach this goal, we've increased Pell grants and created a simplified $2,500 tax credit for college tuition. We've made student aid applications less complicated and ensured that that aid is not based on the income of a job that you've lost. I hear too much from folks who say, \\"I can't get any student aid because they're still looking at my income taxes when I had a job as opposed to my situation right now.\\" <p>We've also passed a new GI bill of rights to help soldiers coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan begin a new life in a new economy. And the recovery plan has helped close State budget shortfalls&mdash;I think the Governor will testify&mdash;because those shortfalls put enormous pressure on public universities and community colleges, while also, we've made historic investments in elementary and secondary schools. So we're helping States get through some very tough times without having to drastically cut back on the critical education infrastructure that's going to be so important. <p>Now, finally, through the american graduation initiative that I've proposed, we're going to reform and strengthen community colleges to help an additional 5 million Americans earn degrees and certificates in the next decade, because a new generation of innovations depends on a new generation of innovators. <p>And just last week, the House of Representatives passed a bill that will go a long way to reform the student loan system so that college is more affordable for more people. Right now the Federal Government provides a subsidy to banks to get them to lend money to students. The thing is, the Federal Government also guarantees the loans in case the students don't repay. So we're subsidizing banks to take on the risk of giving loans to students, even though taxpayers are absorbing the risk anyway. That doesn't make much sense. It costs us more than $80 billion. If we just cut out the middleman&mdash;the banks&mdash;and lent directly to the students, the Federal Government would save that money, and we could use it for what's actually important: helping students afford and succeed in college. <p>That's why&mdash;that's what the bill&mdash;I want to emphasize this just because every once in a while you may not know what your Members of Congress are doing for you. These three guys right here are standing up for young people. We need Senators to do the same. The bill that they voted on&mdash;the bill that I proposed&mdash;here's what it does: It takes the $80 billion the banks currently get and it uses it to make Pell grants larger. It uses those funds to focus on innovative efforts to help students not only go to college but to graduate. And just as important, these savings will allow us to make the largest investment ever in the most underappreciated asset in our education system, and that is community colleges like Hudson Valley, which are so essential for the future of our young people. So we hope to improve on this bill in the Senate and go even further on behalf of students.<p>Ending this unwarranted subsidy for the big banks is a no-brainer for folks everywhere, except some folks in Washington. In fact, they're already seeing&mdash;we're already seeing special interests rallying to save this giveaway. And the large banks&mdash;many who have benefited from taxpayer bailouts during the financial crisis&mdash;are lobbying to keep this easy money flowing. That's exactly the kind of special-interest effort that has succeeded before, and we can't allow it to succeed this time. This is exactly the kind of waste that leaves people wary of Government, leaves our country straddled with trillions of dollars of deficits and debt with little to show for it. And that's why I went to Washington, to change that kind of stuff. And I look forward to winning this fight in the Senate, just as we won it in the House, and signing this bill into law.<p>Now, another key to strengthening education, entrepreneurship, and innovation in communities like Troy is to harness the full power of the Internet, and that means faster and more widely available broadband, as well as rules to ensure that we preserve the fairness and openness that led to the flourishing of the Internet in the first place. So today FCC chairman Julius Genachowski is announcing a set of principles to preserve an open Internet in which all Americans can participate and benefit. And I'm pleased that he's taking that step. That's an important role that we can play, laying the ground rules to spur innovation. That's the role of Government, to provide investment that spurs innovation and also to set up commonsense ground rules to ensure that there's a level playing field for all comers who seek to contribute their innovations.<p>And we have to think about the networks we need today, but also the networks we need tomorrow. That's why I've proposed grants through the National Science Foundation and through the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or DARPA, which helped develop the Internet, to explore the next communications breakthroughs, whatever they may be. That's why I've appointed the first-ever chief technology officer, charged with looking at ways technology can spur innovations that help Government do a better and more efficient job. <p>And we also have to strengthen our commitment to research, including basic research, which has been badly neglected for decades. That's always been one of the secrets of America's success: putting more and more money into research to create the next great inventions, the great technologies that will then spur further economic growth.<p>The fact is, though, basic research doesn't always pay off immediately. It may not pay off for years. When it does, the rewards are often broadly shared, enjoyed by those who bore it costs, but also by those who didn't pay a dime for that basic research. <p>That's why the private sector generally underinvests in basic science; that's why the public sector must invest instead. While the risks may be large, so are the rewards for our economy and our society. I mean, understand it was basic research in the photoelectric effect that would one day lead to solar panels. It was basic research in physics that would eventually produce the CAT scan. The calculations of today's GPS satellites, they're based on basic research, equations Einstein put on paper more than a century ago. Nobody knew they'd lead to GPS, but they understood that as we advance our knowledge, that is what is going to help advance our societies. <p>When we fail to invest in research, we fail to invest in the future. Yet since the peak of the space race in the 1960s, our national commitment to research and development has steadily fallen as a share of our national income. And that's why I set a goal of putting a full 3 percent of our Gross Domestic Product, our national income, into research and development, surpassing the commitment we made when President Kennedy challenged this Nation to send a man to the Moon. <p>Towards this goal, the Recovery Act has helped achieve the largest increase in basic research in history. This month, the National Institutes of Health will award more than a billion dollars in research grants through the Recovery Act focused on what we can learn from the mapping of the human genome in order to treat diseases that affect millions of Americans, from cancer to heart disease. And I also want to urge Congress to fully fund the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or DARPA, because since its creation, it has been the source of cutting-edge breakthroughs from that early Internet to stealth technology.<p>So as we invest in the building blocks of innovation, from the classroom to the laboratory, it's also essential that we have competitive and vibrant markets that promote innovation as well. Education and research help foster new ideas, but it takes fair and free markets to turn those ideas into industries. <p>My budget finally makes the research and experimentation tax credit permanent. This is a tax credit that helps companies afford the often high costs of developing new ideas, new technologies, new products, which means new jobs. And this tax incentive returns $2 to the economy for every $1 we spend. Time and again, I've heard from leaders, from Silicon Valley to the Tech Valley, about how important it is. I've also proposed reducing to zero the capital gains tax for investments in small or startup businesses, because small businesses are innovative businesses; they produce 13 times more patents per employee than large companies do. <p>Now, these tax incentives will spur entrepreneurship. But there are other important steps to foster markets that value and promote risk takers and idea makers who've always been the center of our success. That's why it's essential that we enforce trade laws and work with our trading partners to open up markets abroad, that we reform and strengthen our intellectual property system, that we sustain our advantage as a place that draws and welcomes the brightest minds from all over the world, and that we unlock sources of credit and capital which have been in short supply as a result of the financial crisis.<p>Now, there are some other fundamental barriers to innovation and economic growth that we're going to have to tackle in order to ensure American leadership and prosperity continues into the 21st century. For as a nation, we face enormous challenges, from ending our dependence on foreign oil to finally producing&mdash;providing all Americans with quality, affordable health care. We've got to attack these challenges to create a climate for innovation. And innovation can then be an important part of how we meet these challenges. <p>So let me give you an example: health care costs. They leave our small businesses at a disadvantage when competing with our large businesses, and they leave our large businesses at a disadvantage when competing around the world. We will never know the enormity of the costs of our economy to the countless Americans unable to become entrepreneurs, or to start a small business, to follow their dreams, because they're afraid of losing their health insurance. So to lead in the global economy, we must pass health insurance reform that brings down costs and provides more security for people who have insurance and offers options to people who don't have health insurance. Health insurance reform will be good for business and especially good for small business&mdash;especially good for small business. <p>Now, in the meantime, the recovery plan that we passed earlier this year has begun to modernize our health system. So innovation can also help drive down the cost for everybody. We are taking long-overdue steps to computerize America's health records. And this is going to reduce the waste and errors that cost billions of dollars and thousands of lives, while protecting patients' privacy. And it's important to note, as well, that the records that are held&mdash;each of us having our own medical records in digital form holds the potential of offering patients the chance to be more active participants in the prevention and treatment of illness. And health IT, health information technology, if implemented effectively, has the potential to unlock so many unanticipated benefits, because it provides patterns of data that we don't yet collect but could reveal discoveries that we can't predict in terms of how to cure illnesses.<p>The same thing is true when it comes to energy. No area will need innovation more than in the development of new ways to produce and use and save energy. And you understand that here at Hudson Valley. I firmly believe that the nation that leads the clean energy economy will be the nation that leads the global economy. And that's why we're doubling our capacity to generate renewable energy, building a stronger and smarter electric grid. And I was meeting some young people who are being trained right here so that they're going to be working on creating this smart grid. <p>We're investing in technologies to power a new generation of clean energy vehicles. We've helped reach an agreement to raise fuel economy standards. And for the first time in history, we've passed a bill to create a system of clean energy incentives which will help make renewable energy the profitable kind of energy in America, while helping to end our dependence on oil and protect our planet for future generations. This bill has passed the House. We're now working to pass legislation through the Senate. It is time to get this done. We have to lead on energy. We can't be lagging behind. <p>So that's an overview of our strategy. All these pieces fit together. It's a strategy that's essential for our recovery today, but more importantly, for our prosperity tomorrow. It's a strategy rooted in a deep and abiding faith in the ability of this country to rise to any challenge, because that's our history. We're a people with a seemingly limitless supply of ingenuity and daring and talent. And at its best, our Government has harnessed those qualities without getting in the way. <p>That's what led to the building of the Erie Canal, which then helped put cities like Troy on the map; that linked east and west and allowed commerce and competition to flow freely between. That's what led a pretty good inventor and a pretty good businessman named Thomas Edison to come to Schenectady and open what is today a thriving mom-and-pop operation known as General Electric.<p>A former Senator from New York, Robert Kennedy, once told us, \\"The future is not a gift. It is an achievement.\\" It was not an accident, not a gift, that America led the 20th century. It was the result of hard work and discipline and sacrifice and ambition that served a common purpose. So it must be in the 21st century. Future success is no guarantee. As Americans, we always have to remember that our leadership is not an inheritance, it is a responsibility.<p>So from biotechnology to nanotechnology, from the development of new forms of energy to research into treatments of ancient diseases, there is so much potential to change our world and improve our lives, while creating countless jobs all across America. The question is if we are ready to embrace that potential, if we're ready to lead the way once more. <p>I think we're ready. I've seen it all across America. This generation, generation of young people sitting here, they have an unparalleled opportunity. We are called upon to help them seize that opportunity. That's what you're doing here at Hudson Valley Community College. That's what I intend to make sure that we do in Washington. That's what we will do as a nation. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"269" "\"Thank you very much. Good morning. I want to thank the Secretary-General for organizing this summit and all the leaders who are participating. That so many of us are here today is a recognition that the threat from climate change is serious, it is urgent, and it is growing. Our generation's response to this challenge will be judged by history, for if we fail to meet it boldly, swiftly, and together, we risk consigning future generations to an irreversible catastrophe.<p>No nation, however large or small, wealthy or poor, can escape the impact of climate change. Rising sea levels threaten every coastline. More powerful storms and floods threaten every continent. More frequent droughts and crop failures breed hunger and conflict in places where hunger and conflict already thrive. On shrinking islands, families are already being forced to flee their homes as climate refugees. The security and stability of each nation and all peoples&mdash;our prosperity, our health, and our safety&mdash;are in jeopardy, and the time we have to reverse this tide is running out.<p>And yet we can reverse it. John F. Kennedy once observed that \\"our problems are manmade; therefore, they may be solved by man.\\" It is true that for too many years, mankind has been slow to respond or even recognize the magnitude of the climate threat. It is true of my own country as well. We recognize that. But this is a new day. It is a new era, and I am proud to say that the United States has done more to promote clean energy and reducecarbon pollution in the last 8 months than at any other time in our history.<p>We are making our Government's largest ever investment in renewable energy, an investment aimed at doubling the generating capacity from wind and other renewable resources in 3 years. Across America, entrepreneurs are constructing wind turbines and solar panels and batteries for hybrid cars with the help of loan guarantees and tax credits, projects that are creating new jobs and new industries. We're investing billions to cut energy waste in our homes, our buildings, and appliances, helping American families save money on energy bills in the process.<p>We've proposed the very first national policy aimed at both increasing fuel economy and reducing greenhouse gas pollution for all new cars and trucks, a standard that will also save consumers money and our Nation oil. We're moving forward with our Nation's first offshore wind energy projects. We're investing billions to capture carbon pollution so that we can clean up our coal plants. And just this week, we announced that for the first time ever, we'll begin tracking how much greenhouse gas pollution is being emitted throughout the country.<p>Now, later this week, I will work with my colleagues at the G-20 to phase out fossil fuel subsidies so that we can better address our climate challenge. And already, we know that the recent drop in overall U.S. emissions is due in part to steps that promote greater efficiency and greater use of renewable energy.<p>Most importantly, the House of Representatives passed an energy and climate bill in June that would finally make clean energy the profitable kind of energy for American businesses and dramatically reduce greenhouse gas emissions. One committee has already acted on this bill in the Senate, and I look forward to engaging with others as we move forward.<p>Because no one nation can meet this challenge alone, the United States has also engaged more allies and partners in finding a solution than ever before. In April, we convened the first of what have now been six meetings of the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate here in the United States. In Trinidad, I proposed an energy and climate partnership for the Americas. We've worked through the World Bank to promote renewable energy projects and technologies in the developing world, and we have put climate at the top of our diplomatic agenda when it comes to our relationships with countries as varied as China and Brazil, India and Mexico, from the continent of Africa to the continent of Europe.<p>Taken together, these steps represent a historic recognition on behalf of the American people and their Government. We understand the gravity of the climate threat. We are determined to act, and we will meet our responsibility to future generations.<p>But though many of our nations have taken bold action and share in this determination, we did not come here to celebrate progress today. We came because there's so much more progress to be made. We came because there's so much more work to be done. <p>It is work that will not be easy. As we head towards Copenhagen, there should be no illusions that the hardest part of our journey is in front of us. We seek sweeping but necessary change in the midst of a global recession, where every nation's most immediate priority is reviving their economy and putting their people back to work, and so all of us will face doubts and difficulties in our own capitals as we try to reach a lasting solution to the climate challenge.<p>But I'm here today to say that difficulty is no excuse for complacency. Unease is no excuse for inaction. And we must not allow the perfect to become the enemy of progress. Each of us must do what we can when we can to grow our economies without endangering our planet, and we must all do it together. We must seize the opportunity to make Copenhagen a significant step forward in the global fight against climate change.<p>We also cannot allow the old divisions that have characterized the climate debate for so many years to block our progress. Yes, the developed nations that caused much of the damage to our climate over the last century still have a responsibility to lead&mdash;and that includes the United States&mdash;and we will continue to do so by investing in renewable energy and promoting greater efficiency and slashing our emissions to reach the targets we set for 2020 and our long-term goal for 2050.<p>But those rapidly growing developing nations that will produce nearly all the growth in global carbon emissions in the decades ahead must do their part as well. Some of these nations have already made great strides with the development and deployment of clean energy. Still, they need to commit to strong measures at home and agree to stand behind those commitments, just as the developed nations must stand behind their own. We cannot meet this challenge unless all the largest emitters of greenhouse gas pollution act together. There's no other way.<p>We must also energize our efforts to put other developing nations, especially the poorest and most vulnerable, on a path to sustained growth. These nations do not have the same resources to combat climate change as countries like the United States or China do, but they have the most immediate stake in a solution. For these are the nations that are already living with the unfolding effects of a warming planet: famine, drought, disappearing coastal villages, and the conflicts that arise from scarce resources. Their future is no longer a choice between a growing economy and a cleaner planet, because their survival depends on both. It will do little good to alleviate poverty if you can no longer harvest your crops or find drinkable water.<p>And that is why we have a responsibility to provide the financial and technical assistance needed to help these nations adapt to the impacts of climate change and pursue low-carbon development.<p>What we are seeking, after all, is not simply an agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions. We seek an agreement that will allow all nations to grow and raise living standards without endangering the planet. By developing and disseminating clean technology and sharing our know-how, we can help developing nations leapfrog dirty energy technologies and reduce dangerous emissions.<p>Mr. Secretary, as we meet here today, the good news is that after too many years of inaction and denial, there's finally widespread recognition of the urgency of the challenge before us. We know what needs to be done. We know that our planet's future depends on a global commitment to permanently reduce greenhouse gas pollution. We know that if we put the right rules and incentives in place, we will unleash the creative power of our best scientists and engineers and entrepreneurs to build a better world. And so many nations have already taken the first step on the journey towards that goal.<p>But the journey is long, and the journey is hard. And we don't have much time left to make that journey. It's a journey that will require each of us to persevere through setbacks and fight for every inch of progress, even when it comes in fits and starts. So let us begin. For if we are flexible and pragmatic, if we can resolve to work tirelessly in common effort, then we will achieve our common purpose: a world that is safer, cleaner, and healthier than the one we found, and a future that is worthy of our children.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"270" "\"Please be seated, members of the delegations. I have just concluded frank and productive bilateral meetings with both Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Abbas. And I want to thank them both for appearing here today. I am now looking forward to this opportunity to hold the first meeting among the three of us since we took office.<p>As I said throughout my campaign and at the beginning of my administration, the United States is committed to a just, lasting, and comprehensive peace in the Middle East. That includes a settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict that results in two states, Israel and Palestine, in which both the Israeli people and the Palestinian people can live in peace and security and realize their aspirations for a better life for their children.<p>That is why my Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, and my Special Envoy, George Mitchell, have worked tirelessly to create the context for permanent status negotiations. And we have made progress since I took office in January and since Israelis&mdash;Israel's Government took office in April, but we still have much further to go.<p>Palestinians have strengthened their efforts on security, but they need to do more to stop incitement and to move forward with negotiations. Israelis have facilitated greater freedom of movement for the Palestinians and have discussed important steps to restrain settlement activity, but they need to translate these discussions into real action on this and other issues. And it remains important for the Arab States to take concrete steps to promote peace.<p>Simply put, it is past time to talk about starting negotiations; it is time to move forward. It is time to show the flexibility and common sense and sense of compromise that's necessary to achieve our goals. Permanent status negotiations must begin and begin soon. And more importantly, we must give those negotiations the opportunity to succeed.<p>And so my message to these two leaders is clear: Despite all the obstacles, despite all the history, despite all the mistrust, we have to find a way forward. We have to summon the will to break the deadlock that has trapped generations of Israelis and Palestinians in an endless cycle of conflict and suffering. We cannot continue the same pattern of taking tentative steps forward and then stepping back. Success depends on all sides acting with a sense of urgency, and that is why I have asked Secretary Clinton and Senator Mitchell to carry forward the work that we do here today.<p>Senator Mitchell will meet with the Israeli and Palestinian negotiators next week. I've asked the Prime Minister and the President to continue these intensive discussions by sending their teams back to Washington next week, and I've asked the Secretary of State to report to me on the status of these negotiations in mid-October.<p>All of us know this will not be easy, but we are here today because it is the right thing to do. I look forward to speaking with my colleagues. I'm committed to pressing ahead in the weeks and months and years to come, because it is absolutely critical that we get this issue resolved. It's not just critical for the Israelis and the Palestinians, it's critical for the world. It is in the interests of the United States, and we are going to work as hard as necessary to accomplish our goals. Thanks.\" "
"271" "\"<i>President Obama.</i> We welcome your delegation to New York. I'm sorry that I didn't have a chance to see you in L'Aquila, but your Councilor, Dai, did an excellent job representing your country.<p>I also have to say that I enjoyed seeing Vice Premier Wang as well as Councilor Dai at the SED meeting. And Vice President Biden and I both had excellent meetings with Chairman Wu 2 weeks ago in the White House. I should also mention that Vice Premier Wang showed me his jump shot, which is excellent. [<i>Laughter</i>] How do you say \\"basketball shot\\" in Chinese? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>As you know, I'm committed to pursuing a genuinely cooperative and comprehensive relationship with China. We need to make our relationship more dynamic and effective, given the growing number of common global and regional challenges that our countries face.<p>And I'm very much looking forward to my visit to China in November. I want to take cooperation on a range of global and regional and bilateral to a new level, and I appreciate the excellent cooperation that you have already showed to our advance team. So we're very welcome, and I think that will be an excellent visit.<p><i>President Hu.</i> Thank you, Mr. President, for your warm and friendly remarks. I'm happy to see that now China-U.S. relationship has shown a sound growth momentum on the whole.<p>The agreement you and I arrived at, at our London meeting, in a number of areas is being implemented, and our two sides are now working together to build a positive, cooperative, and comprehensive relationship for the 21st century.<p>I always agree that a good China-U.S. relationship not only serves the fundamental interest of both China and the United States and the two peoples but also contributes to peace, stability, and the prosperity in the Asia-Pacific region and in the world at large.<p>The Chinese side is willing to work with the United States to keep our bilateral relationship firmly along the right course and deepen our pragmatic cooperation in a wide range of areas. The Chinese side is also willing to work with the United States to properly handle sensitive issues to ensure that our relationship will continue to grow on a sound and steady course.<p>I'd also like to avail myself of this opportunity to thank you, Mr. President, for&mdash;&mdash;<p>[<i>At this point, the meeting continued, but no transcript was provided.</i>]\" "
"272" "\"Thank you very much. Please, please have a seat. Thank you. Thank you so much. Good evening. And thank you, President Clinton, for the extraordinarily brief introduction which&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;during the U.N. General Assembly week does not happen that often. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I want to acknowledge Bob Harrison and the outstanding work that he's doing as CEO of CGI, as well as Ed Hughes, the deputy director of CGI, for their excellent work.<p>Some of you are aware that last week, President Clinton and I were here in New York together; we were having lunch in a small Italian restaurant. And we talked about the economy; we talked about health care; we talked about pressing global challenges. And then he said to me, \\"Would you pass the Parmesan?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And then he said to me, \\"Would you speak to our annual meeting?\\"<p>Now, I think everyone knows what it's like when Bill Clinton asks you to make a commitment. [<i>Laughter</i>] He looks you in the eye; he feels your pain. [<i>Laughter</i>] He makes you feel like you're the only person in the room. What could I say? I was vulnerable, just as all of you have been&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;vulnerable to his charms.<p>So I am happy to be here and honored by the invitation. And I've always appreciated President Clinton's valuable advice and the ideas that he's offered my administration. I do understand that the President's been having trouble getting ahold of my Secretary of State lately. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I hope he doesn't mind, because Hillary Clinton is doing an outstanding job for this Nation, and we are so proud of her. <p>I also want to just very briefly take this opportunity to thank President Clinton for his service. In his 8 years in office, he helped swing open the doors of opportunity and prosperity to millions of Americans. And as the first U.S. President to face the full force of globalization, he worked to share that prosperity with people around the world, from promoting trade to expanding education to forging a historic global compact on debt relief.<p>After a lifetime of service, he would have been forgiven had he settled for a life of quiet, a life of ease, a life of improved golf scores&mdash;my understanding is they have not improved that much&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;since he was in office. But he chose a different path. He asked, \\"What can I do to keep making a difference?\\"<p>And what an extraordinary difference he, working with all of you, have made. For the victims of disaster, from the Asian tsunami to Hurricane Katrina, he's made a difference. For those in need, from parents and children battling HIV/AIDS to your efforts today on behalf of the people of Haiti, he's made a difference. It's no exaggeration: Around the world, Bill Clinton has helped to improve and save the lives of millions. That is no exaggeration.<p>And this week, even as we gather at the United Nations to discuss what governments can do to confront the challenges of our time, even as we've&mdash;we're joined tonight by so many extraordinary leaders, Presidents and Prime Ministers&mdash;this Global Initiative reminds us of what we can each do as individuals, that you don't have to hold a public office to be a public servant. That's the beauty of service: Anybody can do it, and everyone should try.<p>To all the CGI members here tonight, I want you to know how grateful I am for your efforts, and I know that those efforts require greater commitment at such difficult economic times. Indeed, your work, and the spirit of service behind it, is deeply personal to me. I've seen it. I've been shaped by it my entire life.<p>I first saw it in my mother; she was an anthropologist who dedicated her life to understanding and improving the lives of the rural poor, from Indonesia to Pakistan. Whether working with USAID or the Asian Development Bank, the Ford Foundation, Bank Rakyat in Jakarta, or Women's World Banking here in New York, she championed the cause of women's welfare and helped pioneer the microloans that have helped lift millions from poverty.<p>So my mother understood that whether you live in the foothills of Java or the skyscrapers of Manhattan, we all share common principles: justice and progress, tolerance and the dignity of all human beings. And we all share common aspirations, for ourselves and for our children: to get an education, and to work with dignity, and to live in peace and security.<p>That's where I first saw that spirit. That's who planted it in me. And I saw this spirit again when I moved to Chicago, working as a community organizer on some of the poorest streets in some of the poorest neighborhoods in the United States. In neighborhoods devastated by steel plant closings, I worked with local churches to help people in need. And change didn't come easy, but with a lot of time and effort, it did come, block by block, neighborhood by neighborhood. <p>That's when I learned that real progress does not just come from the top down, not just from government; it comes from the bottom up, from people. If you want to bring about change in the world, you can't just be an advocate of somebody else doing it. You can't just preach lofty goals and wait for somebody else to act. You have to step up. You have to serve. <p>I've seen this spirit of service in my wife Michelle, one of the millions of people whose lives have been touched by AmeriCorps, created by President Clinton. She left her job at a law firm to be the founding director of an AmeriCorps program in Chicago that trains young people for careers in public service. I've seen the transformation that occurs&mdash;in their lives, in hers&mdash;when people are empowered to live their dreams.<p>And that's the spirit that's represented here tonight, in the difference that CGI members have made around the world: the greenhouse gases you've cut; the entrepreneurs you've empowered with microloans; all the people&mdash;many of them children&mdash;you've helped to lead healthier, more productive lives&mdash;more than 200 million in more than 150 countries. That's the meaning of service. That's the difference we can make when we remember our common humanity, or when we embrace our common responsibilities, when we recognize our common destiny.<p>Your ability to serve people in the disconnected corners of the world reminds us of another truth: We stand at a transformational moment in world history, when our interconnected world presents us at once with great promise, but also with great peril. The very technologies that empower us to create and build also empower those who would destroy and disrupt, the extremists in the mountains of Afghanistan and Pakistan who fuel attacks from New York to London to Bali, from Mombasa to Madrid to Mumbai.<p>Reckless speculation in any financial sector of the world, or someone's failure to pay a mortgage in Florida can contribute to a global recession that undermines all of us. Poverty in Somalia, or the poppy fields in Afghanistan, the northbound flow of drugs from Colombia, and the southbound flow of American guns and cash into Mexico, all this fuels violence that endangers each and every one of us. And a flu that starts in one country can become a pandemic that sickens millions. <p>Carbon emissions from cars in Boston and factories in Beijing are melting the ice caps and imperiling the planet. And by the way, we're joined here by the leader who made that particular truth impossible to ignore, former Vice President Al Gore, and we owe a great debt of thanks to him.<p>These are the threats of the 21st century. These are the challenges we face. And just as no nation can wall itself off from the world, no one nation&mdash;no matter how large, no matter how powerful&mdash;can meet these challenges alone. Nor can governments alone. Today's threats demand new partnerships across sectors and across societies, creative collaborations to achieve what no one can accomplish alone. In short, we need a new spirit of global partnership. And that is exactly the spirit that guides this organization; I hope that it is the spirit that guides my administration.<p>Here at home, we've summoned the American people to a new era of service: launching a historic expansion of community service, more than tripling the size of AmeriCorps, creating a new model, an innovation fund to bring together nonprofits, foundations, the private sector, and Government to find the community solutions that work, to fund them and replicate them across America.<p>Around the world, even as we pursue a new era of engagement with other nations, we're embracing a broader engagement, new partnerships between societies and citizens, community organizations, businesses, faith-based groups.<p>That's why we've been speaking directly to people around the world, including our friends across the Muslim world, with whom we've launched new beginnings based on mutual interests and mutual respect. It's why you've seen Secretary Clinton in so many countries at town halls, on local television programs, reaching out to citizens and civil society. That's why she's created a new initiative to promote global partnerships between business, nonprofits, and faith groups to promote development.<p>In fact, this spirit of partnership is a defining feature of our foreign policy. Because Government and the military can work to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat terrorist networks, but while the violent extremists only destroy, we have to make it clear the kind of future that we want to build. That's why we're investing in people's education and health and welfare, as we are doing in Afghanistan and Pakistan. And we need to build new partnerships across regions and religions. And that requires religious leaders and NGOs and citizens to help build the good governance and the transparent institutions and basic services upon which true security depends. <p>We're making historic investments in clean energy and working towards deep cuts in emissions. But we still need business to unleash new innovations and nonprofits to keep up the pressure to end the threat of climate change. <p>We're making substantial increases in foreign assistance. But we still need civil society to help host nations deliver aid without corruption, because foreign assistance is not an end in itself. The purpose of aid must be to create the conditions where it's no longer needed, where we help build the capacity for transformational change in a society.<p>We're pursuing a comprehensive global health strategy, building on successes in the fight against HIV/AIDS and working to end deaths from malaria and TB and to end polio. But these efforts will only be sustained if we improve the capacity of public health systems to deliver care, especially for mothers and children.<p>We're making major new investments in food security. But this can't simply be handouts of American food. We need to share new methods and technologies so that countries and communities can become more self-sufficient.<p>In short, we're renewing development as a key element of American foreign policy, not by lecturing or imposing our ideas, but by listening and working together; by seeking more exchanges between students and experts; new collaborations among scientists to promote technological development; partnerships between businesses, entrepreneurs to advance prosperity and opportunity for people everywhere. That's how we'll confront the challenges of our time. This is how we will seize the promise of this moment in history: standing together, working together, and building together.<p>It's the spirit I've seen in my travels around the world&mdash;in elected leaders and entrepreneurs, the heroic civil society groups, in the students from Ankara to Cairo, from South Bend to Strasbourg&mdash;the optimism and the faith and the confidence that we each can make a difference.<p>And that's the spirit that I see here tonight, the spirit that says we can rise above the barriers that too often divide us&mdash;country and culture, color and creed, race and religion and region&mdash;that we can come together, and that we can leave this world even better, even more hopeful than we found it.<p>So to all of you, thank you for your vision, for your engagement, for your stick-to-it-ness. As hard as it may be to sustain during these difficult times, your commitments have never been more needed, they have never been more inspired. And I am grateful to President Clinton for having the vision and leadership to help catalyze this extraordinary collection of individuals and the commitments you make that are making such a difference all around the world.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"273" "\"Good morning. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen: It is my honor to address you for the first time as the 44th President of the United States. I come before you humbled by the responsibility that the American people have placed upon me, mindful of the enormous challenges of our moment in history, and determined to act boldly and collectively on behalf of justice and prosperity at home and abroad. <p>I have been in office for just 9 months, though some days it seems a lot longer. I am well aware of the expectations that accompany my Presidency around the world. And these expectations are not about me. Rather, they are rooted, I believe, in a discontent with a status quo that has allowed us to be increasingly defined by our differences and outpaced by our problems. But they are also rooted in hope, the hope that real change is possible and the hope that America will be a leader in bringing about such change.<p>I took office at a time when many around the world had come to view America with skepticism and distrust. Now, part of this was due to misperceptions and misinformation about my country. Part of this was due to opposition to specific policies and a belief that on certain critical issues, America had acted unilaterally, without regard for the interests of others. And this has fed an almost reflexive anti-Americanism, which too often has served as an excuse for collective inaction.<p>Now, like all of you, my responsibility is to act in the interests of my Nation and my people, and I will never apologize for defending those interests. But it is my deeply held belief that in the year 2009&mdash;more than at any point in human history&mdash;the interests of nations and peoples are shared. The religious convictions that we hold in our hearts can forge new bonds among people, or they can tear us apart. The technology we harness can light the path to peace, or forever darken it. The energy we use can sustain our planet, or destroy it. What happens to the hope of a single child, anywhere, can enrich our world, or impoverish it. <p>In this hall, we come from many places, but we share a common future. No longer do we have the luxury of indulging our differences to the exclusion of the work that we must do together. I have carried this message from London to Ankara, from Port of Spain to Moscow, from Accra to Cairo, and it is what I will speak about today, because the time has come for the world to move in a new direction. We must embrace a new era of engagement based on mutual interest and mutual respect, and our work must begin now. <p>We know the future will be forged by deeds and not simply words. Speeches alone will not solve our problems; it will take persistent action. So for those who question the character and cause of my Nation, I ask you to look at the concrete actions we have taken in just 9 months. <p>On my first day in office, I prohibited&mdash;without exception or equivocation&mdash;the use of torture by the United States of America. I ordered the prison at Guantanamo Bay closed, and we are doing the hard work of forging a framework to combat extremism within the rule of law. Every nation must know, America will live its values, and we will lead by example. <p>We have set a clear and focused goal: to work with all members of this body to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat Al Qaida and its extremist allies, a network that has killed thousands of people of many faiths and nations, and that plotted to blow up this very building. In Afghanistan and Pakistan, we and many nations here are helping these Governments develop the capacity to take the lead in this effort, while working to advance opportunity and security for their people. <p>In Iraq, we are responsibly ending a war. We have removed American combat brigades from Iraqi cities and set a deadline of next August to remove all our combat brigades from Iraqi territory. And I have made clear that we will help Iraqis transition to full responsibility for their future and keep our commitment to remove all American troops by the end of 2011. <p>I have outlined a comprehensive agenda to seek the goal of a world without nuclear weapons. In Moscow, the United States and Russia announced that we would pursue substantial reductions in our strategic warheads and launchers. At the Conference on Disarmament, we agreed on a work plan to negotiate an end to the production of fissile materials for nuclear weapons. And this week, my Secretary of State will become the first senior American representative to the annual Members Conference of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. <p>Upon taking office, I appointed a Special Envoy for Middle East Peace, and America has worked steadily and aggressively to advance the cause of two states, Israel and Palestine, in which peace and security take root and the rights of both Israelis and Palestinians are respected. <p>To confront climate change, we have invested $80 billion in clean energy. We have substantially increased our fuel-efficiency standards. We have provided new incentives for conservation, launched an energy partnership across the Americas, and moved from a bystander to a leader in international climate negotiations. <p>To overcome an economic crisis that touches every corner of the world, we worked with the G-20 nations to forge a coordinated international response of over $2 trillion in stimulus to bring the global economy back from the brink. We mobilized resources that helped prevent the crisis from spreading further to developing countries. And we joined with others to launch a $20 billion global food security initiative that will lend a hand to those who need it most and help them build their own capacity. <p>We've also reengaged the United Nations. We have paid our bills. We have joined the Human Rights Council. We have signed the Convention of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We have fully embraced the Millennium Development Goals. And we address our priorities here, in this institution, for instance, through the Security Council meeting that I will chair tomorrow on nuclear nonproliferation and disarmament and through the issues that I will discuss today.<p>This is what we have already done, but this is just a beginning. Some of our actions have yielded progress. Some have laid the groundwork for progress in the future. But make no mistake: This cannot solely be America's endeavor. Those who used to chastise America for acting alone in the world cannot now stand by and wait for America to solve the world's problems alone. We have sought&mdash;in word and deed&mdash;a new era of engagement with the world. And now is the time for all of us to take our share of responsibility for a global response to global challenges. <p>Now, if we are honest with ourselves, we need to admit that we are not living up to that responsibility. Consider the course that we're on if we fail to confront the status quo: extremists sowing terror in pockets of the world, protracted conflicts that grind on and on, genocide, mass atrocities, more nations with nuclear weapons, melting ice caps and ravaged populations, persistent poverty and pandemic disease. I say this not to sow fear, but to state a fact: The magnitude of our challenges has yet to be met by the measure of our actions. <p>Now, this body was founded on the belief that the nations of the world could solve their problems together. Franklin Roosevelt, who died before he could see his vision for this institution become a reality, put it this way, and I quote: \\"The structure of world peace cannot be the work of one man, or one party, or one nation. It cannot be a peace of large nations, or of small nations. It must be a peace which rests on the cooperative effort of the whole world.\\" <p>The cooperative effort of the whole world; those words ring even more true today, when it is not simply peace, but our very health and prosperity that we hold in common. Yet we also know that this body is made up of sovereign states. And sadly, but not surprisingly, this body has often become a forum for sowing discord instead of forging common ground, a venue for playing politics and exploiting grievances rather than solving problems. After all, it is easy to walk up to this podium and point figures&mdash;point fingers and stoke divisions. Nothing is easier than blaming others for our troubles and absolving ourselves of responsibility for our choices and our actions. Anybody can do that. Responsibility and leadership in the 21st century demand more. <p>In an era when our destiny is shared, power is no longer a zero-sum game. No one nation can or should try to dominate another nation. No world order that elevates one nation or group of people over another will succeed. No balance of power among nations will hold. The traditional divisions between nations of the south and the north make no sense in an interconnected world; nor do alignments of nations rooted in the cleavages of a long-gone cold war. <p>The time has come to realize that the old habits, the old arguments, are irrelevant to the challenges faced by our people. They lead nations to act in opposition to the very goals that they claim to pursue and to vote&mdash;often in this body&mdash;against the interests of their own people. They build up walls between us and the future that our people seek, and the time has come for those walls to come down. Together, we must build new coalitions that bridge old divides, coalitions of different faiths and creeds, of north and south, east, west, Black, White, and Brown. <p>The choice is ours. We can be remembered as a generation that chose to drag the arguments of the 20th century into the 21st, that put off hard choices, refused to look ahead, failed to keep pace because we defined ourselves by what we were against instead of what we were for. Or we can be a generation that chooses to see the shoreline beyond the rough waters ahead, that comes together to serve the common interests of human beings, and finally gives meaning to the promise embedded in the name given to this institution: the United Nations. <p>That is the future America wants, a future of peace and prosperity that we can only reach if we recognize that all nations have rights, but all nations have responsibilities as well. That is the bargain that makes this work. That must be the guiding principle of international cooperation. <p>Today let me put forward four pillars that I believe are fundamental to the future that we want for our children: nonproliferation and disarmament, the promotion of peace and security, the preservation of our planet, and a global economy that advances opportunity for all people. <p>First, we must stop the spread of nuclear weapons, and seek the goal of a world without them. This institution was founded at the dawn of the atomic age, in part because man's capacity to kill had to be contained. For decades, we averted disaster, even under the shadow of a superpower standoff. But today, the threat of proliferation is growing in scope and complexity. If we fail to act, we will invite nuclear arms races in every region and the prospect of wars and acts of terror on a scale that we can hardly imagine. <p>A fragile consensus stands in the way of this frightening outcome, and that is the basic bargain that shapes the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. It says that all nations have the right to peaceful nuclear energy, that nations with nuclear weapons have a responsibility to move toward disarmament, and those without them have the responsibility to forsake them. The next 12 months could be pivotal in determining whether this compact will be strengthened or will slowly dissolve. <p>America intends to keep our end of the bargain. We will pursue a new agreement with Russia to substantially reduce our strategic warheads and launchers. We will move forward with ratification of the Test Ban Treaty and work with others to bring the treaty into force so that nuclear testing is permanently prohibited. We will complete a Nuclear Posture Review that opens the door to deeper cuts and reduces the role of nuclear weapons. And we will call upon countries to begin negotiations in January on a treaty to end the production of fissile material for weapons. <p>I will also host a summit next April that reaffirms each nation's responsibility to secure nuclear material on its territory and to help those who can't, because we must never allow a single nuclear device to fall into the hands of a violent extremist. And we will work to strengthen the institutions and initiatives that combat nuclear smuggling and theft.<p>All of this must support efforts to strengthen the NPT. Those nations that refuse to live up to their obligations must face consequences. Let me be clear: This is not about singling out individual nations; it is about standing up for the rights of all nations that do live up to their responsibilities. Because a world in which IAEA inspections are avoided and the United Nation's demands are ignored will leave all people less safe and all nations less secure.<p>In their actions to date, the Governments of North Korea and Iran threaten to take us down this dangerous slope. We respect their rights as members of the community of nations. I have said before, and I will repeat, I am committed to diplomacy that opens a path to greater prosperity and more secure peace for both nations if they live up to their obligations. <p>But if the Governments of Iran and North Korea choose to ignore international standards, if they put the pursuit of nuclear weapons ahead of regional stability and the security and opportunity of their own people, if they are oblivious to the dangers of escalating nuclear arms races in both East Asia and the Middle East, then they must be held accountable. The world must stand together to demonstrate that international law is not an empty promise and that treaties will be enforced. We must insist that the future does not belong to fear. <p>Now, that brings me to the second pillar for our future: the pursuit of peace. The United Nations was born of the belief that the people of the world can live their lives, raise their families, and resolve their differences peacefully. And yet we know that in too many parts of the world, this ideal remains an abstraction, a distant dream. We can either accept that outcome as inevitable and tolerate constant and crippling conflict, or we can recognize that the yearning for peace is universal and reassert our resolve to end conflicts around the world. <p>That effort must begin with an unshakeable determination that the murder of innocent men, women, and children will never be tolerated. On this, no one can be&mdash;there can be no dispute. The violent extremists who promote conflict by distorting faith have discredited and isolated themselves. They offer nothing but hatred and destruction. In confronting them, America will forge lasting partnerships to target terrorists, share intelligence, and coordinate law enforcement and protect our people. We will permit no safe haven for Al Qaida to launch attacks from Afghanistan or any other nation. We will stand by our friends on the frontlines, as we and many nations will do in pledging support for the Pakistani people tomorrow. And we will pursue positive engagement that builds bridges among faiths and new partnerships for opportunity. <p>Our efforts to promote peace, however, cannot be limited to defeating violent extremists. For the most powerful weapon in our arsenal is the hope of human beings, the belief that the future belongs to those who would build and not destroy, the confidence that conflicts can end and a new day can begin. <p>And that is why we will support&mdash;we will strengthen our support for effective peacekeeping, while energizing our efforts to prevent conflicts before they take hold. We will pursue a lasting peace in Sudan through support for the people of Darfur and the implementation of the comprehensive peace agreement, so that we secure the peace that the Sudanese people deserve. And in countries ravaged by violence, from Haiti to Congo to East Timor, we will work with the U.N. and other partners to support an enduring peace. <p>I will also continue to seek a just and lasting peace between Israel, Palestine, and the Arab world. We will continue to work on that issue. Yesterday I had a constructive meeting with Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Abbas. We have made some progress. Palestinians have strengthened their efforts on security. Israelis have facilitated greater freedom of movement for the Palestinians. As a result of these efforts on both sides, the economy in the West Bank has begun to grow. But more progress is needed. We continue to call on Palestinians to end incitement against Israel, and we continue to emphasize that America does not accept the legitimacy of continued Israeli settlements.<p>The time has come to relaunch negotiations&mdash;without preconditions&mdash;that address the permanent status issues: security for Israelis and Palestinians, borders, refugees, and Jerusalem. And the goal is clear: Two states living side by side in peace and security; a Jewish State of Israel, with true security for all Israelis; and a viable, independent Palestinian state, with contiguous territory that ends the occupation that began in 1967 and realizes the potential of the Palestinian people.<p>As we pursue this goal, we will also pursue peace between Israel and Lebanon, Israel and Syria, and a broader peace between Israel and its many neighbors. In pursuit of that goal, we will develop regional initiatives with multilateral participation, alongside bilateral negotiations. <p>Now, I am not naive. I know this will be difficult. But all of us&mdash;not just the Israelis and the Palestinians, but all of us&mdash;must decide whether we are serious about peace, or whether we will only lend it lip service. To break the old patterns, to break the cycle of insecurity and despair, all of us must say publicly what we would acknowledge in private. The United States does Israel no favors when we fail to couple an unwavering commitment to its security with an insistence that Israel respect the legitimate claims and rights of the Palestinians. And nations within this body do the Palestinians no favors when they choose vitriolic attacks against Israel over constructive willingness to recognize Israel's legitimacy and its right to exist in peace and security.<p>We must remember that the greatest price of this conflict is not paid by us. It's not paid by politicians. It's paid by the Israeli girl in Sderot who closes her eyes in fear that a rocket will take her life in the middle of the night. It's paid for by the Palestinian boy in Gaza who has no clean water and no country to call his own. These are all God's children. And after all the politics and all the posturing, this is about the right of every human being to live with dignity and security. That is a lesson embedded in the three great faiths that call one small slice of Earth the Holy Land. And that is why, even though there will be setbacks and false starts and tough days, I will not waver in my pursuit of peace.<p>Third, we must recognize that in the 21st century, there will be no peace unless we take responsibility for the preservation of our planet. And I thank the Secretary-General for hosting the subject of climate change yesterday. <p>The danger posed by climate change cannot be denied. Our responsibility to meet it must not be deferred. If we continue down our current course, every member of this Assembly will see irreversible changes within their borders. Our efforts to end conflicts will be eclipsed by wars over refugees and resources. Development will be devastated by drought and famine. Land that human beings have lived on for millennia will disappear. Future generations will look back and wonder why we refused to act, why we failed to pass on an environment that was worthy of our inheritance. <p>And that is why the days when America dragged its feet on this issue are over. We will move forward with investments to transform our energy economy, while providing incentives to make clean energy the profitable kind of energy. We will press ahead with deep cuts in emissions to reach the goals that we set for 2020 and, eventually, 2050. We will continue to promote renewable energy and efficiency and share new technologies with countries around the world. And we will seize every opportunity for progress to address this threat in a cooperative effort with the entire world. <p>And those wealthy nations that did so much damage to the environment in the 20th century must accept our obligation to lead. But responsibility does not end there. While we must acknowledge the need for differentiated responses, any effort to curb carbon emissions must include the fast-growing carbon emitters who can do more to reduce their air pollution without inhibiting growth. And any effort that fails to help the poorest nations both adapt to the problems that climate change have already wrought and help them travel a path of clean development simply will not work. <p>It's hard to change something as fundamental as how we use energy. I know that. It's even harder to do so in the midst of a global recession. Certainly, it will be tempting to sit back and wait for others to move first. But we cannot make this journey unless we all move forward together. As we head into Copenhagen, let us resolve to focus on what each of us can do for the sake of our common future. <p>And this leads me to the final pillar that must fortify our future: a global economy that advances opportunity for all people. The world is still recovering from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. In America, we see the engine of growth beginning to churn, and yet many still struggle to find a job or pay their bills. Across the globe, we find promising signs, but little certainty about what lies ahead. And far too many people in far too many places live through the daily crises that challenge our humanity: the despair of an empty stomach, the thirst brought on by dwindling water supplies, the injustice of a child dying from a treatable disease or a mother losing her life as she gives birth. <p>In Pittsburgh, we will work with the world's largest economies to chart a course for growth that is balanced and sustained. That means vigilance to ensure that we do not let up until our people are back to work. That means taking steps to rekindle demand so that global recovery can be sustained. And that means setting new rules of the road and strengthening regulation for all financial centers, so that we put an end to the greed and the excess and the abuse that led us into this disaster, and prevent a crisis like this from ever happening again. <p>At a time of such interdependence, we have a moral and pragmatic interest, however, in broader questions of development, the questions of development that existed even before this crisis happened. And so America will continue our historic effort to help people feed themselves. We have set aside $63 billion to carry forward the fight against HIV/AIDS, to end deaths from tuberculosis and malaria, to eradicate polio, and to strengthen public health systems. We are joining with other countries to contribute H1N1 vaccines to the World Health Organization. We will integrate more economies into a system of global trade. We will support the Millennium Development Goals and approach next year's summit with a global plan to make them a reality. And we will set our sights on the eradication of extreme poverty in our time. <p>Now is the time for all of us to do our part. Growth will not be sustained or shared unless all nations embrace their responsibilities. And that means that wealthy nations must open their markets to more goods and extend a hand to those with less, while reforming international institutions to give more nations a greater voice. And developing nations must root out the corruption that is an obstacle to progress, for opportunity cannot thrive where individuals are oppressed and business have to pay bribes. That is why we support honest police and independent judges, civil society and a vibrant private sector. Our goal is simple: a global economy in which growth is sustained and opportunity is available to all. <p>Now, the changes that I've spoken about today will not be easy to make. And they will not be realized simply by leaders like us coming together in forums like this, as useful as that may be. For as in any assembly of members, real change can only come through the people we represent. That is why we must do the hard work to lay the groundwork for progress in our own capitals. That's where we will build the consensus to end conflicts and to harness technology for peaceful purposes, to change the way we use energy, and to promote growth that can be sustained and shared. <p>I believe that the people of the world want this future for their children. And that is why we must champion those principles which ensure that governments reflect the will of the people. These principles cannot be afterthoughts. Democracy and human rights are essential to achieving each of the goals that I've discussed today, because governments of the people and by the people are more likely to act in the broader interests of their own people, rather than narrow interests of those in power.<p>The test of our leadership will not be the degree to which we feed the fears and old hatreds of our people. True leadership will not be measured by the ability to muzzle dissent, or to intimidate and harass political opponents at home. The people of the world want change. They will not long tolerate those who are on the wrong side of history. <p>This Assembly's Charter commits each of us, and I quote, \\"to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women.\\" Among those rights is the freedom to speak your mind and worship as you please; the promise of equality of the races, and the opportunity for women and girls to pursue their own potential; the ability of citizens to have a say in how you are governed and to have confidence in the administration of justice, for just as no nation should be forced to accept the tyranny of another nation, no individual should be forced to accept the tyranny of their own people.<p>As an African American, I will never forget that I would not be here today without the steady pursuit of a more perfect union in my country. And that guides my belief that no matter how dark the day may seem, transformative change can be forged by those who choose to side with justice. And I pledge that America will always stand with those who stand up for their dignity and their rights: for the student who seeks to learn; the voter who demands to be heard; the innocent who longs to be free; the oppressed who yearns to be equal. <p>Democracy cannot be imposed on any nation from the outside. Each society must search for its own path, and no path is perfect. Each country will pursue a path rooted in the culture of its people and in its past traditions. And I admit that America has too often been selective in its promotion of democracy. But that does not weaken our commitment; it only reinforces it. There are basic principles that are universal; there are certain truths which are self-evident. And the United States of America will never waver in our efforts to stand up for the right of people everywhere to determine their own destiny. <p>Sixty-five years ago, a weary Franklin Roosevelt spoke to the American people in his fourth and final Inaugural Address. After years of war, he sought to sum up the lessons that could be drawn from the terrible suffering, the enormous sacrifice that had taken place. \\"We have learned,\\" he said, \\"to be citizens of the world, members of the human community.\\" <p>The United Nations was built by men and women like Roosevelt from every corner of the world: from Africa and Asia, from Europe to the Americas. These architects of international cooperation had an idealism that was anything but naive; it was rooted in the hard-earned lessons of war, rooted in the wisdom that nations could advance their interests by acting together instead of splitting apart. <p>Now it falls to us, for this institution will be what we make of it. The United Nations does extraordinary good around the world: feeding the hungry; caring for the sick; mending places that have been broken. But it also struggles to enforce its will and to live up to the ideals of its founding.<p>I believe that those imperfections are not a reason to walk away from this institution; they are a calling to redouble our efforts. The United Nations can either be a place where we bicker about outdated grievances, or forge common ground; a place where we focus on what drives us apart, or what brings us together; a place where we indulge tyranny, or a source of moral authority. In short, the United Nations can be an institution that is disconnected from what matters in the lives of our citizens, or it can be an indispensable factor in advancing the interests of the people we serve. <p>We have reached a pivotal moment. The United States stands ready to begin a new chapter of international cooperation, one that recognizes the rights and responsibilities of all nations. And so, with confidence in our cause and with a commitment to our values, we call on all nations to join us in building the future that our people so richly deserve.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"274" "\"<i>President Obama.</i> Good morning. Well, let me just make a very brief statement.<p>I want to welcome the new Prime Minister of Japan, Prime Minister Hatoyama. I want to congratulate him for running an extraordinary campaign and his party leading dramatic change in Japan. We've had a very good preliminary discussion about the critical importance of the U.S.-Japanese alliance. It has been a cornerstone of the security of both nations as well as the economic prosperity of both nations for almost 50 years now.<p>And we pledged that we wanted to strengthen and deepen that relationship. As the world's two largest economies, we recognize the importance of coordinating closely to continue to move beyond the current economic crisis and to focus our attention on how our economies are actually providing opportunity for ordinary citizens. And we also pledged to coordinate very closely together on a range of international threats: everything from nuclear proliferation, the situation in North Korea, how we can help to stabilize Afghanistan and Pakistan, and how we address transnational issues like climate change.<p>So I've been very impressed with the knowledge and determination of Prime Minister Hatoyama. I know how it feels to have just been elected and form a Government and suddenly you have to appear at a range of international summits; I went through this 9 months ago. But I'm very confident that not only will the Prime Minister succeed in his efforts and his campaign commitments, but that this will give us an opportunity to strengthen and renew a U.S.-Japan alliance that will be as strong in the 21st century as it was in the latter half of the 20th century.<p><i>Prime Minister Hatoyama. </i>Well, President Obama has talked all thing&mdash;everything about our meeting, so I have nothing to add to what Mr. President has said. But I told during the meeting to Mr. President that I came across the Pacific Ocean to express my gratitude for President Obama and the American people for the American people to exert courage to select President Obama. And that sentiment came across the Pacific Ocean to Japan, which brought about the change of government in Japan. And I expressed my gratitude for the change and that the American people have&mdash;[<i>inaudible</i>]&mdash;to the Japanese people.<p>And I told President Obama that the Japan-U.S. alliance will continue to be the central pillar&mdash;key pillar of the security of Japan and Japanese foreign policy. And I expressed my ideas of our contributions to the issue of Afghanistan and Pakistan, and my ideas on the issue of North Korea. And we will proceed in dealing with these issues in a cooperative manner.<p>And on other global issues, like global environment and nuclear nonproliferation and disarmament, I highly approve of President Obama's leadership in courageously&mdash;[<i>inaudible</i>]&mdash;nuclear nonproliferation and disarmament. As the only country that suffered nuclear attacks, we will work together with the United States toward a world without nuclear weapons. And on the issue of climate change I made a speech yesterday, and on this issue, too, we would like to work closely together with the United States. And I confirmed these ideas with President Obama.<p><i>President Obama. </i>Thank you so much. Welcome to the United States&mdash;&mdash;<p><i>Prime Minister Hatoyama</i>. [<i>Inaudible</i>]<p><i>President Obama. &mdash;&mdash;</i>and I look forward to visiting with you again.\" "
"275" "\"<i>President Obama.</i> Well, first of all, I want to welcome President Medvedev to the United States and New York. As you all know, I had the great pleasure of visiting him in Moscow, and he extended extraordinary hospitality to both myself and my family. More importantly, we got a lot of work done that I think will be bearing fruit in the months and years to come.<p>And I have to say publicly how much I appreciate the excellent working relationship that President Medvedev and I have been able to develop during our meetings, not only bilaterally, but also at the various summits that we've attended.<p>We've had an excellent discussion that touched on a number of areas that our teams have been working on together over the last several months. In particular, we discussed the progress that's being made on the START Treaty. And both of us are confident that we can meet our self-imposed deadline to get an agreement that substantially reduces our nuclear missiles and launchers by the end of the year.<p>So we spent the bulk of our time talking about Iran. As I said in my speech today, the United States is committed to a strong nonproliferation regime. And we are committed to upholding the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty that strikes a bargain with all countries. That bargain says that countries are able to pursue peaceful nuclear technology, that they commit not to pursuing nuclear weapons, and those nations that have nuclear weapons make commitments to start reducing their stockpiles.<p>As the two major nuclear superpowers, we have made a commitment that we will reduce our nuclear stockpiles and move forward on our part of the bargain. And many other countries are abiding by the international commitments and norms that have been established by the NPT.<p>Unfortunately, Iran has been violating too many of its international commitments. So what we've discussed is how we can move in a positive direction that resolves a potential crisis, not just in the Middle East but that can cause enormous problems to the nonproliferation regime worldwide.<p>I believe that Russia and the United States shares the strategic objective that Iran can pursue peaceful energy sources but that it should not pursue nuclear weapons. I believe we also share the view that this should be resolved diplomatically, and I am on record as being committed to negotiating with Iran in a serious fashion to resolve this issue.<p>Russia, as a major leader, I think, believes that such an approach is possible as well. But I think we also both agree that if Iran does not respond to serious negotiations and resolve this issue in a way that assures the international community that it's meeting its commitments and is not developing nuclear weapons, then we will have to take additional actions and that sanctions, serious additional sanctions, remain a possibility.<p>We have an opportunity for a P-5-plus-1 meeting with Iran in October. I hope that Iran seizes the opportunity to follow the path that both the United States and Russia would prefer in making a decision to live up to its international commitments, abandon nuclear weapons, and to fully join the international community in a way that, I think, will ultimately enhance the peace of the region and the prosperity of the Iranian people.<p>And once again, I just want to personally thank President Medvedev, but also the Russian people, for the leadership that they're showing on the world stage. I'm confident that when the United States and Russia work on critical issues like nuclear nonproliferation that the world rallies behind us and that we will be able to bring about the kind of international peace and security that I think we all want.<p><i>President Medvedev.</i> I'll try to make my comment briefer because, unlike my colleague, President Barack Obama, I still have to deliver my statement from the United Nations rostrum.<p>I agree that, indeed, recently we have witnessed very positive changes in our relations, with established, constructive, friendly working relations that allow us to tackle difficult issues that not only the two countries face, but also the entire world.<p>Today we've discussed a range of issues. Mr. President listed them. Indeed, we communicate on regular basis. We personally meet quarterly, and we talk on the phone regularly. So those personal contacts are not an exotic prank, but rather a manifestation of good working relations.<p>Indeed, we discussed new START Treaty. We are satisfied with the current pace of work. The teams that were tasked to work on this matter work very successfully. We're satisfied with the work. We believe that they will be able to stick to the time schedule and that in due time we will have every&mdash;[<i>inaudible</i>].<p>We talked about missile defense with my colleague, President Obama. We talked that the decision that he took was reasonable and that reflected the position of the current U.S. administration on missile defense and also takes into consideration our concerns on the missile defense which is needed for Europe and for the world. And we are ready to continue this work with our U.S. colleagues in this direction, as well as with our European colleagues, of course.<p>We also discussed other issues. We have devoted lots of our time to the Iranian problem my colleague, Mr. President, rightly mentioned. Our task is to create such a system of incentives that would allow Iran to resolve its fissile nuclear program, but at the same time prevent it from obtaining nuclear weapons. That's why we, as responsible members of international community and, indeed, two nuclear superpowers, should send great signals in that direction.<p>I told His Excellency, Mr. President, that we believe we need to help Iran to take a right decision. As to also have sanctions, Russia's belief is very simple, and I stated it recently. Sanctions rarely lead to productive results. But in some cases sanctions are inevitable.<p>Finally, it is a matter of choice. And we're prepared to continue and to work together with the U.S. administration both on Iranian peaceful program and on other matters.<p>Most importantly, we've learned to listen to each other once again. And that is of great importance both to the future of relations of the two countries and the two peoples. That is why I would like to give special thanks to you, Barack, for your cooperation on these matters.<p><i>President Obama.</i> Thank you, everybody.<p><i>The President's Remarks at the United Nations</i><p><i>Q.</i> What's been the response to your speech?<p><i>President Obama.</i> You know, I've been in too many meetings. I don't know. But I'm looking for your review, Jake [Jake Tapper, ABC News].\" "
"276" "\"Well, thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. On behalf of the United States and on behalf of the extraordinary city of New York, we want to welcome all of you. We also want to encourage you to do some shopping while you're here. [<i>Laughter</i>] There are wonderful restaurants.<p>I've talked enough this morning, so I'm going to be very, very brief. But, Mr. Secretary-General, I just wanted to thank you for your unwavering commitment to the ideals upon which this body was founded. In your tenure at the United Nations, you've shown your dedication to the pursuit of peace and security, to protection of human rights, the promotion of democracy and development, and the advancement of international justice.<p>Over the past year, your leadership has directly helped to prevent the use and spread of nuclear weapons. It's improved this institution's peacekeeping efforts, to battle hunger and increase food security, and as we saw yesterday, you are reminding all the world of the urgency and magnitude of our climate challenge. And on this effort, you've led by example and spurred all of us on towards the common goal of saving our common home. And we're very grateful to you for that.<p>The institution that you lead was founded decades ago in a different world that faced different threats and different challenges. And yet the size and the scope of the challenges we currently face are immense. And the United Nations has never held more promise than it does today. Whether we realize that promise is far from certain. As I said this morning, the magnitude of our challenges has yet to be met by the scope of our action. But days like this offer renewed hope that we will find it within ourselves the courage and the determination to meet our responsibilities to ourselves, to our citizens, and to future generations.<p>It falls to us. Progress will not come without setbacks. Cooperation does not come without debate and disagreement. And this institution will be what we make of it. So on this September day, I would like to offer a toast to what can be in the years to come, a place where we forge common ground and recognize our common humanity, a source of moral authority, a force of peace, and above all, an indispensible institution in helping all of us build a better future for our children and our grandchildren.<p>To the United Nations. Thank you.\" "
"277" "\"The 6191st meeting of the Security Council is called to order. The provisional agenda for this meeting is before the Council in document S/Agenda/6191, which reads, quote, \\"Maintenance of international peace and security, nuclear proliferation, and nuclear disarmament.\\" Unless I hear any objection, I shall consider the agenda adopted. Agenda is adopted.<p>I wish to warmly welcome the distinguished heads of state and Government, the Generals&mdash;the Secretary-General, the Director General of the IAEA, ministers, and other distinguished representatives present in the Security Council chamber. Your presence is an affirmation of the importance of the subject matter to be discussed.<p>The Security Council summit will now begin its consideration of item two of the agenda. Members of the Council have before them document S/2009/473, which contains the text of a draft resolution prepared in the course of the Council's prior consultations. I wish to draw Council members' attention to document S/2009/463 containing a letter dated 16 September 2009 from the United States of America transmitting a concept paper on the item under consideration. In accordance with the understanding reached earlier among members, the Security Council will take action on the draft resolution before it prior to hearing statements from the Secretary-General and Council members. Accordingly, I shall put the draft resolution to the vote now. Will those in favor of the draft resolution contained in document S/2009/473 please raise their hand? The results of the voting is as follows: The draft resolution is received unanimously, 15 votes in favor. The draft resolution has been adopted unanimously as Resolution 1887 of 2009.<p>I want to thank again everybody who is in attendance. I wish you all good morning. In the six-plus decades that this Security Council has been in existence, only four other meetings of this nature have been convened. I called for this one so that we may address at the highest level a fundamental threat to the security of all peoples and all nations: the spread and use of nuclear weapons.<p>As I said yesterday, this very institution was founded at the dawn of the atomic age, in part because man's capacity to kill had to be contained. And although we averted a nuclear nightmare during the cold war, we now face proliferation of a scope and complexity that demands new strategies and new approaches. Just one nuclear weapon exploded in a city, be it New York or Moscow, Tokyo or Beijing, London or Paris, could kill hundreds of thousands of people, and it would badly destabilize our security, our economies, and our very way of life.<p>Once more, the United Nations has a pivotal role to play in preventing this crisis. The historic resolution we just adopted enshrines our shared commitment to the goal of a world without nuclear weapons, and it brings Security Council agreement on a broad framework for action to reduce nuclear dangers as we work toward that goal. It reflects the agenda I outlined in Prague and builds on a consensus that all nations have the right to peaceful nuclear energy, that nations with nuclear weapons have the responsibility to move toward disarmament and those without them have the responsibility to forsake them.<p>Today the Security Council endorsed a global effort to lock down all vulnerable nuclear materials within 4 years. The United States will host a summit next April to advance this goal and help all nations achieve it. This resolution will also help strengthen the institutions and initiatives that combat the smuggling, financing, and theft of proliferation-related materials. It calls on all states to freeze any financial assets that are being used for proliferation. And it calls for stronger safeguards to reduce the likelihood that peaceful nuclear weapons programs can be diverted to a weapons program&mdash;that peaceful nuclear programs can be diverted to a weapons program.<p>The resolution we passed today will also strengthen the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. We have made it clear that the Security Council has both the authority and the responsibility to respond to violations to this treaty. We've made it clear that the Security Council has both the authority and responsibility to determine and respond as necessary when violations of this treaty threaten international peace and security.<p>That includes full compliance with Security Council resolutions on Iran and North Korea. Let me be clear: This is not about singling out individual nations; it is about standing up for the rights of all nations who do live up to their responsibilities. The world must stand together, and we must demonstrate that international law is not an empty promise and that treaties will be enforced.<p>The next 12 months will be absolutely critical in determining whether this resolution and our overall efforts to stop the spread and use of nuclear weapons are successful. And all nations must do their part to make this work. In America, I have promised that we will pursue a new agreement with Russia to substantially reduce our strategic warheads and launchers. We will move forward with the ratification of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty and open the door to deeper cuts in our own arsenal. In January, we will call upon countries to begin negotiations on a treaty to end the production of fissile material for weapons. And the Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference in May will strengthen that agreement.<p>Now, we harbor no illusions about the difficulty of bringing about a world without nuclear weapons. We know there are plenty of cynics and that there will be setbacks to prove their point. But there will also be days like today that push us forward, days that tell a different story. It is the story of a world that understands that no difference or division is worth destroying all that we have built and all that we love. It is a recognition that can bring people of different nationalities and ethnicities and ideologies together. In my own country, it has brought Democrats and Republican leaders together, leaders like George Shultz, Bill Perry, Henry Kissinger, and Sam Nunn, who are with us here today.<p>And it was a Republican President, Ronald Reagan, who once articulated the goal we now seek in the starkest of terms. I quote: \\"A nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought. And no matter how great the obstacles may seem, we must never stop our efforts to reduce the weapons of war. We must never stop until all&mdash;we must never stop at all until we see the day when nuclear arms have been banished from the face of the Earth.\\" That is our task. That can be our destiny. And we will leave this meeting with a renewed determination to achieve this shared goal. Thank you.<p>In accordance with the understanding reached among Council members, I wish to remind all speakers to limit their statements to no more than 5 minutes in order to enable the Council to carry on its work expeditiously. Delegations with lengthy statements are kindly requested to circulate the text in writing and to deliver a condensed version when speaking in the chamber.<p>I shall now invite the distinguished Secretary-General, His Excellency Ban Ki-moon, to take the floor.\" "
"278" "\"This week, I joined leaders from around the world at the United Nations and the G-20 economic summit in Pittsburgh. Today I can report on what we achieved: a new commitment to meet common challenges and real progress in advancing America's national security and economic prosperity.<p>As I said at the U.N., over the past 9 months, my administration has renewed American leadership and pursued a new era of engagement in which we call upon all nations to live up to their responsibilities. This week, our engagement produced tangible results in several areas.<p>In Pittsburgh, the world's major economies agreed to continue our efforts to spur global demand, to put our people back to work. We committed ourselves to economic growth that is balanced and sustained, so we avoid the booms and busts of the past. We reached a historic agreement to reform the global financial system, to promote responsibility and prevent abuse, so that we never face a crisis like this again. And we reformed our international economic architecture, so that we can better coordinate our efforts to meet the challenges of the 21st century.<p>We also established American leadership in the global pursuit of the clean energy of the 21st century. I am proud that the G-20 nations agreed to phase out $300 billion worth of fossil fuel subsidies. This will increase our energy security, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, combat the threat of climate change, and help create the new jobs and industries of the future.<p>In New York, we advanced the cause of peace and security. I joined the first meeting between Israeli and Palestinian leaders in nearly a year, a meeting that even 9 months ago did not seem possible. And we resolved to move forward in the journey towards a just, lasting, and comprehensive peace in the Middle East.<p>We also took unprecedented steps to secure loose nuclear materials, to stop the spread of nuclear weapons, and to seek a world without them. As the first U.S. President to ever chair a meeting of the United Nations Security Council, I was proud that the Council passed a historic and unanimous resolution embracing the comprehensive strategy I outlined this year in Prague.<p>To prevent nuclear weapons from falling into the hands of terrorists, the Security Council endorsed our global effort to lock down all vulnerable material within 4 years. We reaffirmed the basic compact of the global nonproliferation regime: All nations have the right to peaceful nuclear energy, nations with nuclear weapons have the responsibility to move toward disarmament, and nations without them have the responsibility to forsake them.<p>The United States is meeting our responsibilities by pursuing an agreement with Russia to reduce our strategic warheads and launchers. And just as we meet our responsibilities, so must other nations, including Iran and North Korea.<p>Earlier this year, we imposed tough, new sanctions on North Korea to stop their efforts to develop weapons of mass destruction. And we will continue to stand with our allies and partners to press North Korea to move in a new direction.<p>This week, we joined with the United Kingdom and France in presenting evidence that Iran has been building a secret nuclear facility to enrich uranium. This is a serious challenge to the global nonproliferation regime and continues a disturbing pattern of Iranian evasion. That's why international negotiations with Iran scheduled for October 1st now take on added urgency.<p>My offer of a serious, meaningful dialogue to resolve this issue remains open. But Iran must now cooperate fully with the International Atomic Energy Agency and take action to demonstrate its peaceful intentions.<p>On this, the international community is more united than ever before. Yesterday I stood shoulder to shoulder with our European allies in condemning Iran's program. In our meetings and public statements, President Medvedev of Russia and I agreed that Iran must pursue a new course, or face consequences. All of the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and Germany have made it clear that Iran must fulfill its responsibilities.<p>Iran's leaders must now choose. They can live up to their responsibilities and achieve integration with the community of nations, or they will face increased pressure and isolation and deny opportunity to their own people.<p>These are the urgent threats of our time. And the United States is committed to a new chapter of international cooperation to meet them. This new chapter will not be written in 1 week or even 1 year. But we have begun, and for the American people and the people of the world, it will mean greater security and prosperity for years to come.\" "
"279" "\"They didn't want me to be on the right. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is the CBC. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>To all the outstanding guests here tonight, to our outstanding chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, Barbara Lee, please give her a big round of applause. To her outstanding foundation chair, Kendrick Meek, please give them a round of applause.<p>Majority Leader Steny Hoyer is in the house. The House Majority Whip, James Clyburn, is in the house. Chairman of the DCCC Chris Van Hollen is in the house. And my great friend and the chair of the DNC, Tim Kaine&mdash;please give him a big round of applause&mdash;Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia.<p>I want to begin by congratulating all of the recipients of the Phoenix Award for outstanding contributions to American life. I have to single out one of tonight's honorees, for whom I can personally vouch, our Ambassador to the United Nations, Susan Rice. Susan is doing a fantastic job as Ambassador, especially this past week when we were at the United Nations, and we are all lucky, all of America is lucky, to have her representing us there. So please give her a big round of applause.<p>I look out at all of you tonight&mdash;on Members of Congress, on State and local officials, on leaders of all kinds&mdash;and I am reminded of the extraordinary acts of public service being rendered by African Americans today. I'm reminded of the difference each of you is making at every level of government, in the quiet neighborhoods of our small towns and the bustling streets of our big cities.<p>But I'm also reminded that it wasn't always this way. I'm reminded of a time long before the CBC was formed, long before the civil rights movement was sparked, when just a lone African American was serving in the United States Congress.<p>A North Carolinian by birth, the child, some say, of slaves, George Henry White was the last of that first generation of African Americans elected to Congress in the aftermath of Appomattox. But at the end of the 1800s, when a segregationist Supreme Court handed down \\"separate but equal,\\" with African Americans being purged from the voter rolls, with strange fruit growing on the poplar trees, White decided against seeking reelection&mdash;meaning that once again, neither the House nor the Senate would be occupied by a single African American Member.<p>And at the end of an inspiring farewell address, the gentleman from North Carolina said, \\"This, Mr. Chairman, is perhaps the Negroes' temporary farewell to the American Congress; but let me say, phoenix-like, he will rise up some day and come again.\\"<p>Members of the CBC, all of you gathered here today, tonight is a fulfillment of that prophecy. While George Henry White might not have foreseen the exact details of Montgomery and Selma, while he might not have foreseen the precise outlines of the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act and all the struggles to come, he knew that someday African Americans would sit in our city halls and statehouses. He knew that someday the Halls of Congress would be walked by Representatives and Senators of every creed and color. He knew, as Frederick Douglass knew, as Harriet Tubman knew, as Martin Luther King, Jr., knew, that the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice.<p>More than a century has passed since Congressman White left Congress. In that time, we have faced a number of difficult tests and bitter trials, as a people and as a nation. There have been dangers to peace and security; there have been barriers to justice and equality; there have been threats to opportunity. So we are by no means the first generation of Americans to be tested, but tested we have been. Most recently, we've been tested by an economic crisis unlike any that we've seen since the Great Depression.<p>Now, I have to say that some folks seem to have forgotten just how bad things were when I took office. They seem to be exercising some selective memory. So let's just take a stroll down memory lane. Our economy was shedding 700,000 jobs every single month, more than the entire population of Baltimore losing work every month. Credit had dried up. Loans for everything from college to cars were nearly impossible to come by. Our entire financial system was poised on the brink of collapse with many fearing that what has been called the \\"great recession\\" would become another great depression. You remember that.<p>That's why we acted boldly, that's why we acted swiftly to put in place a Recovery Act that was passed with the help of Members of Congress here tonight and that's being carried out with the help from Governors and mayors here tonight. And as a consequence of those early actions, we're cutting taxes for 95 percent of working families&mdash;not for the rich folks, but for ordinary folks&mdash;putting some money in their pockets. We're extending and increasing unemployment insurance for 12 million Americans to help them weather this economic storm. We are making COBRA 65 percent cheaper so Americans don't lose their health care coverage if they're out there looking for work. We are saving the jobs of teachers and police officers that Americans rely on all across the Nation. And we're putting Americans to work rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges and schools and waterways with the largest investment in our infrastructure since the Interstate Highway System was built in the 1950s.<p>Because of the action we've taken so far, we have stopped the bleeding in our economy. So the next time some of these folks come up asking you what the Recovery Act has done, you tell them it has prevented us from going into a much worse place. That much we know. That's been confirmed.<p>But we also know that we've got a long way to go, that the progress we've made has been uneven, and that this recession has hit communities of color with a particular ferocity. Today, more than one in seven African Americans are out of work, the highest in nearly a quarter of a century. More than 2 out of 10 African Americans&mdash;and 3 out of 10 Black children&mdash;are living in poverty.<p>So this economic crisis has made the problems in the communities of color much worse, but we all know that these problems have been there for a long time. Communities were struggling to catch up long before this economic storm came ashore. One study that looked at trends in this country over the past few decades found that while roughly 7 out of every 10 middle class White children end up surpassing their parents' income, roughly 7 out of every 10 middle class Black children do not. Think about that: for the majority of some Americans, upward mobility; for the majority of others, stagnation or even downward mobility. That was taking place over the last decade, before the economic crisis. That kind of inequality is unacceptable in the United States of America.<p>Now, bringing hope and opportunity to places where they're in short supply, that's not easy. It will take a focused and sustained effort to eradicate the structural inequalities in our communities, structural inequalities that make it difficult for children of color to make a success of their lives, no matter how smart or how driven or how talented they are. And that's why we're launching Promise Neighborhoods to build on Geoffrey Canada's success in Harlem with a comprehensive approach to ending poverty by giving people the tools they need to pull themselves up. That's why I've created an Office of Urban Affairs to lift up our cities with a coordinated strategy to unleash their potential. That's why my administration, under the leadership of Attorney General Eric Holder, is serious about enforcing our civil rights laws and tearing down barriers to equal opportunity.<p>But of all the barriers still standing in 2009, few are more unjust, few are more entrenched, few are more inhumane than the barriers to a healthy life and a good education; barriers that constrain the dreams not only of African Americans, but of all Americans; barriers that can, and must, and shall be overcome.<p>For the sake of every American living today and for the sake of every American yet to be born, we must bring about a better health care system in this country&mdash;not in 10 years, not in 5 years, not in 1 year&mdash;this year. I know there are voices out there telling us we're moving too fast when it comes to health insurance reform. They're telling us to slow down. They're telling us to wait.<p>How are we supposed to tell Americans like Easter Spencer to wait? This is a woman who discovered a lump in her breast back in June and was told it would be 6 months before she was eligible for health insurance that would cover the cost of removing it. We're telling her to wait?<p>How are we supposed to tell Americans like Nathan Wilkes to wait? This is a man whose health insurance came with a cap, so when the claims started piling up because he had a sick child, he was left to frantically search for another option, or face $10,000 of out-of-pocket costs.<p>Let me tell you: We have been waiting for health reform since the days of Teddy Roosevelt. We've been waiting since the days of Harry Truman. We've been waiting since Johnson and Nixon and Clinton. We cannot wait any longer. \\"There comes a time when the cup of endurance runs over.\\" There comes a time to remember the fierce urgency of right now.<p>Now is the time to enact health insurance reform in the United States of America. Now is the time to offer stability and security to Americans who have insurance. Now is the time to make it affordable for those who don't have health insurance. Now is the time to slow the growth of health care costs for our families and business, our Government. That's the kind of reform that we need. Now is the time. And that's what so many Members of Congress here tonight and all across the country are working so hard to produce.<p>Now, many of you are probably familiar with our plan, but I just want to go over a few things so you know what to tell your friends and neighbors and folks in the community who ask about it because they may be seeing some misinformation&mdash;just a little bit. [<i>Laughter</i>] I was up at the G-20&mdash;just a little aside&mdash;I was up in the G-20, and some of you saw&mdash;there's big flags and all the world leaders come in and Michelle and I are shaking hands with them. And one of the leaders&mdash;I won't mention who it was&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;he comes up to me. We take the picture, we go behind, and he says, \\"Barack, explain to me this health care debate.\\" He says, \\"We don't understand it. You're trying to make sure everybody has health care, and they're putting a Hitler mustache on you. I don't&mdash;that doesn't make sense to me. Explain that to me.\\" He didn't understand. So let me just clarify.<p>If you already have health insurance, under the plan we've developed, you will not, I repeat, you will not have to change your coverage or your doctor. We are not requiring those changes in this legislation.<p>What we will do is make insurance work better for everybody. It will be against the law for insurance companies to deny you coverage because of a preexisting condition. It will be against the law for insurance companies to drop your coverage when you get sick, or water it down when you need it the most. They won't be able to place some arbitrary cap on how much coverage you can receive in a given year or a lifetime. We will place a limit on how much you can be charged for out-of-pocket expenses. Because in the United States of America, nobody should go broke because they got sick.<p>We will make it easier to identify health care disparities and work to close them. That's long overdue. And insurance companies will be required to cover, at no extra charge, routine checkups and preventive care, like mammograms and colonoscopies. There's no reason we shouldn't be catching diseases like breast cancer before they get worse. That makes sense; it saves money; it saves lives. That's what we're going to do.<p>So that's what we do for the folks with health insurance. And we'll finally offer the tens of millions of Americans who don't have health insurance some affordable choices. We'll do this with a new insurance exchange, a marketplace where individuals and small-business men can shop for affordable health insurance plans that work for them, as one big group, so they'll have leverage to get a better deal than they get right now, a much better deal. And that is going to save them money.<p>Now, there are going to be some who claim that, \\"Well, this is a Government takeover of health care.\\" There are going to be some who suggest that they're going to lose their choices. We are talking about expanding choices. And I just want everybody to remember that they said the same thing when we tried to pass Social Security. They called FDR all kinds of things that we cannot repeat here today. They said the same thing about Lyndon Johnson when we tried to pass Medicare. They are saying the same things now, trying the same tactics, but we are going to get this done this year thanks to members of the CBC and Members of Congress all across the country, and thanks to you at the grassroots level that are going to stand up and insist that we cannot afford to wait any longer.<p>Now, the key to progress for all Americans is not just healthy bodies, it's also a well educated mind. And we know that the African American community will fall behind in the United States and the United States will fall behind in the world unless we do a far better job than we've been doing of educating our sons and daughters; unless we close the achievement gap that sees Black students and Brown students lag behind their White classmates year after year, decade after decade; unless we reach all the students who are dropping out of school and giving up on their future.<p>Today, almost a third of students drop out of high school&mdash;a third&mdash;and a disproportionate number of them are African American or Hispanic. That's not just a loss for the African American community or the Hispanic community; that's a loss for all Americans. That's the future workforce. In the 21st century, when a good education is a prerequisite for success, when the jobs of tomorrow require a bachelor's degree or more, when the countries that outeducate us today will outcompete us tomorrow, we need the talents, the energy, the contributions of all our children, not just some. We need to prepare every child in America to compete with any worker in the world.<p>Now, there are a number of things Government can do to offer our kids a 21st-century education. It can increase Pell grants and Perkins loans and simplify financial aid forms. It can establish better standards and assessments in our schools. It can reward teachers who are doing a great job and move bad ones out of the classroom. It can improve quality in early learning initiatives. It can rebuild our crumbling schools. It can offer all our children a complete and competitive education from cradle to classroom, from college through a career. That's what Government can do. That's what Government must do. And that's exactly what we've begun to do, here in Washington, across this country.<p>And I've said it before&mdash;and I know I may sound like a broken record&mdash;but I'm going to say it again: Government alone cannot get our children to the promised land. Government can't put away the PlayStation. Government can't put our kids to bed at a reasonable hour. Government can't attend those parent-teacher conferences. Government can't read a book to your child at night. Government can't help them with their homework. Government can't make sure they leave to school on time. These are things only a mother can do and a father can do. These are things that a parent can do.<p>We need to accept our responsibilities, as parents and community leaders. We need to be good role models and encourage excellence in all our children, every last one of them. We need to let them know there are no excuses for not doing your best every day, all the time, in order to achieve your dreams.<p>We've got to push our kids to aim higher. I don't want all our kids aspiring to be ballers or rappers. I want them aspiring to be teachers and doctors and scientists and engineers. I want them aspiring to be Members of Congress and Supreme Court Justices. I want them aspiring to be the President of the United States of America. I want them to have their sights set high.<p>No excuses for mediocrity. If they come home with a \\"B,\\" don't tell them, \\"That's great.\\" I know some of you all do that. [<i>Laughter</i>] Tell them to work harder and get an A. Set their heights high.<p>A world-class education; affordable, quality health insurance; jobs and opportunity; all of us accepting responsibility for ourselves and our children and our common future, that's how we'll make life better for the African American community, and thereby make life better for the larger American community. That is how we will build a new foundation for our economy that yields lasting, shared prosperity. That's how we'll take up the cause of freedom and justice and equality in our time, just as earlier generations of Americans took it up in theirs.<p>Remember what it was like for George Henry White in the early days of the 20th century, as he was bidding farewell to the House of Representatives, the last African American to serve there for a quarter century. Remember the taunts and the threats and the attacks braved by White, braved by Lewis, braved by Chisholm. Remember all they did, all so many others did, to make it possible for us to be here tonight, to make it possible for you to be here tonight, to make it possible for me to be here tonight.<p>Because I know that if we can act as they did&mdash;with the same sense of unity, the same sense of possibility, the same determination, the same sense of purpose&mdash;then we will not only help America's peoples live healthier lives, we won't just help America's children live out their dreams, but it will be said of us, as it was said of our forbearers, that when the need was great and the moment was hard, when the odds seemed against us, we did our part to perfect our Union.<p>Thank you. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America.\" "
"280" "\"Francis, thank you for the extraordinary introduction. I want to echo what has just been said about my Secretary of HHS. She is, I just think, outstanding. She hit the ground running, and with all the burdens that she carries, she always has a sense of fun and energy and is just good to be around. So please give Kathleen Sebelius a big round of applause. <p>I want to acknowledge that we are in Congressman Chris Van Hollen's district, a Democrat from Maryland, and Chris is here and a great supporter of NIH historically. We are very grateful for him. And we are so happy to have Senator Arlen Specter, who is directly responsible for so much of the funding for NIH research. He is a huge champion for your cause. And I know you already gave him a round&mdash;rousing round of applause, but I just want to echo what a great job he's been doing and what a great partner he's been.<p>Finally, somebody who's not here but deserves a little credit is my Vice President, Joe Biden, who is managing the stimulus process&mdash;&mdash;<p>[<i>At this point, there was a microphone feedback problem.</i>]<p>Whoa! That's Joe trying to call in. [<i>Laughter</i>] Joe is doing a great job and&mdash;but he is pretty tough when it comes to tracking the money, and so he's going to be paying attention&mdash;doc&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;to make sure that it's going where it's supposed to be going.<p>Before I begin my remarks about this extraordinary institution, I want to say a word about the tragic events that took place yesterday in America Samoa. My deepest sympathies are with the families who've lost loved ones and the many people whose lives have been affected by the earthquake and the tsunami. To aid in the response, I've declared this a major disaster to speed the deployment of resources. And FEMA, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, is working closely with emergency responders on the ground, and the Coast Guard is helping to provide immediate help to those in need. We also stand ready to help our friends in neighboring Samoa and throughout the region, and we'll continue to monitor the situation closely as we keep the many people who've been touched by this tragedy in our thoughts and in our prayers.<p>Now, today I'm here to talk about our Nation's commitment to research. I want to thank Dr. Collins and his team for showing me and Kathleen some of the extraordinary groundbreaking research being done at the National Institutes of Health. The work you do is not easy. It takes a great deal of patience and persistence. But it holds incredible promise for the health of our people and the future of our Nation and our world. That's why I'm here today. <p>For decades, the NIH has been at the forefront of medical invention and innovation, helping to save countless lives and relieve untold suffering. And yet, if we're honest, in recent years, we've seen our leadership slipping as scientific integrity was, at times, undermined and research funding failed to keep pace.<p>We know that the work you do would not get done if left solely to the private sector. Some research does not lend itself to quick profit. And that's why places like the NIH were founded. And that's why my administration is making a historic commitment to research and the pursuit of discovery. And that's why today we're announcing that we've awarded $5 billion&mdash;that's with a \\"b\\"&mdash;in grants through the Recovery Act to conduct cutting-edge research all across America, to unlock treatments to diseases that have long plagued humanity, to save and enrich the lives of people all over the world. This represents the single largest boost to biomedical research in history.<p>Now, one of the most exciting areas of research to move forward as a result of this investment will be in applying what scientists have learned through the Human Genome Project to help us understand, prevent, and treat various forms of cancer, heart disease, and autism. And having been a leader of the Human Genome Project, Dr. Collins knows this promise all too well. And it's a promise that we've only just begun to realize.<p>In cancer, we're beginning to see treatments based on our knowledge of genetic changes that cause the disease and the genetic predispositions that many of us carry that make us more susceptible to the disease. But we've only scratched the surface of these kinds of treatments because we've only begun to understand the relationship between our environment and genetics in causing and promoting cancer.<p>So through the Recovery Act, the NIH is expanding the Cancer Genome Atlas, collecting more than 20,000 tissue samples to sequence the DNA of more than 20 types of cancer. And this has extraordinary potential to help us better understand and treat this disease. Cancer has touched the lives of all Americans, including my own family's; 1.5 million people will be diagnosed in the next year. Half a million people will lose their lives. We all know the terrible toll on families and the promise of treatments that will allow a mother to be there for her children as they grow up, that will make it possible for a child to reach adulthood, that will allow countless people to survive a disease that's claimed far too many lives.<p>Through these investments in research, we will also have the opportunity to make strides in the treatment and prevention of heart disease, the leading cause of death in the United States. Since 1948, for example, researchers have been following generations of residents in the town of Framingham, Massachusetts, to better understand the cause of cardiovascular illness. Now we have a chance to study the DNA of these participants and connect what we know after decades of observation to what we'll soon know about their genetic makeup. And perhaps we can identify those who are likely get high blood pressure or high cholesterol and find ways to intervene before heart disease even develops.<p>And finally, we'll also provide the largest ever infusion of funding into autism research. Across the country, grant recipients will have the opportunity to study genetic and environmental factors of a disease that now touches more than 1 in every 150 children. And what we learn will hopefully lead to greater understanding, early interventions, more effective treatments and therapies to help these children live their lives and achieve their fullest potential, which is extraordinary. <p>Now, we know that these investments in research will improve and save countless lives for generations to come. And as I was taking a tour with Dr. Collins and Dr. Fauci and others, just listening to the possibility of a HIV/AIDS vaccine, or hearing the latest treatments of cancer that allow people who previously only had resort to the most violent types of radiation or chemotherapy now being able to take pills and seeing extraordinary progress, it is something that is entirely inspiring. But we also know that these investments will save jobs, they'll create new jobs&mdash;tens of thousands of jobs&mdash;conducting research and manufacturing and supplying medical equipment and building and modernizing laboratories and research facilities all across America. <p>And that's also what the Recovery Act is all about. It's not just about creating make-work jobs; it's about creating jobs that will make a lasting difference for our future. From the beginning, our goal has been to rescue the economy at the same time as we're laying a new foundation for lasting economic growth. And central to that foundation is a health care system that can deliver the treatments and cures you discover in an affordable way. After all, decades of research make no difference to the family that is dropped from an insurance policy when a child gets sick. And breakthroughs with the potential to save lives don't matter when your insurance doesn't cover a preexisting condition. And as costs rise and rise, that leaves less and less for the kinds of investments in health care and in basic research that will actually improve our well being. That's why we're working so hard to pass long-overdue reforms.<p>Now, I should point out there are some who have opposed the reforms we're suggesting, saying it would lead to a takeover by the Government of the health care sector. But this concern about the involvement of Government, I should point out, has been present whenever we have sought to improve our health care system. <p>Here's an interesting quote from FDR; he addressed it nearly 70 years ago right here at the dedication of NIH. And he said, and I quote, \\"Neither the American people, nor their Government, intends to socialize medical practice any more than they plan to socialize industry. In American life, the family doctor, the general practitioner performs a service which we rely upon and which we trust as a nation, and there can be no substitute for the personal relationship between doctor and patient, which is a source of strength of [our] medical practice in our land.\\"<p>FDR was being accused of a Government takeover of health care. [<i>Laughter</i>] But he thought NIH was a pretty good idea. And think about everything that's happened and all the lives that have been saved and all the progress that's been made and all the commercial activity that's been generated as a consequence of that early investment.<p>And these words are a reminder that while we've made great advances in medicine, our debates haven't always kept pace. And these words remind us that there have always been those who argued against progress, but that at our best, we've never allowed our fears to overwhelm our hopes for a brighter future.<p>That's been at the heart of the work of the National Institutes of Health for decades. It was here that Dr. Roy Hertz would develop the first successful cure of metastatic cancer through chemotherapy, as a group of women, who would have surely died, began actually to get better. It was here that Dr. Nina Braunwald, the first woman ever to be board-certified in cardiothoracic surgery, conducted some of the earliest operations to replace heart valves. It was here, in the years after President Roosevelt's visit, that polio vaccines would be tested to end a scourge that affected millions, including, obviously, the President that helped to make the research possible.<p>We can only imagine the new discoveries that will flow from the investments we make today. Breakthroughs in medical research take far more than the occasional flash of brilliance, as important as that can be. Progress takes time; it takes hard work; it can be unpredictable; it can require a willingness to take risks, going down some blind alleys occasionally. Figuring out what doesn't work is sometimes as important as figuring out what does. All of this needs the support of Government. It holds promise like no other area of human endeavor, but we've got to make a commitment to it. <p>And here at the National Institutes of Health, and at universities and research institutions across this country, you are demonstrating our capacity not just as a nation but as human beings to harness our creativity and our ingenuity to save lives, to spare suffering, to build a better world for ourselves, our children, and our grandchildren. That is our great promise, and it is one that we've once again begun to fulfill.<p>So thank you for your extraordinary work. And we are going to keep on providing the support that you need. The American people are looking forward to the next set of discoveries that all of you are working on today.<p>Thank you so much.\" "
"281" "\"Good afternoon. Before I comment on today's meeting in Geneva, I want to say a few words about the recent tragic events in the Pacific.<p>On behalf of the American people, I want to once again extend my deepest condolences to the people of American Samoa and Samoa for the terrible loss of life and the devastation that took place after the recent earthquake and tsunami. I've spoken to the Governor and the Delegate from America Samoa, and we continue to provide the full support of the Federal Government for relief efforts there. I have also directed the State Department to provide the assistance necessary to help Samoa recover as well.<p>We're also deeply moved by the suffering and the loss of life that's been caused by the recent earthquake in West Sumatra. Now, my administration has been in touch with the Government of Indonesia to make it clear that the United States stands ready to help in this time of need, and I've ordered my administration to coordinate with the ongoing relief and recovery efforts there.<p>Indonesia is an extraordinary country that's known extraordinary hardship from natural disasters. I know firsthand that Indonesian people are strong and resilient and have the spirit to overcome this enormous challenge. And as they do, they need to know that America will be their friend and partner.<p>Today in Geneva, the United States, along with our fellow permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, namely Russia, China, France, and the United Kingdom, as well as Germany, held talks with the Islamic Republic of Iran.<p>These meetings came after several months of intense diplomatic effort. Upon taking office, I made it clear that the United States was prepared to join our P-5-plus-1 partners as a full participant in talks with Iran. I extended the offer of meaningful engagement to the Iranian Government. I committed the United States to a comprehensive effort to strengthen the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, so that all nations have the right to peaceful nuclear power, provided that they live up to their international obligations.<p>And we have engaged in intensive bilateral and multilateral diplomacy with our P-5-plus-1 partners, and with nations around the world, to reinforce this point, including a historic U.N. Security Council resolution that was passed unanimously last week.<p>The result is clear: The P-5-plus-1 is united, and we have an international community that has reaffirmed its commitment to nonproliferation and disarmament. That's why the Iranian Government heard a clear and unified message from the international community in Geneva: Iran must demonstrate through concrete steps that it will live up to its responsibilities with regard to its nuclear program. In pursuit of that goal, today's meeting was a constructive beginning, but it must be followed with constructive action by the Iranian Government.<p>First, Iran must demonstrate its commitment to transparency. Earlier this month, we presented clear evidence that Iran has been building a covert nuclear facility in Qom. Since Iran has now agreed to cooperate fully and immediately with the International Atomic Energy Agency, it must grant unfettered access to IAEA inspectors within 2 weeks. I've been in close touch with the head of the IAEA, Mohamed ElBaradei, who will be traveling to Tehran in the days ahead. He has my full support, and the Iranian Government must grant the IAEA full access to the site in Qom.<p>Second, Iran must take concrete steps to build confidence that its nuclear program will serve peaceful purposes, steps that meet Iran's obligations under multiple U.N. Security Council resolutions. The IAEA proposal that was agreed to in principle today with regard to the Tehran research reactor is a confidence-building step that is consistent with that objective, provided that it transfers Iran's low enriched uranium to a third country for fuel fabrication. As I've said before, we support Iran's right to peaceful nuclear power. Taking the step of transferring its low enriched uranium to a third country would be a step towards building confidence that Iran's program is in fact peaceful.<p>Going forward, we expect to see swift action. We're committed to serious and meaningful engagement. But we're not interested in talking for the sake of talking. If Iran does not take steps in the near future to live up to its obligations, then the United States will not continue to negotiate indefinitely, and we are prepared to move towards increased pressure. If Iran takes concrete steps and lives up to its obligations, there is a path towards a better relationship with the United States, increased integration for Iran within the international community, and a better future for all Iranians.<p>So let me reiterate: This is a constructive beginning, but hard work lies ahead. We've entered a phase of intensive international negotiations. And talk is no substitute for action. Pledges of cooperation must be fulfilled. We have made it clear that we will do our part to engage the Iranian Government on the basis of mutual interests and mutual respect, but our patience is not unlimited.<p>This is not about singling out Iran. This is not about creating double standards. This is about the global nonproliferation regime and Iran's right to peaceful nuclear energy, just as all nations have it, but with that right comes responsibilities. The burden of meeting these responsibilities lies with the Iranian Government, and they are now the ones that need to make that choice.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"282" "\"One of the things that I think is most valuable about sports is that you can play a great game and still not win. And so although I wish that we had come back with better news from Copenhagen, I could not be prouder of my hometown of Chicago, the volunteers who were involved, Mayor Daley, the delegation, and the American people for the extraordinary bid that we put forward.<p>I do want to congratulate Rio de Janeiro and the nation of Brazil for winning the 2016 Olympics. I think this is a truly historic event, as these will be the first Olympic Games ever to be held in South America. And as neighbors in the Americas, as friends to the Brazilian people, we welcome this extraordinary sign of progress and the fact that the 2016 games will be in the Americas. I had a chance to talk to President Lula and gave him a hearty congratulations and told him that our athletes will see him on the field of competition in 2016.<p>Again, I want to thank everybody who worked so hard to put America's bid together&mdash;not just Mayor Daley and the delegation&mdash;Pat Ryan&mdash;but most especially the thousands of Chicagoans who volunteered over these past few years. They put in their heart and soul into this bid. I have no doubt that it was the strongest bid possible, and I'm proud that I was able to come in and help make that case in person. I believe it's always a worthwhile endeavor to promote and boost the United States of America and invite the world to come see what we're all about. We, obviously, would have been eager to host these games, but as I said, this Nation and our athletes are still very much excited to compete in 2016. And we once again want to just say how much we are committed to the Olympic spirit, which I think represents some of the best of humanity.<p>I also want to say a few words about the unemployment numbers that came out today. As I've said before, my principle focus each and every day, as well as the principle focus of my economic team, is putting our Nation back on the path to prosperity. And since the period last winter, when we were losing an average of 700,000 jobs per month, we've certainly made some progress on this front. But today's job report is a sobering reminder that progress comes in fits and starts and that we're going to need to grind out this recovery step by step.<p>From the moment I took office, I've made the point that employment is often the last thing to come back after a recession. And that's what history shows us. But our task is to do everything we can possibly do to accelerate that process. And I want to let every single American know that I will not let up until those who are seeking work can find work, until businesses that are seeking credit are able to get credit and thrive, until all responsible homeowners can stay in their homes.<p>That's our ultimate goal, and it's one that we are working every single day here in the White House to accomplish, whether it involves implementing the Recovery Act that's already helped to bring back America from the brink of a much worse situation or lowering the cost of health care for businesses and families. And that's why I'm working closely with my economic advisers to explore any and all additional options and measures that we might take to promote job creation.<p>Whenever I see statistics like the one we saw today, my mind turns to the people behind them: honest, decent Americans who want nothing more than the opportunity to contribute to their country and help build a better future for themselves and their families. And building a 21st-century economy that offers this opportunity&mdash;an economy where folks can receive the skills and education they need to compete for the jobs of the future&mdash;will not happen overnight. But we will build it. Of that I am both confident and determined. And on behalf of every American, I will continue in that effort each and every day for as long as I am in this White House.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"283" "\"President Rogge, ladies and gentlemen of the International Olympic Committee: I come here today as a passionate supporter of the Olympic and Paralympic Games, as a strong believer in the movement they represent, and as a proud Chicagoan. But above all, I come as a faithful representative of the American people, and we look forward to welcoming the world to the shores of Lake Michigan and the heartland of our Nation in 2016.<p>To host athletes and visitors from every corner of the globe is a high honor and a great responsibility. And America is ready and eager to assume that sacred trust. We're a nation that has always opened its arms to the citizens of the world&mdash;including my own father from the African Continent&mdash;people who have sought something better, who have dreamed of something bigger.<p>I know you face a difficult choice among several great cities and nations with impressive bids of their own. So I've come here today to urge you to choose Chicago for the same reason I chose Chicago nearly 25 years ago, the reason I fell in love with the city I still call home. And it's not just because it's where I met the woman you just heard from, although after getting to know her this week, I know you'll all agree that she's a pretty big selling point for the city.<p>You see, growing up, my family moved around a lot. I was born in Hawaii. I lived in Indonesia for a time. I never really had roots in any one place or culture or ethnic group. And then I came to Chicago. And on those Chicago streets, I worked alongside men and women who were Black and White, Latino and Asian, people of every class and nationality and religion. I came to discover that Chicago is that most American of American cities, but one where citizens from more than 130 nations inhabit a rich tapestry of distinctive neighborhoods. <p>Each one of those neighborhoods&mdash;from Greektown to the Ukrainian Village, from Devon to Pilsen to Washington Park&mdash;has its own unique character, its own unique history, its songs, its language. But each is also part of our city&mdash;one city&mdash;a city where I finally found a home. <p>Chicago is a place where we strive to celebrate what makes us different, just as we celebrate what we have in common. It's a place where our unity is on colorful display at so many festivals and parades, and especially sporting events, where perfect strangers become fast friends just because they're wearing the same jersey. It's a city that works, from its first World's Fair more than a century ago to the World Cup we hosted in the nineties, we know how to put on big events. And scores of visitors and spectators will tell you that we do it well. <p>Chicago is a city where the practical and the inspirational exist in harmony, where visionaries who made no small plans rebuilt after a great fire and taught the world to reach new heights. It's a bustling metropolis with the warmth of a small town, where the world already comes together every day to live and work and reach for a dream, a dream that no matter who we are, where we come from, no matter what we look like or what hand life has dealt us, with hard work and discipline and dedication, we can make it if we try.<p>That's not just the American Dream; that is the Olympic spirit. It's the essence of the Olympic spirit. And that's why we see so much of ourselves in these games. That's why we want them in Chicago. That's why we want them in America.<p>Now, we stand at a moment in history when the fate of each nation is inextricably linked to the fate of all nations, a time of common challenges that require common effort. And I ran for President because I believed deeply that at this defining moment, the United States of America has a responsibility to help in that effort, to forge new partnerships with the nations and the peoples of the world.<p>And no one expects the games to solve all our collective challenges. But what we do believe, what each and every one of you believe and what all of the Chicago delegation believes, is that in a world where we've all too often witnessed the darker aspects of our humanity, peaceful competition between nations represents what's best about our humanity. It brings us together, if only for a few weeks, face to face. It helps us understand one another just a little bit better. It reminds us that no matter how or where we differ, we all seek our own measure of happiness and fulfillment and pride in what we do. That's a very powerful starting point for progress. <p>Nearly 1 year ago, on a clear November night, people from every corner of the world gathered in the city of Chicago or in front of their televisions to watch the results of the U.S. Presidential election. Their interest wasn't about me as an individual, rather, it was rooted in the belief that America's experiment in democracy still speaks to a set of universal aspirations and ideals. Their interest sprung from the hope that in this ever-shrinking world, our diversity could be a source of strength, a cause for celebration; and that with sustained work and determination, we could learn to live and prosper together during the fleeting moment we share on this Earth. <p>Now, that work is far from over, but it has begun in earnest. And while we do not know what the next few years will bring, there is nothing I would like more than to step just a few blocks from my family's home, with Michelle and our two girls, and welcome the world back into our neighborhood. <p>At the beginning of this new century, the Nation that has been shaped by people from around the world wants a chance to inspire it once more: to ignite the spirit of possibility at the heart of the Olympic and Paralympic movement in a new generation; to offer a stage worthy of the extraordinary talent and dynamism offered by nations joined together; to host games that unite us in noble competition and shared celebration of our limitless potential as a people.<p>And so I urge you to choose Chicago; I urge you to choose America. And if you do, if we walk this path together, then I promise you this: The city of Chicago and the United States of America will make the world proud. Thank you so much.\" "
"284" "\"[<i>The question-and-answer session was joined in progress.</i>]<p><i>Patrick G. </i><i>Ryan</i>. The next question relates to&mdash;comes from Mr. Ali, and thank you for the question. How do we intend to deal with all of the millions of people who will enter? And I'd like Lori Healey to answer that question, please.<p><i>Lori T. </i><i>Healey</i>. Thank you, and thank you for the question. We are very fortunate, as evidenced by the presence of the President and the First Lady here today, to have a terrifically strong partnership with the Federal Government in Washington. We've worked very closely with the U.S. State Department. Secretary Clinton has also been a very good partner and has worked to assure everyone the full cooperation of the Federal Government. Additionally, in June, the White House announced the formation of the Office of Olympic, Paralympic, and Youth Sport that will act as the coordinating agency if we are so privileged to be selected for the right to host the games, to put all the forces of the Federal Government behind that. <p><i>Mr. </i><i>Ryan</i>. If President Obama would like to add to that, please.<p><i>The President</i>. First, emphasize what Lori said in response to Mr. Ali's question. One of the legacies I want to see coming out of the Chicago 2016 hosting of the games is a reminder that America at its best is open to the world. And as has already been indicated, we are putting the full force of the White House and the State Department to make sure that not only is this a successful games, but that visitors from all around the world feel welcome and will come away with a sense of the incredible diversity of the American people. <p>And I'm very impressed with part of the presentation that we made matching up host families for the athletes who are going to be there, because, as I said, Chicago, we've got everybody. This could be a meeting in Chicago, because we look like the world. And I think that over the last several years, sometimes that fundamental truth about the United States has been lost. And one of the legacies, I think, of this Olympics Games in Chicago would be a restoration of that understanding of what the United States is all about, and the United States recognition of how we are linked to the world.\" "
"285" "\"When I took office 8 months ago, our Nation was in the midst of an economic crisis unlike any we'd seen in generations. While I was confident that our economy would recover, we knew that employment is often the last thing to come back after a recession. Our task is to do everything we possibly can to accelerate that process. And we've certainly made progress on this front since the period last winter when we were losing an average of 700,000 jobs each month. But yesterday's report on September job losses was a sobering reminder that progress comes in fits and starts and that we will need to grind out this recovery step by step. <p>That's why I'm working closely with my economic team to explore additional options to promote job creation. And I won't let up until those who seek jobs can find them, until businesses that seek capital and credit can thrive, and until all responsible homeowners can stay in their homes. <p>It won't be easy. It will require us to lay a new foundation for our economy; one that gives our workers the skills and education they need to compete, that invests in renewable energy and the jobs of the future, and that makes health care affordable for families and businesses, particularly small businesses, many of which have been overwhelmed by rising health care costs. <p>This is something I hear about from entrepreneurs I meet, people who've got a good idea and the expertise and determination to build it into a thriving business. But many can't take that leap because they can't afford to lose the health insurance they have at their current job. <p>I hear about it from small-business owners who want to grow their companies and hire more people, but they can't because they can barely afford to insure the employees they have. One small-business owner wrote to me that health care costs are, and I quote, \\"stifling my business growth.\\" He said that the money he wanted to use for research and development and to expand his operations has instead been \\"thrown into the pocket of health care insurance carriers.\\"<p>These small businesses are the mom-and-pop stores and restaurants, beauty shops and construction companies that support families and sustain communities. They're the small startups with big ideas, hoping to be the next Google or Apple or HP. Altogether, they create roughly half of all new jobs. <p>And right now they are paying up to 18 percent more for the very same insurance plans as larger businesses because they have higher administrative costs and less bargaining power. Many have been forced to cut benefits or drop coverage; some have shed jobs or shut their doors entirely. And recent studies show that if we fail to act now, employers will pay 6 percent more to insure their employees next year and more than twice as much over the next decade. <p>Rising health care costs are undermining our businesses, exploding our deficits, and costing our Nation more jobs with each passing month. So we know that reforming our health insurance system will be a critical step in rebuilding our economy so that our entrepreneurs can pursue the American Dream again and our small businesses can grow and expand and create new jobs again. <p>That's precisely what the reform legislation before Congress right now will do. Under these proposals, small businesses will be able to purchase health insurance through an insurance exchange, a marketplace where they can compare the price, quality, and services of a wide variety of plans, many of which will provide better coverage at lower costs than the plans they have now. <p>Ninety-five percent of small businesses won't be required to cover their employees, but many that do will receive a tax credit to help them pay for it. If a small business chooses not to provide coverage, its employees will receive tax credits to help them purchase health insurance on their own through the insurance exchange. <p>And no matter how you get your insurance, insurance companies will no longer be allowed to deny your coverage because of a preexisting condition. They won't be able to drop your coverage if you get too sick, or lose your job, or change jobs. And we'll limit the amount your insurance company can force you to pay out of your own pocket.<p>By now, the urgency of these reforms is abundantly clear. And after long hours of thoughtful deliberation and tough negotiation, the Senate Finance Committee, the final congressional committee involved in shaping health care legislation, has finished the process of crafting their reform proposal. <p>As we move forward in the coming weeks, I understand that Members of Congress from both parties will want to engage in a vigorous debate and contribute their own ideas. And I welcome those contributions. I welcome any sincere attempts to improve legislation before it reaches my desk. But what I will not accept are attempts to stall or drag our feet. I will not accept partisan efforts to block reform at any cost. <p>Instead, I expect us to move forward with a spirit of civility, a seriousness of purpose, and a willingness to compromise that characterizes our democratic process at its very best. If we do that, I am confident that we will pass reform this year and help ensure that our entrepreneurs, our businesses, and our economy can thrive in the years ahead. Thanks.\" "
"286" "\"Thank you. Please, have a seat on this spectacular day here in the Rose Garden. I want to welcome all the doctors who have joined us today at the White House. But there are a couple that I want to make special mention of.<p>First of all, on stage behind me: Dr. Hershey Garner, Dr. Mona Mangat, Dr. Richard Evans, and Dr. Amanda McKinney, who are representing, as we were talking about in the Oval Office, red States, blue States, recalcitrant States&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;high-cost States, low-cost States, rural, and urban States. And so we're so pleased to have them.<p>In addition, the organizations that are represented here today: the American Medical Association, the National Medical Association, the Family Physicians, the American College of Physicians, the Doctors for America, American College of Pediatrics, and American College of Cardiology. I am thrilled to have all of you here today and you look very spiffy in your coats. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>All of you represent all 50 States. Some of you are members of physicians' organizations, and others are simply respected members of their community who work in hospitals and clinics and private practices. All have devoted their lives to the healing of others. And all understand that their jobs would be a lot easier if we finally reformed our system of health insurance.<p>Now, we have now been debating this issue of health insurance reform for months. The United States Congress has been working on it for better&mdash;for the better part of a year, and last week the final congressional committee involved in shaping legislation completed their proposal and will soon vote on it. At this point, we've heard all the arguments on both sides of the aisle. We have listened to every charge and every counter-charge, from the crazy claims about death panels to misleading warnings about a Government takeover of our health care system.<p>But when you cut through all the noise and all the distractions that are out there, I think, what's most telling is that some of the people who are most supportive of reform are the very medical professionals who know the health care system best: the doctors and nurses of America.<p>Now, these men and women here would not be supporting health insurance reform if they really believed that it would lead to Government bureaucrats making decisions that are best left to doctors. They wouldn't be here today if they believed that reform in any way would damage the very critical and sacred doctor-patient relationship.<p>Instead, the reason these doctors are here is because they have seen firsthand what's broken about our health care system. They've seen what happens when their patients can't get the care they need because some insurance company has decided to drop their coverage or water it down. They've seen what happens when a patient is forced to pay out of pocket thousands of dollars she doesn't have for treatments that she desperately needs. They've seen what happens when patients don't come in for regular checkups or screenings because either their insurance company doesn't cover it or they can't afford insurance in the first place. And they've seen far too much of time that they want to devote to taking care of patients spent filling out forms and haggling with insurance companies about payments.<p>So these doctors know what needs to be fixed about our health care system. And they know that health insurance reform will do, that it will go a long way towards making patients healthier and doctors and nurses to be able to perform that&mdash;those tasks that are so important to them and led them into medicine in the first place.<p>So let me just outline once again what exactly we're seeing coming out of all these committees. And although there are still some details to be worked out, there are some general principles that I think we can have confidence on.<p>Number one, if you have insurance, the reforms we've proposed will offer you more security. It will be against the law for insurance companies to deny you coverage because of a preexisting condition. It will be against the law for insurance companies to drop your coverage when you get sick or water it down when you need it most. Insurance companies will no longer be able to place some arbitrary cap on how much coverage you can receive in a given year or a given lifetime&mdash;or in a lifetime. We will place a limit on how much you can be charged for out-of-pocket expenses. And insurance companies will be required to cover, at no extra charge, routine checkups and preventive care.<p>Now, if you don't have health insurance, reform will finally offer you affordable choices. We'll set up a new insurance exchange, a marketplace where individuals and small businesses can shop for an affordable health insurance plan that works for them. This is how everyone in the Federal Government, including Members of Congress, get affordable insurance. And there's no reason we shouldn't give every American the same opportunity that we give ourselves.<p>Now, these doctors also know that reform will make their lives easier. By moving to electronic medical records, in a system carefully constructed to protect patient privacy, physicians will have less paperwork to fill out, more critical information at their fingertips, and more time to spend with their patients, and&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;expensive tests won't have to be repeated over and over again.<p>There are also proposals to provide loan forgiveness for primary care physicians who choose to practice in rural and underserved areas. Since I've talked to enough doctors who feel they're forced to practice defensive medicine, I've also directed my Secretary of Health and Human Services to move forward with programs that will help us put patient safety first while still allowing doctors to focus on practicing medicine. And we are working to fix the flawed sustainable growth rate formula by which doctors are reimbursed under Medicare.<p>Every one of you here today took an oath when you entered the medical profession. It was not an oath that you would spend a lot of time on the phone with insurance companies. [<i>Laughter</i>] It was not an oath that you would have to turn away patients who you know could use your help. You did not devote your lives to be bean counters or paper pushers. You took an oath so that you could heal people. You did it so you could save lives.<p>The reforms we're proposing to our health care system will help you live up to that oath. They will make sure that neither some Government bureaucrat or insurance company bureaucrat gets between a patient and their doctor. And they'll offer security to those Americans who have insurance and insurance to those who don't.<p>And I want to thank every single doctor who is here, and I especially want to thank you for agreeing to fan out across the country and make the case about why this reform effort is so desperately needed. You are the people who know this system best. You are the experts. Nobody has more credibility with the American people on this issue than you do.<p>And so if you're willing to speak out strongly on behalf of the things you care about and what you see each and every day as you're serving patients all across the country, I'm confident we are going to get health reform passed this year.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"287" "\"Thank you so much, Mike, for the introduction. Usually, it's Mike who comes to brief me at the White House. Today it's my honor to visit you in your house. I was just told this is called the \\"bat cave.\\" Is that correct? [<i>Laughter</i>] Mike, thank you for your many years of public service and your outstanding leadership at the National Counterterrorism Center.<p>It is great to be with all of you. It is great to be here at the hub, at the headquarters of our efforts to defend America from those who threaten our country and so many others. Our intelligence community is comprised of 16 organizations. We have countless Federal and State and local and international partners. And this is where it has to all come together.<p>So I'm pleased to see Denny Blair and those of you from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. We have folks here from the FBI and the CIA. We have folks from across the Federal Government: intelligence, law enforcement, homeland security, and so many others. My understanding is we've even got some of New York's finest, some NYPD folks who are here.<p>Standing together and serving together, it's clear for all to see that you are one team, that you are more integrated and more collaborative and more effective than ever before. And you're focused on one defining mission, and that is to protect the United States of America and thwarting terrorist attacks around the world.<p>Now, I just received an extraordinary briefing from some of your colleagues. I have to tell you, I was surprised to see how young everybody is around here. It is a sign of my age that everybody is starting to look young. But the capacity and the dedication that's on display was remarkable. And look, all of you have some of the most important work that is done in this country. You're doing it. These big screens, I understand, are not just to watch SportsCenter. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But I wanted to come here today and take a few minutes just to deliver a simple message, and I delivered it inside, and that is the message of thanks: to say thank you from me, who use your product each and every day to make some very tough decisions, and to thank you on behalf of the American people, who may not even know that you're here but are relying on you each and every day to make sure that their kids get home safely and that when they commute to work it's going to be okay. To think about the profound impact that all of you are having on the day-to-day life of this Nation I think is extraordinary. Your professionalism is essential to protecting this country.<p>Now, we recently observed the eighth anniversary of that terrible day when terrorists brought so much death and destruction to our shores. And once more we remembered all the lives that were lost. And once more we redoubled our resolve against the extremists who continue to plot against the United States and our allies.<p>And so we need you more than ever. Our troops and our intelligence officers in the field, our diplomats overseas, our law enforcement here at home, they all depend on you: your analysis, your insights, your ability to work together, across divisions and disciplines, turning information into intelligence and sharing it quickly, in real time, with those who need it.<p>As I said before, I am one of those consumers of your work product here at NCTC. Every morning I look to you for the latest intelligence. In fact, I think so highly of NCTC that I picked the guy who put NCTC together, John Brennan, as my chief adviser for counterterrorism and homeland security. And by the way, John Brennan is here and doing an outstanding job each and every day. He's also, by the way, I think, responsible for getting this spiffy building up and running.<p>Now, again, a lot of you are working in some obscurity right now. Few Americans know about the work that you do, and this is how it should be. Your assignments require it, and obviously, you didn't go into this line of work for the fame and glory or the glare of the spotlight. You're in this to serve and protect.<p>But today I want every American to know about the difference you've made, especially in recent months and days. Because of you and all the organizations you represent, we're making real progress in our core mission to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat Al Qaida and other extremist networks around the world.<p>We must never lose sight of that goal. That's the principal threat to the American people. That is the threat that led to the creation of this center. And that must be the focus of our efforts to defend the homeland and our allies and defeat extremists abroad.<p>We know that Al Qaida and its extremist allies threaten us from different corners of the globe, from Pakistan, but also from East Africa and Southeast Asia, from Europe and the Gulf. And that's why we're applying focused and relentless pressure on Al Qaida by sharing more intelligence, strengthening the capacity of our partners, disrupting terrorist financing, cutting off supply chains, and inflicting major losses on Al Qaida's leadership.<p>It should now be clear: The United States and our partners have sent an unmistakable message. We will target Al Qaida wherever they take root, we will not yield in our pursuit, and we are developing the capacity and the cooperation to deny a safe haven to any who threaten America and its allies.<p>We also know that success against Al Qaida must go beyond destroying their network; it must be about the future that we want to build as well. And that's why we're putting forward a positive vision of American leadership around the world, one where we lead by example and engage nations and peoples on the basis of mutual interest and mutual respect.<p>As one counterterrorism expert recently observed, because of our efforts Al Qaida and its allies have not only lost operational capacity, they've lost legitimacy and credibility. Of course, nobody does a better job of discrediting Al Qaida than Al Qaida itself, which has killed men and women and children of many faiths in many nations and which has absolutely no positive future to offer the people of the world.<p>So even as we target Al Qaida and its bankrupt vision, we also know that we have to be vigilant in defending our people at home. And that takes aggressive intelligence collection and skillful analysis. And that demands the effective and efficient coordination between Federal Government and our State and local partners.<p>And that's what we've seen from you in recent years. We've seen your success here in America in the last several weeks. You've stayed vigilant. You watched for signs. You stitched together the intelligence. You've worked together, across organizations, as one team. And then, arrests in Denver and New York, and still more in Illinois and Texas, have made us safer.<p>So I say to every American: You see the headlines, but here are some of the people who help write them, who keep you safe. And I say to all of you, you are setting the standard. You're showing us what focused and integrated counterterrorism really looks like. And the record of your service is written in the attacks that never occur because you thwarted them and in the countless Americans who are alive today because you saved them. For that, America is in your debt.<p>Of course, you know that we're facing determined adversaries who are resourceful, who are resilient, and who are still plotting. And no one can ever promise that there won't be another attack on American soil. But I can promise you this: I pledge to do everything in my power as President to keep America safe, and I pledge to give all of you the tools and support you need to get the job done around the world and here at home, and I pledge to stay focused on that mission, just as you stay focused on your mission.<p>So we all have to redouble our efforts in the face of a threat that persists. We're going to have to draw strength from the values that we hold dear. We must keep our eye fixed on the world we seek to build, one that defeats our adversaries, but that also promotes dignity and opportunity and justice for all who stand with us.<p>To do that, we need you to keep standing and serving together, every agency, every department, every branch, every level, one team, one mission. That's how we're going to prevail in this fight, and that's how we're going to protect this country that we all love.<p>So thanks to all of you. Continue the outstanding work. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much.\" "
"288" "\"Everyone please have a seat. Before I begin the ceremony to introduce these extraordinary innovators, let me just mention a few people who are in the audience today. First of all, we've got some outstanding members of my Cabinet: Secretary Locke, Secretary Sebelius, Secretary Chu, and Administrator Jackson. We are very grateful for all the outstanding work they're doing.<p>We've got some wonderful partners in Congress that I want to mention: Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon; Senator Jim Risch of Idaho; Senator&mdash;Representative Rush Holt&mdash;Rush, I almost gave you a promotion there&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;or a demotion, depending on how you look at it&mdash;of New Jersey; Representative Anna Eshoo of California; and Representative Zoe Lofgren of California. I also want to mention my science adviser who's doing outstanding work; Dr. Holdren is here, as well as NASA Administrator Charles Bolden. And we want to thank some of the people who helped to organize today's event: the National Science Foundation and its Director, Arden Bement; the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and its Director, Dave Kappos; and Linda Katehi, the chair of the National Medals of Science and Technology and Innovation Committees. So give all of them a big round of applause.<p>Now, it's also a real pleasure to have so many distinguished researchers and innovators joining us, although I must admit that I have an ulterior motive for presenting these awards today. You see, Sasha has a science fair coming up, and I was thinking that you guys could give us a few tips. [<i>Laughter</i>] Michelle and I are a little rusty on our science.<p>In all seriousness, it is a privilege to present these medals, our Nation's highest honor for scientific and technological achievement, to the folks who've come here today from all parts of our country and all areas of scientific investigation. The scientists in this room have plumbed the furthest reaches of the universe and the deepest recesses of the human mind; they've sequenced the human genome and stimulated the workings of the atom; they've developed technologies that have greatly improved our understanding of the human body and the natural world; and they've fostered innovations that have saved millions of lives and improved countless more.<p>So this Nation owes all of you an enormous debt of gratitude far greater than any medal can bestow. And we recognize your contributions, but we also celebrate the incredible contributions of the scientific endeavor itself. We see the promise, not just for our economy, but for our health and well being, in the human capacity for creativity and ingenuity. And we are reminded of the power of free and open inquiry, which is not only at the heart of all of your work, but at the heart of this experiment we call America, because throughout our history, amid tumult and war and against tough odds, this Nation has always looked toward the future and then led the way. It was during the darkest days of the Civil War that President Lincoln established the land-grant colleges and the National Academy of Science. It was during World War II that President Roosevelt requested that Vannevar Bush, his science adviser and a future recipient of the National Medal of Science, outline a set of policies to maintain our scientific and technological leadership in the 20th century.<p>And it was in the years that followed the Soviet launch of Sputnik, the first artificial satellite to orbit the Earth, that the United States would create DARPA, NASA, and the National Defense Education Act, which helped improve math and science education from grade school to graduate school. In fact, the National Medal itself was established just 2 years after that launch, as a sign to the world and to ourselves of how highly we valued the work of the Nation's scientists.<p>And today, we face more complex challenges than generations past: a medical system that holds the promise of unlocking new cures attached to a health care system that has the potential to bankrupt families and businesses; a system of energy that powers our economy, but also endangers our planet; threats to our security that seek to exploit the very interconnectedness and openness that's so essential to our prosperity; and challenges in a global marketplace which link the trader on Wall Street to the homeowner on Main Street and the office worker in America to the factory worker in China. We all share in opportunity, but we also all share in crisis.<p>At such a difficult moment, there are those who say we can't afford to invest in science, that it's a luxury at a moment defined by necessities. I could not disagree more. Science is more essential for our prosperity, our security and our health, and our way of life than it has ever been. And the winners we are recognizing only underscore that point, with achievements in physics and medicine, computer science and cognitive science, energy technology and biotechnology. We need to ensure that we are encouraging the next generation of discoveries and the next generation of discoverers.<p>That's why my administration has set this goal: By investing in education, funding basic and applied research, and spurring private innovation, we will devote 3 percent of our gross domestic product to research and development. That's more than at any point in recent history.<p>And as part of this effort, we're putting in place policies that will move us from the middle to the top of the pack in math and science education over the next decade. We are challenging States to dramatically improve achievement by raising standards, by improving the use of technology, and by making it possible for professionals, like our honorees, to bring a lifetime of experience and enthusiasm into the classroom. And we've also launched a Race to the Top fund to encourage States to compete for the most innovative programs in math and science, as part of a broader effort to foster new ways of engaging young people in these fields.<p>The White House is participating too. Tonight, in fact, we're bringing children to the South Lawn for a night of astronomy. I am really looking forward to this. This is going to be fun. They'll peer through telescopes, wander through exhibits, and hopefully, feel a sense of wonder that might one day lead them here to receive a medal themselves.<p>And my administration has set another goal to compete for the jobs of the future and to encourage the scientists and engineers of the future. By 2020, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. We used to be number one; we have fallen behind. We are going to regain our position.<p>To meet this goal, we've increased the Pell grant and passed legislation through the House, which we're working to pass through the Senate, to end more than $80 billion in wasteful subsidies to lenders and use that money instead to help students.<p>Beyond the classroom, the Recovery Act that we passed is funding the largest single boost to biomedical research in history. My budget makes the research and experimentation tax credit permanent to help companies afford the often high cost of innovation. I've proposed eliminating the capital gains tax for investments in startups and small companies, because countless big ideas begin in small businesses. And we are doubling our capacity in renewable energy, even as we seek to create a system of incentives to make clean energy the profitable kind of energy in America.<p>For at our best, this Nation has never feared the future. We've shaped the future. Even when we've endured terrible storms, we haven't given up or turned back. We've remained fixed on that brighter horizon. That's how we've led in the pursuit of scientific discovery. And in turn, that's how science has helped us lead the world.<p>There's no better illustration than what took place at the close of World War II, when the United States transported dozens of captured V-2 rockets from Germany to New Mexico. These were among the most sophisticated weapons in the world, a reminder that much of World War II was fought far from the battlefield, by Alan Turing in Bletchley Park and Oppenheimer in Los Alamos and by countless others who developed radar and aircraft and antibiotics.<p>The military wanted to understand this new missile technology that the V-2 represented, but scientists were also invited to use these tests to take measurements of the atmosphere. And then one engineer had an idea to rig a camera and attach it to one of the rockets. And so in this brief moment between the end of a world war and the start of a cold war, a group of scientists erupted with joy as they discovered that they had captured the very first photos of our world as seen from space. Their work would continue as the Rocket and Satellite Research Panel. And after the launch of Sputnik in 1957, the work of this panel would be assumed by a new agency called NASA. The research into these weapons of war would lead to the missions of Mercury and Gemini and Apollo.<p>That's the incredible promise of the work scientists do every day, like the scientists, researchers and engineers, and innovators we honor with these medals. Yes, scientific progress offers us a chance to achieve prosperity and defend our Nation. It has offered us benefits that have improved our lives and our health, improvements that we often take for granted. But it also gives us something more. At root, science forces us to reckon with the truth as best as we can ascertain it and to reckon with the power that comes from this knowledge, for good and for ill. With each new discovery brings new responsibility to move past our differences and to address our shared problems, to embrace a sense of wonder and our common humanity.<p>Carl Sagan, who helped broaden the reach of science to millions of people, once described his enthusiasm for discovery in very simple terms. He said, \\"Somewhere, something incredible is waiting to be known.\\" Thank you all for the incredible discoveries that you have made, the progress you've invented, and the benefits you've bestowed on the American people and the world.<p>So it is now my honor to ask the recipients to come forward to receive their medals, and as their citations are read, I will&mdash;you'll just have to bend down a little bit&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;we will bestow on you the highest honor that our Nation can give you for your science, technology, and innovation.<p>So do we have someone here for the citations?<p>[<i>At this point, Lt. Cmdr. Ryan T. Siewert, USCG, Coast Guard Aide to the President, read the citations, and the President presented the medals.</i>]<p>Well, that&mdash;the ceremony is over, but I think it would be appropriate for everybody to, again, to stand up and give these recipients a big round of applause.\" "
"289" "\"<i>The President.</i> I want to welcome all the students and teachers and amateur astronomers to the White House tonight. I won't speak long, because we've got a bunch of telescopes and great exhibits to get our hands on. But before we begin, let me first acknowledge a few other stars who are out tonight.<p>First of all, John Holdren, my science adviser, an actual physicist, is here and eager to look through one of these telescopes. Our NASA Administrator, Charles Bolden, who's spent some time orbiting the Earth himself, and his deputy, Lori Garver, are here. Where's Charles and Lori? There're in the back there. Give them a round of applause. We've got some specialists from NASA, the Smithsonian, and the American Museum of Natural History in New York here with us as well.<p>And we've got some of the heroes who have flown closer to the stars than anybody else. Buzz Aldrin, a man who actually walked on the Moon, where's Buzz? Right there. Sally Ride, the first American woman in space, is here. Mae Jemison, the first African American woman in space, give her a big round of applause. And John Grunsfeld is here, the man they call the \\"Hubble Repairman,\\" not to be mistaken with the Maytag repairman&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;for all the upgrades that he's made up there to the telescope that allows us to see farther than anyone ever imagined. So give John a big round of applause.<p>Now, NASA's equipment is some pretty powerful stuff, but astronomy also depends on the curiosity and the contributions of amateur astronomers. And there are two students here tonight who've made some pretty amazing discoveries of their own.<p>First of all, Caroline Moore and her dad Robert&mdash;raise your hand. Where's Dad? There's Robert. They look at the stars together in New York. And last year&mdash;think about this&mdash;when she was only 14 years old, she became the youngest person ever to discover a supernova, and not just any supernova, but a kind that we may have never seen before. And earlier this year, Lucas Bolyard&mdash;Lucas, raise your hand. Where are your folks? Where's Lucas's folks? Raise your hands. I know you guys are proud. A high school sophomore from West Virginia discovered some unusual data that turned out to be an extremely rare kind of star called a pulsar. And Lucas was explaining to me just what a pulsar was so that I wasn't embarrassed when I came out here. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now, if they can discover something great, so can any of you other students who are here tonight. All you need is a passion for science. From the moment humans first walked on this Earth, we've been endlessly fascinated by the stars. As long as we've been around, we've been trying to unlock the mysteries of the universe and figure out our proper place in the cosmos and somehow make sense of it all.<p>It was 400 years ago this year that Galileo built his first telescope. It was just three times more powerful than the naked eye. But he kept on working on it and improving on it, until he built one 33 times as powerful. And then he turned it towards the sky. And he discovered that our Moon wasn't smooth, that Venus had phases, that Jupiter had moons, and that Copernicus was right that we do revolve around the Sun.<p>Now, we've come a long way since then. While Galileo's first telescope had lenses an inch wide, the Hubble space telescope has mirrors about 7 feet wide. A few years ago, the Hubble showed us the deepest image of the universe ever taken. And in that image, we can see about 10,000 galaxies, and each of those galaxies can hold billions of stars. Now that's a lot, but get this: It would take 13 million of those images to map the entire sky. That's how immense it is.<p>So there are a lot of mysteries left, and there are a lot of problems for you students to solve. And I want to be a President who makes sure you have the teachers and the tools that you need to solve them.<p>And that's why we're working to reinvigorate math and science in your schools and attract new and qualified math and science teachers into your classrooms, some with lifetimes of experience. That's why we've launched a \\"Race to the Top\\" to raise standards and upgrade your curricula and improve teaching and learning in math and science. That's why we're making a college education more affordable, so that by the time many of you graduate in 2020, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. And that's how we'll move American students to the top of the pack in math and in science over the next decade and guarantee that America will lead the world in discovery in this new century.<p>But that's going to take more than just what I as President or anybody in government can do; it's going to take each and every one of you students. It'll take your sense of wonder, your passion, your persistence, your willingness to dedicate your lives to the pursuit of discovery. And it's going to take some hard work. Caroline and Lucas didn't just get lucky; they pored over data before they knew what they had found. Galileo worked for years to prove his theories. The Hubble's journey from paper to space took decades, because that's how success is won, by test by test and trial by trial.<p>Now, this morning, I awarded the National Medals of Science and Technology to individuals who've made extraordinary contributions to the advancement of human knowledge. And here's my question: Which one of you are going to come back here to claim your prize?<p><i>Audience members.</i> Me!<p><i>The President.</i> I like that. Are you going to find a new star or a cure for a disease? Will you invent the next iPhone or a brand new industry that no one's even dreamed of yet? What will your great discovery be?<p>Galileo changed the world when he pointed his telescope to the sky, and now it's your turn. We need you to study, do well in school, explore everything from the infinite reaches of space to the microscopic smallness of the atom. We need you to think bigger and to dig deeper and to reach higher, and we need your restless curiosity and your boundless hope and imagination. Our future depends on it.<p>So don't let anybody tell you that there isn't more to discover. Don't let anybody tell you that there's knowledge that's beyond your reach. There's something out there for each and every one of you to discover. And seeing how it's a beautiful night, and we've got a bunch of telescopes out on the lawn, let's get started together.<p>All right? So thank you very much, everybody. I'm glad you guys are here. Let's go have some fun. I think I'm going to get the first dibs at looking through one of these telescopes. Is that right, John?<p><i>White House Office of Science and Technology Policy Director John P. Holdren.</i> That is absolutely right.<p><i>The President.</i> All right, now why don't you explain to us what exactly this telescope is here? What do we got?<p><i>Director </i><i>Holdren.</i> Well, the first thing&mdash;&mdash;<p><i>The President.</i> Talk in the mike.<p><i>Director </i><i>Holdren.</i> I'm sorry. [<i>Laughter</i>] The first thing to notice is that there are two eyepieces you could look through. The one that is aligned with the barrel of the telescope is just the aimer that points it in the right direction. The eyepiece you want to look in, Mr. President, is the angled one at the bottom. And if you look in there&mdash;that's the one&mdash;if you look in there, you will see a double-double star in the Constellation Lyra, 160 light years away.<p><i>The President.</i> A hundred and sixty light years; that's far away. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Director </i><i>Holdren.</i> That means it takes the light from those stars 160 years to get here. So what you are seeing, Mr. President, happened 160 years ago. But have a look.<p><i>The President.</i> A hundred and sixty years ago. Let's take a look. That's pretty far away. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's pretty cool. All right.<p>All right. Outstanding. Well, let's go take a look at everything, right?<p><i>Director </i><i>Holdren.</i> Absolutely.<p><i>The President.</i> All right, guys. Have fun.\" "
"290" "\"Good morning. Well, this is not how I expected to wake up this morning. After I received the news, Malia walked in and said, \\"Daddy, you won the Nobel Peace Prize, and it is Bo's birthday!\\" And then Sasha added, \\"Plus, we have a 3-day weekend coming up.\\" So it's good to have kids to keep things in perspective.<p>I am both surprised and deeply humbled by the decision of the Nobel Committee. Let me be clear: I do not view it as a recognition of my own accomplishments, but rather as an affirmation of American leadership on behalf of aspirations held by people in all nations.<p>To be honest, I do not feel that I deserve to be in the company of so many of the transformative figures who have been honored by this prize, men and women who've inspired me and inspired the entire world through their courageous pursuit of peace.<p>But I also know that this prize reflects the kind of world that those men and women, and all Americans, want to build, a world that gives life to the promise of our founding documents. And I know that throughout history, the Nobel Peace Prize has not just been used to honor specific achievement, it's also been used as a means to give momentum to a set of causes. And that is why I will accept this award as a call to action, a call for all nations to confront the common challenges of the 21st century.<p>These challenges can't be met by any one leader or any one nation. And that's why my administration has worked to establish a new era of engagement in which all nations must take responsibility for the world we seek. We cannot tolerate a world in which nuclear weapons spread to more nations and in which the terror of a nuclear holocaust endangers more people. And that's why we've begun to take concrete steps to pursue a world without nuclear weapons, because all nations have the right to pursue peaceful nuclear power, but all nations have the responsibility to demonstrate their peaceful intentions.<p>We cannot accept the growing threat posed by climate change, which could forever damage the world that we pass on to our children, sowing conflict and famine, destroying coastlines and emptying cities. And that's why all nations must now accept their share of responsibility for transforming the way that we use energy.<p>We can't allow the differences between peoples to define the way that we see one another. And that's why we must pursue a new beginning among people of different faiths and races and religions, one based upon mutual interest and mutual respect.<p>We must all do our part to resolve those conflicts that have caused so much pain and hardship over so many years, and that effort must include an unwavering commitment that finally realizes that the rights of all Israelis and Palestinians to live in peace and security in nations of their own.<p>We can't accept a world in which more people are denied opportunity and dignity that all people yearn for: the ability to get an education and make a decent living, the security that you won't have to live in fear of disease or violence without hope for the future.<p>And even as we strive to seek a world in which conflicts are resolved peacefully and prosperity is widely shared, we have to confront the world as we know it today. I am the Commander in Chief of a country that's responsible for ending a war and working in another theater to confront a ruthless adversary that directly threatens the American people and our allies. I'm also aware that we are dealing with the impact of a global economic crisis that has left millions of Americans looking for work. These are concerns that I confront every day on behalf of the American people.<p>Some of the work confronting us will not be completed during my Presidency. Some, like the elimination of nuclear weapons, may not be completed in my lifetime. But I know these challenges can be met so long as it's recognized that they will not be met by one person or one nation alone. This award is not simply about the efforts of my administration, it's about the courageous efforts of people around the world.<p>And that's why this award must be shared with everyone who strives for justice and dignity, for the young woman who marches silently in the streets on behalf of her right to be heard even in the face of beatings and bullets, for the leader imprisoned in her own home because she refuses to abandon her commitment to democracy, for the soldier who has sacrificed through tour after tour of duty on behalf of someone half a world away, and for all those men and women across the world who sacrifice their safety and their freedom and sometime their lives for the cause of peace.<p>That has always been the cause of America. That's why the world has always looked to America. And that's why I believe America will continue to lead.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"291" "\"Patricia, thank you so much for sharing your story and doing such a wonderful job. Good afternoon, everybody. Before I start with the&mdash;my remarks I want to acknowledge some people who've been working diligently on this issue, in some cases for years. First of all, our Secretary of the Treasury, Tim Geithner, is here. Christina Romer, the Chair of&mdash;there she is&mdash;of my Council of Economic Advisers, is here; Senator Danny Akaka from Hawaii; Representative Steve Driehaus of Ohio; Representative Walt Minnick of Idaho; Representative Paul Kanjorski of Pennsylvania; Representative Al Green of Texas; Karen Mills, our outstanding Administrator of the Small Business Administration; Sheila Bair, who's been doing a heroic job trying to deal with the banking situation as chairman of the FDIC; Mayor Michael Nutter of Philadelphia; and my national economic adviser, Larry Summers.<p>And finally, we've got some special guests, some of the finest attorney generals who are fighting against consumer fraud and have been dealing with some of the consequences of the issues that we're discussing here today, I'm proud to have them here: my former seatmate in the Illinois State senate, Attorney General Lisa Madigan; Andrew Cuomo of New York; Martha Coakley of Massachusetts; and Roy Cooper of North Carolina. Please give them all a big round of applause. <p>Now, for the last several months, this administration's been working with Congress to reform an outdated system of financial regulations and lax oversight that helped lead to last year's crisis. And I want to thank some people here who are working tirelessly on this issue&mdash;first of all, Chairman Chris Dodd of the Senate Banking Committee, Chairman Barney Frank of the House Financial Services Committee, Richard Shelby, also of the Senate Banking Committee&mdash;for the leadership and enthusiasm that they have shown throughout this process. <p>Now, part of our reform effort involves putting in place new safeguards that would help prevent the irresponsibility and recklessness of a few from wreaking havoc on our entire financial system. We want to close gaps in regulation, we want to eliminate overlap, and we want to set rules of the road for Wall Street that make fair dealing and honest competition the only way for financial firms to win and prosper. <p>But a central part of our reform effort is also aimed at protecting Americans who buy financial products and services every day, from mortgages to credit cards. It's true that the crisis we faced was caused in part by people who took on too much debt and took out loans they couldn't afford. But my concern are the millions of Americans who behaved responsibly and yet still found themselves in jeopardy because of the predatory practices of some in the financial industry. These are folks who signed contracts they didn't always understand offered by lenders who didn't always tell the truth. They were lured in by promises of low payments and never made aware of the fine print and hidden fees. <p>And Secretary Geithner and I just finished meeting with some of these Americans who've joined us here today. And you've already heard from Patricia, who was forced to pay thousands of dollars in interest on a $550 payday loan. And we also had a chance to hear from Susan Chapman, who had excellent payment history until she was contacted by a broker who told her that she could lower the monthly payments on her mortgage. Instead, the loan they sold her ended up increasing her debt, and her principal has now gone up $20,000.<p>We talked to Karen Cappuccio, who is still fending off foreclosure because her mortgage company duped her into taking out two expensive loans when they had originally promised her one low, fixed-rate mortgage. We talked to Maxine Given, whose bank hit her with four separate overdraft charges because of one mortgage check that they ended up rejecting the very next day. And I should add, by the way, that this is a CPA that we're talking to here. So if it's happening to her, if it's happening to Maxine, then imagine what the rest of us who can barely add are dealing with here. We talked to Andrew Giordano, whose bank made a mistake that cost him $800 in overdraft fees. And when he caught their mistake, the bank only refunded part of the fees. <p>As we've seen over the last year, abuses like these don't just jeopardize the financial well being of individual Americans; they can threaten the stability of the entire economy. And yet the patchwork system of regulations we have now has failed to prevent these abuses. With seven different Federal agencies each having a role, there's too little accountability, there are too many loopholes, and no single agency whose sole job it is to stand up for people like Patricia, Susan, Maxine, Andrew, and Karen; no one whose chief responsibility it is to stand up for the American consumer and for responsible banks and financial institutions who are having to compete against folks who are not responsible. <p>So under the reforms we've proposed, that will change. The new consumer financial protection agency that I've asked Congress to create will have just one mission: to look out for the financial interests of ordinary Americans. It will be charged with setting clear rules of the road for consumers and banks, and it will be able to enforce those rules across the board. <p>This agency will have the power to make certain that consumers get information that is clear and concise&mdash;in plain language&mdash;so they can compare products and know exactly what they're getting themselves into. It will ensure that banks and other firms can't hide behind these ridiculously confusing contracts, pages and pages of fine print that nobody can figure out. It will have the ability to enforce and build on the credit card reforms we passed earlier this year, so that consumers aren't hit with unfair rate hikes and penalties or hidden charges. It will require brokers to look out for the interests of families if they give advice about mortgages. And it will ensure transparency and fair dealing for other financial products, like bank overdraft services and payday loans. <p>In a financial system that's never been more complicated, it has never been more important to have a watchdog function like the one we've proposed. And yet predictably, a lot of the banks and big financial firms don't like the idea of a consumer agency very much. In fact, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce is spending millions on an ad campaign to kill it. You might have seen some of these ads, the ones that claim that local butchers and other small businesses somehow will be harmed by this agency. This is, of course, completely false, and we've made clear that only businesses that offer financial services would be affected by this agency. I don't know how many of your butchers are offering financial services. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Contrary to what some have argued, this agency would not restrict consumer choice and innovation. Nothing could be further from the truth. In the past, a lack of clear rules led to innovation of the wrong kind: The firms that did best were the ones who did the best job of hiding the real cost to consumers. We don't want them competing by figuring out how much they can fool ordinary Americans. By contrast, the consumer agency we're proposing would set ground rules so that firms don't have to compete to confuse families, but they have to compete to give them better choices. This will also help small-business entrepreneurs who often rely on credit cards and home equity loans to finance their startup businesses. <p>All this hasn't stopped the big financial firms and their lobbyists from mobilizing against change. They're doing what they always do, descending on Congress, using every bit of influence they have to maintain the status quo that has maximized their profits at the expense of American consumers, despite the fact that recently a whole bunch of those same American consumers bailed them out as a consequence of the bad decisions that they made. And since they're worried they may not be able to kill this agency, they're trying their hardest to weaken it, by asking for exemptions from this agency's rules and enforcement, by fighting to keep every gap and loophole they can find.<p>They're very good at this, because that's how business has been done in Washington for a very long time. In fact, over the last 10 years, the chamber alone spent nearly half a billion dollars on lobbying&mdash;half a billion dollars.<p>And the stories we heard today, they remind us that the American people can't afford business as usual any longer. These Americans can't afford high-priced lobbyists to argue their case. They're counting on us to be their advocates, to be their voice, to restore a sense of responsibility from Wall Street to Washington. That's why we need a consumer financial protection agency that will stand up not for big banks, not for financial firms, but for hard-working Americans. And that's why we need regulatory reform that will reward innovation and competition instead of shortcuts and abuses. That's why we can't let special interests win this fight. <p>We've already seen and lived the consequences of what happens when there's too little accountability on Wall Street and too little protection for Main Street, and I will not allow this country to go back there. It is time for us to move forward. It is time for real change. And I'm confident that we're going to get it done, with the help of all the people who are here today, and, most importantly, with the help of the American people, who are going to demand a better deal from their financial services.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"292" "\"The historic movement to bring real, meaningful health insurance reform to the American people gathered momentum this week as we approach the final days of this debate. Having worked on this issue for the better part of a year, the Senate Finance Committee is finishing deliberations on their version of a health insurance reform bill that will soon be merged with other reform bills produced by other congressional committees.<p>After evaluating the Finance Committee's bill, the Congressional Budget Office, an office that provides independent, nonpartisan analysis, concluded that the legislation would make coverage affordable for millions of Americans who don't have it today. It will bring greater security to Americans who have coverage with new insurance protections. And, by attacking waste and fraud within the system, it will slow the growth in health care costs without adding a dime to our deficits. This is another milestone on what's been a long, hard road toward health insurance reform.<p>In recent months, we've heard every side of every argument from both sides of the aisle, and rightly so. Health insurance reform is a complex and critical issue that deserves a vigorous national debate, and we've had one. The approach that is emerging includes the best ideas from Republicans and Democrats and people across the political spectrum.<p>In fact, what's remarkable is not that we've had a spirited debate about health insurance reform, but the unprecedented consensus that has come together behind it. This consensus encompasses everyone from doctors and nurses to hospitals and drug manufacturers.<p>And earlier this week, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger of California and New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg came out in support of reform, joining two former Republican Senate majority leaders: Bob Dole and Dr. Bill Frist, himself a cardiac surgeon. Dr. Louis Sullivan, Secretary of Health and Human Services under President George H.W. Bush, supports reform, as does Republican Tommy Thompson, a former Wisconsin Governor and Secretary of Health and Human Services under President George W. Bush. These distinguished leaders understand that health insurance reform isn't a Democratic issue or a Republican issue, but an American issue that demands a solution.<p>Still, there are some in Washington today who seem determined to play the same old partisan politics, working to score political points, even if it means burdening this country with an unsustainable status quo: a status quo of rising health care costs that are crushing our families, our businesses, and our government; a status quo of diminishing coverage that's denying millions of hard-working Americans the insurance they need; a status quo that gives big insurance companies the power to make arbitrary decisions about your health care. That's a status quo I reject and that's a status quo the American people reject.<p>The distinguished former congressional leaders who urged us to act on health insurance reform spoke of the historic moment at hand and reminded us that this moment will not soon come again. They called on members of both parties to seize this opportunity to finally confront a problem that has plagued us for far too long.<p>That is what we are called to do at this moment. That is the spirit of national purpose that we must summon right now. Now is the time to rise above the politics of the moment. Now is the time to come together as Americans. Now is the time to meet our responsibilities to ourselves and to our children and secure a better, healthier future for generations to come. That future is within our grasp. So let's go finish the job.<p>Thanks.\" "
"293" "\"<i>The President</i>. Thank you, everybody. Please, you're making me blush. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Audience member</i>. We love you, Barack!<p><i>The President</i>. I love you back!<p>To Joe Solmonese, who's doing an outstanding job on behalf of HRC; to my great friend and supporter Terry Bean, cofounder of HRC; Representative Patrick Kennedy; David Huebner, the Ambassador-designee to New Zealand and Samoa; John Berry, our Director of OPM, who's doing a great job; Nancy Sutley, chairman of Council on Environmental Quality; Fred Hochberg, chairman of Export-Import Bank; and my dear friend Tipper Gore, who's in the house.<p>Thank you so much, all of you. It is a privilege to be here tonight to open for Lady Gaga&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I've made it. [<i>Laughter</i>] I want to thank the Human Rights Campaign for inviting me to speak and for the work you do every day in pursuit of equality on behalf of the millions of people in this country who work hard in their jobs and care deeply about their families and who are gay, lesbian, bisexual, or transgender.<p>For nearly 30 years, you've advocated on behalf of those without a voice. That's not easy. For despite the real gains that we've made, there's still laws to change, and there's still hearts to open. There are still fellow citizens, perhaps neighbors, even loved ones, good and decent people, who hold fast to outworn arguments and old attitudes, who fail to see your families like their families, who would deny you the rights most Americans take for granted. And that's painful, and it's heartbreaking. And yet you continue, leading by the force of the arguments you make and by the power of the example that you set in your own lives as parents and friends, as PTA members and church members, as advocates and leaders in your communities. And you're making a difference.<p>That's the story of the movement for fairness and equality and not just for those who are gay, but for all those in our history who've been denied the rights and responsibilities of citizenship, for all who've been told that the full blessings and opportunities of this country were closed to them. It's the story of progress sought by those with little influence or power, by men and women who brought about change through quiet, personal acts of compassion and defiance wherever and whenever they could.<p>It's the story of the Stonewall protests, when a group of citizens with a few options&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;when a group of citizens with few options and fewer supporters stood up against discrimination and helped to inspire a movement. It's the story of an epidemic that decimated a community and the gay men and women who came to support one another and save one another, who continue to fight this scourge, who have demonstrated before the world that different kinds of families can show the same compassion in a time of need. And it's the story of the Human Rights Campaign and the fights you've fought for nearly 30 years, helping to elect candidates who share your values, standing against those who would enshrine discrimination into our Constitution, advocating on behalf of those living with HIV/AIDS, and fighting for progress in our Capital and across America.<p>This story, this fight, continues now, and I'm here with a simple message: I'm here with you in that fight. For even as we face extraordinary challenges as a nation, we cannot and we will not put aside issues of basic equality. I greatly appreciate the support I've received from many in this room. I also appreciate that many of you don't believe progress has come fast enough. I want to be honest about that, because it's important to be honest among friends.<p>Now, I've said this before, I'll repeat it again: It's not for me to tell you to be patient, any more than it was for others to counsel patience to African Americans petitioning for equal rights half a century ago. But I will say this: We have made progress, and we will make more. And I think it's important to remember that there is not a single issue that my administration deals with on a daily basis that does not touch on the lives of the LGBT community. We all have a stake in reviving this economy. We all have a stake in putting people back to work. We all have a stake in improving our schools and achieving quality, affordable health care. We all have a stake in meeting the difficult challenges we face in Iraq and Afghanistan.<p>For while some may wish to define you solely by your sexual orientation or gender identity alone, you know and I know that none of us wants to be defined by just one part of what makes us whole. You're also parents worried about your children's futures. You're spouses who fear that you or the person you love will lose a job. You're workers worried about the rising cost of health insurance. You're soldiers, you are neighbors, you are friends. And most importantly, you are Americans who care deeply about this country and its future.<p>So I know you want me working on jobs and the economy and all the other issues that we're dealing with. But my commitment to you is unwavering, even as we wrestle with these enormous problems. And while progress may be taking longer than you'd like as a result of all that we face, and that's the truth, do not doubt the direction we are heading and the destination we will reach.<p>My expectation is that when you look back on these years, you will see a time in which we put a stop to discrimination against gays and lesbians, whether in the office or on the battlefield. You will see a time in which we as a nation finally recognize relationships between two men or two women as just as real and admirable as relationships between a man and a woman. You will see a nation that's valuing and cherishing these families, as we build a more perfect union, a union in which gay Americans are an important part. I am committed to these goals, and my administration will continue fighting to achieve them.<p>And there's no more poignant or painful reminder of how important it is that we do so than the loss experienced by Dennis and Judy Shepard, whose son Matthew was stolen in a terrible act of violence 11 years ago. In May, I met with Judy&mdash;who's here tonight with her husband&mdash;I met her in the Oval Office, and I promised her that we were going to pass an inclusive hate crimes bill, a bill named for her son.<p>This struggle has been long. Time and again we faced opposition. Time and again, the measure was defeated or delayed. But the Shepards never gave up. They turned tragedy into an unshakeable commitment. Countless activists and organizers never gave up. You held vigils; you spoke out, year after year, Congress after Congress. The House passed the bill again this week. And I can announce that after more than a decade, this bill is set to pass, and I will sign it into law.<p>It's a testament to the decade-long struggle of Judy and Dennis, who tonight will receive a tribute named for somebody who inspired so many of us&mdash;named for Senator Ted Kennedy, who fought tirelessly for this legislation. And it's a testament to the Human Rights Campaign and those who organized and advocated. And it's a testament to Matthew and to others who've been the victims of attacks not just meant to break bones, but to break spirits; not meant just to inflict harm, but to instill fear. Together, we will have moved closer to that day when no one has to be afraid to be gay in America, when no one has to fear walking down the street holding the hand of the person they love.<p>But we know there's far more work to do. We're pushing hard to pass an inclusive employee nondiscrimination bill. For the first time ever, an administration official testified in Congress in favor of this law. Nobody in America should be fired because they're gay, despite doing a great job and meeting their responsibilities. It's not fair, it's not right, we're going to put a stop to it. And it's for this reason that if any of my nominees are attacked, not for what they believe, but for who they are, I will not waver in my support, because I will not waver in my commitment to ending discrimination in all its forms.<p>We are reinvigorating our response to HIV/AIDS here at home and around the world. We're working closely with the Congress to renew the Ryan White Program, and I look forward to signing it into law in the very near future. We are rescinding the discriminatory ban on entry to the United States based on HIV status. The regulatory process to enact this important change is already underway. And we also know that HIV/AIDS continues to be a public health threat in many communities, including right here in the District of Columbia. Jeffrey Crowley, the Director of the Office of National AIDS Policy, recently held a forum in Washington, DC, and is holding forums across the country to seek input as we craft a national strategy to address this crisis.<p>We are moving ahead on \\"don't ask, don't tell.\\" We should not be punishing patriotic Americans who have stepped forward to serve this country. We should be celebrating their willingness to show such courage and selflessness on behalf of their fellow citizens, especially when we're fighting two wars.<p>We cannot afford to cut from our ranks people with the critical skills we need to fight any more than we can afford, for our military's integrity, to force those willing to do so into careers encumbered and compromised by having to live a lie. So I'm working with the Pentagon, its leadership, and the Members of the House and Senate on ending this policy. Legislation has been introduced in the House to make this happen. I will end \\"don't ask, don't tell.\\" That's my commitment to you.<p>It is no secret that issues of great concern to gays and lesbians are ones that raise a great deal of emotion in this country. And it's no secret that progress has been incredibly difficult. We can see that with the time and dedication it took to pass hate crimes legislation. But these issues also go to the heart of who we are as a people. Are we a nation that can transcend old attitudes and worn divides? Can we embrace our differences and look to the hopes and dreams that we share? Will we uphold the ideals on which this Nation was founded, that all of us are equal, that all of us deserve the same opportunity to live our lives freely and pursue our chance at happiness? I believe we can; I believe we will.<p>And that is why&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;that's why I support ensuring that committed gay couples have the same rights and responsibilities afforded to any married couple in this country. I believe strongly in stopping laws designed to take rights away and passing laws that extend equal rights to gay couples. I've required all agencies in the Federal Government to extend as many Federal benefits as possible to LGBT families as the current law allows. And I've called on Congress to repeal the so-called Defense of Marriage Act and to pass the Domestic Partners Benefits and Obligations Act. And we must all stand together against divisive and deceptive efforts to feed people's lingering fears for political and ideological gain.<p>For the struggle waged by the Human Rights Campaign is about more than any policy we can enshrine into law. It's about our capacity to love and commit to one another. It's about whether or not we value as a society that love and commitment. It's about our common humanity and our willingness to walk in someone else's shoes, to imagine losing a job not because of your performance at work but because of your relationship at home, to imagine worrying about a spouse in the hospital with the added fear that you'll have to produce a legal document just to comfort the person you love, to imagine the pain of losing a partner of decades and then discovering that the law treats you like a stranger.<p>If we are honest with ourselves we'll admit that there are too many who do not yet know in their lives or feel in their hearts the urgency of this struggle. That's why I continue to speak about the importance of equality for LGBT families, and not just in front of gay audiences. That's why Michelle and I have invited LGBT families to the White House to participate in events like the Easter Egg Roll, because we want to send a message. And that's why it's so important that you continue to speak out, that you continue to set an example, that you continue to pressure leaders, including me, and to make the case all across America.<p>So tonight I'm hopeful because of the activism I see in this room, because of the compassion I've seen all across America, and because of the progress we have made throughout our history, including the history of the movement for LGBT equality.<p>Soon after the protests at Stonewall 40 years ago, the phone rang in the home of a soft-spoken elementary school teacher named Jeanne Manford. It was one in the morning, and it was the police. Now, her son Morty had been at the Stonewall the night of the raids. Ever since, he had felt within him a new sense of purpose. So, when the officer told Jeanne that her son had been arrested, which was happening often to gay protesters, she was not entirely caught off guard. And then the officer added one more thing: \\"And you know, he's homosexual.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Well, that police officer sure was surprised when Jeanne responded: \\"Yes, I know. Why are you bothering him?\\"<p>And not long after, Jeanne would be marching side by side with her son through the streets of New York. She carried a sign that stated her support. People cheered. Young men and women ran up to her, kissed her, and asked her to talk to their parents. And this gave Jeanne and Morty an idea.<p>And so, after that march on the anniversary of the Stonewall protests, amidst the violence and the vitriol of a difficult time for our Nation, Jeanne and her husband Jules, two parents who loved their son deeply, formed a group to support other parents and, in turn, to support their children, as well. At the first meeting Jeanne held in 1973, about 20 people showed up. But slowly, interest grew. Morty's life tragically was cut short by AIDS, but the cause endured. Today, the organization they founded for parents, families, and friends of lesbians and gays has more than 200,000 members and supporters. It's made a difference for countless families across America. And Jeanne would later say, \\"I considered myself such a traditional person. I didn't even cross the street against the light. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I wasn't going to let anybody walk over Morty.\\"<p>That's the story of America: of ordinary citizens organizing, agitating, and advocating for change; of hope stronger than hate; of love more powerful than any insult or injury; of Americans fighting to build for themselves and their families a nation in which no one is a second-class citizen, in which no one is denied their basic rights, in which all of us are free to live and love as we see fit.<p>And tonight, somewhere in America, a young person, let's say a young man, will struggle to fall to sleep, wrestling alone with a secret he's held as long as he can remember. Soon, perhaps, he will decide it's time to let that secret out. What happens next depends on him, his family, as well as his friends and his teachers and his community. But it also depends on us, on the kind of society we engender, the kind of future we build.<p>I believe the future is bright for that young person. For while there will be setbacks and bumps along the road, the truth is that our common ideals are a force far stronger than any division that some might sow. These ideals, when voiced by generations of citizens, are what made it possible for me to stand here today. These ideals are what made it possible for the people in this room to live freely and openly, when for most of history that would have been inconceivable. That's the promise of America, HRC. That's the promise we're called to fulfill. Day by day, law by law, changing mind by mind, that is the promise we are fulfilling.<p>Thank you for the work you're doing. God bless you. God bless America. Thank you.\" "
"294" "\"Good afternoon. Today we reached a critical milestone in our effort to reform our health care system. After many months of thoughtful deliberation, the fifth and final committee responsible for health care reform has passed a proposal that has both Democratic and Republican support. This effort was made possible by the tireless efforts of Chairman Max Baucus and the other members of the Senate Finance Committee. It's a product of vigorous debate and difficult negotiations. <p>After the consideration of hundreds of amendments, it includes ideas from both Democrats and Republicans, which is why it enjoys the support of people from both parties. And I want to particularly thank Senator Olympia Snowe for both the political courage and the seriousness of purpose that she's demonstrated throughout this process.<p>Now, this bill is not perfect, and we have a lot of difficult work ahead of us. There are still significant details and disagreements to be worked out over the next several weeks as the five separate bills from the Senate and the House are merged into one proposal. But I do believe the work of the Senate Finance Committee has brought us significantly closer to achieving the core objectives I laid out early in September.<p>Most importantly, this bill goes a long way towards offering security to those who have insurance and affordable options for those who don't. It reins in some of the worst practices of the insurance industry, like the denial of coverage due to preexisting conditions. It also sets up an insurance exchange that will make coverage affordable for those who don't currently have it. And as the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has certified, it will slow the growth of health care costs in the long term, and it will not add a penny to our deficit.<p>The committee's progress over the past several weeks is the culmination of work by all five committees and numerous Members of Congress over the better part of this year. We've reached out to stakeholders across the spectrum: doctors and nurses; businesses and workers; hospitals and even drug companies. And we've considered a wide variety of ideas and proposals in an effort to find common ground.<p>As a result of these efforts, we are now closer than ever before to passing health reform. But we're not there yet. Now is not the time to pat ourselves on the back. Now is not the time to offer ourselves congratulations. Now is the time to dig in and work even harder to get this done. And in this final phase, I hope that we will continue to engage each other with the spirit of civility and seriousness that has brought us this far and that this subject deserves.<p>I commend the Chairman and the committee's members for their achievement and the example that they've set, and I look forward to continue to work with Congress in the weeks ahead. We are going to get this done.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"295" "\"Good evening. <i>Buenas noches</i>. Welcome to the White House. Tonight we are proud to host the third in a series of evenings celebrating the music that has helped define this Nation and helped define us as a people.<p>We began this tradition with jazz and country music. And tonight, as we celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month, we are honored to be joined by some of this country's most successful and innovative performers of Latin music.<p>I want to thank Marc Anthony, Gloria Estefan, Jose Feliciano, Pete Escovedo, Thalia, Tito El Bambino, Aventura, Los Lobos, and Sheila E. for performing tonight.<p>I also want to thank Jimmy Smits, Eva Longoria Parker, and George Lopez for joining us, and Maricel Presilla for serving as our guest chef and cooking us all this delicious food. Please give Maricel a big round of applause.<p>We have some other honored guests tonight: Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis; Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar. I want to thank all the Members of Congress here tonight, including&mdash;especially the chairwoman of the Hispanic Caucus, Nydia Velazquez. Thank you for coming.<p>And finally I want to acknowledge somebody that we're all so proud of, our newest Justice of the Supreme Court, Sonia Sotomayor.<p>Like our own Latino community, Latin music is not easy to define. Styles like Cuban salsa, Mexican norteno, Puerto Rican reggaeton and Dominican bachata are as vibrant and unique as the places they come from. But although Latin music takes many forms, this spirit of diversity also unifies us. At this&mdash;at its heart are the West African rhythms brought by slaves in the Caribbean, the guitars first carried to the New World by Spanish conquistadors. It incorporates the accordions played by German immigrants, the flutes and drums used by indigenous peoples, and the beats born in cities like New York and Miami.<p>And even though it's constantly evolving and changing, Latin music speaks to us in a language we can all understand: about hope and joy, sorrow and pain, friendship and love. It moves us, and it tends to make us move a little bit ourselves. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>In the end, what makes Latin music great is the same thing that's always made America great: the unique ability to celebrate our differences while creating something new; to realize that although we may come from different backgrounds and different cultures, what unites us will always be stronger than what divides us. In the words of Gloria Estefan who's here tonight, \\"The most beautiful things in this country have the flavor of other places.\\"<p>And so to all of you who are watching this evening, either here or at home, please enjoy some truly global music from some of the most talented artists in the world. I can tell you that the White House West Wing and East Wing&mdash;and whatever other wings we have&mdash;have been looking forward to this evening for quite some time. Enjoy. Thank you.\" "
"296" "\"Hello, everybody. Now before I begin, I just want to thank my outstanding Secretary of Transportation, Ray LaHood, who's with us today. And I want to thank the folks at Cherry Hill Construction for having me here today. We just took a look at this construction site, and I had a chance to talk to all the outstanding men and women who are working here. Talking with them was a reminder of just how hard they work every single day, just how hard they fight on behalf of their families, and just how hard these times have been for working men and women like them.<p>Hard-working Americans have borne the brunt of this recession. They've been laid off in historic numbers; they've seen their hours trimmed and their wages cut; they've lived in fear of being the next ones to be let go. And that's not right. Middle class Americans are the ones who built this country. They made it great, and they keep it going each and every day. And they deserve leaders in Washington who are willing to work as hard as they work, who are willing to fight for their futures as hard as they fight for their families.<p>And we need to all live up to our responsibilities as faithfully as these workers here are living up to theirs. And that's why our goal is not just to rebound from this recession, but to start building an economy that works for all Americans; where everyone who's looking for work can find a job&mdash;and not just a temporary job, but a permanent job that lasts from season to season; where our stock market isn't only rising again but our businesses are hiring again. That's our goal.<p>And I know we have a lot of work to do to meet that goal. But I also know that thanks to the Governor here in Virginia, Tim Kaine, thanks to two outstanding Senators, Mark Warner and Jim Webb, and a great Congressman and&mdash;Congressman Jim Moran and as well as Congressman Gerry Connolly, and thanks to the work of Ray here and the rest of my administration, we've made some meaningful progress over the last several months.<p>Because the fact is, as difficult as these times are&mdash;and they're profoundly difficult for a whole lot of people all across the country&mdash;we are moving in the right direction. Our economy is in better shape today than it was when I took office, when we were hemorrhaging 700,000 jobs a month and when our financial system was on the brink of collapse and economists from just about every part of the political spectrum were predicting that we might be sinking into a great depression.<p>And one of the reasons our economy is in better shape today is because we voted to move forward boldly and swiftly to pass a Recovery Act that's being carried out under the outstanding leadership of people like Ray, as well as my Vice President, Joe Biden. It's a Recovery Act that has spurred job creation and economic growth with projects like the one that I'm talking about here today.<p>Now back in February, Governor Kaine and I came here, and work was just getting underway. And this project, the Fairfax County Parkway project, is designed to be completed&mdash;to complete the original version of this parkway by connecting both ends of Fairfax County. The current phase of construction will create new private sector jobs, and that won't just make a difference to all the people who get these jobs, it will make a difference to all those communities where they spend their paychecks. Businesses of all size will be fueled by their paychecks: in Fairfax County, in Virginia, and beyond.<p>Now, this project is the largest of its kind in the State. But it's just 1 of more than 60 that are being planned all across Virginia. And it's 1 of 8,000 highway projects that have been approved under the Recovery Act across this country, nearly 5,000 of which are already under construction. To put this another way, roughly three-quarters of Recovery Act highway funding is already being invested as part of the largest investment in the Nation's infrastructure since President Eisenhower built the Interstate Highway System back in the 1950s.<p>And because so many of these projects are being managed so well&mdash;and I want to thank the team that's been working so hard out here&mdash;these projects are coming in, on average, 10 to 20 percent under budget. That's unheard of&mdash;10 to 20 percent under budget. And that means we can do more. We can create more jobs and launch more projects with every taxpayer dollar.<p>It's important to note that the jobs we'll create are not Government jobs, but private sector jobs. Cherry Hill Construction was able to put people to work because of its&mdash;this project, just as other private contractors are doing because of similar projects across the country. And ultimately, that's the engine of our economy: businesses, large and small, getting back on their feet. And that's the focus of our efforts.<p>But what makes these kinds of projects so important isn't just that we're creating so many jobs, it's that we're putting Americans to work doing the work that America needs done. We're rebuilding our crumbling roads, our bridges, our waterways. We've already approved nearly a thousand transportation projects to upgrade airports and railroads and mass transit systems and shipyards. We're strengthening our Nation's infrastructure in ways that will leave lasting benefits to our communities, making them stronger, making them safer, and making them better places to live.<p>Now, this is just one part of what we're doing through the Recovery Act to create jobs and spur economic growth. We've also provided the middle class&mdash;95 percent of working families&mdash;a tax cut, including 3 million families here in Virginia. We've increased and extended unemployment insurance for 12 million Americans to help them weather this economic storm, and that's benefited over 220,000 Virginians. We've made COBRA 65 percent cheaper, so if people are looking for work, they still have health coverage. We've offered emergency relief to more than 1 million seniors, veterans, and other Virginians who need it most.<p>We've provided assistance to States like Virginia to help prevent police officers and teachers and firefighters from being laid off. And we've supported over $250 million in lending in Virginia&mdash;and 30,000 loans to small businesses across America&mdash;that have helped to create or save thousands of jobs. And every American can track how their dollars are being spent by going to Recovery.gov, because I'm committed to upholding the highest standards of transparency and accountability for how we spend taxpayer money.<p>So here's the bottom line: We're moving forward on a number of economic fronts, and we're going to continue to explore each and every avenue that I can think of that will lead to job creation and economic growth. But it all starts with projects like this. Because if we can put Americans to work rebuilding the Fairfax County Parkway, we can help get the economy moving again in Fairfax County. And if we get the economy moving in Fairfax County, we get it moving across Virginia. And if we get it moving across Virginia, we're getting it moving all across America. That's what we committed ourselves to doing when I took office; we are moving forward.<p>I'm grateful to the outstanding work of the people who are standing behind me, as well as the&mdash;all the contractors and private businesses that are involved. And we are going to keep on going until we make sure that every single American in this country who's looking for work is going to be able to get the kind of well paying job that supports their families.<p>Thanks very much, everybody.\" "
"297" "\"Thank you, Patrick, for that generous introduction and for ensuring that the Kennedy family spirit of public service lives on as strong as ever.<p>Some of the Cabinet Secretaries who are doing good work day in and day out on behalf of the American people have joined us tonight, so I want to make mention of them: our outstanding Attorney General, Eric Holder; our Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis, who's doing wonderful work; Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius; and Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano.<p>It's also a testament to Ted Kennedy that so many of his congressional colleagues and friends have come together for this cause. And I want to thank Ted's longtime friend and adviser, and our newest member of the United States Senate, Paul Kirk, for his deep commitment to public service. Paul, I hope you remember to add your name to the drawer of the desk to which two Kennedys from Massachusetts carved theirs before you.<p>And to Vicki and all the members of the Kennedy family&mdash;to Ted and Kara and obviously, Patrick&mdash;there are few who are not inspired by the grace and love that all of you have shown throughout a difficult time.<p>Our friend Ted left us less than 2 months ago. In the days that followed, we gathered in Boston to celebrate his life with a joyous Irish wake, of sorts, at the John F. Kennedy Library and with heavy hearts on Mission Hill. We watched as mourners lined the streets of Massachusetts and Washington in the rain to say a final thank you and as decades' worth of his colleagues and staff lined the steps of the Capitol to say a final goodbye. And we smiled as the Caucus Room in the Russell Building, a room where so much American history was made, was renamed for the three Kennedy brothers who served there.<p>And over those days, there was some small measure of comfort in the fact that millions of Americans were reminded of Ted Kennedy's legacy and a new generation came to know of it: his legacy as a man who loved his family and loved his country; his legacy as a Senator who crafted hundreds of pieces of legislation and helped pass thousands more, all with an incalculable impact on the lives of ordinary Americans; his legacy as a mentor who not only taught so many young Senators, including myself, but inspired so many young people and young staffers, some who entered public service because of Teddy, others who, because of him, just plain refused to leave. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Tonight, thanks to the efforts of each and every one of you, we're here to consider another legacy&mdash;one not yet written&mdash;of a man who loved the history and vibrancy of a uniquely American institution and was absolutely determined to keep it alive in our time. There is no greater tribute we could offer him than to make the Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the United States Senate a reality.<p>When Teddy first arrived in the United States Senate, he immersed himself in the issues of the day and the concerns of folks back home. But he also threw himself into the history of the Chamber. He studied its philosophical underpinnings; he studied its giants and their careers, the times that influenced its Members, and how its Members influenced the times. He became fluent in procedure and protocol, no matter how obscure, until he could master the Senate as easily as he mastered the oceans.<p>No one made the Senate come alive like he did. He loved its history and its place in our American story. Rarely was he more animated than when he'd lead you through the living museums that were his office and his hideaway office in the Capitol. They held memories that stood still, even as he refused to. And he could&mdash;and he would&mdash;tell you everything there was to know about each artifact, each object that you were seeing.<p>Any of us who've had the privilege to serve in that institution know that it's impossible not to share Teddy's feeling for the history that swirls around us. It's a place where you instinctively pull yourself a little straighter and commit yourself to acting a little nobler.<p>I still remember the first time I pulled open the drawer of my desk and saw the names like Taft and Baker, Simon and Wellstone and Robert F. Kennedy. I thought of the great battles they'd waged and how they still echoed through the Senate Chambers. And one can't enter the Chamber without thinking of the momentous debates that have occurred within its walls, questions of war and peace, of the tangled bargain between North and South, Federal and State, of the origins of slavery and prejudice, of the unfinished battles for civil rights and equality and opportunity.<p>It was where Americans of great eloquence deliberated and discussed the great issues of the age, where Webster and Clay and Calhoun fought and forged compromise, where LBJ stalked the aisles, imposing his will and collecting votes, and where Ted Kennedy raged at injustice like a force of nature, even after a staffer would hand him a note saying, \\"Sir, you're shouting.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>At its worst, it could be a place where progress was stymied. There was a time, of course, when there were no desks for women or African Americans or Latino Americans or Asian Americans. There was a time when a Senator might have referred to another as a&mdash;I like this&mdash;\\"noisome, squat, and nameless animal\\"&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;just to name one instance of the occasional lack of decorum. And we should all view it as a positive sign that there hasn't been a caning on the Senate floor in more than 150 years. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's good. <p>But at its best, it was what Ted Kennedy loved, a place of community and camaraderie, where Senators inspired their colleagues to seek out those better angels and work collectively to perfect our Union, bit by bit. And in my time in the Senate, I never met a colleague, not even one with whom I most deeply disagreed, who didn't have a deep sincerity in his or her beliefs, an abiding love for this country, and a genuine desire to leave it stronger and better.<p>Still, I know that many of us, from both parties, shared Ted's sentiment that something vital about the Senate has been lost. Where it once was a more personal and more collegial place, it's become more polarized and more confrontational. And gone, sometimes, is that deeper understanding of one another, that ideas&mdash;that there are great battles to be won and great battles to be waged, but not against the person on the other side of the aisle, rather to be waged on behalf of the country.<p>What Ted wanted to save, above anything else, is that sense of community and collegiality and mutual responsibility to our constituents, to the institution, and to one another. \\"As Senators,\\" he wrote, \\"we need to be vigilant that we don't lose track of the whole essence of what the Senate is; of what our involvement in it signifies; of our relationship with people; and of what all of that should lead to, which is the unfettered and vital exchange of ideas.\\"<p>That's why whenever heartbreak struck a colleague, he was always the first to call. That's why whenever a stalemate needed to be broken, he was the first to visit another Senator's office. That's why whenever debate got fierce, he never got personal, because that was the fastest way to ensure nothing got done. Once after he and Strom Thurmond went at each other for a few rounds&mdash;as you'd imagine Ted and Strom might do&mdash;Ted put his arm around him and said, \\"C'mon, Strom. Let's go upstairs, and I'll give you a few judges.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>The thing is, even though he never technically ran the Senate, it often felt like Teddy did. It was his arena. That's why if you came to the Senate hoping to be a great Senator someday, he was who you went to see first. I know that's who I went to see first. Because rather than lord over it, Teddy sought to mentor others to better navigate it. Rather than to go it alone, he sought cooperation. He never hesitated to cede credit. And rather than abandon course when political winds got rough, he always followed his north star: the cause of a society that is more fair, more decent, and more just. And through all of it, his seriousness of purpose was rivaled only by his humility, his warmth, his good cheer, his sense of humor.<p>That is who Ted Kennedy was. That's what he did, and that's why he's so missed. And that's why the Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the United States Senate is such a vital and important idea.<p>It'll be a living institute where students and teachers and the public can come together and learn about the role and importance of the Senate he loved so much. It'll be a place where the most significant moments of progress and peril from our history come alive in recreations and seminars and lectures. It'll be a place for new Senators and their staff to get a little training, which we can all use, right, Paul? [<i>Laughter</i>] And all of it will embody Ted Kennedy's undeniable passion for improving our civic responsibility, increasing our public participation, enhancing our national life.<p>And most importantly, this institute will stoke a new passion for the Senate and inspire, we hope, a new generation to pursue the Kennedy legacy of service. For it is now, especially now, that we need to get people interested in our public problems and reignite their faith in our public institutions, bring Americans together to forge consensus and understand not just the United States Senate's role in our Government, but their role in it as well.<p>Today, the Senate is engaged in another important battle on one of the great causes of our time, the cause of Ted Kennedy's life, the battle to make health care not a privilege for some, but a right for all. He has been so sorely missed in this debate, especially now that we're closer than we've ever been to passing real health reform. But even though we took a critical step forward this week, we've got more work to do. And I hope and believe that we will continue to engage each other with the spirit of civility and seriousness that has brought us this far, a spirit that I think Teddy would have liked to see.<p>More than a half a century ago, a Senate committee was set up to choose the five greatest Senators of all time. No, it wasn't an exercise in the Senate's own vanity; it was because there were five empty spaces designated for portraits in the Senate Reception Room.<p>\\"There are no standard tests to apply to a Senator,\\" the chairman of that committee wrote. \\"No Dun & Bradstreet rating, no scouting reports. His talents may vary with his time; his contribution may be limited by his politics. To judge his own true greatness, particularly in comparison with his fellow senators long after they are dead, is nearly an impossible task.\\"<p>When John F. Kennedy wrote those words, I doubt that he imagined his 25-year-old brother would one day stand as indisputably one of the finest Senators of this or any age. But here's the thing: Teddy didn't earn that distinction just because he served in the United States Senate for nearly 1 out of every 5 days of its existence. He earned it because each of those days was full and passionate and productive and advanced the life of this Nation in a way that few Americans ever have. And he did it all by bridging the partisan divide again and again in an era when&mdash;that someday may be recalled as one where bipartisanship was too rare an achievement.<p>There will never be another like Ted Kennedy. But there will be other great Senators who follow in his footsteps. That's not an insult to his legacy; it is, rather, the legacy he sought to leave, both with this institute and with his example.<p>\\"Being a Senator changes a person,\\" he wrote in his memoirs. \\"Something fundamental and profound happens to you when you arrive there, and it stays with you all the time that you are privileged to serve. I have seen the changes in people who have come into the Senate. It may take a year, or 2 years, or 3 years, but it always happens; it fills you with a heightened sense of purpose.\\"<p>In all our debates, through all our tests, over all the years that are left to come, may we all be blessed with a sense of purpose like Edward M. Kennedy's. Thank you, Vicki. Thanks to all of you. Thanks for making this such a success. God bless you; God bless America.\" "
"298" "\"Well, good afternoon, everybody. Please be seated. Welcome to the White House. I'm glad you could join us today as I proudly sign this Executive order reestablishing the President's Advisory Commission and White House Initiative on Asian American and Pacific Islanders.<p>Now, when we talk about America's AAPI communities, we're talking about the industry and entrepreneurship of people who've helped build this Nation for centuries: from the early days, as laborers on our railroads and farmers tilling our land, to today, as leaders in every sector of American life, from business to science to academia, law and more.<p>We're talking about the creative energies of musicians like the singers Penn Masala&mdash;we appreciate them&mdash;who performed today. And we're talking about the competitive spirit of athletes like Wat Misaka, who played for the New York Knicks back in 1947&mdash;the first non-White player in the NBA&mdash;and who served in the U.S. Army during World War II. Mr. Misaka is here as well today and&mdash;where's Mr. Misaka? There he is. Thank you so much.<p>We're talking about the public service of leaders like Secretaries Gary Locke and Steven Chu and Eric Shinseki and the folks on stage with me today. And we're talking about the courage and the patriotism and sacrifice of heroes like the members of the 442d Regimental Combat Team who served in World War II, including Terry Shima. Please give him a big round of applause. Mr. Shima is the executive director of the Japanese American Veterans Association, and we are grateful that he took the time to be here today.<p>Some of their families had been interned. Some had been interned themselves. But they still insisted on fighting for America and went on to become the most highly decorated unit of their size in history.<p>And one member of the regiment, Private Jake Kirihara, whose parents were held in a camp here in America while he fought overseas, later said: \\"Even though this wrong was done to us, there was never any question whether America was my country. If America needed me to help, I'll do it.\\"<p>So this proud tradition of service continues today in Iraq and Afghanistan and around the world, carried on by folks like Tammy Duckworth, my dear friend who's here today. Tammy is a decorated member of our National Guard, a passionate advocate for our wounded warriors, who is now serving as our Assistant Secretary of Public and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Veterans Affairs Department. I'm proud to have her on board and pleased that she could join us today.<p>And on a personal note, when I talk about America's AAPI communities, I'm talking about my own family: my sister Maya, my brother-in-law Konrad, my beautiful nieces Suhaila and Savita, the folks I grew up with in Indonesia and in Honolulu, as part of the Hawaiian <i>ohana</i>, or family.<p>Our AAPI communities have roots that span the globe, but they embody a rich diversity, and a story of striving and success that are uniquely American. But focusing on all of these achievements doesn't tell the whole story and that's part of why we're here. It's tempting, given the strengths of the Asian American/Pacific Islander communities, for us to buy into the myth of the \\"model minority,\\" and to overlook the very real challenges that certain Asian American/Pacific Islander communities are facing: from health disparities like higher rates of diabetes and Hepatitis B; to educational disparities that still exist in some communities&mdash;high dropout rates, low college enrollment rates; to economic disparities&mdash;higher rates of poverty in some communities, and barriers to employment and workplace advancement in others.<p>Some Asian American and Pacific Islanders, particularly new Americans and refugees, still face language barriers. Others have been victims of unthinkable hate crimes, particularly in the months after September 11th, crimes driven by ignorance and prejudice that are an affront to everything that this Nation stands for.<p>And then there are the disparities that we don't even know about because our data collection methods still aren't up to par. Too often, Asian American/Pacific Islanders are all lumped into one category, so we don't have accurate numbers reflecting the challenges of each individual community. Smaller communities in particular can get lost, their needs and concerns buried in a spreadsheet.<p>And that's why I'm signing this Executive order today, reestablishing the advisory commission and White House initiative created by President Clinton 10 years ago. Because when any of our citizens are unable to fulfill their potential due to factors that have nothing to do with their talent, character, or work ethic, then I believe there's a role for our Government to play, not to guarantee anybody's success or to solve everybody's problems, but to ensure that we're living up to our Nation's ideals; to ensure that we can each pursue our own version of happiness, and that we continue to be a Nation where all things are still possible for all people. That's the impact that our Government can have.<p>It's the impact of a Small Business Administration that offers loans to Asian American/Pacific Islander entrepreneurs whose small businesses sustain so many communities around the country. It's the impact of a Department of Health and Human Services that funds research on the diseases that disproportionately affect Asian American and Pacific Islander families. It's the impact of a Justice Department that upholds the Voting Rights Act and its promise of language assistance and equal access to the polls. And it's the impact of evidence-based research and data collection and analysis on AAPI communities, so that no one is invisible to their Government.<p>All of that is the mission of this initiative and commission, to work with 23 agencies and departments across our Government to improve the health, education, and economic status of AAPI communities. The initiative and commission will be housed in the Department of Education, and they'll be cochaired by Secretaries Arne Duncan and Secretary Gary Locke, both of whom devoted their lives to promoting opportunity for all our citizens.<p>And I think it's fitting that we begin this work in the week leading up to the holiday of Diwali&mdash;the festival of lights&mdash;when members of some of the world's greatest faiths celebrate the triumph of good over evil.<p>This coming Saturday, Hindus, Jains, Sikhs, and some Buddhists, here in America and around the world, will celebrate this holiday by lighting diyas, or lamps, which symbolize the victory of light over darkness, and knowledge over ignorance. And while this is a time of rejoicing, it's also a time for reflection, when we remember those who are less fortunate and renew our commitment to reach out to those in need.<p>While the significance of the holiday for each faith varies, all of them mark it by gathering with family members to pray and decorate the house and enjoy delicious food and sweet treats. And in that spirit of celebration and contemplation, I am happy to light the White House <i>diya</i>, and wish you all a happy Diwali and a <i>Saal Mubarak</i>.<p>[<i>At this point, the White House diya was lit while a Hindu chant was performed.</i>]<p>Now I'm going to sign this bill&mdash;sign this order.<p>[<i>The Executive order was signed.</i>]<p>All right. There we go.\" "
"299" "\"<i>The President</i>. Nancy Pelosi! Hello, San Francisco! Hey! How are you? Hello! It's good to see all of you. Thank you. Just a couple of quick special thank yous&mdash;I love all of you, but there are a couple people I want to make sure to acknowledge.<p>First of all, thank you, Tracy Chapman, for performing tonight&mdash;love Tracy Chapman. Lieutenant Governor John Garamendi, who is running for the California 10 upcoming election&mdash;everybody has got to go out there and work for John. There he is right&mdash;stand up, John, so everybody can see you. Fantastic.<p>Let me tell you about Nancy Pelosi. Somebody in an introduction was saying, everybody has a kind word to say about Nancy Pelosi, her generosity, her intelligence&mdash;all that's true. Let me talk to you, Nancy Pelosi is tough. [<i>Laughter</i>] I want everybody to know that. I mean, every day&mdash;every day&mdash;she is subjected to constant criticism and griping. And then there's the other party. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But with style and grace, but most importantly, with steely determination, she does not back down. She is there doing battle each and every day on behalf of not only her constituency here in California but people all across America who are looking for a fair shake, who are looking for a decent job, who are looking for quality health care, who want a good education for their kids, who want a planet that they can pass on to their grandchildren and their great-grandchildren. That's what Nancy Pelosi is all about. We could not have done any of the stuff that we've done this year without one of the best Speakers imaginable. So please, everybody, I know sometimes you're not a prophet in your own land, but I want everybody to understand how special Nancy Pelosi is and give her a big round of applause.<p>It's good to be back in California.<p><i>Audience member</i>. We love you!<p><i>The President</i>. I love you too. I appreciate the warm welcome, especially the weather. [<i>Laughter</i>] It just got cold in DC, so I was happy flying in over the bay, and it's sunny, it's nice. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is a pretty place you guys live. But obviously, what I appreciate even more is the opportunity that you've given me and my administration to serve on your behalf. And I'm here to tell you that we are keeping faith with your support. We are working every single day to fulfill your hopes. Every day we're asking ourselves, how can we realize the dreams that led so many people to join our cause when it seemed so improbable?<p>But I've got to say, looking out at a room full of so many supporters, I am reminded of what President Lincoln once said to one of his own supporters who claimed that it was his efforts that made the difference in the election. The guy had come in, he met Lincoln, he said, \\"It's because of you&mdash;it's because of me that you're sitting here.\\" \\"So you think you made me President?\\" Lincoln said. \\"Yes,\\" the man replied, \\"under Providence, I think I did.\\" \\"Well,\\" said Lincoln, \\"it's a pretty mess you've got me into. But I forgive you.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] That's how I feel about you. [<i>Laughter</i>] You're all forgiven.<p>It's been about 10 months since the Obama family packed up and moved to Washington. And I want to report to you that Malia and Sasha are doing great. Michelle has been extraordinary as First Lady. We have Bo, which has lowered my seniority to fifth at the dinner table. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But I do think it's important for all of us to remember&mdash;even though it's been almost a year&mdash;what was happening in this country when we walked through that front door, because, you know, people seem to have a sort of selective memory. [<i>Laughter</i>] People seem to forget; they seem to think that suddenly, I was sworn in and there was this big financial crisis. [<i>Laughter</i>] So let's just do a little walk down memory lane. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>We were facing an economic crisis unlike any that we've seen in our times. We were losing 700,000 jobs a month. Our financial system was on the brink of collapse. Economists of every political stripe were saying we might be slipping into the next great depression.<p>And that's why, working with Nancy Pelosi and working with Harry Reid, we passed boldly and swiftly a Recovery Act that's made a difference in the lives of families and communities in every corner of the country. And California has been particularly hard hit. And I know families here are struggling more than folks in a lot of other parts of the country. And leaders are having to make tough choices about how to navigate through this economic storm. But I also know that if it hadn't been for that Recovery Act, here in California and all across America, if it weren't for the Recovery Act, we'd be in a much deeper hole, and that is a fact.<p>We put a tax cut in the pockets of small-business owners and 95 percent of working Americans, just as I promised on the campaign trail. That tax cut has benefited more than 12 million families here in California at a time when they were losing income and, in some cases, losing jobs. Increased unemployment insurance for 12 million Americans to help them get through tough times; that's helped nearly 2 million Californians. We made COBRA 65 percent cheaper to make sure that when you are out there looking for a job you could still have your health insurance. We provided relief to States like California so they wouldn't have to lay off teachers and firefighters and police officers. Gave 30,000 loans to small businesses all across America, including nearly 4,000 right here in California, that have helped to create and save tens of thousands of private sector jobs.<p>But the Recovery Act wasn't just about tax cuts; the most progressive, by the way, tax cuts in American history. It wasn't emergency relief for middle class families and working families who've borne the brunt of the recession. It also was the largest investment in education in American history. It was also the largest investment in clean energy in American history. It was also the largest investment in the Nation's infrastructure since Eisenhower built the Interstate Highway System back in the 1950s, putting people back to work all across the country rebuilding roads and bridges and waterways.<p>That's not all we did in those first few months. Nancy mentioned a few other things. We decided maybe it makes sense to pay women the same as men for the same work. And that's why we signed the Lilly Ledbetter, the first bill I had the honor to sign into law. Lifted the ban on stem cell research&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;began to restore science to its rightful place here in America. Extended health insurance to 11 million children across the country who had been left out, under the Children's Health Insurance bill. Passed legislation to protect consumers from unfair rate hikes and abusive fees charged by credit card companies. Passed laws to protect our children from being targeted by big tobacco companies. Made sure that housing fraud was prevented. Placed a new national policy for the first time in our history aimed at both increasing fuel economy and reducing greenhouse gas pollution for all new cars and trucks sold in the United States.<p>That's what we did here at home. Abroad, we began a new era of engagement. Working with partners to stop the spread of nuclear weapons and seek the long-term goal of a safer, more secure world free of nuclear weapons; working in concert with other nations on just about every continent to stem the global economic downturn and to confront climate change. We banned torture. We're closing Guantanamo. We're rebuilding our military. We're reaffirming our alliances. We are drawing down responsibly and ending the war in Iraq. We made good progress in taking the fight to Al Qaida, from Pakistan to Somalia to Indonesia. I went to Cairo on behalf of America to start a new dialogue with the Muslim world.<p>So just in case you're wondering what we've been doing over the last 9 months&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;thought it might be useful to check in with you. [<i>Laughter</i>] You wouldn't always know it watching cable. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Audience member</i>. Don't watch it!<p><i>The President</i>. You said it, I didn't. [<i>Laughter</i>] But the reason you're here tonight, the reason I'm here tonight is because we know that our work isn't done. We still have enormous challenges in this country. There are far too many people out there who are really going through a tough time, out of work, seeing their hours trimmed, their wages cut, Americans who are subject to the whims of health insurance companies or who can't afford quality health insurance in the first place. Too many Americans who are seeing the American Dream slip further and further and further out of reach.<p>Part of what made our campaign exciting&mdash;you know, people tended to focus about&mdash;on our signs and hope. And, you know, it was easy to parody: \\"Oh, look, they're always talking about hope. They're so naive; they're so idealistic.\\" You remember all that? [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"He'll never win.\\" You remember that?<p>The reason the election motivated us was, yes, understanding that there's this huge gap between what America could be and what it was, right, a sense that we had to bridge that gap. But we knew change wasn't going to be easy. That wasn't what the campaign was about, this notion that somehow we figured we'd come in and after about 9 months, okay, we got that taken care of. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's not how the campaign worked. You remember us grinding that out? All those phone calls, all those knocking on doors, doors slammed in your faces, people couldn't pronounce my name. You remember that. That wasn't easy. So we didn't think that change was going to be easy.<p>But part of what was inspiring was understanding the effort that was going to be required. It gave us&mdash;it restored in us the sense that there are things that are worth fighting for, that there are things that are worth grinding it out, there are things that are worth taking some criticism for, that we're not just taking the easy road, that we're going to be responsible to make sure that the next generation has the kind of America that we all dream about. That's what the campaign was about.<p>So if there's anybody out there who's feeling a little disquiet&mdash;\\"Oh, gosh, people are being so mean\\"&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;for anybody who's thinking, well, maybe, you know, we're taking on&mdash;listen, I did not run for President and you did not work so hard to elect me and to make sure Nancy Pelosi was Speaker and Harry Reid was majority leader, you didn't work that hard to see me kick these problems down the road. You didn't support our cause because you wanted to pass on these problems to some future generation.<p>We came together because we know that now is the time to secure our future. Now is the time to build a clean energy economy that will free ourselves from the grip of foreign oil and generate new green jobs in the process, jobs that pay well and can't be outsourced. You knew that now is the time to transform our education system so that every single child in America can complete [compete]* in this global economy. You knew that now was the time to place firm rules of the road so that banks can't game the system and the financial crisis on Wall Street doesn't end up hurting folks on Main Street. You know that now is finally the time to pass a health insurance bill that will provide coverage for every American and end some of the monkey business that these insurance companies engage in.<p>I don't have to tell you why the status quo is unsustainable. Seven million people in this State don't have health insurance. Millions more who do are seeing less stability, less security, higher premiums, less coverage. Premiums for California company&mdash;families who get insurance through their employer average more than $13,000 a year. Over the past decade, family premiums have shot up by 114 percent in this State, more than double.<p>With costs so high, it's no wonder that less than half of all small businesses in California offer health care coverage to their workers. The proportion of hard-working Californians without insurance has been rising; the proportion of Californians who get insurance through the workplace has been declining.<p>We know those facts. Here's the thing: We are so close to moving past this status quo. We are closer than we have ever been to passing health insurance reform, health insurance reform that will finally make quality care affordable for people who don't have it and bring stability and security to people who do and slow the skyrocketing health care costs that are crushing our families and our businesses and our State and our Federal governments. That's the kind of reform that all of us need to support right now, Democrat and Republican.<p>But I know this is a Democratic event. And I want to talk to all of you just for a second. You know, there are going to be some fierce arguments over the next couple of weeks about health care. There should be. This is big. But understand that the bill you least like of the five bills that got passed would all provide billions [millions]* of people who don't have coverage coverage, would all prevent insurance companies from barring you from getting health insurance because of a preexisting condition, would all set up an exchange so that small businesses could compete and get the same deal that big businesses do for their employees, would all provide subsidies to people who don't have health insurance and give them a measure of security. All of them.<p>So as we're going at it&mdash;and we're going to be going at it&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I just want all of you to understand: We are going to get this done. We are going to get this done.<p>Now, to the non-Democrats who may be watching today&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I want everybody to know, we believe in a strong and loyal opposition. I believe in a two-party system where ideas are tested and assumptions are challenged, because that's how we can move this country forward. But what I reject is when some folks decide to sit on the sidelines and root for failure on health care or on energy or on our economy. What I reject is when some folks say we should go back to the past policies when it was those very same policies that got us into this mess in the first place.<p>Another way of putting it is when, you know, I'm busy and Nancy busy with our mop cleaning up somebody else's mess, we don't want somebody sitting back saying, \\"You're not holding the mop the right way.\\" Why don't you grab a mop? Why don't you help clean up? \\"You're not mopping fast enough.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"That's a socialist mop.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Grab a mop, let's get to work.<p>I think all of us in Washington have a greater purpose. We have a higher calling. And let me tell you, as long as I have the privilege of holding this office, I will do my very best to live up to my responsibilities to our country, to our children, to the future that we hold in common.<p>But I just want to remind you guys once again, because you're here tonight, you've invested a lot in this Democratic Party and invested in me, I want everybody to understand this is not going to be easy. It's not going to happen overnight. It's not going to happen in 9 months. It's not going to happen in 18 months. It's not going to happen in 36 months, some of the problems we're talking about. <p>Iraq was hard; Afghanistan is harder. There are&mdash;really are people out there who would be happy to blow up this room, wouldn't bat an eye. And we've got to deal with those folks. The dangers of nuclear proliferation are real, and it requires incredibly time-consuming, methodical negotiations in order to move us in a more peaceful direction.<p>I want everybody to know this, because I hope that the election was not just a fad.<p><i>Audience members</i>. No!<p><i>The President</i>. I hope that people didn't just think, well, that's done; that was fun; I really liked those posters. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I need you guys to understand that what we're trying to do is hard. And I want you to be excited by that. I want you to be energized by that, because if it was easy, it would have already been done. If it was easy, it wouldn't have been worth all the effort to get here. And I want everybody to know who are standing in the way of progress: I'm not tired; I'm just getting started. You can throw whatever you want at me&mdash;keep it coming&mdash;we're going to get this done. We're going to get health care done. We're going to get clean energy done. We're going to get climate change done. We're going to fix our schools. We are going to deal with the problems internationally that I was elected to deal with.<p>We are at a rare moment where we've been given the opportunity to remake our world for the better. And there's something about the American spirit, inherent in the American spirit: We don't hang on to the past. We always move forward. And that movement doesn't begin in Washington, it begins with you. It begins because the American people decide it's time to move forward. You decide it's time for change. And if you do that now, just as you did during the campaign, we are not only going to rebuild our economy, we are not only going to pass health care, but we're going to do what earlier generations have done. We are going to leave something better for our children, not just here in the United States, but all around the world.<p>So I hope that you aren't tired either, because I expect you to stand along with me as we get this business moving. Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. Thank you.\" "
"300" "\"Thank you. Thank you. Please, everybody, have a seat. Now, I am not going to spoil a good dinner with a long speech. [<i>Laughter</i>] But there are some big thank yous that I've got to say. <p>First of all, I've got to say something about my introducer. We are doing some tough stuff in Washington, and Mark is absolutely right that everybody has a story about Nancy's kindness and her thoughtfulness, her intelligence, her passion. I just want to say a little bit about her toughness. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Washington, unfortunately, I think, over the last several years has been engulfed with a climate that isn't just partisan, because we don't want to romanticize the past&mdash;things have always been partisan; that's the nature of democracy&mdash;but rather a sense that partisanship overrides the national interest. There's always been politics, but there's been a sense lately that goes beyond just the run of the mill politics; a sense that we are going to slash and burn and go after folks just because we want to win, as opposed to because we're trying to get something done. And as a consequence, being Speaker of the House is challenging job. You are constantly the target of attacks. And then there's the other party. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And yet, having now known Nancy first as a Senator and now as President, I can tell you that day in, day out, she faces down some of the toughest problems&mdash;not just policy problems, but political problems&mdash;that you can imagine, and she doesn't break a sweat. And she is willing to stare folks down and tell them how things are going to be. And that steel that Nancy Pelosi has is part of the reason why this has been such an incredibly productive Congress and why I'm so confident that we're going to end up getting health care done. And so I just want everybody to give Nancy Pelosi a big round of applause. I love Nancy Pelosi&mdash;love her.<p>Now, speaking of strong women, Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer aren't around, but Dick and Stu are here to accept their accolades. [<i>Laughter</i>] I love them as well, and they have been showing extraordinary leadership on a whole host of issues.<p>To the people who helped to set this up this evening&mdash;Mark Gorenberg, along with Wendy, have just been diehard supporters from the very beginning of this unlikely journey. I'm grateful to them. Azita Raji, Doug Hickey, Denise Bauer, Steve Westly, Wade Randlett, and Jeff Bleich: We are so grateful to you for your willingness to step up and to support Democrats not just right before an election, but during these, sort of, trials, these periods where everybody is impatient and trying to figure out why we haven't transformed the world overnight.<p>And all of you understand that when I ran for office and we talked about change, I think all of you understood that change wasn't going to be easy. Change is hard. In a country of 300 million people, change is hard. And then in a world with several billion, arriving at a time when we were on the brink of the worst&mdash;we were on the brink of a great depression, the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression; at a time when our relationships with other countries all around the world were strained, to say the least; at a time of two wars and great danger; and a sense that on a whole host of big challenges, from health care to energy to the way our schools work to how our courts work to how we engage with one another, that we had been stuck in a place that wasn't working for the future of the country. We had to understand that change was not going to be easy.<p>And what was so exciting about the campaign&mdash;not just mine, but the whole movement behind Democratic victories more than a year ago&mdash;was the recognition not just that people wanted change, but that I think the American people were hungry to take responsibility again for trying big things, for stretching out of our ruts and our comfort zones and our habits, and saying, \\"Well, let's see what it is that we can do to make this country work even better.\\" We know we live in the greatest country on Earth, but, gosh, we also knew that there was this big gap between what was possible and where we were.<p>And so we came in, and we got busy. We went to work. And working with Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid, we decided that we were not going to shy away from the tough stuff. We decided we weren't going to read the polls and see how we could calibrate and make sure that we didn't offend anybody. What we said was, there are some big challenges that nobody has taken on for a long time, and we're going to take them on. And some of those challenges were not of our making, and we decided we were going to take them on anyway.<p>So we passed a Recovery Act that has now brought us back from the brink of recession and also ended up being the largest investment in clean energy and the largest investment in infrastructure and the largest investment in educational reform that we've ever seen. And then we&mdash;as Nancy already mentioned, we ended up saying, you know, it's time to put science back on the front burner, and we ended up making sure that stem cell research was possible so that it could save lives and cure debilitating diseases. And then we said, you know, it makes sense for us to make sure that women are paid the same for the same work, and we signed the Lilly Ledbetter Act. And we gave insurance to 11 million children who had been left out of the Children's Health Insurance Program. And we moved forward, and we said, we are going to bring the war in Iraq to a responsible close. And we're going to close Guantanamo. And we are going to ban torture. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we are going to once again achieve the kind of moral primacy that America had previously been known for. And that was the easy stuff. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>If we stopped today, this legislative session would have been one of the most productive in a generation&mdash;if we just stopped. But we didn't want to stop. And so we decided, you know what, we're tired of going to town hall meetings and hearing stories about parents who were worried about their children's health care coverage. We're tired of hearing stories about families going bankrupt because somebody got sick. And we said, yes, we know the insurance companies aren't going to like it and the drug companies are going to be uncertain about it and there's going to be a whole bunch of contention out there. But after decades of watching health care costs soar and coverage decline, we decided, we are going to take on health care, and we are now closer than we have ever been. And I am telling you this, people, we are going to get this done in the next couple of months, because Nancy Pelosi is committed to it, Harry Reid is committed to it, and I'm committed to it. We are going to get this done for the American people.<p>We passed a historic energy bill out of the House, and we are now making sure that the Senate moves forward because it's good for our economy, it is good for jobs, and by the way, it's good for the planet. And when I hear babies, you know, yelping back there&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;they're asking, are you going to make sure that this planet is at an appropriate temperature? [<i>Laughter</i>] That's what they're crying about. They don't know English yet&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]. They don't know English yet, but that's what they're saying. [<i>Laughter</i>] And so we're going to get that done.<p>And we're going to reform our financial regulatory system, because we can't afford to have wild risk-taking on Wall Street end up resulting in massive layoffs and people losing their homes all across Main Street.<p>So&mdash;and by the way, we're just slipping in probably the most aggressive education reform agenda that we have seen in a very long time, but that's just&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;we're not highlighting that.<p>Now, just in&mdash;people ask, \\"Well, what's been going on in Washington?\\" I want to make sure that you guys are well informed. But I also don't want us to be complacent. I don't want us to be satisfied. We have to understand that folks are hurting out there. And they are scared, and many of them are angry, and although in some cases that anger may be misdirected, there's reason for people to be scared and to be angry. We've got the highest unemployment rate that we've seen in over 20 years. People are losing their homes. They're worried about the future. They're angry about the fact that even before this recession hit, their wages and incomes had flatlined.<p>And let's face it: Everybody in this room is very fortunate. There are a whole bunch of folks out there who just, day in, day out, it is a struggle, and they are working just as hard as you are and love their families just as much, and things are tough. And so when I wake up every single day, I'm thinking about how do I help those families, how do I make sure I'm putting them back to work. And it's not going to be easy, because we got into a big hole as a consequence of this financial crisis.<p>And then we've got real dangers all around the world. Iraq was hard; Afghanistan is harder. Iran seeking to develop nuclear weapons&mdash;that's hard; the Middle East peace process&mdash;that's hard&mdash;these are not problems that are going to be solved overnight. They're not going to be solved in 9 months, they're not going to be solved in 18 months, and they may not be solved, all of them, in 36 months.<p>But the main message I have for you is that that spirit that we carried into the campaign, that spirit doesn't die. That conviction that we can do better and that sense that the effort we put in&mdash;our determination, our persistence, our willingness to stand up to all kinds of nonsense and just keep at it, day in, day out&mdash;that animating spirit is what is going to make sure that when my Presidency is done, whenever that is, and Nancy's Speakership is done, whenever that is, that we're going to be able to look back and we're going to say, you know, this country is better, that we have made a difference in the lives not just of people today, but hopefully people tomorrow.<p>So I hope that all of you guys understand we're just getting started. See, some of our opponents, they seem to think that they could wear us down. And I just want everybody to be clear: I'm not tired; I'm refreshed. [<i>Laughter</i>] I am fired up. I am ready to go. We are not going to stop until we get health care done, until we've got an energy bill that we're proud of, until we are fixing schools all across America. We are not going to stop. They're going to get tired; we're not going to get tired. We're going to keep on going.<p>Thank you, everybody. God bless you. Love you.\" "
"301" "\"<i>The President.</i> What's going on, King? How's everybody doing? Well, what a warm greeting; I appreciate that, guys. Thank you so much.<p>It is great to see you. I just want you to know that I am so appreciative that your school has been such a good host during my visit. I had a chance to meet some of the students, your fellow students in there, and they told me all about what you guys are doing at the school.<p>And you know, I'm especially glad to come back here because I remember 4 years ago, right after the storm, a lot of people here felt forgotten. But because everybody worked hard, everybody kept hopeful, everybody was determined to rebuild, you now see just a school that is doing much better than it was ever doing before the storm. So to all the parents and the community leaders who have helped rebuild, we are so grateful to you.<p>But my main message is for the students here. So I want everybody just for a second, listen up, real quiet. I think some of you know a little bit about me. You know, when I was growing up I didn't have my father at home; he had left us. We weren't rich. We didn't have a lot. But the one thing that my mother and my grandparents told me was that if I worked hard in school, if I loved to read and I loved math and I loved science and I studied hard, there wasn't anything that I couldn't do.<p>Now, just from meeting the young people here today I can tell that there're so many bright, smart, promising students here. But, you know, there are a lot of distractions out there. A lot of you think, \\"Well, you know, I don't want to study; I'm just going to play basketball.\\" Or, \\"I don't want to study; I'm going to be a rap star.\\"<p>I want all of you to know that the most important thing you can do for yourselves and for your community and for your country is to work hard in school and to treat each other with respect and treat yourself with respect, because I'm confident that if you all work very hard, then there's no reason why you can't be a doctor or a lawyer. There's no reason why you can't be the Secretary of Education or a principal of a school. There's no reason why you can't be a Congressman or a Senator. Maybe you can be the President of the United States. All right? <p>So I just got a promise in there&mdash;I want a promise from every single one of you that you guys are going to work hard in school each and every day. Give me that promise. You promise?<p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes!<p><i>The President.</i> You give me a pinkie promise?<p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes!<p><i>The President.</i> Pinkie promise. All right, you know, that's a big promise there. So I'm counting on you guys. I'm going to come back and check on you guys to make sure you've all been working hard. All right? Okay.<p>And I also just want you to know that Michelle and Malia and Sasha and our dog Bo&mdash;everybody says hello, and everybody wishes you well. All right, thank you, guys. All right.\" "
"302" "\"I'm not here to give a long speech. I am here to say how proud I am of all the cadets here and all of you who are willing to give back to your country. I'm honored to be joined by one of the greatest public servants we've ever had and somebody who served&mdash;World War II and then served on the civilian side and eventually served as Commander in Chief, George H.W. Bush. Everybody please give him a big round of applause.<p>Assuming some of you continue with your military careers, you may be ultimately reporting to this guy. He had a little something to do with the Aggies a while back. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now he's the Secretary of Defense, and I am so glad to have him here. Please give a big&mdash;Bob Gates a big round of applause.<p>So today was about service. All of you are showing why I feel inspired and I get up every day even when I'm a little pooped, is because I know that there are young people and a next generation that's coming out here and is going to make this country better and is going to protect this country. You guys are symbols of that. And so we are just very appreciative of everything you do. Know that your Commander in Chief draws inspiration from you.<p>All right, now I'm going to try to shake as many hands as possible.\" "
"303" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. So howdy, Aggies.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Howdy!<p><i>The President.</i> All right. It is an honor to be here with all of you today at this outstanding university.<p>Now, I was told that if the winds had been different today, President Bush would have parachuted in to kick things off here. That's the story. But that's okay. I am still thrilled to be introduced by this man whose vision of service we celebrate today and whose life of service is an inspiration to all of us.<p>And much to his likely embarrassment, I'm going to talk a little more about the singular nature and impact of that service in a minute. But before I do, I'd like to recognize several other people joining us today, starting with President Bush's extraordinary wife, Mrs. Barbara Bush. Where did she go, Madam First Lady? There she is over there. As we all know, Mrs. Bush has an impressive record of service herself, particularly her tremendous work to promote family literacy across this country. And so we are very, very grateful for everything that she's done on behalf of our Nation.<p>We have our Secretary of Defense here, Secretary Bob Gates, who I think you know a little bit about. He has served for four decades under eight Presidents with integrity, with candor, with an undying commitment to keep this Nation safe. And I know how much he loved his time as president here at A&M, which is why he was relieved to hear about this week's game is out at Kansas State. I didn't want him sneaking away to relive his glory days leading yell practice, never returning to Washington.<p>But I can tell you&mdash;and I want everybody to understand this&mdash;although it is an enormous sacrifice for him to have left this institution, he could not be doing a better job on our behalf, and I want you all to know that I am very proud to have him as our Secretary of Defense.<p>I want to acknowledge former Secretary of State Jim Baker, who's served this country for decades as a trusted adviser to Presidents, and more importantly, as a statesman. I also want to thank another Texan, Ambassador Ron Kirk, for his terrific work as our United States Trade Representative. Former Senator Sam Nunn for his lifetime of service; I want to mention particularly Senator Nunn's visionary work on nuclear nonproliferation. And we have two outstanding Members of Congress who are here with us today, Chet Edwards and Sheila Jackson-Lee. Where's Chet? Chet's over there. I want to recognize Melody Barnes, Director of the White House Domestic Policy Council, for her outstanding work on service and many other issues. Stand up, Melody.<p>I want to thank Michelle Nunn, the CEO of Points of Light, as well as Neil Bush, chairman of the board, for their wise leadership. I want to congratulate Mallory Myers, today's Daily Point of Light Award winner, and commend her for her tireless work to pulling together \\"The Big Event,\\" which I know is no easy task.<p>And I understand that this event is just one of the countless ways that students at this university are giving back to this community, from tutoring children and building homes, to raising money to fight cancer and AIDS, to continuing A&M's proud tradition of military service.<p>So I can see why President Bush chose to locate his library at this school. What you all are doing right here is precisely what he was talking about when he called for those thousand points of light and became the first President to create a White House Office devoted solely to promoting voluntarism.<p>It's a vision that's changed lives across this country, including that of a young woman who went to work for an organization called Public Allies to prepare young people for public service careers, an organization initially funded by the Bush administration. And her experience there inspired her to devote her own life to serving others, and that young woman happens to be my wife, Michelle Obama. And I've been instructed to convey her gratitude today as well.<p>But here's the thing. George Bush isn't just a President who promoted the ethic of service long before it was fashionable, he's a citizen whose life has embodied that ethic. From his daring service as a Navy pilot during World War II&mdash;enlisting the day he turned 18&mdash;to his time in Congress, at the CIA, and as U.N. Ambassador, Vice President, and President.<p>He easily could have chosen a life of comfort and privilege, and instead, time and again, when offered a chance to serve, he seized it. It was second nature to him, the continuation of a proud family tradition that he and Mrs. Bush clearly passed on to their children and grandchildren, and one which he's carried on throughout his quote, unquote, \\"retirement.\\" How's that working out, Mrs. Bush? [<i>Laughter</i>] Spends it working tirelessly to help others, without fanfare or any expectation or desire for recognition.<p>Though I do recall one endeavor of his that actually drew quite a bit of attention. That was back in 2005, and some of you may remember this. He and President Clinton had agreed to come together to raise money for the nations devastated by the tsunami that killed nearly 230,000 people in Asia, and that partnership between these two Presidents would continue in the wake of Hurricane Katrina.<p>As first, longtime friends and aides to both of them were suspicious, let's tell the truth now. [<i>Laughter</i>] They were convinced that the other guy was using their guy to burnish his own reputation. That's how staffers are. But then when one operative expressed his concern to President Clinton, the President sharply rebuked him, replying, \\"This is much more important than politics.\\"<p>This is much more important than politics. That's the conviction that drew these two outstanding leaders, once fierce adversaries, to join forces: the belief that there's some things that are beyond politics; that there's no place for partisanship when a great American city is underwater; that the R or D next to your name is irrelevant when nations in crisis need the world's help; that certain moments call on us to stop the back and forth and the bickering, to forget the old rivalries and embrace a common purpose that is bigger than our differences.<p>And while you might not always know it from watching the cable news shows or listening to folks on the radio, I think it's clear that we stand at one of those moments. We're seeing turmoil in our economy that's left many people wondering whether their kids will have the same opportunities that they had to pursue their dreams. We face threats to our health, our climate, and of course, our security that have left many of our young people wondering what kind of future they'll be leaving for their own kids. And if anyone here thinks that our government has all the solutions, President Bush and I will be the first to tell you that you'll be sorely disappointed.<p>Government can build the best schools, with the best teachers, but we can't run the PTA or chaperone those field trips or mentor those kids after school or have them sit down and do their homework at night. We can pass the most comprehensive health reform bill, but Congress can't be on the ground in our communities caring for the sick and helping people lead healthier lives. Government can give our troops the equipment they need and the pay and benefits that they have earned&mdash;and nobody is working harder at doing that than Secretary Gates&mdash;but it can't be there to offer a home-cooked meal to a military family stretched thin or to make sure our veterans get the respect and appreciation they deserve in their communities when they come home.<p>In the end, when it comes to the challenges we face, the need for action always exceeds the limits of government. While there's plenty that government can do and must do to keep our families safe and our planet clean and our markets free and fair, there's a lot that government can't and shouldn't do. And that's where active, engaged citizens come in. That's the purpose of service in this Nation.<p>And that's the point I want to emphasize today. That service isn't separate from our national priorities or secondary to our national priorities, it's integral to achieving our national priorities. It's how we will meet the challenges of our time.<p>To this day, despite all the evidence to the contrary, there's still folks with this notion out there that, well, service is nice, but it's not really essential; it's something you do once in a while to fulfill a requirement or to fulfill yourself or for a year or two after college to put off getting a real job&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I'm talking to you&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;the notion that the real work of changing this country is done by people with fancy titles and big offices out of Washington, DC.<p>But history tells a very different story. It's the story of patriots who set forth the ideals that animate our democracy and all those who fought and died for those ideals. It's the story of women who reached for the ballot and people who stood up and sat in and marched for justice. It's the story of firefighters and police officers who rushed to those burning towers and ordinary people who rushed to the aid of a flooded American city.<p>That's always been the story of this Nation, the story of those who stepped forward in our darkest hours to serve it, those who rose to answer the defining questions of their time: Colony or country? Free or half free? Separate but equal or truly equal? Those folks weren't in it for the money. Those folks were volunteers. Their service wasn't extra. It was the work that changed this country.<p>The courage, the patriotism, the compassion that drove them to act are the same qualities we need today as we seek to answer the questions of our own time. Will we continue to be a land of opportunity where all things are still possible for all people or a place where those born without advantages of wealth, health, and good luck have the deck stacked against them? Will we engage with the world to confront our shared threats or hope against hope to defer them to the next administration, the next generation?<p>The answer to these questions lie, in large part, with all of you, the young people especially who are here today. And that's why I feel so optimistic about our future, because you all are the most engaged, service-minded generation since the 1930s and forties, serving your communities in record numbers. Last year, applications to City Year tripled, and the Peace Corps had three applicants for every position. AmeriCorps applications were up 400 percent in just the first 4 months of this year alone.<p>Having come of age in serious times, you all don't have a lot of patience for pettiness and bickering and the worn divisions of the past. Rather than arguing about whether, or how, we should do something, you'd rather just go out there and get it done.<p>As President, it's my mission to put that passion and commitment to work, to build on the efforts of President Bush, Clinton, George W. Bush, and others to engage not just young people, but people of all ages and walks of life to serve their communities.<p>That's why I was proud to sign the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act, expanding AmeriCorps and Senior Corps, other programs that give people the chance to give back. That's why we've created a new community innovation fund to seek out the most creative, effective nonprofit organizations in America, ones that could be the next Harlem Children's Zone or Teach for America, and replicate their efforts all across this country.<p>That's why this summer we launched United We Serve, a nationwide effort calling on all Americans to make service part of their daily lives. And we partnered with more than 400 organizations, made more than 250,000 service opportunities available on serve.gov, and watched as nonprofits and foundations and corporations and individuals spent hundreds of thousands of hours serving their communities.<p>So we've been doing everything we can to get people involved. And I'm pleased to have with us today my nominee to lead the charge on those efforts as CEO of the Corporation of National and Community Service, Patrick Corvington. Patrick, stand up and wave so we can all recognize you.<p>But I also want to be honest with you: While we'll do our best to make it easy to get involved, the service itself won't always be easy. People won't always appreciate what you're trying to do for them. You won't always make the difference you had hoped for. And let's be honest, some problems are so big, so stubborn, that even your best efforts will only help just a little bit. They might just help one person. They might just help one corner of a neighborhood. But those are the efforts that matter the most. It's through that struggle, the fact that it's hard, that the difference is made, not just for others, but for yourself. That's how you young people in particular will discover your strengths and weaknesses and the depths of your compassion and courage. It's how you will grow and how you grow closer to the people you serve.<p>And once you've formed those connections, you'll find that it's a little harder to numb yourself to other people's suffering. It's a little harder to convince yourself that their struggles aren't your problem. It's a little harder to just stand by as a bystander. Once you've tutored young people in a struggling neighborhood, it's hard not to care about that ballot measure to fund their school. Once you've volunteered at a food bank, it's hard not to care about poverty and unemployment. Over time, the needs of the people you serve become your stake in the challenges of our time.<p>See, in the end, service binds us to each other and to our communities and our country in a way that nothing else can. That's how we become more fully American. That's what it means to be American. It's always been the case in this country, that notion that we invest ourselves, our time, our energy, our vision, our purpose into the very fabric of this Nation. That's the essence of our liberty, that we give back, freely.<p>You don't have to devote your entire career to service, though I hope that many of the students here will. But I'm asking you to have a public service mindset. I'm asking that no matter where you live or what job you do or what obstacles you face, you're always looking for ways to make service part of your life.<p>Whether through it's&mdash;it's through your workplace, your house of worship, or your local school, whether it's in your own neighborhood or another where the need is greater, whether you offer some special skill or just an extra set of hands and a sympathetic ear.<p>I know you're busy. I know that sometimes, even if you don't like to admit it, service can feel a bit like a chore. But if Mallory Myers can repeat last year's success and get more than 12,000 students to perform more than 20&mdash;a hundred&mdash;let me try that again&mdash;1,200&mdash;it's so much that it boggles the mind, Mallory&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;12,000 students and 1,200 service activities in this community&mdash;if Mallory can do that, then surely you can round up a few friends to volunteer in your community too.<p><i>Audience member. </i>That's right. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> That's right. I got an amen back here. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>If President Bush could fly 58 combat missions when he was younger than many of you here today and keep on fighting even after he was shot down and nearly captured by the enemy, then surely you can keep going when your service project gets a little tough. [<i>Laughter</i>] Don't you think?<p>If 11-year-old Erin Buenger, whose all-too-short life touched so many in this community, could travel to Washington and lobby Members of Congress for cancer funding while going through chemotherapy, if she could raise money by making lanyards and writing her own cookbook, all while making the honor role, then surely you can find the strength to serve even when you face challenges in your own life.<p>And that ultimately is the idea at the heart of President Bush's vision, that each of us has a role to play and all of us have something to contribute. He didn't call for one blinding light shining from Washington. [<i>Laughter</i>] Right? He didn't just call for a few bright lights from the biggest nonprofits; but he called for \\"a vast galaxy of people and institutions working together to solve problems in their own backyard.\\"<p>And today, 20 years later, think for a minute about the impact that he's had. Think of the thousands of people and organizations who've been named Points of Light and the countless others he inspired to do their part. Think of all the people they touched and the lives they changed and all of those who were helped who went on to help others. That's the extraordinary ripple effect that one life, lived humbly, with love for one's country and in service to one's fellow citizens, can have. May we each strive to make that kind of difference with our own lives.<p>Thank you, President Bush. Thank you, Texas A&M. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"304" "\"Over the better part of the past year, a great debate has taken place in Washington and across America about how to reform our health care system to provide security for people with insurance, coverage for those without insurance, and lower costs for everyone. From the Halls of Congress to the homes of ordinary Americans, this debate has helped us to forge consensus and find common ground. That's a good thing; that's what America is all about.<p>Now, as the debate draws to a close, we can point to a broad and growing coalition of doctors and nurses, workers and businesses, hospitals and even drug companies&mdash;folks who represent different parties and perspectives, including leading Democrats and many leading Republicans&mdash;who recognize the urgency of action. Just this week, the Senate Finance Committee approved a reform proposal that has both Democratic and Republican support. For the first time ever, all five committees in Congress responsible for health reform have passed a version of legislation. As I speak to you today, we are closer to reforming the health care system than we have ever been in history.<p>But this is not the time to pat ourselves on the back. This is not the time to grow complacent. There are still significant details and disagreements to be worked out in the coming weeks. And there are still those who would try to kill reform at any cost. The history is clear: For decades, rising health care costs have unleashed havoc on families, businesses, and the economy, and for decades, whenever we have tried to reform the system, the insurance companies have done everything in their considerable power to stop us.<p>We know that this inaction has carried a terrible toll. In the past decade, premiums have doubled. Over the past few years, total out-of-pocket costs for people with insurance rose by a third. And we know that if we do not reform the system, this will only be a preview of coming attractions. A new report for the Business Roundtable, a nonpartisan group that represents the CEOs of major companies, found that without significant reform, health care costs for these employers and their employees will well more than double again over the next decade. The cost per person for health insurance will rise by about $18,000. That's a huge amount of money. That's going to mean lower salaries and higher unemployment, lower profits and higher rolls of uninsured. It's no exaggeration to say that unless we act, these costs will devastate the U.S. economy.<p>This is the unsustainable path we're on, and it's the path the insurers want to keep us on. In fact, the insurance industry is rolling out the big guns and breaking out their massive war chest to marshal their forces for one last fight to save the status quo. They're filling the airwaves with deceptive and dishonest ads. They're flooding Capitol Hill with lobbyists and campaign contributions, and they're funding studies designed to mislead the American people.<p>Of course, like clockwork, we've seen folks on cable television who know better waving these industry-funded studies in the air. We've seen industry insiders and their apologists citing these studies as proof of claims that just aren't true. They'll claim that premiums will go up under reform, but they know that the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office found that reforms will lower premiums in a new insurance exchange while offering consumers protections that will limit out-of-pocket costs and prevent discrimination based on preexisting conditions. They'll claim that you'll have to pay more out of pocket, but they know that this is based on a study that willfully ignores whole sections of the bill, including tax credits and cost savings that will greatly benefit middle class families. Even the authors of one of these studies have now admitted publicly that the insurance companies actually asked them to do an incomplete job.<p>It's smoke and mirrors, it's bogus, and it's all too familiar. Every time we get close to passing reform, the insurance companies produce these phony studies as a prescription and say, \\"Take one of these and call us in a decade.\\" Well, not this time. The fact is, the insurance industry is making this last-ditch effort to stop reform even as costs continue to rise and our health care dollars continue to be poured into their profits, bonuses, and administrative costs that do nothing to make us healthy, that often actually go toward figuring out how to avoid covering people. And they're earning these profits and bonuses while enjoying a privileged exception from our antitrust laws, a matter that Congress is rightfully reviewing.<p>Now, I welcome a good debate. I welcome the chance to defend our proposals and to test our ideas in the fires of this democracy. But what I will not abide are those who would bend the truth, or break it, to score political points and stop our progress as a country. And what we all must oppose are the same old cynical Washington games that have been played for decades, even as our problems have grown and our challenges have mounted.<p>Last November, the American people went to the polls in historic numbers and demanded change. They wanted a change in our policies, but they also sought a change in our politics, a politics that too often has fallen prey to the lobbyists and special interests, that's fostered division and sustained the status quo. Passing health insurance reform is a great test of this proposition. Yes, it will make a profound and positive difference in the lives of the American people. But it also now represents something more: whether or not we as a nation are capable of tackling our toughest challenges; if we can serve the national interest despite the unrelenting efforts of the special interests; if we can still do big things in America.<p>I believe we can; I believe we will. And I urge every Member of Congress to stand against the power plays and political ploys and to stand up on behalf of the American people who sent us to Washington to do their business.<p>Thanks.\" "
"305" "\"<i>The President. </i>Here's the reason that I wanted to stop by for lunch today, and that is, I have heard great things about this school. I hear everybody here is reading all the time. Right? The motto here is?<p><i>Principal </i><i>Matthew A. Devan.</i> Viers Mill, what's our goal?<p><i>Students.</i> Read! Read! Read!<p><i>Mr. </i><i>Devan.</i> Viers Mill, what's our goal?<p><i>Students.</i> Read! Read! Read!<p><i>Mr. </i><i>Devan.</i> Because great readers have?<p><i>Students.</i> Great choices!<p><i>The President. </i>So you guys are readers. And so, being a reader myself, I wanted to come meet all these outstanding readers. Because you guys are reading so much and you're working so hard, you guys are doing great in terms of your test scores and how this school is doing. And so this was just a great example of how much improvement a school can make just in a really short time when you've got motivated kids.<p>So I wanted to come by and introduce myself, to say I'm very proud of you. I am hoping that you guys will continue to read, read, read, and that all of you are going to be really working hard not just this year, but all the way through high school and then all the way through college, because how many people here plan to go to college? Everybody, right? I just wanted to make sure everybody's going to college. But that means everybody's going to have to work hard.<p>So here's what I'm going to do. I didn't want to give a long speech. What I'm going to do is, I'm just going to come around, I'm going to shake people's hands, I'm going to say hi to folks, and I'm sure that somebody out there is going to be taking a bunch of pictures. [<i>Laughter</i>] And you guys can tell me what you've been reading. All right? So get ready to tell me what you've been reading lately and what's going on. All right? Okay, guys.\" "
"306" "\"Please be seated. Good afternoon, everybody, and welcome to the White House. And welcome to a moment nearly 40 years in the making. Now, last month, I was privileged to present the parents of an American soldier, Sergeant First Class Jared Monti, with our Nation's highest decoration for valor, the Medal of Honor. Today we celebrate the awarding of our Nation's highest honor for a military unit, the Presidential Unit Citation.<p>The Presidential Unit Citation is awarded for \\"gallantry, determination, and esprit de corps in accomplishing its mission under extremely difficult and hazardous conditions.\\" And since its creation during the Second World War, it has only been bestowed about 100 times. Today another unit assumes its rightful place in these ranks: Alpha Troop, 1st Squadron, 11th Armored Cavalry, the legendary Blackhorse Regiment.<p>To mark this occasion we're joined by Congressman&mdash;and Vietnam veteran&mdash;Leonard Boswell; vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Jim \\"Hoss\\" Cartwright; John McHugh, our Army Secretary; and Vice Chief of Staff Peter Chiarelli; from Fort Irwin, California, leaders of today's 11th Armored Cavalry, Colonel Paul Laughlin and Command Sergeant Major Martin Wilcox; and most of all, the men of Alpha Troop&mdash;those behind me and some 100 here today. Now, these men might be a little bit older, a little bit grayer, but make no mistake, these soldiers define the meaning of bravery and heroism. It was March 1970, deep in the jungles of Vietnam. And through the static and crackle of their radios, Alpha Troop heard that another unit was in trouble. Charlie Company, from the 1st Calvary Division, had stumbled upon a massive underground bunker of North Vietnamese troops. A hundred Americans were facing some 400 enemy fighters. Outnumbered and outgunned, Charlie Company was at risk of being overrun. And that's when Alpha Troop's captain gave the order: \\"Saddle up and move out.\\" <p>As these men will tell you themselves, this isn't the story of a battle that changed the course of a war. It never had a name, like Tet or Hue or Khe Sanh. It never made the papers back home. But like countless battles, known and unknown, it is a proud chapter in the story of the American soldier.<p>It's the story of men who came together, from every corner of America, of different colors and creeds; some young&mdash;just 18, 19 years old&mdash;and just weeks in the jungle; some older&mdash;veterans hardened by the ugliness of war; noncommissioned officers who held the unit together and the officers assigned to lead them.<p>It's the story of how this team of some 200 men set out to save their fellow Americans. With no roads to speak of, they plowed their tanks and armored vehicles through the thick jungle, smashing a path through bamboo and underbrush, mile after mile, risking ambush and landmines every step of the way, and finally emerging from the jungle to the rescue, what one member of Charlie Company called a miracle.<p>It's a story of resolve. For Alpha Troop could have simply evacuated their comrades and left that enemy bunker for another day, to ambush another American unit. But as their captain said, \\"That's not what the 11th Cavalry does.\\"<p>And so ultimately, this is a story of what soldiers do, not only for their country but for each other: the troopers who put themselves in the line of fire, using their tanks and vehicles to shield those trapped Americans; the loaders who kept the ammunition coming, and the gunners who never let up; and when one of those gunners went down, the soldier who jumped up to take his place.<p>It's about the men who rushed out to drag their wounded buddies to safety; the medics who raced to save so many; the injured who kept fighting hour after hour. And finally, with dark falling, as the convoy made the daring escape back through the jungle, these soldiers remained vigilant, protecting the wounded who lay at their feet.<p>The fog of war makes a full accounting impossible. But this much we know: Among the many casualties that day, some 20 members of Alpha Troop were wounded, and at least 2 made the ultimate sacrifice, their names now among the many etched in that black granite wall not far from here. But because of that service, that sacrifice, Alpha Troop completed its mission: It rescued Charlie Company. It saved those 100 American soldiers, some of who join us today. And those soldiers went on to have families, children and grandchildren who also owe their lives to Alpha Troop.<p>Now, some may wonder, after all these years, why honor this heroism now? And the answer is simple: Because we must, because we have a sacred obligation. As a nation, we have an obligation to this troop. Their actions that day went largely unnoticed&mdash;for decades&mdash;until their old captain, John Poindexter, realized that their service had been overlooked. He felt that he had a right to wrong. And so he spent years tracking down his troopers and gathering their stories, filing reports, fighting for the Silver Stars and Bronze Stars they deserved and bringing us to this day. Thank you, John. <p>We have an obligation to all who served in the jungles of Vietnam. Our Vietnam vets answered their country's call and served with honor. But one of the saddest episodes in American history was the fact that these vets were often shunned and neglected, even demonized, when they came home. That was a national disgrace. And on days such as this, we resolve to never let it happen again. <p>Many of our Vietnam vets put away their medals, rarely spoke of their service, and moved on. They started families and careers. Some rose through the ranks, like the decorated Vietnam veteran that I rely on every day, my National Security Adviser, Jim Jones.<p>Indeed, I'm told that today is the first time in 39 years that many from Alpha Troop have pulled out their medals and joined their old troop. Some of you still carry the shrapnel and the scars of that day. All of you carry the memories. And so I say, it's never too late. We can never say it enough: To you and all of those who served in Vietnam, we thank you. We honor your service, and America is forever grateful. <p>And today also reminds us of our obligations to all our veterans, whether they took off the uniform decades ago or days ago, to make sure that they and their families receive the respect they deserve and the health care and treatment they need, the benefits they have earned and all the opportunities to live out their dreams.<p>And finally, if that day in the jungle, if that war long ago, teaches us anything, then surely it is this: If we send our men and women in uniform into harm's way, then it must be only when it is absolutely necessary. And when we do, we must back them up with the strategy and the resources and the support they need to get the job done. <p>This includes always showing our troops the respect and dignity they deserve, whether one agrees with the mission or not. For if this troop and our men and women in uniform can come together, from so many different backgrounds and beliefs, to serve together and to succeed together, then so can we. So can America.<p>I cannot imagine a more fitting tribute to these men, who fought in what came to be called the \\"Anonymous Battle.\\" Troopers, you are not anonymous anymore. And with America's overdue recognition also comes responsibility, our responsibility as citizens and as a nation, to always remain worthy of your service.<p>God bless Alpha Troop and the 11th Armored Cavalry. God bless all those who wear this Nation's uniform. And God bless the United States of America.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"307" "\"Hello, everybody! Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Please, everybody have a seat. Back to your salads&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;or whatever they're serving.<p>It is good to be back in New York&mdash;always great to be in New York. I&mdash;for those Yankee fans out there, you're still up 2 to 1. You should be all right. I love this town, and I&mdash;want to know how much I appreciate everything that so many of the people in this room have done, not just for me, but for the country as a whole. And there are a lot of folks here who were on the frontlines of our campaign and people who devoted their time and their energy and their reputations to backing some guy nobody had ever heard of. [<i>Laughter</i>] I will never forget that. And not a day goes by that I don't think about the obligations that I have as a consequence of this extraordinary honor that's been bestowed on me, the obligation I've got to every American and everybody who put their hopes into a cause that wasn't just about winning an election, but was about changing the country. <p>Now, it's been 9 months since the Obama family packed up and moved to Washington. And I want to report that Malia and Sasha are doing very well. I got more requests for Malia and Sasha meetings during the photo line than&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;you can't afford a fundraiser involving Malia and Sasha. [<i>Laughter</i>] I just want you to know. I'm cheap. [<i>Laughter</i>] You guys can't afford that.<p>They are doing great. Michelle is, obviously, an extraordinary First Lady. And we've got Bo, my dog, who&mdash;I now rank fourth in influence in the house&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;behind Michelle, Malia, and Sasha. I'm slightly ahead of Bo. [<i>Laughter</i>] But he's coming on fast. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It's important for all of us to remember, I think, what was happening less than a year ago when we walked into the Oval Office, because I notice that there's been a little bit of selective memory going on, some collective amnesia on the part of some folks about what we were facing. We were seeing an economic crisis unlike any that we had seen in generations. We were losing 700,000 jobs per month. Our financial system was on the brinks&mdash;brink of collapse. Economists of every stripe were suggesting that we might slip into a great depression. That was just 9 months ago. <p>And think about what we've done since that time. We acted boldly and swiftly to pass a Recovery Act that's made a difference in the lives of families across America. As promised, we put a tax cut in the pockets of 95 percent of working families in America&mdash;the most progressive tax cut in history&mdash;benefiting 7 million families right here in New York. <p>We extended and increased unemployment insurance to help 12 million people get by during tough times. That's helped more than a million folks here in New York. We made COBRA 65 percent cheaper so that if people were out there looking for jobs, they could actually still keep health care for themselves and their families.<p>We provided relief to States, including New York, to make sure that teachers and firefighters and police officers weren't laid off. According to initial reports, this has saved some 250,000 jobs in our schools all across America&mdash;250,000 jobs; teachers that would have been laid off had it not been for the Recovery Act. We've supported more than 30,000 loans to small businesses, including nearly 2,000 in this State, helping to create thousands of private sector jobs. <p>But the Recovery Act wasn't just about tax cuts; it wasn't just about providing emergency relief for middle class families and working families who bore the brunt of this recession. It was also the largest investment in education in American history. Think about that: The largest investment in education in American history, and one that is promoting reform in States all across the country. It was the largest investment in clean energy in American history. It was the largest boost to medical research and basic research in American history. And it was the single largest investment in our Nation's infrastructure since Eisenhower built the Interstate Highway System in the 1950s, an investment that's putting people to work all across this country rebuilding not just our roads and our bridges and crumbling schools, but also creating a whole new infrastructure, a smart grid to help clean energy travel from where it's produced to where it's needed, broadband lines extending into communities that don't have it.<p>So that was pretty good for the first month. [<i>Laughter</i>] And then we kept on going, and we passed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, because I think women should get paid the same as men for doing the same work. We lifted the ban on stem cell research to begin restoring science to its rightful place in America. We extended health insurance to 11 million children in America, 4 million of whom previously had no insurance at all.<p>We passed a service bill named for Ted Kennedy, which is encouraging folks to give back to their communities all across the country, expanding Peace Corps and AmeriCorps. We passed legislation to protect consumers from unfair rate hikes and the most comprehensive credit card reform legislation in a generation.<p>We passed laws to make sure that our children weren't being targeted by big tobacco companies, housing fraud legislation. These were all things that we had been fighting for years that we signed into law in the first 9 months.<p>And for the first time in history, we've begun to put in place a new national policy aimed at both increasing fuel economy and reducing greenhouse gas pollution for all new cars and trucks sold in the United States. <p>And while I was in line, I was talking to a few folks who are involved in the environmental movement, and they will affirm&mdash;we're not doing this with a lot of fanfare&mdash;that we have been as productive in cleaning our environment and focusing on the big challenges having to do with our air and our water as any administration that's been around in a very long time&mdash;for decades. If we stop now, if we didn't do anything else for the next 3 months, we would have had one of the most productive legislative sessions in decades already. <p>Now, that's what we've been able to do at home. I've got a few things going on abroad. [<i>Laughter</i>] We've begun a new era of engagement. We're working with our partners to stop the spread of nuclear weapons, to seek the long-term goal of a safer, more secure world that is free of nuclear weapons. We are&mdash;we're working in concert with nations on just about every continent to stem our global economic downturn and to confront climate change. We banned torture. We're rebuilding our military. We're reaffirming our alliances. We've begun to leave Iraq to its own people. We've made progress in taking the fight to Al Qaida, from Pakistan to Somalia to Indonesia. And we're making progress there too.<p>But the reason you're here tonight, the reason I'm here tonight, the reason Tim Kaine is doing such an extraordinary job as our DNC chair, even though he's got another job as Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, is because we all know our work is far from over. There's still far too many Americans who are out of work right now; they're seeing their hours and their wages reduced. There are too many Americans who are subject to the whims of the insurance companies when it comes to their health care, being dropped or discriminated against because they've got a preexisting condition. Too many millions can't afford insurance in the first place.<p>We know that we still face enormous challenges in this country, and that's not news to you. Lately, there had been some discussion, you know, \\"What's taking him so long?\\" Health care seems to&mdash;it's been 9 months, we haven't solved world hunger yet. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I try to explain to people, part of what was remarkable about the campaign that we ran was it wasn't easy. That's how we knew it was worth it. We knew we were fighting against the status quo and fighting against inertia. And it took a lot of hard work and a lot of effort and a lot of defying the odds. That was part of what made it special. <p>And I know you guys didn't sign up for this election because I was a sure thing. And you didn't sign up because you thought that somehow all the fun stuff of the election would just keep on continuing into governing. You know, the poster was nice; we had \\"Yes we can,\\" nice slogans&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;but that's not why you did this. You did this because you understood that we were at a crossroads in our history; that the future of our children, our grandchildren, our great-grandchildren was going to be at stake, and that we were going to have to completely rethink how we were dealing with key sectors of our economy and key aspects of our national security.<p>So you understood that now is the time to build a clean energy economy that will free our Nation from the grip of foreign oil and generate new green jobs in the process, jobs that pay well and can't be outsourced. You understood that now is the time to transform our education system so that every child is prepared to compete in this new global economy, that now was the time to make sure that we put new rules of the road in our financial sector to prevent the kinds of abuse and excess on Wall Street that led us to this crisis. You understood that. And you also understood that the insurance companies and the banks and the oil companies might not be crazy about some of these changes, that they were doing just fine under the status quo. So nobody thought this was going to be easy. We talked about this during the campaign. <p>While I'm in New York, I want to stress something about this financial reform effort. The financial industry is essential to a healthy economy and to the well being of our economy. That's why we stepped in to prevent a collapse that would have had far-reaching and devastating consequences for the American people, steps, by the way, that were not wildly popular and still aren't among the American people. But it was the right thing to do.<p>But we also know we should never again have to face potential calamity because of reckless speculation and deceptive practices and shortsightedness and self-interestedness from a few. So if there are members of the financial industry in the audience today, I would ask that you join us in passing what are necessary reforms. Don't fight them, join us on them.<p>This is important for our country. And in the long run, it will be good for the financial industry to have a level playing field in which everybody knows the rules and everybody knows that the rules will be enforced, and people are competing not by how confusing you can make things and how you can avoid rules, but competing because you're offering innovative good products that are helping grow the American economy and putting people to work out on Main Street.<p>When I hear folks who had just been taking taxpayer bailout money suddenly say, \\"What do you want from me?\\"&mdash;when I hear stories about small businesses and medium-sized businesses not being able to get loans despite Wall Street being back, very profitable, that tells me that people aren't thinking about their obligations, our mutual obligations to each other, the fact that we're in this together.<p>So what's true for financial reform, what's true for energy reform, is also true for health insurance reform. You know why this is so important. You know if you're an employer, you've seen what's happening to the premiums that you're paying on behalf of your employees, and if you're an employee, you've how your employer is passing on some of those costs to you. Premiums have doubled over the past decade. They could double again in the next decade. <p>Millions of people in this country have been discriminated against because of preexisting conditions. More and more companies are dropping their coverage; more and more families struggling to pay health care even as insurance out-of-pocket costs rise year after year. <p>Now, here's the good news. We are closer than we have ever been to passing health insurance reform that will make quality, affordable&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;that will make quality care affordable for people who don't have insurance, and it will bring stability and security to people who do have insurance, and that will slow the skyrocketing costs of health insurance for our families and our businesses, our State and Federal budgets. <p>Nothing could be more important in terms of getting our fiscal house in order than finishing the job on health reform. Now, there's still details to be ironed out, still disagreements that we've got to work out, but for the first time, we've passed bills through every committee. They are now starting to be narrowed. There are negotiations taking place. And we've got people who are engaging, even if they don't want to engage, because they're starting to realize it's not a matter of whether; it's a matter of when. <p>All of the bills that have been passed, despite the various differences, all of them would provide help to millions of people who don't have coverage. Right&mdash;understand, 29 million&mdash;under the Baucus bill&mdash;29 million people who don't have health insurance would now have health insurance, according to the Congressional Budget Office. <p>All the bills would prevent insurance companies from barring you because of preexisting conditions. All of them would set up an exchange, a framework so that businesses and self-employed individuals could buy in and leverage the fact that there are millions of people as part of a pool so that they can get a better deal.<p>So we are nearing the finish line. With your help, we are going to cross it. And there are going to be some fierce arguments in the days ahead. That's how it should be. That's how our democracy works. But I want all the Democrats who are in the house&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;to understand what a profound potential achievement this is and stay focused on the goal line. Sometimes we like to have our little intramural battles; that's fine. The American people desperately need this.<p>I want all non-Democrats who may be here or may be watching to know that I believe in a strong and loyal opposition. I believe in a two-party system where ideas are tested and assumptions are challenged. That's how we strengthen our proposals. That's how our democracy works. But what I reject, what I don't have a lot of sympathy for is folks who are just sitting on the sidelines and rooting for failure, whether it's on health care or energy or the economy. What I reject is when some folks suggest that we go back to the policies that got us in the mess in the first place, as if we didn't just go through what we've been going through.<p>I said this before, last week at a fundraiser: I don't mind cleaning up the mess that some other folks made. That's what I signed up to do. But while I'm there mopping the floor, I don't want somebody standing there saying, \\"You're not mopping fast enough,\\" or, \\"You're not holding the mop the right way.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Grab a mop! Why don't you help clean up?<p>Everybody in Washington&mdash;Democrat, Republican&mdash;we all have a responsibility to rise to this occasion, to look past our differences, to recognize that we have to move beyond the failed policies and broken politics that allowed our toughest problems to go unsolved for decades.<p>When you look at the health care debate, and you've got a whole bunch of Republicans who are saying, \\"Yeah, we should do this\\"&mdash;except those are all retired Republicans&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;Bob Dole and Bill Frist and&mdash;last time I checked, they're not socialist. And they think it's important for us to get this done. That's a model for what everybody needs to be thinking. Roll up our sleeves and help to make this country the kind of country it should be.<p>In the end, the people I meet across this country, they aren't looking for a lot. They're not looking for government to solve all their problems. They just want a chance to succeed. They're modest hopes: They want a job; they want to be able to get an education. If they've got a good idea, they want to be able to get some financing to start a business. They want to retire with some dignity and respect. They want to be able to send their kids to college. They're asking for the opportunity to make the most of their own lives. That's it. It's the chance every American deserves. That's the American Dream. That's the promise I'm working to fulfill every day.<p>And at this rare moment in the history, I want you all to know that without your help, I can't do it. Like I said before, what we're trying to do is big, and it's hard. If it was easy, somebody else would have done it. And it now falls to us. And I hope that everybody here is willing to recapture that sense of excitement that comes from a big, but achievable challenge. Not the superficial excitement that comes from election day, but the excitement that comes from knowing we took on something that had to be taken on; we didn't kick the can down the road, and we didn't push it off on somebody else, but instead, we decided we were going to be the generation that puts things on better footing for those coming behind us.<p>That's what tonight is about. That is what our efforts are about. And if you're willing to stand with me and work with me and occasionally march with me, I'm absolutely confident we're going to get it accomplished.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"308" "\"Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Please be seated. Thank you so much. It is great to be here today, and I am honored to spend some time with the men and women who are working so hard, around the clock, to keep not only this city but also this country safe from terrorism.<p>I want to thank our outstanding FBI Director, Robert Mueller, for that kind and brief introduction. As I've said before, these are incredibly challenging times for the FBI. And for the last 8 years, Bob has worked tirelessly to prevent additional attacks and keep this Nation safe. He's been doing a unbelievable job under very difficult and trying circumstances, and we are grateful to him.<p>I also want to commend Police Commissioner Kelly, Assistant Director in Charge Joe Demarest, and all the leaders who've helped to put together a team that is more integrated and more collaborative and more effective than ever before.<p>Here at the Joint Terrorism Task Force, we have folks from the FBI working side by side with some of New York's finest, as well as countless Federal, State, and local partners. I was taking a look at the list, and it looks like 45, 46 different agencies represented here. And together, your success in thwarting terrorist attacks&mdash;the strong intelligence you've gathered and the hard-nosed investigations you've pursued&mdash;has proved to be a model for law enforcement officials across the country, and for that you should all be extremely proud.<p>No one knows better than you how important this work is, because you've always been on the frontlines in fighting extremism. Last month, we marked the eighth anniversary of the attacks on 9/11. And on that terrible day, when terrorists brought so much death and destruction on our shores and so many lives were lost, many of you were the first on the scenes, saving lives, working tirelessly to bring those responsible to justice, and guarding against future attacks in subsequent weeks and months and years.<p>And that effort continues to this day, quietly, doggedly, courageously. Most New Yorkers, much less most Americans, probably don't know this office is here, and they don't know what you do. Obviously, you're not doing it for the glamour or the glory or the pay. [<i>Laughter</i>] You do it to serve and protect your country. And because of the effort and sacrifices that you're making on a daily basis, we are making real progress on our core missions of disrupting and dismantling and, ultimately, defeating Al Qaida and its extremist allies.<p>I said this when I had a chance to speak to some of the NYPD leadership team last month over the phone, but I particularly want to express my appreciation and admiration for your terrific work, especially in the recent weeks. Working together, you saved countless lives, and your collaboration earned the respect and gratitude not just of New Yorkers but Americans everywhere.<p>This level of cooperation and integration is going to be critical in defeating the type of determined and resourceful&mdash;and oftentimes in the shadows&mdash;opponents that you're up against every day. Nerve centers like this one help you share intelligence, answer questions, and give support instantly. And because each organization is on its own, this task force has shown how much stronger all of you can be when you're actually working together.<p>You're setting the standard for everybody else, as I said, and you're showing what focused and integrated counterterrorism work really looks like. And the record of your service is written in the attacks that never occur because you thwarted them, and because of the countless Americans who are alive today as a consequence of that work. And so America is in your debt for that.<p>Of course, we all know that we're facing a determined adversary. They are resourceful, they are resilient, they are still plotting, as we have become all too aware. No one can ever promise that there won't be another attack on America's soil. But I can promise you this: I pledge to do everything in my power as President of the United States to keep the American people safe. And that means I pledge to give all of you the tools and the support that you need to get the job done, both here at home and around the world. And I pledge that I will stay as focused on this mission as you are.<p>So we all have to redouble our efforts in the face of threats that persist. We're going to have to draw strength from the values that we hold dear. We're going to have to keep our eye fixed on the world we seek to build , one that not just&mdash;not only defeats our adversaries but that also promotes dignity and opportunity and justice for all who stand with us.<p>And to do that, I'm going to need all of you to continue the extraordinary work you do and the collaborations you do. That's how we're going to prevail in this fight. That's how we're going to protect this country that we love.<p>So I know that all of you are extraordinarily busy, and I do not want to draw you away from the work that you do. I just want to let you know that we appreciate it, we acknowledge it, we thank you for it, and I am going to continue to be standing behind you each and every step of the way. So thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"309" "\"Thank you. Please, everybody, have a seat. Thank you so much. Thank you, Joe, for that introduction and for inviting us here to Metropolitan Archives. <p>I want to acknowledge a few other extraordinary guests. First of all, the Governor of the great State of Maryland, Martin O'Malley, is here; Senator Ben Cardin, who is doing an outstanding job on behalf of the State; House Majority Leader Hoyer; Representative Chris Van Hollen; Representative Donna Edwards, whose congressional district we are in; County Executive Jack Johnson; Mayor William Gardiner, the mayor of Hyattsville; and my outstandingSecretary of the Treasury, Tim Geithner; as well as my extraordinary SBA Administrator, Karen Mills. I am so glad to have them standing behind me today.<p>Five years ago, this company was founded by Joe and his old fraternity brother, Doug Peters. We&mdash;I have not had a chance to ask them what they were doing in&mdash;during those frat years. [<i>Laughter</i>] But they were two friends who had known each other since middle school. And today, their families took this company from an empty warehouse to a small business that stores and delivers records for some of the largest firms in the world. And the success&mdash;the story of their success has been the story of small-business owners all across the country, men and women from big cities and from small towns who've had both a good idea and the drive to follow through on it, who've convinced family and friends to join them in taking a chance on a dream. <p>Now, these entrepreneurial pioneers embody that spirit of possibility and the tireless work ethic and the simple hope for something better that lies at the heart of the American ideal. And they've always formed the backbone of the American economy. They're the ones who've opened up the mom-and-pop stores and started the computer tinkering that's led to some of the biggest innovations and corporations in the world. After all, Hewlett-Packard began in a garage. Google began as a research project. McDonald's started with just one restaurant. <p>Over the past decade and a half, America's small businesses have created 65 percent of all new jobs in the country. And more than half of all Americans working in the private sector are either employed by a small business or own one&mdash;more than half. These companies are the engine of job growth in America, they fuel our prosperity, and that's why they have to be at the forefront of our recovery. <p>The problem is, our small businesses have been some of the hardest hit by this recession. From the middle of 2007 through the end of 2008, small businesses lost 2.4 million jobs. And because banks shrunk from lending in the midst of the financial crisis, it's been difficult for entrepreneurs to take out the loans they need to start a business. For those who do own a small business, it's been difficult to finance inventories and make payroll, or expand if things are going well. <p>And that's why we made sure the Recovery Act focused on helping small businesses expand and create jobs. In it, we temporarily reduced or eliminated fees on SBA loans, loans that give small businesses more money to reinvest in their own futures. And we guaranteed some of these loans by up to 90 percent, which has given local banks and credit unions the confidence they need to lend. <p>In the last 8 months, these steps have made a real difference for small businesses across America. So far, the Recovery Act has supported over 33,000 loans to small businesses that have already helped save or create nearly tens of thousands of jobs, nearly $13 billion in new lending&mdash;$13 billion. And more than 1,200 banks and credit unions that had stopped issuing SBA loans when the financial crisis hit are lending again today. And more than $4.3 billion in Federal contracts are now going to small businesses.<p>We're also providing tax relief to small businesses under the Recovery Act, relief that will give these businesses back over $5 billion this year. And we're giving tax cuts directly to 95 percent of working Americans, which includes the vast majority of small-business owners and their employees. <p>So there's no question that our Recovery Act has given a boost to every American who works at a small business, or owns one, or aspires to own one. There's no question that the steps we've taken have improved the overall climate for small business across the country. <p>But there's also no question that we've got a long way to go. There's still too little credit flowing to our small businesses. There's still too many entrepreneurs who can't get the loans they need to open up their doors and start hiring. There's still too many who are struggling to make payroll and to stay open. And there's still too many successful small businesses that want to expand further and hire more but just don't have the capital to do it.<p>Metropolitan Archives is one of these companies. Last February, Joe and Doug were able to purchase the building we're standing in with an SBA loan, an expansion that has already helped them retain 10 jobs, and one that will create 10 new ones in the months ahead. In fact, business is going so well that they're already hoping to expand again. But they need another loan to make it happen. <p>These are the kind of stories I hear from small-business owners all the time. And they're the kind of stories that my unbelievable Administrator for the SBA, Karen Mills, hears every single day. And that's why today we're announcing new steps to support more lending to America's small businesses, steps that will lead to more jobs, more growth, and a stronger economic recovery.<p>The first thing we need to do is increase the maximum size of various SBA loans. So I'm calling on Congress to increase the cap on what's called 7(a) loans to $5 million. These are the loans most frequently handed out by the Small Business Administration to help folks open their doors and buy machinery, equipment, land, and buildings. These larger loans will help more small-business owners and franchisees grow. We also need to increase the maximum size of what's called 504 loans to $5 million. These are the type of loans that Joe and Doug used to expand this business and create new jobs. And we should also increase the maximum size of microloans&mdash;these are smaller loans&mdash;that go to startups and other smaller businesses. <p>Today we're also taking additional steps to boost credit for small businesses through our financial stability plan. The major banks that were in critical condition a year ago need no new assistance from the Government, and so we're winding down that portion of the TARP program. But to spur lending to small businesses, it's essential that we make more credit available to the smaller banks and community financial institutions that these businesses depend on. These are the community banks who know their borrowers, who gave them their first loan, who've watched them grow from down the street, not from Wall Street. The large majority of the business loans from these smaller banks are not to major corporations, they're to entrepreneurs like Joe and Doug. And when banks like these are hit by recession and financial crisis, creditworthy small businesses lose out, and that means less expansion and fewer new jobs just when we need them most. <p>And that's why we must do more to give these new opportunities to smaller banks so that they have the ability to access capital, so that they can lend to small businesses in their communities. So under the new steps that we're announcing today, if these institutions put forth a plan to increase lending to small businesses, we will help them get the credit they need to do it at rates that are more affordable than the ones offered to our largest financial institutions. And we will make capital even more affordable to the community development financial institutions that focus on providing credit to America's small businesses in our hardest hit rural and underserved communities. <p>Finally, I've asked Tim Geithner and Karen Mills to convene a conference in the coming weeks that will bring together regulators, congressional leaders, lenders, and small businesses to determine what additional steps we can take to get credit flowing to small businesses that want to expand and create more jobs. Of all the steps we're taking to move this economy from recession to recovery, I continue to believe that the success of our small businesses will be a foundation upon which our future prosperity is built. So we will continue to do whatever we can to help these businesses grow and thrive. And I'm confident that the steps we announced today will do that for small-business owners across the country, men and women we hear from every day.<p>They're people like Andy Cabral. Son of Portuguese immigrants, Andy started his business on an SBA loan and now runs 10 stores across Maryland and Virginia that employ 130 people. And Andy has already seen one loan fall through the cracks because of the financial crisis, and he's hit the cap on his SBA loans. But the measure we're announcing today will help Andy and other franchisees pursue their plans to expand and create more jobs. <p>And these steps will make a difference for more small businesses like Pete's Apizza in Washington, DC. I recommend it that everybody go out there. [<i>Laughter</i>] When the three owners had little more than a dream of opening up a casual pizza restaurant, they found it challenging to get financing. Ultimately, they got a loan through City First Bank, a community development bank right in Washington. Today, business is booming. And the initiative we're announcing today will help more banks provide more loans to businesses like Pete's.<p>And the steps we've announced will make a difference for Joe and Doug and all the folks who work here at Metropolitan Archives. In the past 5 years, you've done all that's asked of Americans who hope to pursue a dream of owning their own business: You've taken a risk on a good idea; you've worked hard for your success; you've met your responsibilities to your employees and your customers. It's time that responsibility and that success are rewarded with the opportunity to keep growing, keep hiring, keep contributing to the success of your community and of your country. That's the opportunity we're providing today, and that's the opportunity I will continue to fight for as your President in the weeks and months ahead. <p>So to all the small-business owners out there, I just want to close by saying this: I know that times are tough, and I can only imagine what many of you are going through, in terms of keeping things going in the midst of a very tough economic climate. But I guarantee you this: This administration is going to stand behind small businesses. You are our highest priority because we are confident that when you are succeeding, America succeeds.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"310" "\"President Peres, Prime Minister Netanyahu, honored guests: I'm happy to send my warmest wishes to all of you who have gathered for this important conference on Facing Tomorrow. I'm sorry that I could not be there with you in person, but I'm so pleased that our extraordinary Ambassador to the United Nations, Susan Rice, will be participating with all of you. <p>I'm especially honored to send my greetings to a great statesman, the host of this conference, President Shimon Peres. His life stands as an extraordinary example of how courage and perseverance can help shape the future and turn harrowing challenges into historic opportunities. In his lifetime, he has helped to build and secure the State of Israel, he has faced grave threats and forged peace, and he has always challenged us to seek the promise of a better day. <p>Shimon has also contributed to the deep and much abiding friendship between the United States and Israel, a bond that is much more than a strategic alliance. The American people and the Israeli people share a faith in the future, a belief that democracies can shape their own destiny, and that opportunity should be available to all. <p>Through its own extraordinary history, Israel has given life to that promise. We see it in Israel's thriving democracy. We see it in the courage of citizens who go about their lives, even when faced with grave danger. We see it in the prosperity that has been forged and the innovation that has spread benefits well beyond Israel's borders, and we were reminded of that recently when Ada Yonath was chosen as the Nobel Laureate for Chemistry. <p>But we also see it in the optimism that has brought you together. Our moment in history is filled with challenges that test our will and invite pessimism, from a global economic crisis to a growing danger from climate change, from the spread of nuclear weapons to the obstacles that stand in the way of a secure and lasting peace between Israelis and Palestinians. Faced with these burdens, we can choose to defer action, to sustain a dangerous status quo, or we can meet the challenges of our time head on. <p>Like you, I believe that now's the time to act. By drawing upon such a wide range of expertise within Israel, President Peres is harnessing the talent and dynamism of the Israeli people in facing the future. And by bringing together such a broad and remarkable group of leaders from around the world, he is underscoring a fundamental truth: We cannot meet the tests of our time unless we meet them together. All of us must accept our share of responsibility for progress. <p>As we look to the future, consider what can be achieved if we move beyond our differences; if a secure Israel and an independent Palestine are at peace and Arab States commit to genuine reconciliation; if new partnerships were forged across the region to advance health and education, clean energy and innovation; if we overcome the threats posed by weapons of mass destruction; and if global cooperation were founded upon the basis of mutual interests and mutual respect, and we met our responsibility to leave our children a world that is more peaceful and prosperous. <p>It is easy to grow disheartened. But together, we must keep our eyes fixed on the future that we want to build. History shows us what is possible. Israel's story tells us that impossible odds can be overcome. And Shimon's leadership reminds us that dark moments cannot conceal a path to progress. <p>I wish you all a productive and successful conference.\" "
"311" "\"Thank you. Please, everybody, have a seat. Good afternoon. Before we begin, I'd actually like to say a few words about something that is of interest to the broader public. Obviously, how we treat our veterans is hugely important, but I just want to make a quick comment about the decision made public today by Ken Feinberg on executive compensation.<p>I've always believed that our system of free enterprise works best when it rewards hard work. This is America. We don't disparage wealth; we don't begrudge anybody for doing well. We believe in success. But it does offend our values when executives of big financial firms, firms that are struggling, pay themselves huge bonuses, even as they continue to rely on taxpayer assistance to stay afloat.<p>And that's why last summer, we gave Ken Feinberg and his team the task of making an independent judgment on the executive pay packages for firms that received extraordinary assistance from the Federal Government. He was faced with the difficult task of striking the proper balance between standing up for taxpayers and returning a measure of stability to our financial system. Now, under these competing interests, I believe he's taken an important step forward today in curbing the influence of executive compensation on Wall Street while still allowing these companies to succeed and prosper.<p>But more work needs to be done, which is why I urge the Senate to pass legislation that will give company shareholders a voice on the pay packages awarded to their executives. And I urge Congress to continue moving forward on financial reform that will help prevent the crisis we saw last fall from happening again.<p>Now, in just a few days&mdash;a few weeks, we will be observing Veterans Day. We'll pause again to pay tribute to all those who have worn America's uniform. We reflect on their sacrifices and those of their families, citizens who've done their duty and who have fulfilled their responsibilities to their Nation. As a nation, we'll pledge to fulfill our responsibilities to our veterans, because our commitment to our veterans is a sacred trust, and upholding that trust is a moral obligation.<p>On that day, on Veterans Day, after all the parades and all the solemn ceremonies, a lot of veterans may ask: Does America really mean it? Will America keep its promise, not simply with words, but with deeds?<p>And since taking office, my administration has worked hard with many of you to make sure that America fulfills our obligations to our veterans and their families. With Secretary Ric Shinseki in the lead, we're building a 21st-century VA. We're harnessing technologies to cut the redtape and backlogs. We're investing in mobile clinics to reach rural areas. We're moving towards a single lifetime electronic health record for everyone in uniform. We're making it a top priority to end homelessness among our veterans.<p>We dramatically increased funding for veterans health care: more care for women's veterans; for our wounded warriors from Iraq and Afghanistan suffering from Posttraumatic Stress Disorder and traumatic brain injuries. For 500,000 Priority 8 veterans, we're restoring VA health care coverage.<p>All told, we have made the biggest commitment to veterans&mdash;the largest percentage increase in the VA budget in more than 30 years. And this includes funding the post-9/11 GI bill, making sure it works as intended so our newest veterans and their families have the chance to pursue their education and live out their dreams.<p>So we're keeping our promises. We're making real progress for our vets, like those with us today, including Maryland Lieutenant Governor Anthony Brown, the highest ranking elected official in the Nation who has served a tour of duty in Iraq. Thank you, Colonel Brown.<p>But we're here today because a problem that's gone on for far too long: the delays and uncertainty that often plague funding for veterans' health care. Over the past two decades, the VA budget has been late almost every year, often by months.<p>At this very moment, the VA is operating without a budget, making it harder for VA medical centers and clinics to deliver the care our vets need. The hard-working folks at the VA know this. I was there at headquarters this spring. Michelle was there&mdash;if I'm not mistaken, Ric&mdash;just this Tuesday. It's frustrating for them, and it's frustrating for our vets who pay the price when budgets are delayed: the new doctors, nurses, and critical staff that aren't hired; the new medical equipment that isn't purchased; the construction of new facilities and clinics that isn't started; the new programs for medical care that are delayed. This is inexcusable; it's unacceptable. It's time for it to stop. And that's just what we'll do with this landmark legislation, the Veterans Health Care Budget Reform and Transparency Act.<p>I want everybody to know today is a victory for all the veterans' organizations who are represented on this stage who fought for years for reform. They deserve a huge congratulations. Today is a tribute to those who led the fight in Congress: Senator, and World War II vet, Danny Akaka and Representative Bob Filner. Thank you for your leadership.<p>All the leaders who made this possible, starting with Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who made this commitment to veterans' organizations when she became minority leader. And I was just told&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;I was told some people didn't believe Nancy when she made that promise. [<i>Laughter</i>] Nancy keeps her promises, and I want all our vets to remember that. Senator Tim Johnson&mdash;for his great work in the Senate; somebody who has been fighting for veterans since he entered into Congress and is just tireless on this issue, Chet Edwards, please give Chet a big round of applause. Thank you, Chet. The other Members of Congress who worked so hard: Michael Michaud; Phil Hare&mdash;Phil is right here; Harry Brown&mdash;Harry Brown did great work on this; and so many others. This is a reminder of what's possible when we come together, Democrats and Republicans, to do right by our veterans.<p>And let me say that I take special pride in this legislation because as a Senator, I was a proud cosponsor of this legislation. I served on the Veterans Affairs Committee. In the campaign last year, you all remember, I made a promise to pass it. And today as President, I'm fulfilling that promise, and I'm going to sign it into law.<p>And with this legislation, we're fundamentally reforming how we fund health care for our veterans. With advance appropriations, veterans' medical care will be funded a year in advance. For the VA, this means timely, sufficient, and predictable funding from year to year. For VA hospitals and clinics, it means more time to budget, to recruit high-quality professionals, and to invest in new health care equipment. And most of all, for our veterans, it will mean better access to doctors and nurses and the medical care that they need: specialized care for our wounded warriors with posttraumatic stress and traumatic brain injuries; and the staffing to welcome back to the VA those half-million Priority 8 vets.<p>In short, this is commonsense reform. It promotes accountability at the VA. It ensures oversight by Congress. It is fiscally responsible by not adding a dime to the deficit. And it ensures that veterans' health care will no longer be held hostage to the annual budget battles in Washington.<p>Of course, as we all know, keeping faith with our veterans is work that is never truly done. Today's veterans expect and deserve the highest quality care&mdash;as will tomorrow's veterans&mdash;especially our men and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. And should they ask this Veterans Day, will America back up its words with deeds, because of everyone in this room, because of this reform legislation, the answer will be, yes, the United States of America will keep our promise to our veterans. We will fulfill our responsibilities. We will uphold our obligations to all who serve. And that's why I am thrilled to be signing this legislation into law right now.<p>Thank you very much. God bless you.\" "
"312" "\"Thank you very much. Please, have a seat. Thank you. Thank you, MIT. I am hugely honored to be here. It's always been a dream of mine to visit the most prestigious school in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Oh, hold on a second&mdash;certainly the most prestigious school in this part of Cambridge, Massachusetts. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I'll probably be here for a while. I understand a bunch of engineering students put my motorcade on top of Building 10. [<i>Laughter</i>] Here&mdash;this tells you something about MIT: Everybody hands out periodic tables. [<i>Laughter</i>] What's up with that? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I want to thank all of you today for the warm welcome and for the work that all of you are doing to generate and test new ideas that hold so much promise for our economy and for our lives. And in particular, I want to thank two outstanding MIT professors, Eric Lander, a person you just heard from, Ernie Moniz, for their service on my Council of Advisers on Science and Technology. And they have been hugely helpful to us already on looking at, for example, how the Federal Government can most effectively respond to the threat of the H1N1 virus. And so I'm very grateful to them.<p>We've got some other special guests here I just want to acknowledge very briefly. First of all, my great friend and a champion of science and technology here in the great Commonwealth of Massachusetts, my friend Deval Patrick is here. Our Lieutenant Governor, Tim Murray, is here. Attorney General Martha Coakley is here. Auditor of the Commonwealth Joe DeNucci is here. The mayor of the great city of Cambridge, Denise Simmons, is in the house. The mayor of Boston, Tom Menino, is not here, but he met me at the airport, and he is doing great. [<i>Laughter</i>] He sends best wishes.<p>Somebody who really has been an all-star in Capitol Hill over the last 20 years, but certainly over the last year, on a whole range of issues, everything from Afghanistan to clean energy, a great friend, John Kerry. Please give John Kerry a round of applause. And a wonderful Member of Congress&mdash;I believe this is your district, is that correct, Mike?&mdash;Mike Capuano, please give Mike a big round of applause.<p>Now, Dr. Moniz is also the director of MIT's Energy Initiative, called MITEI. And he and President Hockfield just showed me some of the extraordinary energy research being conducted at this institute: Windows that generate electricity by directing light to solar cells; lightweight, high-power batteries that aren't built, but are grown&mdash;that was neat stuff&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>&mdash;engineering viruses to create batteries; more efficient lighting systems that rely on nanotechnology; innovative engineering that will make it possible for offshore wind power plants to deliver electricity even when the air is still.<p>And it's a reminder that all of you are heirs to a legacy of innovation&mdash;not just here but across America&mdash;that has improved our health and our well being and helped us achieve unparalleled prosperity. I was telling John and Deval on the ride over here, you just get excited being here and seeing these extraordinary young people and the extraordinary leadership of Professor Hockfield, because it taps into something essential about America. It's the legacy of daring men and women who put their talents and their efforts into the pursuit of discovery, and it's the legacy of a nation that supported those intrepid few willing to take risks on an idea that might fail, but might also change the world.<p>Even in the darkest of times that this Nation has seen, it has always sought a brighter horizon. Think about it. In the middle of the Civil War, President Lincoln designated a system of land-grant colleges, including MIT, which helped open the doors of higher education to millions of people. A year&mdash;a full year before the end of World War II, President Roosevelt signed the GI bill, which helped unleash a wave of strong and broadly shared economic growth. And after the Soviet launch of Sputnik, the first artificial satellite to orbit the Earth, the United States went about winning the space race by investing in science and technology, leading not only to small steps on the Moon but also to tremendous economic benefits here on Earth.<p>So the truth is, we have always been about innovation, we have always been about discovery. That's in our DNA. The truth is, we also face more complex challenges than generations past: A medical system that holds the promise of unlocking new cures is attached to a health care system that has the potential to bankrupt families and businesses and our Government; a global marketplace that links the trader on Wall Street to the homeowner on Main Street to the factory worker in China, an economy in which we all share opportunity is also an economy in which we all share crisis. We face threats to our security that seek&mdash;there are threats to our security that are based on those who would seek to exploit the very interconnectedness and openness that's so essential to our prosperity. The system of energy that powers our economy also undermines our security and endangers our planet.<p>Now, while the challenges today are different, we have to draw on the same spirit of innovation that's always been central to our success. And that's especially true when it comes to energy. There may be plenty of room for debate as to how we transition from fossil fuels to renewable fuels. We all understand there's no silver bullet to do it. There's going to be a lot of debate about how we move from an economy that's importing oil to one that's exporting clean energy technology, how we harness the innovative potential on display here at MIT to create millions of new jobs, and how we will lead the world to prevent the worst consequences of climate change. There are going to be all sorts of debates, both in the laboratory and on Capitol Hill, but there's no question that we must do all these things.<p>Countries on every corner of this Earth now recognize that energy supplies are growing scarcer, energy demands are growing larger, and rising energy use imperils the planet we will leave to future generations. And that's why the world is now engaged in a peaceful competition to determine the technologies that will power the 21st century. From China to India, from Japan to Germany, nations everywhere are racing to develop new ways to produce and use energy. The nation that wins this competition will be the nation that leads the global economy. I am convinced of that. And I want America to be that nation. It's that simple.<p>Now, that's why the Recovery Act that we passed back in January makes the largest investment in clean energy in history, not just to help end this recession, but to lay a new foundation for lasting prosperity. The Recovery Act includes $80 billion to put tens of thousands of Americans to work developing new battery technologies for hybrid vehicles, modernizing the electric grid, making our homes and businesses more energy efficient, doubling our capacity to generate renewable electricity. These are creating private sector jobs weatherizing homes, manufacturing cars and trucks, upgrading to smart electric meters, installing solar panels, assembling wind turbines, building new facilities and factories and laboratories all across America, and, by the way, helping to finance extraordinary research.<p>In fact, in just a few weeks, right here in Boston, workers will break ground on a new Wind Technology Testing Center, a project made possible through a $25 million Recovery Act investment as well as through the support of Massachusetts and its partners. And I want everybody to understand, Governor Patrick's leadership and vision made this happen. He was bragging about Massachusetts on the way over here. I told him, \\"You don't have to be a booster, I already love the State.\\" But he helped make this happen.<p>Hundreds of people will be put to work building this new testing facility, but the benefits will extend far beyond these jobs. For the first time, researchers in the United States will be able to test the world's newest and largest wind turbine blades, blades roughly the length of a football field, and that in turn will make it possible for American businesses to develop more efficient and effective turbines and to lead a market estimated at more than $2 trillion over the next two decades.<p>This grant follows other Recovery Act investments right here in Massachusetts that will help create clean energy jobs in this Commonwealth and across the country. And this only builds on the work of your Governor, who has endeavored to make Massachusetts a clean energy leader, from increasing the supply of renewable electricity to quadrupling solar capacity to tripling the Commonwealth's investment in energy efficiency, all of which helps to draw new jobs and new industries. Now, even&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;that's worth applause.<p>Now, even as we're investing in technologies that exist today, we're also investing in the science that will produce the technologies of tomorrow. The Recovery Act provides the largest single boost in scientific research in history. Let me repeat that. The Recovery Act, the stimulus bill, represents the largest single boost in scientific research in history. An increase&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;that's an increase in funding that's already making a difference right here on this campus. And my budget also makes the research and experimentation tax credit permanent, a tax credit that spurs innovation and jobs, adding $2 to the economy for every dollar that it costs.<p>And all of this must culminate in the passage of comprehensive legislation that will finally make renewable energy the profitable kind of energy in America. John Kerry is working on this legislation right now, and he's doing a terrific job reaching out across the other side of the aisle, because this should not be a partisan issue. Everybody in America should have a stake in legislation that can transform our energy system into one that's far more efficient, far cleaner, and provides energy independence for America, making the best use of resources we have in abundance, everything from figuring out how to use the fossil fuels that inevitably we are going to be using for several decades&mdash;things like coal and oil and natural gas&mdash;figuring out how we use those as cleanly and efficiently as possible, creating safe nuclear power, sustainable&mdash;sustainably grown biofuels, and then the energy that we can harness from the wind and the waves and the Sun. It is a transformation that will be made as swiftly and as carefully as possible to ensure that we are doing what it takes to grow this economy in the short, medium, and long term. And I do believe that a consensus is growing to achieve exactly that.<p>The Pentagon has declared our dependence on fossil fuels a security threat. Veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan are traveling the country as part of Operation Free, campaigning to end our dependence on oil. We have a few of these folks here today, right there. The young people of this country that I've met all across America, they understand that this is the challenge of their generations.<p>Leaders in the business community are standing with leaders in the environmental community to protect the economy and the planet we leave for our children. The House of Representatives has already passed historic legislation, due in large part to the efforts of Massachusetts's own Ed Markey. [<i>Applause</i>] He deserves a big round of applause. We're now seeing prominent Republicans like Senator Lindsey Graham joining forces with long-time leaders like John Kerry on this issue to swiftly pass a bill through the Senate as well. In fact, the Energy Committee, thanks to the work of its chair, Senator Jeff Bingaman, has already passed key provisions of comprehensive legislation.<p>So we are seeing a convergence. The naysayers, the folks who would pretend that this is not an issue, they are being marginalized. But I think it's important to understand that the closer we get, the harder the opposition will fight and the more we'll hear from those whose interest or ideology run counter to the much-needed action that we're engaged in. There are those who will suggest that moving toward clean energy will destroy our economy, when it's the system we currently have that endangers our prosperity and prevents us from creating millions of new jobs. There are going to be those who cynically claim&mdash;make cynical claims that contradict the overwhelming scientific evidence when it comes to climate change, claims whose only purpose is to defeat or delay the change that we know is necessary.<p>So we're going to have to work on those folks. But understand, there's also another myth that we have to dispel, and this one is far more dangerous because we're all somewhat complicit in it. It's far more dangerous than any attack made by those who wish to stand in the way of progress, and that's the idea that there is nothing or little that we can do. It's pessimism. It's the pessimistic notion that our politics are too broken and our people too unwilling to make hard choices for us to actually deal with this energy issue that we're facing. And implicit in this argument is the sense that somehow we've lost something important: that fighting American spirit; that willingness to tackle hard challenges; that determination to see those challenges to the end; that we can solve problems; that we can act collectively&mdash;that somehow that is something of the past.<p>I reject that argument. I reject it because of what I've seen here at MIT, because of what I have seen across America, because of what we know we are capable of achieving when called upon to achieve it. This is the nation that harnessed electricity and the energy contained in the atom, that developed the steamboat and the modern solar cell. This is the nation that pushed westward and looked skyward. We have always sought out new frontiers, and this generation is no different.<p>Today's frontiers can't be found on a map. They're being explored in our classrooms and our laboratories, in our startups and our factories. And today's pioneers are not traveling to some far flung place. These pioneers are all around us&mdash;the entrepreneurs and the inventors, the researchers, the engineers&mdash;helping to lead us into the future, just as they have in the past. This is the nation that has led the world for two centuries in the pursuit of discovery. This is the nation that will lead the clean energy economy of tomorrow, so long as all of us remember what we have achieved in the past and we use that to inspire us to achieve even more in the future.<p>I am confident that's what's happening right here at this extraordinary institution. And if you will join us in what is sure to be a difficult fight in the months and years ahead, I am confident that all of America is going to be pulling in one direction to make sure that we are the energy leader that we need to be.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"313" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody!<p><i>Audience members.</i> Hello!<p><i>The President.</i> Well, you hear a lot of politicians saying they're going to be quick&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and then they go on and on. They say, \\"one last thing,\\" \\"in conclusion.\\" Deval is a man of his word. [<i>Laughter</i>] He says he's going to be quick, and he's quick. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I am so thrilled to be here today with the Governor and Lieutenant Governor. And at the outset, I just want to say&mdash;tell people a little story. I may have mentioned this to some other people before. I had just been elected to the United States Senate, and when I first started running for the U.S. Senate, not a lot of people knew me, and let's face it, none of you could pronounce my name. [<i>Laughter</i>] When I came to Boston to speak at the convention, everybody said \\"Huh?\\" You know, \\"Why him?\\" and all those questions.<p>But I will tell you, Deval Patrick knew my name; in fact, he had supported me, one of my earliest supporters outside of Illinois during that race. We had become friends because of some associations that he had with the Justice Department, and we had had a chance to meet. And I immediately thought, this is just a class act, and the fact that he had some Chicago roots and had worked himself up from, you know, from tough circumstances to achieve the extraordinary things that he achieved, I think, made him that much more appealing to me.<p>Anyway, I win the race, and I'm in Washington; I've just gotten my office set up, and suddenly, Deval says, \\"Listen, I want to come down and just talk to you about some things.\\" He comes down, and he says, \\"I've decided to run for Governor.\\" And I'm thinking to myself, now, he took a chance on me when I didn't have a chance, and frankly, I don't think he has a chance. [<i>Laughter</i>] But what could I do? [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, he had already, you know, put himself out there in one hopeless cause, and the least I could do was reciprocate. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>The truth is, though, actually, the minute he started getting organized, I said to myself, he is going to win. And the reason was that there's a core integrity about Deval, a sense that he wants to do the right thing and he is going to be tenacious in pursuit of the right thing, that he's going to speak truth to power, that he's not going to back down, that besides being extraordinarily gracious and just a good man, he's somebody who has a vision for the future that can excite people.<p>And so I slowly watched here in Massachusetts as this incredible grassroots movement began to build and people from all walks of life and all corners of the Commonwealth started to converge and say, you know, we thought he was Irish&mdash;\\"Patrick\\"&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;he's not, but we like him anyway. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And now what you've seen, in addition to a extraordinary campaigner and an extraordinary campaign culminating in victory, are the fruits of that labor. The fact of the matter is, is that since Deval took office, he has performed extraordinary things under extraordinarily difficult circumstances. There's not a tougher time to be Governor than right now. And yet without losing his cool, without losing that steady inner calm that he has, Deval has gone about the business pushing through historic ethics reforms here in Massachusetts. Working with his terrific Lieutenant Governor, he's made sure that education isn't shortchanged, that this Commonwealth ends up being a leader in clean energy and biotech and all the innovative areas that are ultimately going to determine how well we're able to compete around the world. And as a consequence, there really should be no doubt that this guy gets a second term. There really should be no doubt that this guy gets a second term.<p>But having said that, let's be honest, this is going to be a tough race. Reelection is not a foregone conclusion, because times are tough, and Deval is the first one to acknowledge that there are a lot of people hurting out there. And although he and I are partners in making sure that we are continuing to fund basic research and we're continuing to fund education and we are implementing health care reform in a way that works for ordinary families, the fact of the matter is, is that when people look at a high unemployment rate and they look at tough budget decisions that have to be made, the argument that, \\"Well, things would be a lot worse if it weren't for Deval,\\" and \\"Things are going to be a lot better as a consequence of Deval,\\" that argument is a tough one to make.<p>It's a lot easier to be irresponsible. It's a lot easier to push off tough decisions. It's a lot easier to just say, let's just manage the status quo as best we can and spend a lot of time pointing fingers and blaming others for why we're not getting things done.<p>And so the question, I guess, that I'm going to have for all of you&mdash;and I'm going to have a chance to speak to the larger group, so I'm not going to make this a long speech&mdash;but to these folks here who are some of the core supporters, early investors in Deval's vision, the question I have for you is, were you in this just for the glamour and the excitement? [<i>Laughter</i>] Were you along for the ride just when it was easy? Or did you really believe in what Deval was talking about? Did you really believe that, you know, there was a gap between what could be accomplished in this State and the status quo and an understanding that it was going to take an enormous amount of effort and there were going to be a lot of ups and downs in order to close that gap?<p>If you really believed, if you understood fully the scope of Deval's vision, what he was talking about in terms of moving Massachusetts forward, then this should be an energizing moment. This should be a time where you are really feeling good, because you are ready then to enter into battle on behalf of that vision. It's going to take a lot of work. We're going to have to make sure that the same kind of excitement, the same kind of energy that was displayed the first time around is replicated on behalf of governance. And campaigning before you govern is always easy because everybody projects onto you whatever it is that they think should happen. [<i>Laughter</i>] Governance, that involves detail, that involves making tough choices, that means inheriting problems and having to grapple with them.<p>It means&mdash;governing means that you are having to prioritize. And you also begin to recognize that transformation doesn't occur overnight. I was having a conversation, I think, with some world leaders at the G-20 summit, and the discussion was around climate change and the fact that we're now moving the United States to the forefront, to leadership, as opposed to being in the caboose when it came to trying to deal with climate change. And some countries were feeling a little bit impatient: \\"Can't you get this done now?\\" \\"Why haven't we already affirmed the science that exists out there?\\"<p>I said, look, the United States is like an ocean liner. It's not a speed boat. If we make a shift of 5 degrees or 10 degrees, 10 years down the road, 15 years down the road, you're going to look back and we're going to be in a very different place than we otherwise would have been. And we have to have that long-term vision about where we're going.<p>Well, States are just like the country as a whole. And I am absolutely confident that as a consequence of the tough decisions that this Governor is making right now, Massachusetts 5 years, 10 years, 15, 20 years down the road is going to be a much better place. And that's what we're fighting for. We're fighting for&mdash;and what Deval is fighting for here is the same thing we're fighting for all across the country. Some pretty simple things, complicated to execute, but pretty simple concepts.<p>We want every child in America to have a world-class education so they can compete for any job in the world; that's goal number one. We want a health care system that is efficient and effective so that people are actually getting their money's worth, that families are not bankrupt because they get sick and governments are not bankrupt because all the money is going to insurance companies and drug companies. We want to make sure that we are at the forefront of clean energy and producing millions of jobs in solar and wind and biodiesel. We want to make sure that we are creating jobs for the future, not low-wage jobs, not just jobs at the bottom rungs of the service sector, although we want to make sure that those jobs are paying a living wage and have decent benefits. But we also want to make sure that we're creating the jobs building a new smart grid and laying broadband line all across this country.<p>That's the vision that we're looking for. We want to make sure that everybody can retire with some dignity and some respect. And all those things are achievable, but it's going to take some work. So I just want all of you to understand that the road between now and next November is going to be long; there are going to be lots of ups and downs. Because Deval is continuing to govern, he's not just going to shift into political mode, even though some of his political advisers may tell him to. This is actually one of the few flaws of this man, is he doesn't always take direction&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;as well as he should.<p>So he's going to still be governing; he's still going to be making some choices. Some of them may not be popular. But if all of you recognize that his core vision is right, that his integrity remains intact, that he is not tired, he's energized, he's ready to go, he's still fired up&mdash;if all of you have that same spirit, then I'm absolutely confident that this team right here is going to win.<p>And I just want you to understand&mdash;and the last thing I'm going to tell you, I want everybody to understand this&mdash;that what happens in Massachusetts is going to have implications all across the country. I cannot succeed as President unless I've got good partners at the State level. And frankly, people on Capitol Hill, they watch the tea leaves, and they say, \\"Well, gosh, if the kind of Governor who's implementing universal health care in Massachusetts, and if the kind of Governor who's making sure that education funding is flowing steadily, if the kind of Governor who is prioritizing clean energy and basic research and technology, if that kind of Governor isn't rewarded, then maybe I shouldn't, as a Member of Congress or as a Senator, take some chances and take some tough stance in pursuit of that same vision.\\"<p>And when the people of States reward courageous, hard-working Governors like that, that has implications for our national politics as a whole. So I just hope everybody here understands what a precious thing you have in Governor Deval Patrick and that you are going to be working as hard as you can and as sustained a way as you can in the months to come in order to make sure that he has another 4 years to do extraordinary service for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.<p>Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you.\" "
"314" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Boston! It is good to be back in Massachusetts. It's good to see some familiar faces. Some folks I haven't seen before; I'm glad about that too. [<i>Laughter</i>] In addition to this outstanding team behind me, I know that my great friend Congressman Mike Capuano is in the house, so give Mike a big round of applause.<p>Yes, it is good to be back in Boston. I've got some pretty good memories of this town. I spent 3 years in the library across the river&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;trying to make sure I graduated from law school. I came back here; I gave a little convention speech. That went okay. [<i>Laughter</i>] And it was exactly 2 years ago today, on a beautiful fall night in Boston Common, that I received the endorsement of a man that I am proud to stand with today, a man who's absolutely committed to fighting for Massachusetts's families and Massachusetts's future, your Governor, my dear, dear friend Deval Patrick.<p>Now, Deval and I go aways back. I was mentioning to some folks in the other room, we've got a lot in common. We both have ties to the south side of Chicago.<p><i>Audience member. </i>Yeah!<p><i>The President. </i>South side. [<i>Laughter</i>] We're both Sox fans. <p><i>Gov. Patrick. </i>Be careful now.<p><i>The President.</i> I just said \\"Sox.\\" That's all I said. [<i>Laughter</i>] We're both surrounded by three beautiful women in our lives that keep us grounded, which means they tell us what to do. [<i>Laughter</i>] These days, I have to actually compete for attention with a dog. [<i>Laughter</i>] I don't know if Deval has to deal with that.<p>Deval supported me when I ran for the United States Senate in Illinois at a time when none of you could pronounce my name. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I remember when he came to me just after I had taken office and said, \\"Barack, I've got this crazy idea. I've got this feeling that the people of Massachusetts might be interested in a different kind of politics. I've got this hunger to serve.\\"<p>Now, I have to say that this was when Deval was a bit of a long shot. He didn't have money or big-name support, and the pundits didn't give him a chance, although some people thought it was a good ballot name because they were sure a guy named \\"Patrick\\" must be Irish. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But here's the thing: Since he had endorsed me when nobody knew me and I had no chance, I had to return the favor, even though I really wasn't sure he had much of a chance. [<i>Laughter</i>] It would be pretty hard to say, \\"Well, now, Deval, hold on a second now.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"Have you thought everything logically through?\\"&mdash;when Barack Hussein Obama had run for the United States Senate. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But here's what else was going on. I had a feeling about Deval that I've always had ever since I've known him. And as I watched him travel all across this Commonwealth, listening to you, building his campaign&mdash;house by house, block by block, neighborhood by neighborhood&mdash;I was reminded that Deval is confident enough to understand that this isn't about him, it's about you, that this was your campaign, that you were building a movement for change that couldn't be denied. And that core integrity of his, that generous vision of his that everybody has a part to play in rebuilding the best possible America that we can, that's something that I felt somehow would end up being irresistible. And I've come back to Boston today because I need you to understand what a prize you've got in Deval Patrick and why we need Deval Patrick and Tim Murray more than ever. This is the team that's going to lead the Commonwealth of Massachusetts into the future. <p>Now, I don't have to tell you we're in challenging times, not just for Massachusetts, but for America. You see it in your own lives and your own communities. Too many folks are out of work, looking for work. Too many hard-working families are being squeezed by the skyrocketing costs of everything on one side and shrinking wages on the other. They're men and women who've worked hard all their lives, done everything right, and now they're worried about whether they can retire with dignity and respect or send their kids to college, whether they can be the kinds of husbands and wives, mothers and fathers that they hoped to be, because of economic factors that aren't under their control.<p><i>Audience member.</i> We need health care!<p><i>The President.</i> So&mdash;okay. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So I know these are tough times. I know folks are hurting. But I also know this: For the past 3 years, you've had leaders at the helm of this Commonwealth during one of the most difficult periods in its history. And you've had a leader who's been willing to make tough choices in tough times without ever forgetting who he's working for. You've had a leader who's been willing to put the interests of hard-working families ahead of special interests. You've had a leader who's woken up every day asking what he can do on behalf of the people of Massachusetts. That's the kind of Governor Deval Patrick's been. That's the kind of Lieutenant Governor that Tim Murray's been. That's the kind of leadership that you need.<p>Think about what they have done. In just&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;think about what these guys have done. In just 3 years, Deval has delivered the reforms and real change that folks on Beacon Hill had been talking about for decades. He's taken on corruption. He's begun to rebuild the public trust by enacting the first comprehensive ethics and lobbying reform in three decades, transportation reform that's saved taxpayers almost $200 million, auto insurance reform that's introduced competition and saved the average family hundreds of dollars at the time that they need it most.<p>When it came to jump-starting job creation and turning the economy around, Deval and I, we've been working hand in hand. We worked together to enact a Recovery Act that's making a meaningful difference for families all across Massachusetts and all across America. Because of the Recovery Act, we've put a middle class tax cut into the pockets of 95 percent of hard-working families; that includes 2.4 million hard-working Massachusetts families.<p>We've helped stem the tide of layoffs in police departments and fire departments and schools all across this Commonwealth and across the country, keeping 100 police officers on Boston's streets alone, 215 teachers and support staff in Boston schools who otherwise would have been let go. We've increased and extended unemployment insurance for 16 million Americans to help them weather the economic storm, including nearly 420,000 right here in Massachusetts. We've made COBRA 65 percent cheaper to ensure that you don't lose your health insurance while you're looking for work. We've funded eight new affordable housing projects right here in Massachusetts that will create more than 900 jobs, building 450 housing units for Massachusetts families.<p>Now, the Recovery Act didn't just include the most progressive tax cut in American history. It didn't just include emergency relief for families who've borne the brunt of this recession. It didn't just help out States with their budgets. It made critical investments in our long-term priorities. And that's been the essence of the Patrick-Murray team, that sense of a long-term vision for the future.<p>Our Recovery Act made the largest investment in clean energy in American history, which helped double the number of solar energy jobs right here in Massachusetts. It made the largest investment in education in American history, thanks to the effort of Deval and other far-seeing Governors. It made the largest investment in our Nation's infrastructure since President Eisenhower built the Interstate Highway System back in the 1950s, an investment that's putting Americans to work here in Massachusetts and all across America rebuilding roads and bridges and waterways.<p>Now, even as Deval is helping change the way business is done in Beacon Hill, even as he's leading Massachusetts through the most difficult economic period in our lifetimes, Deval has never lost sight of what makes Massachusetts strong today and what it takes to keep it strong going into the future.<p>He's solidified Massachusetts's position as not just a national leader in biotechnology, but a world leader, creating new jobs right now and a market for new jobs tomorrow. He's strengthened Massachusetts's position as a national leader in clean energy, convincing companies to create new green jobs right here in Massachusetts. He successfully implemented health reform so that 97 percent of this Commonwealth's residents today have health insurance. And because Deval and I know that the only reason we are here is because somebody somewhere gave us a chance at an outstanding education, he's worked to promote innovations in our schools and close the achievement gap for our kids and protect financial aid for higher education. And he's made the strongest investment in K through 12 funding in Massachusetts history so this Commonwealth remains not just the national leader in test scores, but an international leader in test scores.<p>That's not bad for 3 years. [<i>Laughter</i>] But you know, there's a tendency to take folks for granted, to ask, \\"Well, what have you done for me lately?\\" Look, that's understandable. That's part of what we sign up for. We asked for this incredible honor of leadership, and it means we are responsible for what happens during our watch.<p>And the reason I'm here today, the reason Deval Patrick is here today, the reason you're here today is because we know our work is far from over. We've still got huge challenges in this Commonwealth and across America. We're not going to rest until we solve them. We're not going to rest until everybody who's looking for work can find a job, until the markets aren't just about a stock market going up but about businesses hiring again, until the American Dream is within reach for anybody who believes in it, anybody who's willing to fight for it. We will not rest until that's happened.<p>It's not going to be easy. It's not going to happen overnight. But here's what I can say with absolute certainty: The work of forging a better future has begun. It's begun here in Massachusetts. It's begun across America.<p>We've begun to build a clean energy economy that can free ourselves from dependence on foreign oil and generate green jobs that can't be outsourced and pay well. We've begun to put in place better standards for our schools and make college and advanced training more affordable so that we're preparing American children, Massachusetts children to be able to compete for any job, anywhere in the world.<p>We're closer than ever to health reform nationally that will finally make quality, affordable health insurance available to those who don't have coverage and bring stability and security to Americans who do and finally get some control over skyrocketing health care costs that are bankrupting families and businesses and our State and Federal budgets.<p>I mean, think about it. For all the affordable health insurance, world-class education, new clean energy futures, a strong economy that works for everybody, that's fair. That's what Deval has been about. That's what Tim has been about. That's what you're about. That's why you're here. <p>But as I said, it's not going to be easy. And so in the months ahead, as you're going around, you're talking to your friends, your neighbors, your family members, you know what you're going to have to be fighting against. You'll have to fight against some misinformation that's always out there in political campaigns.<p>But you're also going to just have to fight against the core cynicism that people have when it comes to politics. I know folks here&mdash;a lot of you in the past have been skeptical about whether your leaders can or will do anything about really hard problems. And you have every right to be cynical and skeptical, because year after year, decade after decade, you've seen progress stymied by special interests and partisan gridlock, whether it's on Beacon Hill or in Washington.<p>But I'm here today because I want to remind you, you've got a Governor who represents a better kind of politics. He's not perfect. [<i>Laughter</i>] His wife will tell you. [<i>Laughter</i>] And as he mentioned, sometimes he's stubborn like a mule and he doesn't want to act the part of the politician. He doesn't like talking about himself and his accomplishments. But he's smart, he's honest, he's devoted to the people of this State. He's asked for nothing but the opportunity to serve with&mdash;for you, to serve the people of Boston and Pittsfield and Worcester and Plymouth, to serve all the people of Massachusetts.<p>But we're going to have to fight for him. Remember, when this campaign began, it wasn't just about him, it was about you. What are you willing to do? How hard are you willing to fight? We ought to give him our continued support because this is when it counts.<p>We face big challenges right now. You know, campaigns are always fun&mdash;well, not always. I mean, there was some times&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]. But there's an aspect of the campaign, it's all about, you know, projecting our hopes and our dreams, and it's full of excitement. And now we're in governing mode, and governing is always tough because, yes, there are conflicting interests. We're in a democracy; it's complicated, things take time, people argue.<p>Our problems won't be solved overnight, especially problems that grew over the course of decades. They're going to take years, in some cases, to get us to where we want to be. But that's not a reason to lose heart.<p>Our first patriots here in Boston, they didn't say, \\"You know, that British Empire, that seems really big.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"I'm not sure about this whole independence thing.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] FDR didn't say, \\"I don't think we've got what it takes to get through this Great Depression. Fear's not so bad.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"I'm scared.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] JFK didn't say, \\"No, that Moon, that's just too far.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"Let's go someplace closer.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>That's not what we do. We're Americans. We persist. We rise to the challenge. Think about how this country was built: people striking out, not knowing what they might find but understanding that if they just stayed put they'd never get to where they wanted to be. They were willing to take enormous risks. That's in our DNA. That's where we come from. That's how all these folks here gathered together. That's who we are. That's who we have to be today.<p>So if you're willing to stand with me and Deval and Tim, if you're willing to stand up and keep fighting for our future, if you're willing to once again prove that there's nothing false about hope, then we're going to do what those previous generations did. We're going to build something better to leave to our children and our grandchildren.<p>And so I just want to make sure you guys aren't tired. I want to make sure you guys are energized. This is the fun part here, fighting for your future. I want everybody on the battlefield. I want you knocking on doors. I want you to make phone calls. We've got a lot of work to do. Our finish&mdash;business is unfinished. But if you all are working hard, we're going to reelect the Patrick-Murray team and all of you are going to be proud about what happens in this Commonwealth.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless America.\" "
"315" "\"Hello, Connecticut! Hello, Stamford! It is good to be back in Connecticut. Thank you so much. Everybody, please have a seat; have a seat. Relax for a second. I'm just warming up here. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I'm going to talk a little bit about this guy in a second. Let me begin by just acknowledging some wonderful public servants who have just been serving their constituencies with great distinction for, in some cases, a lot of years.<p>Now, first of all, Congressman John Larson is in the house. Where's John? There he is, John Larson; Congressman Chris Murphy&mdash;Chris; Congressman Jim Himes&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;yes, sir&mdash;this is Jim's district, so he's got the home court advantage; Attorney General Richard Blumenthal; and mayor of Stamford, Dannel Malloy is in the house.<p>I can see this is a feisty crowd. [<i>Laughter</i>] What are you guys eating? [<i>Laughter</i>] You don't know yet, huh? [<i>Laughter</i>] It's a surprise? All right.<p>It is great to be back in Connecticut. It is an honor to be here with and for your outstanding Senator, my great friend, Chris Dodd. Now, here's the general rule of politics: When you're President, you're not supposed to pick favorites. But I have a confession to make: From the moment I arrived in the United States Senate, Chris Dodd was one of my favorites. He&mdash;and contrary to what Chris thinks, it's not his good looks. [<i>Laughter</i>] Jackie may like that; that doesn't move me. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>It's the fact that he's someone who believes deeply in the core ideals of our country and the nobility of public service, and he's lived those ideals from the moment he joined the Peace Corps as a young man through his leadership in the Senate today. He has never lost that wonderful quality that's all too rare in Washington: the quality of taking his work seriously, but not taking himself seriously&mdash;a man of good humor and a good heart. And that's why he is liked and respected not just in the Democratic Caucus, but across the aisle; that's why he's so effective, and why, over the past three decades, his name has appeared on some of the most important pieces of legislation that Congress has produced.<p>Today, every American who can take a leave from a job to care for a newborn or a relative who is sick, they can thank Chris Dodd. Every young child who has early access to educational opportunity through Head Start, thank Chris Dodd. Every firefighter and first responder who is safer on the job because of the FIRE Act and the SAFER Act, they can thank Chris Dodd. Chris has been so good that you could excuse him if he decided, \\"You know, I'm going to start taking it easy a little bit. I don't want to have to just work this hard.\\" But that's not what he did. He&mdash;I don't know what&mdash;he's got some Energizer bunny battery in him or something &mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;but this year, he's kind of gone crazy; he's just gone wild. I mean, look at what he's done this year. There are few leaders who have been as busy getting things done in Congress as Chris Dodd.<p>Just this year, led the fight to pass legislation that is helping homeowners keep their piece of the American Dream. Then he helped pass a law that will stop big tobacco from targeting our children. Then he was there to pass a national service bill that will inspire another generation of Americans to serve their country, just like Chris did when he served in the Peace Corps. Then he wrote the credit card legislation that finally became law this year, a law that will stop credit card companies from ripping off the American consumer with abusive fees and rate hikes. And that's only 9 months in; it's just the first 9 months. And in between&mdash;tonight he's got his swimming trunks; he's going to take the girls swimming at the hotel pool. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So Chris knows how to get things done in Washington. That's why he's currently leading the fight on not one, but on two of the most important issues that we face today and two of the biggest priorities in my agenda.<p>Before our friend and champion Ted Kennedy passed away this summer&mdash;and Teddy, Jr. is here tonight&mdash;he&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;Teddy turned to Chris and he asked him if he'd be the one to shepherd health reform through the committee that Teddy had chaired. And in that role, Chris did an outstanding job both leading and listening, incorporating Republican and Democratic ideas. And thanks to Chris Dodd's work and the work of Senators like Max Baucus and others, we are now closer to Ted Kennedy's dream of health care reform than we have ever been. It will pass this year, in part because of the work of Chris Dodd.<p>But Chris isn't just dealing with health care reform. He's also leading the fight to reform our financial industry so that we don't have another crisis like the one that brought our economy to its knees. Now, I know that there are a lot of hedge funds and financial institutions here in Stamford. We flew over by helicopter; we saw some of the housing around here. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I want to stress the urgency of this reform. I have always believed, and I know Chris believes, in the free market. And we believe with all our heart that the financial industry is essential to a healthy economy and the well being of the country as a whole. And that's why we stepped in. And we continue to believe it was the right thing to do, to step in to prevent a collapse in the financial sector that would have had far-reaching and devastating consequences for the American people. We came very close to a great depression.<p>And so we had to intervene. But I think all of us can agree that as a country, we should never again be faced with such a potential calamity because of the reckless speculation and deceptive practices of a short-sighted and self-interested few. So I have to say&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;so I'd like to say to you tonight, if there are folks from the industry here tonight, join us. Don't fight us. Join us in passing what are necessary reforms. It is important for our country, and in the long run, it will be good for your industry to have a level playing field, where everybody knows the rules and everybody is competing fairly for the business of American consumers. It's the right thing to do.<p>Now, one of the most essential financial reforms is the one that Chris has been leading the charge on, a consumer financial protection agency whose mission will be to look out for the financial interests of ordinary Americans. And this is an agency that will equip every American who signs up for a mortgage or a credit card with the information they need to avoid getting ripped off by predatory lenders or big banks. Now, if the American people win this fight, these banks and lenders won't be able to exploit consumers through complicated contracts or fine print. No longer will they be permitted to game the system so consumers are at greater risk to face arbitrary penalties or fees. In a financial system that's never been more complicated, and at a time when middle class families are under such duress, such strain, it's never been more important for consumers to have their own watchdog. That's exactly what this agency will be.<p>And I have to say, it's predictable. A lot of the big financial firms, they don't like it very much, because confusion among consumers oftentimes means big profits. And lately we've seen an army of industry lobbyists descend on Capitol Hill to kill this proposal or at least to water it down. Now, fortunately, I think everybody understands now is the time to get this done. And despite all the lobbyists and all the power, we scored a major victory yesterday when the House banking committee voted in favor of a consumer financial protection agency. The lobbyists lost, the American people won. And thanks to the strong leadership of Chris Dodd, we're going to win again in the United States Senate.<p>Chris is leading that fight just as he's leading the fight against deceptive and punishing check overdraft fees, and a whole array of safeguards to ensure that hard-working Americans are treated fairly in our financial system. Every resident of this State and every American has a stake in his success.<p>So Chris has a lot on his plate these days. And that's because we're facing pretty big challenges as a nation right now. You know, it's important for all of us to remember what was happening when we walked through the front door of the White House, because, you know, there seems to be some selective memories afflicting certain people. [<i>Laughter</i>] We were facing an economic crisis unlike any we'd seen in generations. We were losing 700,000 jobs per month. Our financial system was on the brink of collapse. And economists not just of the left, but of the right and the center, every political persuasion, were concerned about the possibilities of a depression.<p>And that's why we acted boldly and we acted swiftly to pass a Recovery Act that's made a difference in the lives of families across America. We just stopped by a small business, a landscaping firm that was able to benefit from an SBA loan facilitated through the Recovery Act. They are now hiring folks, just bought a new building. They are expanding right here, just next door to this hotel. We've put a tax cut into the pockets of 95 percent of working Americans as well as small-business owners. We've extended and increased unemployment insurance for 16 million Americans to help them get by in tough times. We made COBRA 65 percent cheaper so that if you lost your job, you didn't have to lose your insurance. We provided relief to States, including Connecticut, to help prevent them from having to lay off teachers and firefighters and police officers. According to initial estimates, it has saved&mdash;the Recovery Act has saved some 250,000 jobs just in our schools&mdash;just in our schools. And we've supported more than 30,000 loans to small businesses, which helped create thousands of jobs in the private sector.<p>But here's the thing: The Recovery Act wasn't just about tax cuts, the most progressive tax cut in the history of America. It wasn't just about emergency relief for middle class families who were buckling under the strain of this recession. It was also the largest investment in education in American history. It was the largest investment in clean energy in American history. It was the largest boost to medical and basic research in history, not just American history. It was the largest investment in infrastructure since Eisenhower built the Interstate Highway System in the 1950s. All across the country, folks are rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges, but also setting up smart grids and broadband lines where people hadn't been able to get to before.<p>And we didn't stop there. We passed the Lilly Ledbetter Act because we believe women should get paid the same as men for doing the same work. We lifted the ban on stem cell research and restored science to its rightful place in America. We extended health care to 11 million children across this country, 4 million of whom previously had no insurance. For the first time in our history, we've begun to put in place a new national policy aimed at both increasing fuel economy and reducing greenhouse gas pollution for all new cars and trucks sold in the United States of America.<p>So next time somebody asks, \\"Well, what have you been doing?\\"&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;simple fact is, we've already had one of the most productive first years of any administration. And you helped make it possible.<p>But as Chris pointed out, the reason you're here, the reason we're here, is because our work is not done. We know that there's still far too many Americans who are out of work and seeing their hours and their wages cut, too many Americans who are subject to the whims of health insurance companies dropping them because they've got a preexisting condition, charging exorbitant out-of-pocket fees, and millions of Americans who can't afford health insurance in the first place.<p>We know we still face enormous challenges in this country, and that's not news to you. But here's the thing, because there are a lot of long-time activists here and maybe some new people who got involved just in recent campaigns. Now, I certainly know, when I look at some of the young Congressmen who are here in the room, we didn't get involved in this because it was easy. You didn't decide to support our cause because you thought somehow that, a blink of an eye, we were going to solve health care or energy or education. And you certainly didn't sign up because once things got tough, you expected that we were just going to kick it on to somebody else, have some future generation, have some future President, have some future Congress deal with these things.<p>Now is the time for us to build a health care system that works for every American. Now is the time for us to create the kind of clean energy economy we need. Now is the time to make sure that every single child in America gets a first-class education so they can compete for jobs all across the globe.<p>And so we have to combine a sense of urgency with a sense that this is going to be hard. And we should draw energy from the fact that it's hard. We should be invigorated by the fact that it's hard, because that's the sign that what we're doing is worthwhile, the fact that we're able to pull off some things that haven't been done before.<p>And there are going to be arguments about these issues. This is a democracy: it's messy. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's the way it's supposed to be. That's the way it was designed to be. And I want all the non-Democrats who may be watching tonight or may be in the room&mdash;surprisingly enough&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I want folks to know that I believe in a strong and loyal opposition. I believe in the two-party system, where ideas are tested and assumptions are challenged and I am not always right and Chris is not always right. And that back and forth, that debate, makes us better. That's how our democracy works.<p>Now, what I do reject is when folks just sit on the sidelines and they're rooting for failure, whether it's on health care or energy or the economy or the Olympics. [<i>Laughter</i>] What's going on there? I mean, it's the Olympics, guys, you know? [<i>Laughter</i>] You don't want America to host the Olympics? [<i>Laughter</i>] What I reject is when scoring political points is so important that you'd rather see failure. What I reject is when some folks want to go to the policies that helped get us into this mess in the first place, as if we don't remember.<p>I don't mind, and I know Chris doesn't mind; we don't mind cleaning up the mess that was left for us. We're busy; we got our mops; we're, you know, mopping the floor here. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I don't want the folks who made the mess to just sit there and say, \\"You're not mopping fast enough.\\" Right? I don't want them saying, \\"You're not holding the mop the right way,\\" or, \\"That's a socialist mop.\\" I want them to grab a mop. Grab a mop! Grab a mop or a broom or something. Make yourself useful. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I think all of us in Washington, Democrat and Republican, we've got a responsibility to rise to the occasion, to look past our differences and understand this is a critical moment in our history. And we've got to move beyond the failed policies and broken politics that allowed our toughest problems to go unsolved for decades. I will work with anyone and everyone willing to do that and take heat from my own party in order to do that. But I've got to have a sense that everybody is trying to pull their weight.<p>You know, in the end, you travel this country, the American people, they're not looking for a lot. They know they've got to work hard. They don't expect government to solve all their problems. But if they are willing to work hard, then they hope they can find a job that pays a living wage, that they won't be bankrupt when they get sick, that they can save for a secure retirement, that they can send their kids to a great school so that they can aspire and achieve to things that the parents could never aspire and achieve.<p>I mean, that's all they're asking for. They want the opportunity to make the most of their lives. That's the chance every American deserves. That's the American Dream. That's the promise that Chris Dodd is working every day to fulfill.<p>And at this rare moment in history, we've been given a rare opportunity to change our world for the better. But it doesn't start in Washington. As good of a job as Chris is doing, it starts with you. It starts when you refuse to accept the status quo, when you say, \\"I'm not going to be distracted by the usual political games,\\" when you reject cynicism, when you decide that we can close that gap between the world as it is and the world as it should be, that's when America moves forward. That's been the cause of Chris Dodd's life. And if everybody remembers that in the weeks and months to come, then I guarantee you, Chris is going to continue to be my partner as we remake Washington and we remake America and we remake the world.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"316" "\"All across America, even today on a Saturday, millions of Americans are hard at work. They're running the mom-and-pop stores and neighborhood restaurants we know and love. They're building tiny startups with big ideas that could revolutionize an industry, maybe even transform our economy. They are the more than half of all Americans who work at a small business or own a small business. And they embody the spirit of possibility, the relentless work ethic, and the hope for something better that is at the heart of the American Dream.<p>They also represent a segment of our economy that has been hard hit by this recession. Over the past couple of years, small businesses have lost hundreds of thousands of jobs. Many have struggled to get the loans they need to finance their inventories and make payroll. Many entrepreneurs can't get financing to start a small business in the first place. And many more are discouraged from even trying because of the crushing costs of health care, costs that have forced too many small businesses to cut benefits, shed jobs, or shut their doors for good.<p>Small businesses have always been the engine of our economy, creating 65 percent of all new jobs over the past decade and a half, and they must be at the forefront of our recovery. That's why the Recovery Act was designed to help small businesses expand and create jobs. It's provided $5 billion worth of tax relief, as well as temporarily reducing or eliminating fees on SBA loans and guaranteeing some of these loans up to 90 percent, which has supported nearly $13 billion in new lending to more than 33,000 businesses.<p>In addition, our health reform plan will allow small businesses to buy insurance for their employees through an insurance exchange, which may offer better coverage at lower costs&mdash;and we'll provide tax credits for those that choose to do so. <p>And this past week, I called on Congress to increase the maximum size of various SBA loans, so that more small-business owners can set up shop and grow their operations. I also announced that we'll be taking additional steps through our financial stability plan to make more credit available to the small, local, and community banks that so many small businesses depend on, the banks who know their borrowers, who gave them their first loan and watched them grow. <p>The goal here is to get credit where it's needed most: the businesses that support families, sustain communities, and create the jobs that power our economy. That's why we enacted the financial stability plan in the first place, back when many of our largest banks were on the verge of collapse, our credit markets were frozen, and it was nearly impossible for ordinary people to get loans to buy a car or home or pay for college. The idea was to jump-start lending and keep our economy from spiraling into a depression. Fortunately, it worked. Thanks to the American taxpayers, we've now achieved the stability we need to get our economy moving forward again. <p>But while credit may be more available for large businesses, too many small-business owners are still struggling to get the credit they need. These are the very taxpayers who stood by America's banks in a crisis, and now it's time for our banks to stand by creditworthy small businesses and make the loans they need to open their doors, grow their operations, and create new jobs. It's time for those banks to fulfill their responsibility to help ensure a wider recovery, a more secure system, and a more broadly shared prosperity. And we're going to take every appropriate step to encourage them to meet those responsibilities, because if it's one thing we've learned, it's that here in America, we rise and fall together. Our economy as a whole can't move ahead if small businesses and the middle class continue to fall behind.<p>This country was built by dreamers. They're the workers who took a chance on their desire to be their own boss; the part-time inventors who became the full-time entrepreneurs; the men and women who have helped build the American middle class, keeping alive that most American of ideals: That all things are possible for all people, and we're limited only by the size of our dreams and our willingness to work for them. We need to do everything we can to ensure that they can keep taking those risks, acting on those dreams, and building the enterprises that fuel our economy and make us who we are.<p>Thanks.\" "
"317" "\"Thank you, everybody. How's it going, Jacksonville? Let me begin by thanking Secretary Mabus for the introduction, for your service, Ray. I know we've got a lot of naval aviators here, and Ray is a former surface warfare officer. But don't hold that against him. Don't hold that against him, now, because Ray Mabus is doing an outstanding job as Secretary of the Navy. <p>I also want to thank all your outstanding local leaders for welcoming me here today: Admiral Tim Alexander, your CO, Captain Jack Scorby, and your Command Master Chief, Jeff Hudson. To Chris Scorby and all the spouses who are with us, you hold our military families together. We honor you and we are grateful to you. <p>Now, it is great to be here at one of America's finest naval air stations. But we also have folks from Mayport and Kings Bay. And we have every service represented: Navy, Army, Air Force, Coast Guard, and United States Marines from Blount Island. <p>Now, military communities like this one take care of their own, your people, your families. But keeping you strong also takes the civilian community beyond the gate. So we want to thank Mayor John Peyton and all your great neighbors, the people of Jacksonville, for their incredible support. Give them a big round of applause.<p>Keeping you strong also takes leaders in Congress, like those here today: two great friends of yours, Representatives Ander Crenshaw and Corrine Brown, who are here. Give them a big round of applause right here. And a leader who fights for you as a member of the Armed Services Committee, Senator&mdash;and Army veteran&mdash;Bill Nelson is in the house.<p>Keeping you strong takes something else, a country that never forgets this simple truth: It's not the remarkable platforms that give the United States our military superiority, although you've got some pretty impressive aircraft here, I got to admit. It's not the sophisticated technologies that make us the most advanced in the world, although you do represent the future of naval aviation. No, we have the finest Navy and the finest military in the history of the world because we have the finest personnel in the world. You are the best trained, the best prepared, the best led force in history. Our people are our most precious resource.<p>We're reminded of this again with today's helicopter crashes in Afghanistan. Fourteen Americans gave their lives. And our prayers are with these servicemembers, their civilian colleagues, and the families who loved them. And while no words can ease the ache in their hearts today, may they find some comfort in knowing this: Like all those who give their lives in service to America, they were doing their duty, and they were doing this Nation proud. They were willing to risk their lives, in this case, to prevent Afghanistan from once again becoming a safe haven for Al Qaida and its extremist allies. Today they gave their lives, that last full measure of devotion, to protect ours.<p>Now, it is our duty as a nation to keep their memory alive in our hearts and to carry on their work, to take care of their families, to keep our country safe, to stand up for the values we hold dear and the freedom they defended. That's what they dedicated their lives to, and that is what we must do as well.<p>So I say to you and all who serve: Of all the privileges I have as President, I have no greater honor than serving as your Commander in Chief. You inspire me. And I'm here today to deliver a simple message, a message of thanks to you and your families.<p>Now, being here, you join a long, unbroken line of service at Jacksonville, from the naval aviators from World War II to Korea to Vietnam, among them a great patriot named John McCain. You embody that sailor's creed, the \\"spirit of the Navy and all who have gone before\\": honor, courage, commitment. <p>In recent years, you've been tested like never before. We're a country of more than 300 million Americans, but less than 1 percent wears the uniform. And that 1 percent&mdash;you and those in uniform&mdash;bear the overwhelming burden of our security.<p>After months of exercises in the Pacific and stopping narcotraffickers off South America, you, the Mad Foxes, joined the recovery of that Air France crash off Brazil. After hundreds of combat missions over Iraq and Afghanistan, when Somali pirates kidnapped Captain Richard Phillips, you, the Fighting Tigers, were first on the scene. And others among you, the Nightdippers, were part of the carrier group that brought our captain home. You've delivered medical care to people around the world, as my wife Michelle saw this summer when she welcomed back to port the <i>Comfort</i>, including those of you from Naval Hospital Jacksonville. And like thousands of sailors in today's Navy, you've gone ashore to meet the mission of our time, like the Desert Lions who served in Iraq.<p>Today we also send our thoughts and prayers to all the folks from Jacksonville on the frontlines at this very moment: pilots and aircrews around the world, Navy corpsmen on the ground in Afghanistan. And those of you, the Dusty Dogs, who'll deploy next month to the Persian Gulf, you're going to make us proud. <p>But there is no service without sacrifice. And though few Americans will ever truly understand the sacrifices that you and your family make, day in, day out, tour after tour, year after year, I want you to know this: Your dedication to duty is humbling. Your love of country is inspiring. The American people thank you for your service. We honor your sacrifices. And just as you have fulfilled your responsibilities to our Nation, your Nation will fulfill its responsibilities to you. <p>That's the message that I just offered to the inspiring Gold Star families I met with a few moments ago, families who've made the ultimate sacrifice and whom we honor. And that's the message I bring to you and all our forces, families, and veterans around Jacksonville and across America. <p>You've made the most profound commitment a person can make, to dedicate your life to your country and perhaps give your life for it. So as your Commander in Chief, here's the commitment I make to you. To make sure you can meet the missions we ask of you, we are increasing the defense budget, including spending on the Navy and Marine Corps. This week I'll sign that defense authorization bill into law.<p>To make sure we're spending our defense dollars wisely, we're cutting tens of billions of dollars in waste and projects that even the military says it doesn't need, so that that money can be better spent on taking care of you and your families and building the 20th&mdash;21st-century military that we do need.<p>To make sure we have the right force structure, we've halted reductions in Navy personnel and increased the size of the Marine Corps. And this year&mdash;the first time in the history of the All-Volunteer Force&mdash;the Navy and every component of every branch of the military, active, Guard, and Reserve, met or exceeded their recruiting and retention goals. And yes, that's due in part to tough economic times, but I say it's also a testament to you and everyone who volunteers to serve. <p>To make sure you're not bearing the burden of our security alone, we're enlisting all elements of our national power: diplomacy, development, and a positive vision of American leadership in the world.<p>And while I will never hesitate to use force to protect the American people or our vital interests, I also promise you this, and this is very important as we consider our next steps in Afghanistan: I will never rush the solemn decision of sending you into harm's way. I won't risk your lives unless it is absolutely necessary. And if it is necessary, we will back you up to the hilt, because you deserve the strategy, the clear mission, and the defined goals as well as the equipment and support that you need to get the job done. We are not going to have a situation in which you are not fully supported back here at home. That is a promise that I will always make to you.<p>Now, as you meet your missions around the world, we will take care of your families here at home. That's why Michelle has been visiting bases across the country. That's why the Recovery Act is funding projects like improvements to your hospital and a new child development center at Mayport. It's why we're increasing your pay, increasing childcare, helping families deal with the stress and separation of war. <p>And finally, we pledge to be there when you come home. We're improving care for our wounded warriors, especially those with posttraumatic stress and traumatic brain injuries. We're funding the post-9/11 GI bill to give you and your families the chance to pursue your dreams. And we are making the biggest commitment to our veterans&mdash;the largest percentage increase in the VA budget, even when we've got very difficult times fiscally&mdash;in more than 30 years.<p>Now, these are the commitments I make to you, the obligations that your country is honor bound to uphold. Because you've always taken care of America, and America must take care of you always.<p>And know this. It's the spirit you live by every day. It's the pride, and yes, sometimes the anxiety, when you wave goodbye to your loved ones on the tarmac. It's the joy and relief when those loved ones come safely home. It's the dignity and respect you show every fallen warrior who comes home to Jacksonville, like the Navy aviator you honored 2 months ago.<p>Captain Michael Scott Speicher, kid from Orange Park, loving husband, devoted father, based at Cecil Field not far from here. On the first day of Operation Desert Storm, he was taken from us. And in the long years that followed, a Navy family and this city would endure the heartache of the unknown.<p>Through all those years, no one missed Scott more or fought harder to bring him home than his wife Joanne, his friend and former Navy pilot Buddy Harris, their children Meghan, Michael, Madison, and Makenzie. They were among the Gold Star families I met with, and we thank them for being here with us today. Where are they? Please stand up. Stand up, guys.<p>This summer, the news came. After 18 years, after all the dashed hopes, we found him. Scott's remains were finally coming home. The evening news and the morning papers told the story of that day, but few told the story of the days that followed.<p>It's the story of how you greeted the plane upon landing&mdash;hundreds of sailors&mdash;and escorted Scott's flag-draped casket to your chapel; how Navy honor guards kept constant vigil through the night as so many of you passed by to pay your respects; how thousands of you&mdash;sailors and civilians&mdash;lined the streets of this base as you gave Scott back to the city he loved. That's what you did, that's what you do, not only for Scott, but for all the fallen warriors you bring home. <p>It's the story of how that procession retraced the steps of Scott's life, past the Jacksonville veterans memorial that now bears his name, past the church where he worshiped, the high school where he excelled, and Cecil Field where he served.<p>It's the story of how Jacksonville seemed to come to a standstill as people lined street after street to honor one of their own: Scott's friends but also total strangers, police and firefighters standing at attention, small children holding American flags, graying veterans giving a firm salute. And then, as Scott was finally laid to rest, a final fitting tribute, his old squadron roared overhead, high across the sky.<p>That's the spirit we see here today. You, men and women devoted to each other and to your country, and a proud country devoted to you. The example you set for all of us, That if you can come together, from every corner of America, every color, faith, creed, every background and belief, to take care of each other and to serve together, to succeed together, then so can we all. So can America.<p>So thank you for your service. And thank you for reminding us of the country we can and must always be. God bless you, Jacksonville. And God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much.\" "
"318" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Miami. Thank you, guys. This is a pretty enthusiastic crowd here. <p><i>Audience member.</i> I love you, man!<p><i>The President.</i> I love you back. What did Bill Nelson say to you all to get you just&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]? All right, I can tell this is a somewhat informal crowd here. [<i>Laughter</i>] Nevertheless, there are some formal acknowledgements that I want to make.<p>First of all, one of the greatest partners I could ever ask for in turning this country around&mdash;we are so proud of her&mdash;please give a huge round of applause to Nancy Pelosi. She's got a pretty impressive team: one guy from up north, Chris Van Hollen, who's doing unbelievable work on behalf of the \\"D-trip\\"; but also a couple of Floridians who are doing outstanding work, Debbie Wasserman Schultz and Congressman Kendrick Meek.<p>My former colleague and, you know, I don't care what he does politically because he's an astronaut&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;so that above all is most impressive to me, but he also happens to be one of the finest public servants we have, Bill Nelson. Thank you, Bill. We've got wonderful members of our DSCC/DCCC host committee; give yourselves a big round of applause. And finally, I don't know&mdash;is Alex still here? If she's not, I want to make sure that she gets acknowledged anyway. Alex Sink was in the house. And I just saw that Congressman Grayson is here as well; give him a big round of applause.<p>It's good to be back in Florida. I want you to know I love you, and I appreciate everything that you've done. A lot of you were on the frontlines of our campaign. You spent countless hours knocking on doors and making phone calls.<p><i>Audience member.</i> We did!<p><i>The President.</i> Yes, we did. Not a day goes by that I don't think about the obligations that I have to every American who put all their hopes and dreams into a cause that wasn't just about winning an election, it was about changing the country.<p>And, you know, it's been less than a year. Although I know it seems longer, it's been less than a year since the Obama family packed up, moved into the White House. I'm here to report Sasha and Malia are doing great. Michelle is an outstanding First Lady. We now have Bo so that I'm not always surrounded by women in my house. [<i>Laughter</i>] Bo and I, we share the doghouse sometimes. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But it's important to remember what happened when we walked through the door, because there's been some selective memory out there going on. We were facing the worst economic crisis we'd seen since the Great Depression, losing 700,000 jobs a month, our financial system on the brink of collapse. Economists were worried that we were going to slip into a depression.<p>That's why we acted swiftly and boldly, and we passed a Recovery Act that's made the difference in the lives all across Florida and all across America, put tax cuts into 95 percent&mdash;into the pockets of 95 percent of working families and small businesses all across the country. We extended unemployment insurance for 16 million Americans, gave COBRA coverage that was 65 percent cheaper to people who are out there looking for jobs in this unbelievably difficult economic climate. We provided relief to States so they wouldn't have to lay off teachers and cops and firefighters. According to initial reports, we've saved 250,000 jobs just in schools across America. We've given loans, supported loans to more than 30,000 small businesses, including more than 13,000 in this State, which created thousands of jobs in the private sector.<p>But here's the thing about the Recovery Act people don't seem to remember. It wasn't just the most progressive tax cut policy in American history. It wasn't just emergency relief for States and individuals. It was also&mdash;people don't realize this&mdash;the single largest Federal investment in education in our history. It was the largest investment in clean energy in our history. It was the largest boost to medical research and basic research in our history. It was the single largest investment in infrastructure since Eisenhower built the Interstate Highway System back in the 1950s. And that's putting people back to work all across Florida and all across America.<p>But we didn't stop there. We passed the Lilly Ledbetter because we think women should be paid the same as men. We lifted the ban on stem cell research and began restoring science to its rightful place. We extended health care to 11 million children across this country, 4 million of whom never had insurance. We passed a national service bill named after Ted Kennedy, encouraging people to give back all across this country. We passed laws that prevented fraud in housing, prevented unfair rate hikes and fees charged by credit card companies. We passed a law to protect our children from big tobacco companies. For the first time in our history we put into place a national policy aimed at both increasing fuel economy and increasing&mdash;and reducing greenhouse gas pollution for all new cars and trucks sold in the United States.<p>So here's the bottom line. In 9 months we've already had&mdash;if we just stopped now, we'd already have one of the most productive legislative sessions in history&mdash;if we just stopped now. And you made it possible. But of course, that's just what we did domestically.<p>Internationally, we've begun a new era of engagement. We're working with our partners to stop the spread of nuclear weapons. We're seeking a safer, more secure world free of nuclear weapons. We're working in concert with nations on every continent to stem the economic downturn, to deal with climate change. We banned torture. We're rebuilding our military. We're reaffirming our alliances. We are going to close Guantanamo. We are serious about this. We've made good progress taking the fight to Al Qaida, from Pakistan to Somalia&mdash;&mdash;<p><i>Audience member.</i> Won the Nobel Peace Prize.<p><i>The President.</i> Yes, I did that too. That was unexpected. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And of great interest to the folks here in Miami, we have reopened a climate of diplomacy and good will with Latin America that had been frayed very badly. <p>But look, let's face it, the reason you're here tonight is because we've got more work to do. Too many people are out there looking for work. Too many people are seeing their hours cut. Too many Americans subject to the whims of insurance companies and are losing their health insurance or can't afford health insurance at all. Too many good people are worried about whether they're going to be able to retire, a lot of seniors having to go back to work; too many people losing their homes.<p>So this is not news to you. You've seen it in your own communities; you understand the enormous stress that families are under. But here's the thing I want everybody to understand. When we ran we knew we weren't going to solve every problem in 9 months. Right?<p><i>Audience members.</i> Right.<p><i>The President.</i> At least I hope you understood that. What we understood was, is that we had dug a deep hole for ourselves, and we were going to have to work really hard, first to get ourselves out of the hole, to make sure that we yanked this economy out of a potential catastrophe, and then to start rebuilding, both domestically and internationally. And that's what we're doing.<p>So now is the time for us to build a clean energy economy that will free ourselves from foreign oil and will generate new green jobs in the process and will help save the planet. Now is the time to transform our education system, and we are making enormous progress on the education front. Now is the time to start putting in place strong rules of the road to prevent the kind of financial catastrophe that we saw on Wall Street. And now is the time to pass health care. We're not going to wait another year or a year after that or a year after that. Now is the time to do it.<p>And if you've been following what's been happening in Washington, all the naysayers, you remember, I mean, back in August, \\"Oh, this thing is dead, it's terrible; people are out.\\" And what did we do? We just keep on working. Because we understand that premiums have doubled over the past decade, and they'll double again in the next decade if we do nothing. We know that there are millions who have been denied coverage because of preexisting conditions. We know that we have no choice but to make sure that we've got a health system in this country that makes it more safe and secure for people who have health insurance, provides health insurance to people who don't, and make sure that we're driving down costs for everybody&mdash;families, businesses, and our government. And that is what we are going to accomplish. Nobody is going to be able to stand in the way of progress on this front.<p>We are closer than we've ever been to passing health insurance reform&mdash;closer than we've ever been. But it's not going to get easier from here on out; it's going to get harder. Now is the time when all the special interests start saying, \\"Oh, this is really going to happen,\\" and \\"We might lose some of our profits.\\" And they start paying big lobbyists, and they start, you know, twisting arms.<p>And that's why all of you are so important. See, you can't just count on change happening in Washington. You've got to make it happen. You've got to push. I promise you, Members of Congress listen to you a lot more than they listen to me. And so the more that you guys are organizing and mobilizing and understanding that our job is not done&mdash;it's not, it's barely begun&mdash;the better off we're going to be.<p>When I ran for the Presidency nobody gave us a chance. But part of the excitement of our campaign&mdash;and some of you remember because some of you were there from the very beginning&mdash;some of the excitement was not that it was easy; it was that it was hard, that we understood that we were trying to pull off something that had not been done before.<p>Well, governing is even harder than campaigning. [<i>Laughter</i>] But that same sense of energy, that same sense of commitment, that same willingness to just keep on working and going at it, day in, day out, even when things seem tough, even when it looks like what we're trying to achieve isn't going to happen, that's how we end up doing things that nobody expects. And that's where we're at right now.<p>So I just want all of you guys to understand that I am not tired, I'm just&mdash;I am energized. I am excited. I'm still fired up. I'm still ready to go. And if all of you are fired up and ready to go with me, then I guarantee you that we're going to get health care passed, we're going to get education reform, we're going to get an energy bill that works, we're going to get financial regulatory reform, and we are going to keep on working until every American is able to get a decent job that pays a living wage, a good education for their kids, a retirement that is secure, health care for every single American. That's what we're working for.<p>Thank you, everybody. God bless you. God bless America.\" "
"319" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. Some special acknowledgments: First of all, I don't think people quite understand, Nancy Pelosi is not simply the first woman Speaker of the House; I think she's going to go down as one of the greatest Speakers of all time. And she's very nice, and she's very friendly, but, boy, she is tough. [<i>Laughter</i>] And that's what you need when you're putting up with all the criticism and the carping and the griping, and that's from the Democrats. [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, you should see what she has to put up with from the Republicans. So I could not have a better partner in trying to move the country than Nancy Pelosi.<p>We've got some wonderful other elected officials that I want to acknowledge very briefly. First of all, my former colleague, a great Senator and, most importantly, former astronaut, Bill Nelson&mdash;please give Bill a big round of applause. Somebody who is doing a great job on behalf of the DCCC, Chris Van Hollen is in the house. Three outstanding Members of Congress from Florida who are here: Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Kendrick Meek, Alan Grayson. And it is my expectation that she will be the next Governor of the great State of Florida&mdash;Alex Sink is in the house.<p>Now, I saw you guys taking pictures, and I talked about the family, and, you know, I don't know how much more you want to hear from me before you get to dinner, but I want to start off mainly by saying thank you. There are a lot of people in this room who were there from the start when nobody could pronounce my name, and when you tried to explain to your friends that you were supporting Barack Obama, they'd say, huh? And then there are people in this room who picked up the baton once a hard-fought nomination was completed.<p>But across the board, you have people in this room who have not just contributed money, but contributed time and energy, their reputations, to moving this country in a new direction. And whether it's at the DNC level, the DSCC level, the DCCC&mdash;whatever \\"D\\" it is that you participated in&mdash;I want you to know that I'm incredibly grateful. And it has made an enormous difference to our country.<p>If you think about what we were confronting 9 months ago, I think people are starting to have some selective memory. It's starting to get a little hazy, so let me just remind you. First of all, it's only been 9 months since the Obama family moved into the White House. I'm here to report, by the way, Malia and Sasha are doing great. Michelle is a fabulous First Lady. We have a new dog, Bo, who is the only other male in the household. [<i>Laughter</i>] And he and I are often in the doghouse together. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But let's just think about what it was like when we entered into the White House 9 months ago. We were losing 700,000 jobs a month. The financial system was on the brink of meltdown. Prominent economists from both sides of the economic spectrum were suggesting that we might be going into a great depression&mdash;not a recession, but a great depression. And I think people were fearful that things might start spinning out of control.<p>And that's why, working with Nancy Pelosi and the other Members of Congress here, we acted so swiftly and we acted so boldly to pass a Recovery Act that has pulled us back from the brink. And although usually I try not to do a tally of what it is that we've accomplished, since you guys are early stakeholders in what we've done, I want you to understand what we did just with the Recovery Act.<p>First of all, as a consequence of the Recovery Act, we provided millions of people unemployment insurance who otherwise would have been in a hopeless situation. We made sure that COBRA, which is the main health care program for people who've lost their job, was 65 percent cheaper so that they could hang onto their health insurance while they were looking for a job. We made sure that the States had enough money so that they didn't have to lay off teachers and police officers and firefighters. It's estimated that just in schools alone, we saved 250,000 jobs across America; 250,000 educators, education professionals, would have been laid off had it not been for our swift action.<p>But we didn't just help States who were burdened under plummeting tax revenues. We didn't just help individuals who were losing their jobs or seeing their hours cut back. The Recovery Act was also the largest Federal investment in education in history&mdash;in history. It also happened to be the largest investment in clean energy in history. It was also the largest investment in basic research and science and R&D in history. It also happened to be the largest investment in infrastructure since Eisenhower built the Interstate Highway System.<p>So all told, this not only helped pull us back from the brink&mdash;and now suddenly, everybody takes for granted the stock market at 9,000 or 10,000. People just take for granted that, well, you know, it looks like industrial production is kicking back up. Not only did we steer the economy away from potential catastrophe, but we also laid the groundwork now for making sure that our kids are going to be able to compete in an international, global marketplace.<p>We also made sure that we can get back on the frontlines of energy and not simply react to whatever oil producers decide should be the price of a barrel of oil today or tomorrow. We also set in motion the kinds of innovation and technological investment that is going to determine whether or not America remains at the cutting edge for the foreseeable future.<p>So that's just the Recovery Act. We did that, by the way, in January, the first month I was in. Now, we didn't stop there. So let's see what else we did. We passed something called the Lilly Ledbetter Act because we believe that women should be paid the same as men for the same work. We lifted the ban on stem cell research because we believe that science should guide Federal policy. We made sure that we passed the toughest bill regulating credit cards in a generation. We banned housing fraud and put some serious teeth into enforcement. We made sure that 11 million children had health insurance, including 4 million who had never had it before.<p>We passed a national service act that allows young people and not so young people to participate in community service&mdash;the kind of programs that&mdash;where's Alonzo and Tracy?&mdash;the kinds of programs that you see, the outstanding work that's being done in Miami. We're giving opportunities for young people to get involved all across the country in those kinds of service activities giving back to their community.<p>What else, Nancy?<p><i>Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy </i><i>Pelosi.</i> Veterans.<p><i>The President.</i>Veterans, we just made sure that veterans are not going to have to wait for their budgets and that they're going to be in place. And by the way, we increased funding for veterans' services by more than had been done in 30 years.<p>Now, this is all just domestically. Then it turns out I got this other side of my portfolio, two wars. And as promised, we are on a pathway to removing our troops from Iraq and putting Iraq in the position where they can secure their own country. We are finally getting Afghan policy right after long years of drift. We've put forward a vision for reducing nuclear stockpiles and moving towards a safer and more secure world without nuclear weapons. We have mended fences and strengthened our alliances with countries on every continent so that they know that they have a partner in America, and America once more is viewed as a leader.<p>Now, that's just been in 9 months. Here is my main message to you: We're just getting started. I know that the battles out there seem bruising and there are people saying mean things about me and folks are worried. And I try to explain to Dwyane and these other ball players, just because I'm skinny doesn't mean I'm not tough. [<i>Laughter</i>] I don't rattle. I'm not going to shrink back, because now is the time for us to continue to push and follow through on those things that we know have to be done that haven't been done for decades.<p>We know that our education system is inadequate to a new global economy. I mean, if you looked at how African American and Hispanic children are doing here in Miami or anywhere in the country, it is unacceptable. And we know that is our future workforce. And if they are not trained and getting a decent education, then nobody is going to be doing well in this country.<p>We know that it is unsustainable for us to keep on importing more and more oil. When OPEC first started and Jimmy Carter and Richard Nixon and all those folks announced that we were going to move on the path of energy independence, we were importing 30 percent of our oil. We're now importing 70 percent. Do the math. Our economy can't sustain it, and by the way, neither can the environment. And every time I fly into Florida, I got to say, you know, that water is really close everywhere you go. You don't want an extra foot or two of sea. And so we've got to take that seriously. Now is the time to do it by passing serious energy legislation.<p>Now is the time to pass health care. And for those of you who have health insurance, I know that sometimes this seems like, well, is this something we can afford to do? Let me tell you, premiums doubled for individuals over the last decade. They will double again in the coming decade. But for businesses, it's even worse. Anybody here who's a businessperson knows what's happened to your premiums. You've seen them go up in one year 28 percent, 30 percent. And at some point, you had to make a decision, and then you've got to tell your employees, \\"Look, I know it's right to cover you, I want to cover you, but I can no longer afford to cover you.\\"<p>And so this is not just an issue for the millions of people who don't have health insurance. This is an issue for the people who have health insurance and don't understand what it is that could be happening in&mdash;almost certainly will happen in the years ahead, unless we get a handle on it. And by the way, the Federal Government can't afford it either. And neither can State governments. We will go bankrupt. So if you're out there thinking we also have to get control of our budget&mdash;and we do&mdash;the single best way for us to do it is to make sure that we pass health care reform.<p>Now, this is not going to be easy, but I am absolutely confident that we are going to get health care done by the end of this year, and Nancy Pelosi is just as confident. That's part of the reason I'm so confident, is Nancy is confident. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we are going to get an energy bill that is serious and deals not only with dependence on oil but also on climate change. And we're going to get a serious education bill that makes college more affordable for young people.<p>But none of these things are easy. And one of the things that I always try to emphasize to folks is we have to take a long view in this process. I was talking to some G-20 leaders who were kind of surprised on some of the debates about health care. They were saying, \\"Barack, why are these people running around putting a Hitler moustache on you? You're just trying to give health care to people.\\" I said, \\"Yes, that's unusual.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But what I said was, you know, America is not a speed boat, it's an ocean liner. And it takes time to move a country this big, particularly because we are a democracy. And that's a good thing. We're supposed to have robust debate. Change isn't supposed to be easy. We're supposed to have to fight for it. And the fact that we've got the other party challenging us and pushing us and poking us on, that's a good thing. Ultimately, we will have a better product as a consequence of that. I want a competition of ideas. I want a strong and loyal opposition.<p>Now, what I won't abide by are people just standing on the sidelines who prefer to see defeat to actually getting something done because they think it provides a political advantage. These are folks who are cheering about us not getting the Olympics. What's up with that? It's the Olympics. I mean, the Olympics. Who roots against the United States getting the Olympics? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So my door is going to be open to working with the other side, and I know Nancy feels the same way, if they actually want to solve the challenges that we face. But if you're just going to stand on the sidelines, then I'm not going to have too much time for you. In fact, lately I've been feeling like somebody made a big mess and I'm&mdash;I got my mop, and I'm mopping the floor, and the folks who made the mess, they're standing there, \\"You're not mopping fast enough. You're not holding the mop the right way. It's a socialist mop.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] You know what, just grab a mop. [<i>Laughter</i>] Help me out here. Help out your country. Clean up the mess that you made.<p>So let me leave you with this thought, though, that as difficult as these last 9 months have been and as challenging as the next 9 months and the next 9 months after that will be, I just want to remind everybody what I meant when I talked about hope during the campaign. You know, hope is not blind optimism. It's not pie in the sky, everything is going to be just fine, we're just going to sit back and somehow those things that we wish for magically happen. That's not hope.<p>Hope is understanding what needs to be done and having confidence that if you work hard enough, if you sweat hard enough, if you're willing to mix it up and overcome setbacks and stare challenges in the face, that you can still achieve. That was the essence of our campaign when we started off. We didn't think, boy, this is going to be a cakewalk, getting a guy named Barack Hussein Obama elected President. [<i>Laughter</i>] Jeremy, do you remember us saying that? We didn't say that.<p>What we did say was this is what has to happen, this is where the country needs to go, and we are going to put our heart and soul into it, because we have confidence in the American people and we have confidence that if we do the right thing, then, you know what, the country is going to be better off. That was the source of excitement in our campaign. That was why it felt special. That's why we did something that nobody thought could be done.<p>And that's the same attitude that I want all of you to have as we move forward. None of this is a sure thing. Don't sign up to improve America if you think that it's just automatically going to happen on your timetable, and if it doesn't, you get disheartened.<p>But if you are willing to stand with us and work hard, if you understand how difficult and challenging it's going to be, and yet you still are determined to move forward anyway, then I'm telling you, I don't think there's anything that can stop us. And when I say \\"us,\\" I don't mean Democrats, I mean us as Americans. There is nothing this country cannot accomplish, and I am absolutely confident that our best days are still ahead of us. But we've got to earn it. It's not a given. The future is something you earn. That's what we're fighting for right now, and you're helping us do it.<p>So thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless America.\" "
"320" "\"Thank you so much. Well, first of all, let me thank Lew Hay and his visionary leadership at Florida Power & Light. It's an example of a company that is doing well by doing good. And I think it's a model for what we could duplicate all across the country.<p>To Greg Bove, who just gave me the tour and was a construction manager for this facility, congratulations. We've got a couple of special guests here: Representative Kathy Castor from Tampa, a great friend, Arcadia Mayor Dr. Roosevelt Johnson, and State Representative Keith Fitzgerald from Sarasota. And I want to once again thank Lew for the generous introduction. I want to congratulate you and all the workers who are involved in this outstanding facility for Florida Power & Light.<p>It's an honor to be here on a very big day, not just for Arcadia, but for the cause of clean energy in America. With the flip of a switch, FP&L will&mdash;has moved the solar panels behind me into a position where they can catch the Sun's rays. And now, for the very first time, a large-scale solar power plant, the largest of its kind in the entire Nation, will deliver electricity produced by the Sun to the citizens of the Sunshine State. And I think it's about time.<p>This plant will produce enough power to serve the entire city of Arcadia. Its construction was a boost to your local economy, creating nearly 400 jobs in this area. And over the next three decades, the clean energy from this plant will save 575,000 tons of greenhouse gas emissions, which is the equivalent of removing more than 4,500 cars from the road each year for the life of the project. Think about that, 45,000 [4,500]* cars from the road each year for the life of the project.<p>And yet, to realize the full potential of this plant and others like it, we've got to do more than just add extra solar megawatts to our electrical grid. That's because this grid, which is made up of everything from power lines to generators to the meters in your home, still runs on century-old technology. It wastes too much energy, it costs us too much money, and it's too susceptible to outages and blackouts.<p>To offer one analogy, just imagine what transportation was like in this country back in the 1920s and 1930s before the Interstate Highway System was built. It was a tangled maze of poorly maintained back roads that were rarely the fastest or the most efficient way to get from point A to point B. Fortunately, President Eisenhower made an investment that revolutionized the way we travel, an investment that made our lives easier and our economy grow. <p>Now, it's time to make the same kind of investment in the way our energy travels, to build a clean energy superhighway that can take the renewable power generated in places like DeSoto and deliver it directly to the American people in the most affordable and efficient way possible. Such an investment won't just create new pathways for energy, it's expected to create tens of thousands of new jobs all across America in areas ranging from manufacturing and construction to IT and the installation of new equipment in homes and in businesses. It's expected to save consumers more than $20 billion over the next decade on their utility bills. And I know nobody minds seeing their utility bills cut. I'm sorry, Lew, but they really don't mind that. [<i>Laughter</i>] It will make our grid more secure and more reliable, saving us some of the $150 billion we lose each year during power outages. It will allow us to more effectively transport renewable energy generated in remote places to large population centers, so that a wind farm in rural South Dakota can power homes in Chicago. And by facilitating the creation of a clean energy economy, building this 21st-century energy infrastructure will help us lay a foundation for lasting growth and prosperity.<p>So that's why today, I'm pleased to announce that under the Recovery Act, we are making the largest ever investment in a smarter, stronger, and more secure electric grid. This investment will come in the form of 100 grants totaling $3.4 billion, grants that will go to private companies, utilities, cities, and other partners who have applied with plans to install smart grid technologies in their area.<p>And throughout this week, the members of my Cabinet are going to be fanning across the country talking about some of the winning projects. Some of the projects involve modernizing old, inefficient transmission lines that just waste too much energy. And to speed that process along, nine Federal agencies have signed an agreement that will help break down the bureaucratic barriers that currently make it slow and costly to build new transmission lines on Federal lands.<p>But most of the projects that are receiving grants involve the installation of what are known as smart meters, devices that will have a direct benefit for consumers who want to save money on their electric bills. For example, even as Florida Power & Light is bringing this solar plant on line today, it also is deploying hundreds of thousands of these smart meters in people's homes throughout Florida. Much like the Recovery Through Retrofit plan we launched last week to boost the weatherization and retrofit industry, these devices will help you greatly improve the energy efficiency in your own home.<p>Now, let me explain what's going on with these smart meters. Smart meters will allow you to actually monitor how much energy your family is using by the month, by the week, by the day, or even by the hour. So coupled with other technologies, this is going to help you manage your electricity use and your budget at the same time, allowing you to conserve electricity during times when prices are highest, like hot summer days. Through these investments in a variety of smart grid technologies, utilities like Florida Power & Light will also be able to monitor the performance of its electricity grid in real time, which means they'll be able to identify and correct service interruptions more quickly and effectively. And all this information will help increase renewable energy generation, provide support for plug-in electric vehicles, and reduce the carbon pollution that causes climate change.<p>Here in this region of Florida, this project will reduce demand for electricity by up to 20 percent during the hottest summer days that stress the grid and power plants. It will provide smart meters to 2.6 million more customers. And most importantly, it will create thousands of jobs, good jobs, by the way, that can't be outsourced, jobs that will last and jobs that pay a decent wage.<p>On their own, the opening of this new solar plant or the installation of new smart meters or the investment in grid modernization will not be enough to meet the challenges posed by our dependence on fossil fuels. But together, we can begin to see what a clean energy future will look like. We can imagine the day when you'll be able to charge the battery on your plug-in hybrid car at night, because your smart meter reminded you that nighttime electricity is cheapest. In the daytime, when the Sun is at its strongest, solar panels like these and electricity stored in car batteries will be able to power the grid with affordable, emission-free energy. The stronger, more efficient grid would be able to transport power generated at dams and wind turbines from the smallest towns to the biggest cities. And above all, we can see all this work that would be created for millions of Americans who need it and who want it, here in Florida and all across the country.<p>So we're on the cusp of this new energy future. In fact, a lot of it is already taking place. Even as I'm here today, Vice President Biden is in Delaware announcing the reopening of a once-shuttered GM factory that will soon put people back to work building plug-in, electric hybrid vehicles. On Friday, I was in Boston&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]. That's good news. On Friday, I was in Boston, where workers will soon be breaking ground on a new Wind Technology Testing Center that will allow researchers in the United States to test the world's newest and largest wind turbine blades for the very first time. And there are recovery projects like this in cities and counties all across the country.<p>So at this moment, there is something big happening in America when it comes to creating a clean energy economy. But getting there will take a few more days like this one and more projects like this one. And I've often said that the creation of such an economy is going to require nothing less than the sustained effort of an entire nation, an all-hands-on-deck approach similar to the mobilization that preceded World War II or the Apollo project. And I also believe that such a comprehensive piece of legislation that is taking place right now in Congress is going to be critical. That's going to finally make clean energy the profitable kind of energy in America, legislation that will make the best use of resources we have in abundance, through clean coal technology, safe nuclear power, sustainably grown biofuels, and energy we harness from the wind, waves, and Sun.<p>The House has already acted and passed such legislation, and the Senate is on the way. In fact, just today, the Environment and Public Works Committee, under the leadership of Senator Barbara Boxer, is holding the Senate's first hearings on this bill.<p>The creation of a clean energy economy has to be made as swiftly and carefully as possible, to ensure that what it takes to grow this economy in the short, medium, and long term is no longer delayed. And I'm pleased to report that a consensus is growing to achieve exactly that, consensus between Democrats and Republicans, environmentalists and evangelicals, labor leaders and especially so many business leaders like Lew that are ready to jump on board because they understand that the growth of clean energy can lead to the growth of our economy.<p>Now, I have to be honest with you, though. The closer we get to this new energy future, the harder the opposition is going to fight, the more we're going to hear from special interests and lobbyists in Washington whose interests are contrary to the interests of the American people. Now, there are those who are also going to suggest that moving towards a clean energy future is going to somehow harm the economy or lead to fewer jobs. And they're going to argue that we should do nothing, stand pat, do less, or delay action yet again.<p>I just want to point out we've heard such arguments before. We've engaged in this same type of debate a lot of times through our history. People don't like change, and they get nervous about it. Lew and I were just talking about it. He said especially utility executives get nervous about change. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>It's a debate between looking backwards and looking forward, between those who are ready to seize the future and those who are afraid of the future. And we know which side the United States of America has always come down on. We know that we've always been a people who were unafraid to reach for that more promising future. We know that the promise of places like DeSoto and projects like the creation of a modern electricity grid mean a continuation of that long march of progress in this country. And we refuse to believe that our politics are too broken to make the energy future we dream of a reality.<p>I know what the American people are capable of when they're called upon to meet big challenges. I know it because I've seen here in Arcadia and I've seen it all across America. This is the nation, after all, that harnessed electricity and the energy contained in an atom, that developed the steamboat and the modern solar cell, that connected a continent with a massive system of highways and railroads. And I believe we can blaze such trails again, and I commend all of you for being so critical in these early first steps. Congratulations to you on your extraordinary achievement, and when it comes to the development of clean, renewable energy, I hope there are going to be a lot of days like this one to come. I know I'm going to be working as hard as I can to make it possible.<p>And while I'm here, I just want to introduce Carol Browner, who works with me in our White House, and she is helping to lead the charge in Washington. She just happens to be from Florida, and so she knows a little bit about the Sunshine State. We are so excited by what you've done, and we are absolutely confident we're just going to keep on building on the great progress that you've already made. <p>Thank you, Arcadia. Thank you, Florida.\" "
"321" "\"Thank you. Please, everybody, be seated. Good afternoon. I have often said that meeting our greatest challenges would require not only changing policies in Washington but changing the way business is done in Washington, that it would require a Government that's more efficient and effective and less influenced by lobbyists and parochial politics. And I'm pleased to say that when it comes to the defense bill I'm about to sign into law, we've taken some important steps towards that goal.<p>I want to acknowledge my outstanding Vice President, Joe Biden. Attorney General Eric Holder is here. And all Members of Congress who are joining us here today, thank you very much for your outstanding work. You can give Members of Congress a round of applause as well. <p>As Commander in Chief, I will always do whatever it takes to keep the American people safe, to defend this Nation. And that's why this bill provides for the best military in the history of the world. It reaffirms our commitment to our brave men and women in uniform and our wounded warriors. It expands family leave rights for the family members of our troops and veterans. And it makes investments in the capabilities necessary to meet 21st-century challenges.<p>But I have always rejected the notion that we have to waste billions of dollars of taxpayer money to keep this Nation secure. In fact, I think that wasting these dollars makes us less secure. And that's why we have passed a defense bill that eliminates some of the waste and inefficiency in our defense process, reforms that will better protect our Nation, better protect our troops, and save taxpayers tens of billions of dollars.<p>Now, at the outset, let me just say that this effort would not have been possible without an extraordinary Secretary of Defense. And so I want to thank publicly Bob Gates for his service to our Nation.<p>Having served under eight Presidents of both parties, this is a man who understands that our defense budget isn't about politics, it's about the security of our country, and who knows that every dollar wasted is a dollar we can't spend to care for our troops or protect the homeland.<p>And over the last several months, he took that fight to Congress. He challenged conventional thinking, and he emerged with several critical victories. So on behalf of the American people, I want to thank you, Bob, for your extraordinary efforts.<p>Now, Bob couldn't have been successful had it not been for the next person I want to introduce, Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. He provided wise counsel and stood with us in our efforts to initiate reform, even though it probably occasionally caused some heartburn inside of the Pentagon as well, because change is hard. And so I'm very grateful for his leadership and excellent work. Please give Mike a big round of applause.<p>And finally, I want to thank the Members of Congress, particularly Senators Carl Levin and John McCain and Congressmen Ike Skelton and Buck McKeon. As the chairmen and ranking members of their respective committees, they did an outstanding job.<p>Now, this bill isn't perfect. This bill is an important step forward, but it's just a first step. There's still more waste we need to cut. There are still more fights that we need to win. Changing the culture in Washington will take time and sustained effort. And that's why Secretary Gates and I will continue waging these battles in the months and years ahead.<p>But I will say that when Secretary Gates and I first proposed going after some of these wasteful projects, there were a lot of people in this town who didn't think it was possible, who were certain we were going to lose, who were certain that we would get steamrolled, who argued that the special interests were too entrenched and that Washington was simply too set in its ways.<p>And so I think it's important to note today we have proven them wrong. Today we're putting an end to some wasteful projects that lawmakers have tried to kill for years. And we're doing this because Secretary Gates and I both know that we can't build the 21st-century military we need unless we fundamentally reform the way our defense establishment does business. The Government Accountability Office, the GAO, has looked into 96 major defense projects from the last year and found cost overruns that totaled $296 billion, an amount of money that would have paid our troops' salaries and provided benefits for their families for more than a year. <p>And we all know where this kind of waste comes from: indefensible, no-bid contracts that cost taxpayers billions and make contractors rich; special interests and their exotic projects that are years behind schedule and billions over budget; entrenched lobbyists pushing weapons that even our military says it doesn't want and doesn't need; the impulse in Washington to win political points back home by building things that we don't need at costs we can't afford. This waste would be unacceptable at any time, but at a time when we're fighting two wars and facing a serious deficit, it's inexcusable, it's unconscionable. It's an affront to the American people and to our troops, and it has to stop. <p>And already I've put an end to unnecessary no-bid contracts. I signed bipartisan legislation to reform defense procurement so weapons systems don't spin out of control. And even as we made critical investments in the equipment and weapons our troops do need, we're eliminating tens of billions of dollars in waste we don't need. So no longer will we be spending nearly $2 billion to buy more F-22 fighter jets that the Pentagon says they don't need. This bill also terminates troubled and massively over budget programs such as the Future Combat Systems, the Airborne Lasers, the Combat Search and Rescue helicopter, and a new Presidential helicopter that costs nearly as much as Air Force One. I won't be flying on that. <p>At the same time, we accelerated or increased weapons programs needed to confront real and growing threats: the Joint Strike Fighter, the Littoral Combat Ship, and more helicopters and reconnaissance support for our troops at the front.<p>And this bill also reduces waste and fraud in our contracting system, as well as our reliance on private contractors for jobs that Federal employees have the expertise and the training to do.<p>So today I'm pleased to say that we have proved that change is possible. It may not come quickly, or all at once, but if you push hard enough, it does come eventually. <p>Now, speaking of that, there is one more long-awaited change contained within this legislation that I'll be talking about a little more later today. After more than a decade of opposition and delay, we've passed inclusive hate crimes legislation to help protect our citizens from violence based on what they look like, who they love, how they pray, or who they are. <p>I promised Judy Shepard, when she saw me in the Oval Office, that this day would come, and I'm glad that she and her husband Dennis could join us for this event. I'm also honored to have the family of the late Senator Ted Kennedy, who fought so hard for this legislation. And Vicki and Patrick, Kara, everybody who's here, I just want you all to know how proud we are of the work that Ted did to help this day&mdash;make this day possible. So&mdash;and thank you for joining us here today.<p>So with that, I'm going to sign this piece of legislation. Thank you all for doing a great job. All right.\" "
"322" "\"Hello, everybody. Good to see you. Yes. Thank you so much, and welcome to the White House. There are several people here that I want to just make mention of because they helped to make today possible: we've got Attorney General Eric Holder and the Department of Justice crowd; a champion of this legislation and a great Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi; my dear friend, senior Senator from the great State of Illinois, Dick Durbin; the outstanding chairman of Armed Services, Carl Levin; Senator Arlen Specter; chairman of the Judiciary Committee in the House, Representative John Conyers; Representative Barney Frank; Representative Tammy Baldwin; Representative Jerry Nadler; Representative Jared Polis; all the Members of Congress who are here today. We thank you.<p>Mr. David Bohnett and Mr. Tom Gregory and the David Bohnett Foundation&mdash;they are partners for this reception&mdash;thank you so much, guys, for helping to host this; and finally and most importantly, because these were really the spearheads of this effort, Dennis, Judy, and Logan Shepard, as well as Betty Byrd Boatner and Louvon Harris, sisters of James Byrd, Jr. To all the activists, all the organizers, all the people who helped make this day happen, thank you for your years of advocacy and activism, pushing and protesting that made this victory possible.<p>You know, as a nation we've come far on the journey towards a more perfect union. And today, we've taken another step forward. This afternoon, I signed into law the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act. <p>This is the culmination of a struggle that has lasted more than a decade. Time and again, we faced opposition. Time and again, the measure was defeated or delayed. Time and again, we've been reminded of the difficulty of building a nation in which we're all free to live and love as we see fit. But the cause endured and the struggle continued, waged by the family of Matthew Shepard, by the family of James Byrd, by folks who held vigils and led marches, by those who rallied and organized and refused to give up, by the late Senator Ted Kennedy who fought so hard for this legislation and all who toiled for years to reach this day.<p>Now, you understand that we must stand against crimes that are meant not only to break bones, but to break spirits, not only to inflict harm, but to instill fear. You understand that the rights afforded every citizen under our Constitution mean nothing if we do not protect those rights, both from unjust laws and violent acts. And you understand how necessary this law continues to be.<p>In the most recent year for which we have data, the FBI reported roughly 7,600 hate crimes in this country. Over the past 10 years, there were more than 12,000 reported hate crimes based on sexual orientation alone. And we will never know how many incidents were never reported at all.<p>And that's why, through this law, we will strengthen the protections against crimes based on the color of your skin, the faith in your heart, or the place of your birth. We will finally add Federal protections against crimes based on gender, disability, gender identity, or sexual orientation. And prosecutors will have new tools to work with States in order to prosecute to the fullest those who would perpetrate such crimes, because no one in America should ever be afraid to walk down the street holding the hands of the person they love. No one in America should be forced to look over their shoulder because of who they are or because they live with a disability. <p>At root, this isn't just about our laws; this is about who we are as a people. This is about whether we value one another, whether we embrace our differences rather than allowing them to become a source of animus. It's hard for any of us to imagine the mindset of someone who would kidnap a young man and beat him to within an inch of his life, tie him to a fence, and leave him for dead. It's hard for any of us to imagine the twisted mentality of those who'd offer a neighbor a ride home, attack him, chain him to the back of a truck, and drag him for miles until he finally died.<p>But we sense where such cruelty begins: the moment we fail to see in another our common humanity, the very moment when we fail to recognize in a person the same fears and hopes, the same passions and imperfections, the same dreams that we all share.<p>We have for centuries strived to live up to our founding ideal of a nation where all are free and equal and able to pursue their own version of happiness. Through conflict and tumult, through the morass of hatred and prejudice, through periods of division and discord we have endured and grown stronger and fairer and freer. And at every turn, we've made progress not only by changing laws but by changing hearts, by our willingness to walk in another's shoes, by our capacity to love and accept even in the face of rage and bigotry.<p>In April of 1968, just 1 week after the assassination of Martin Luther King, as our Nation mourned in grief and shuddered in anger, President Lyndon Johnson signed landmark civil rights legislation. This was the first time we enshrined into law Federal protections against crimes motivated by religious or racial hatred, the law on which we build today.<p>As he signed his name, at a difficult moment for our country, President Johnson said that through this law \\"the bells of freedom ring out a little louder.\\" That is the promise of America. Over the sound of hatred and chaos, over the din of grief and anger, we can still hear those ideals, even when they are faint, even when some would try to drown them out. At our best we seek to make sure those ideals can be heard and felt by Americans everywhere. That work did not end in 1968. It certainly does not end today. But because of the efforts of the folks in this room, particularly those family members who are standing behind me, we can be proud that that bell rings even louder now and each day grows louder still.<p>So thank you very much. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"323" "\"Thank you very much. Please be seated. Thank you so much. It is an extraordinary privilege to be here today. And let me begin by acknowledging this distinguished group gathered on the platform: our extraordinary Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi; Majority Leader Harry Reid; Republican leader Mitch McConnell; Majority Leader Steny Hoyer; Republican leader John Boehner; Senator John Kerry; Representative Eleanor Holmes Norton; Representative Patrick Kennedy; my dear friend, Vicki Kennedy; to our honoree, Senator Edward Brooke, his wife, Anne, and family.<p>It is a great privilege to be here today as we confer the Congressional Gold Medal on a man who's spent his life breaking barriers and bridging divides across this country: Senator Edward Brooke.<p>Now, with his lifetime of achievement, Ed is no stranger to a good awards ceremony. He's been through a few of these. [<i>Laughter</i>] He's won the Bronze Star, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, honorary degrees from 34 colleges and universities, and more. So he's a pro when it comes to getting awards. But I think today's honor bears a unique significance: bestowed by this body of which he was an esteemed Member; presented in this place where he moved the arc of history; surrounded by so many&mdash;myself included&mdash;who have followed the trail that he blazed.<p>Ed's journey to this day was, by any measure, an unlikely one. Raised nearby in a neighborhood so fiercely segregated that Black residents needed a note from a White person to pass through; at a time when so many doors of opportunity were closed to African Americans, others might have become angry or disillusioned. They might have concluded that no matter how hard they worked, their horizons would always be limited, so why bother. But not Ed Brooke. <p>Serving in a segregated Army, barred from facilities at the base where he trained, he fought heroically in Europe, leading a daring daylight attack against a heavily armed enemy. Rejected from Boston's old-line firms despite his success in law school, he established his own practice, handling everything from wills and divorces to real estate and criminal cases. <p>And when he ran for statewide office in Massachusetts, and one reporter pointed out that he was Black, Republican, and Protestant, seeking office in a White, Democratic, and Catholic State&mdash;and also, quote, \\"a carpetbagger from the South and poor\\"&mdash;Ed was unfazed. It was, to say the least, an improbable profile for the man who would become the first African American State attorney general and the first popularly elected African American Senator. <p>But that was Ed Brooke's way, to ignore the naysayers, reject the conventional wisdom, and trust that, ultimately, people would judge him on his character, his commitment, his record, and his ideas. He ran for office, as he put it, \\"to bring people together who had never been together before.\\" And that he did.<p>I don't know anyone else whose fan base includes Gloria Steinem, Barney Frank, and Ted Kennedy, as well as Mitch McConnell, Mitt Romney, and George W. Bush. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's a coalition builder. [<i>Laughter</i>] And few have matched his reach across the aisle, from working with Birch Bayh to protect title IX so girls can compete on a level playing field, to sponsoring the Fair Housing Act with Walter Mondale and small-business legislation with Ted Kennedy, one of the many bills he would sponsor with the senior Senator from Massachusetts. <p>He didn't care whether a bill was popular or politically expedient, Democratic or Republican, he cared about whether it helped people, whether it made a difference in their daily lives. And that's why he fought so hard for Medicare, for mass transit and the minimum wage, for civil rights and women's rights. It's why he became a lifelong advocate for affordable housing, establishing protections that are the standard to this day. <p>So it's a record that defies the labels and categories for which he had little use and even less patience. When pressed to define himself, he'd offer phrases like \\"creative moderate,\\" or \\"a liberal with a conservative bent.\\" But in truth, Ed Brooke's career was animated not by a faith in any particular party or ideology, but rather, by a faith in the people he served. <p>Ed always got to see the best in people, because that was the effect he had. Maybe it was his old-fashioned manners, his unfailing courtesy and warmth. Maybe it was his charm and charisma, known to melt even the staunchest adversary. Or maybe it was his genuine interest in people's stories, the way he listened to their concerns and worked to ease their struggles. Whatever it was, even if people didn't fully agree with him, they saw how hard he fought for them and how much he respected them, and they respected him back. They rose to meet his esteem for them. Around Ed, people wanted to be their better selves. <p>Over the years, he made an impression on just about everyone he encountered, including a young Congressman named John F. Kennedy, whom he met back in 1952. The two men had a lively conversation, and as they parted ways, the future President said, \\"You know, you ought to be a Democrat.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And Ed smiled and replied, \\"You know, you ought to be a Republican.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>It was a sentiment that many in my party would share, including the President's brother, our dear friend, Ted Kennedy. While Ted campaigned vigorously for Ed's Democratic opponent, the two later became lifelong friends. And four decades later, Ted would campaign even more vigorously to secure Ed's nomination for this medal.<p>So while we grace Senator Brooke with his&mdash;this honor today, perhaps a better tribute to him would be to embrace that spirit: to compete aggressively at the polls, but then work selflessly together to serve the Nation we love. To look for the best in each other, to give each other the benefit of the doubt, and to remember that we're here for a purpose far greater than the sum of our own hopes, needs, and ambitions. That's the legacy of our friend, Senator Edward Brooke. And may we each do our part to carry it forward.<p>Thank you. God bless you. Congratulations, Senator Brooke. And God bless the United States of America.\" "
"324" "\"<i>The President</i>. Thank you, everybody. Today I am proud to announce the newest members of my national security team. I just met with them in the Oval Office, and I'm very pleased to have two extraordinary Americans. Senators Chuck Hagel and David Boren have agreed to serve as Cochairmen of my Intelligence Advisory Board, otherwise known as PIAB.<p>Now, since Dwight Eisenhower, Presidents have relied on the advisory board for advice on intelligence matters, and under Chuck and Dave's leadership, I will be looking for the board to provide me with objective, independent, and nonpartisan counsel as we work to strengthen our intelligence community and our national security.<p>And that's why we're joined today by my DNI, Director of National Intelligence, Denny Blair, and leaders from all 16 of our agencies involved with intelligence gathering. They represent countless men and women, uniformed and civilian, who work, often in obscurity, to keep our country safe.<p>Now, in recent months, we've seen some of their successes, in partnership with law enforcement and homeland security, real progress against Al Qaida and its extremist allies. And we thank those behind these suggestion&mdash;these successes, and we pledge to continue to provide the utmost support to them. Having Chuck Hagel and Dave Boren next to me, I think, is going to help us do an even better job.<p>Chuck understands that accurate and timely intelligence is essential for effective foreign policy. He served for many years as&mdash;on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and 6 years on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. And I came to appreciate his sound judgments in our travels together overseas, including to Iraq and Afghanistan. <p>He also understands, from personal experience, the need to protect our troops and provide them with the best possible intelligence. During Vietnam, Sergeant Hagel served as an infantry squad leader, along with his brother, where they both were wounded twice. And I thank Chuck for his lifetime of service and his willingness to serve once again.<p>David is a longtime champion of intelligence reform. He was the longest serving chairman in the history of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. In that time, he authored the legislation that created an independent inspector general at the CIA and major reforms to our oversight of covert actions.<p>David was also the leading force behind legislation that has encouraged thousands of American college students to study abroad to deepen their knowledge of the world and cultures. And I thank David for agreeing to serve in this capacity, even as he continues to lead the University of Oklahoma. And we are sorry about Bradford's shoulder. <p><i>Senator David L. Boren</i>. Thank you. [<i>Laughter</i>] Thank you, sir.<p><i>The President</i>. I look forward to working with Chuck and David in their new roles. They will report to me, they will have my full support, and they will have the full cooperation of my National Security Council staff and the organizations represented here.<p>We are off to a good start with this meeting by welcoming the press, which past advisory boards have rarely done. Now, that's a reflection of my administration's commitment to transparency and open government, even, when appropriate, on matters of national security and intelligence.<p>In the near future, I'll be naming additional members to the board. I look forward to Chuck, David, and these men and women around the table for their candid and unvarnished advice on the quality and accuracy of our intelligence and the effectiveness of our intelligence community.<p>Our work is clear. The organizations represented here have made real progress in recent years. But we all agree that more needs to be done to improve the collection of intelligence, to ensure that analysis reaches senior decisionmakers in a timely way, and to provide strong oversight to ensure that our intelligence activities are consistent with our democratic values and with the rule of law.<p>And the American people&mdash;and the men and women of our intelligence community as well&mdash;deserve nothing less. As I've said in my recent visits to the National Counterterrorism Center and the Joint Terrorism Task Force, we are extraordinarily grateful to them for the hard work, without any fanfare, that they do to keep the American people safe. <p>That's what I'm committed to doing as President, and that's why I want to again thank Senators Hagel and Boren for agreeing to serve in this capacity. I think they are going to be a invaluable resource to all of us sitting around the table.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"325" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. Please, have a seat. Before I begin, I want to just acknowledge two people who are working extraordinarily hard on behalf of small businesses. First of all, the Administrator of our Small Business Administration, Karen Mills, is here. The other individual who is on his way and will be here in a hot second, but we didn't want to keep everybody waiting, is a dear friend of mine, a great former Governor of Virginia, is now the Senator from the great State of Virginia and a huge supporter of small business and trying to figure out how to help all of you control your costs, and that's Senator Mark Warner. So when he comes in, please give him a smile.<p>I asked you here today to talk about health insurance reform and why it's so critical to the success of small businesses across our country. But before I do, let me talk a minute just briefly about the new economic numbers that were released this morning.<p>I am gratified that our economy grew in the third quarter of this year. We've come a long way since the first 3 months of 2009, when our economy shrunk by an alarming 6.4 percent. In fact, the 3.5-percent growth in the third quarter is the largest 3-month gain we have seen in 2 years. This is obviously welcome news and an affirmation that this recession is abating and the steps we've taken have made a difference.<p>But I also know that we've got a long way to go to fully restore our economy and recover from what's been the longest and deepest downturn since the Great Depression. And while this report today represents real progress, the benchmark I use to measure the strength of our economy is not just whether our GDP is growing, but whether we're creating jobs, whether families are having an easier time paying their bills, whether our businesses are hiring and doing well. And that's what I'm here to talk with you about today.<p>I know many of you have come from different corners of our country to be here, and looking out at all of you, I'm reminded of the extraordinary diversity of America's small businesses. You're owners of coffee shops and diners and hotels; you're florists, exterminators, builders. Each of your shops and firms reflects different passions and different ideas and different skills.<p>But what you share is a willingness to pursue those passions, take a chance on those ideas, and make the most of those skills. What you share is an entrepreneurial spirit, a tireless work ethic, and a simple hope for something better that lies at the heart of the American ideal. Businesses like yours are the engines of job growth in America. Over the past decade and a half, America's small businesses have created 65 percent of all new jobs in this country. And more than half of all Americans working in the private sector are either employed by a small business or own one.<p>Now, even in good times, starting a business, as all of you know, is not easy. It takes moxie, it takes gumption, it takes ingenuity, and failure is often more likely than success. But I don't have to tell you that it's been particularly difficult over the past few years. From the middle of 2007 through the end of 2008, small businesses lost 2.4 million jobs. Thousands have shut their doors altogether. And because of the credit crunch, banks have shrunk back from lending, making it harder to get loans to branch out or finance your inventories or maybe even to make payroll. Maybe you've had to forgo raises. Maybe you've had to do the unthinkable and lay off friends or family.<p>So we know how tough times have been for small businesses. That's why I made sure the Recovery Act included a number of measures to help small businesses weather this economic storm. We've put a tax cut&mdash;a tax cut, not a tax hike&mdash;a tax cut into the pockets of the vast majority of small-business owners and employees. We've supported nearly 65,000 [35,000]* loans to small businesses, more than $13 billion in new lending. More than 1,200 banks and credit unions that had stopped issuing SBA loans when the financial crisis hit are lending again today, and just last week, we proposed increasing the cap on what are called 7(a) and 504 loans, some of the loans most frequently handed out by the SBA.<p>But given the enormous problems small businesses and all Americans are facing today, we're aware that these steps are by no means enough. If we're serious about strengthening small businesses, if we're serious about creating a climate where our entrepreneurs can succeed, if we're serious about giving you the chance to prosper and grow, I believe, this administration firmly believes, that we need to pass health insurance reform in the United States of America.<p>Now, few have a bigger stake in what happens than all of you. Few have a bigger stake than the men and women who own a small business, work at a small business, or rely on someone who does. Few have a bigger stake in what happens because few are struggling more under the status quo. You all know the story.<p>We all know that family premiums have skyrocketed more than 130 percent over the past decade. They have more than doubled. But small businesses have been hit harder than most. A story in the paper just the other day said that many small businesses may see their premiums rise about 15 percent over the coming year, twice the rate they rose last year. And in part because small businesses pay higher administrative costs than larger ones, your employees pay up to 18 percent more in premiums for the very same health insurance. In one national survey, nearly three-quarters of small businesses that don't offer benefits cited high premiums as the reason, and that's not surprising.<p>The bottom line is that too many Americans like you can't afford to build the kinds of businesses you'd been hoping to build. Too many budding entrepreneurs can't afford to take a gamble on a smart idea because they can't give up the health insurance they get in their current job. Too many of you not only can't afford to provide health insurance to your employees, too many of you are having a tough time just affording health insurance for yourselves. That's bad for our economy, it's bad for our country, and that's what will change when health insurance reform becomes law.<p>Just this morning the House of Representatives released its version of health reform legislation, and I want to commend Nancy Pelosi and the Democratic Caucus for their leadership in achieving this critical milestone. They forged a strong consensus that represents a historic step forward. This bill includes reforms that will finally help make quality insurance affordable. Importantly, this bill is also fully paid for and will reduce the deficit in the long term.<p>Now, there's no doubt that this legislation and the legislation that's being drafted in the Senate would benefit millions of small businesses. It's being written with the interests of Americans like you and your employees in mind. And yet there are those who have a vested interest in the status quo who are claiming otherwise, and they're using misleading figures and disingenuous arguments. So I want to try to explain as clearly as I can exactly what health reform would mean for small-business owners like you and the workers you employ.<p>The first thing I want to make clear is that if you are happy with the insurance plan that you have right now, if the costs you're paying and the benefits you're getting are what you want them to be, then you can keep offering that same plan. Nobody will make you change it. What we will do is make the coverage that you're currently providing more affordable by offering a tax credit to small businesses that are trying to do the right thing and provide coverage for their employees. Under the House and Senate bills, millions of small businesses would be eligible for a tax credit of up to 50 percent of their premiums. That's in the legislation that's already been proposed.<p>We'll also make your coverage more stable and more secure. Right now if just one of your workers falls seriously ill, it could spell disaster for your entire business. You could see your premiums shoot up and you could face a painful choice: Do you eat the costs and ask your workers to contribute more? Do you seek another insurance plan, without any guarantee that you'll be able to find one that's affordable? Or do you just scale back benefits or drop coverage altogether?<p>I don't think that you should have to make that choice in the United States of America. Under health insurance reform, we put an end to the days when an insurance company could use one worker's illness to justify jacking up premiums for everybody. We'll crack down on excessive overhead charges by setting strong standards on how much of your premium can go towards administrative costs and requiring insurers to give you a refund, if they violate those standards. It'll be against the law for insurance companies to deny you coverage because of a preexisting condition, and it will be against the law for insurance companies to drop your coverage when you get sick or water it down when you need it the most.<p>They'll no longer be able to place some arbitrary cap on the amount of coverage you can receive in a given year or a lifetime. If you get your insurance through your employer, we'll change the cutoff on how old your kids can be to remain on your plan; we'll raise that to 26 years old. We'll place a limit on how much you can be charged for out-of-pocket expenses. And insurance companies will be required to cover, with no extra charge, routine checkups and preventive care, like mammograms and colonoscopies, because there's no reason we shouldn't be catching diseases like breast cancer and colon cancer before they get worse and cost more money. That makes sense, it saves money, and it saves lives.<p>So that's what we'll do for all the small businesses that have insurance, that are currently providing insurance. And for all the small businesses that can't afford to provide insurance right now and small-business owners who can't even afford to get coverage themselves, we'll finally make quality coverage affordable. And here's how we'll do it.<p>One of the biggest problems in our health care system right now is if you're a small-business owner or if you're self-employed, you often have such a small number of workers that insurance companies aren't all that interested in your business. It's basic economics. You don't have a lot of leverage as a small customer. And as a result, you end up paying higher costs than big businesses that can get better deals because they've got more workers, they got more purchasing power.<p>So what we'll do is to set up what we're calling an exchange that will pool small businesses together. And that will mean it's not just you bargaining with insurance companies, it's you and many other small-business owners and self-employed individuals all across the country. And with all that additional leverage, you'll be able to get better deals than you could have ever received on your own. In fact, small businesses that choose one of the plans in this exchange could save 25 percent on their premiums by 2016, only 2 years after the exchange has been set up.<p>And we'll also offer tax credits to make insurance even more affordable for millions of small businesses. So meanwhile, by expanding coverage for more Americans, we're going to help eliminate the hidden tax of more than a thousand dollars that the average worker is paying to cover the medical expenses of the uninsured.<p>Now, nothing's free, and it's true that when reform becomes law, businesses of a certain size who do not offer their workers health care coverage may be required to contribute to the costs, and that makes a lot of small-business owners nervous. Opponents of reform have tried to say that you'd be subject to this penalty and it could potentially drive up your costs.<p>But here are the facts, because this has been analyzed repeatedly. About 90 percent&mdash;90 percent of all small businesses, regardless of what version of this plan you're talking about that's currently going through Congress&mdash;90 percent of all businesses would be exempt from this requirement. So if your business is anything like the vast majority of small businesses out there, this requirement simply won't apply to you, because I don't think it's fair to impose a penalty on small businesses that are already operating at very narrow margins.<p>So that's what health insurance reform would mean for you and for all our small businesses. It would reduce your costs. It would prevent small-business owners from facing exorbitant rate hikes. It will make coverage affordable for all small businesses that can't afford it right now. And if you're providing health insurance to your employees, it gives you more predictability, more security, more stability.<p>It will help remove the worry that if you have the courage to strike out on your own and open a business, you'll be doomed from the start. It will help give entrepreneurs and all Americans the assurance of knowing they won't go broke when they get sick. It will help ensure that no small-business owner in America has to choose between being a successful employer and an employer who cares deeply about the well being of his employees or her employees. It will help us be the kind of country we know ourselves to be.<p>So what's at stake isn't just the success of our businesses or the strength of our economy or even the health of our people. What's at stake is that most American of ideas: that this is a place where you can make it if you try, where you can be your own boss, where the only limits to what you can achieve are your smarts, your savvy, your dreams, your willingness to work hard, where you can pass on to your children a better life than you inherited.<p>That's what's at stake; that's what we're fighting for. And I'm absolutely confident that if we do what has to be done, if we can build an economy that works for all Americans, if we can promote innovation and foster growth and build a better health care system that is not a drag on each and every one of you, then not only will we ease the burden on entrepreneurs, not only will we give our small businesses a huge boost, not only will we produce the kind of growth we so desperately need in this country, but we'll secure the blessings of America for our children and our grandchildren.<p>That's what we're fighting for. I need your help to make it happen. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. God bless America.\" "
"326" "\"<i>The President</i>. Good morning, everybody.<p><i>Audience members</i>. Good morning.<p><i>The President</i>. We often speak about AIDS as if it's going on somewhere else, and for good reason. This is a virus that has touched lives and decimated communities around the world, particularly in Africa. But often overlooked is the fact that we face a serious HIV/AIDS epidemic of our own, right here in Washington, DC, and right here in the United States of America. And today we are taking two important steps forward in the fight that we face here at home.<p>It has been nearly three decades since this virus first became known. But for years, we refused to recognize it for what it was. It was coined a \\"gay disease.\\" Those who had it were viewed with suspicion. There was a sense among some that people afflicted by AIDS somehow deserved their fate and that it was acceptable for our Nation to look the other way.<p>A number of events and advances over the years have broadened our understanding of this cruel illness. One of them came in 1984, when a 13-year-old boy from central Indiana contracted HIV/AIDS from a transfusion. Doctors assured people that Ryan White posed no risk to his classmates or his community, but ignorance was still widespread. People didn't yet understand or believe that the virus couldn't be spread by casual contact. Parents protested Ryan's attendance in class. Some even pulled their kids out of school. Things got so bad that the White family had to ultimately move to another town.<p>It would have been easy for Ryan and his family to stay quiet and to fight the illness in private. But what Ryan showed was the same courage and strength that so many HIV-positive activists have shown over the years and shown around&mdash;show around the world today. And because he did, we didn't just become more informed about HIV/AIDS, we began to take action to fight it.<p>In 1990, the year Ryan passed away, two great friends and unlikely political allies, Ted Kennedy and then Orrin Hatch, came together and introduced the Comprehensive AIDS Resources Emergency Act, the CARE Act, which was later named after Ryan.<p>In a few minutes, I'm going to sign the fourth reauthorization of the Ryan White CARE Act. Now, in the past, policy differences have made reauthorizations of this program divisive and controversial. That didn't happen this year. And for that, the Members of Congress that are here today deserve extraordinary credit for passing this bill in the bipartisan manner that it deserves: Tom Harkin and Mike Enzi in the Senate, we are grateful to you for your extraordinary work; Speaker Pelosi, who's always leading the charge on so many issues; Frank Pallone, Jr., Joe Barton, Barbara Lee, and Donna Christensen in the House, thank you for your extraordinary work. Oh, don't worry, I'm getting to Henry. [<i>Laughter</i>] Nancy is always looking out for Members&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;but we've got a special section for Henry.<p>And Chairman Henry Waxman, who began holding hearings on AIDS in 1982, before there was even a name for AIDS, was leading here in Washington to make sure that this got the informed attention that it deserved and who led the House in passing the original Ryan White legislation in 1990.<p>I also want to acknowledge the HIV community for crafting a consensus document that did so much to help move this process forward. Some of the advocates so important to this legislation are with us here today: Ernest Hopkins from Cities Advocating for Emergency AIDS Relief; Frank Oldham, Jr., president and CEO of the National Association of People with AIDS; and Julie Scofield, executive director of the National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors.<p>And I'm especially honored that Ryan White's mother, Jeanne White-Ginder, is here today. For 25 years, Jeanne had an immeasurable impact in helping ramp up America's response to this epidemic. While we lost Ryan at too young an age, Jeanne's efforts have extended the lives and saved the lives of so many others. And we are so appreciative to you. Thank you.<p>You know, over the past 19 years, this legislation has evolved from an emergency response into a comprehensive national program for the care and support of Americans living with HIV/AIDS. It helps communities that are most severely affected by this epidemic and often least served by our health care system, including minority communities, the LGBT community, rural communities, and the homeless. It's often the only option for the uninsured and the underinsured. And it provides lifesaving medical services to more than half a million Americans every year in every corner of the country.<p>It's helped us to open a critical front on the ongoing battle against HIV/AIDS. But let me be clear: This is a battle that's far from over, and it's a battle that all of us need to do our part to join. AIDS may no longer be the leading killer of Americans ages 25 to 44, as it once was, but there are still 1.1 million people living with HIV/AIDS in the United States, and more than 56,000 new infections occur every single year.<p>Some communities still experience unacceptably high rates of infection. Gay men make up 2 or 3 percent of the population, but more than half of all new cases. African Americans make up roughly half of all new cases. Nearly half of all new cases now occur in the South. And a staggering 7 percent of Washington, DC's residents between the ages of 40 and 49 live with HIV/AIDS, and the epidemic here isn't as severe as it is in several other U.S. cities.<p>So tackling this epidemic will take far more aggressive approaches than we've seen in the past, not only from our Federal Government but also State and local governments, from local community organizations, and from places of worship.<p>But it will also take an effort to end the stigma that has stopped people from getting tested, that has stopped people from facing their own illness, and that has sped the spread of this disease for far too long. A couple of years ago, Michelle and I were in Africa, and we tried to combat the stigma when we were in Kenya by taking a public HIV/AIDS test. And I'm proud to announce today we're about to take another step towards ending that stigma.<p>Twenty-two years ago, in a decision rooted in fear rather than fact, the United States instituted a travel ban on entry into the country for people living with HIV/AIDS. Now, we talk about reducing the stigma of this disease, yet we've treated a visitor living with it as a threat. We lead the world when it comes to helping stem the AIDS pandemic, yet we are one of only a dozen countries that still bar people from HIV from entering our own country.<p>If we want to be the global leader in combating HIV/AIDS, we need to act like it. And that's why on Monday my administration will publish a final rule that eliminates the travel ban effective just after the New Year. Congress and President Bush began this process last year, and they ought to be commended for it. We are finishing the job. It's a step that will encourage people to get tested and get treatment, it's a step that will keep families together, and it's a step that will save lives.<p>We are continuing the work of crafting a coordinated, measurable national HIV/AIDS strategy to stem and suppress this epidemic. I'm pleased to report that the Office of National AIDS Policy, led by Jeffrey Crowley, has already held 8 in a series of 14 community discussions in cities across the country. They've brought together faith-based organizations and businesses, schools and research institutions, people living with HIV and concerned citizens, gathering ideas on how to target a national response that effectively reduces HIV infections, improves access to treatment, and eliminates health disparities. And we are encouraged by the energy, the enthusiasm, and great ideas that we've collected so far.<p>We can't give Ryan White back to Jeanne, back to his mom. But what we can do&mdash;what the legislation that I'm about to sign has done for nearly 20 years&mdash;is honor the courage that he and his family showed. What we can do is to take more action and educate more people. What we can do is keep fighting each and every day until we eliminate this disease from the face of the Earth.<p>So with that, let me sign this bill.\" "
"327" "\"Each week, I've spoken with you about the challenges we face as a nation and the path we must take to meet them. And the truth is, over the past 10 months, I've often had to report distressing news during what has been a difficult time for our country. But today I am pleased to offer some better news that while not cause for celebration is certainly reason to believe that we are moving in the right direction.<p>On Thursday, we received a report on our Gross Domestic Product, or GDP. This is an important measure of our economy as a whole, one that tells us how much we are producing and how much businesses and families are earning. We learned that the economy grew for the first time in more than a year and faster than at any point in the previous 2 years. So while we have a long way to go before we return to prosperity, and there will undoubtedly be ups and downs along the road, it's also true that we've come a long way. It's easy to forget that it was only several months ago that the economy was shrinking rapidly and many economists feared another great depression.<p>Now, economic growth is no substitute for job growth. And we will likely see further job losses in the coming days, a fact that is both troubling for our economy and heartbreaking for the men and women who suddenly find themselves out of work. But we will not create the jobs we need unless the economy is growing; that's why this GDP report is a good sign. And we can see clearly now that the steps my administration is taking are making a difference, blunting the worst of this recession and helping to bring about its conclusion.<p>We've acted aggressively to jump-start credit for families and businesses, including small businesses, which have seen an increase in lending of 73 percent. We've taken steps to stem the tide of foreclosures, modifying mortgages to help hundreds of thousands of responsible homeowners keep their homes and help millions more sustain the value in their homes. And the Recovery Act is spurring demand through a tax cut for 95 percent of working families and through assistance for seniors and those who have lost jobs, which not only helps folks hit hardest by the downturn but also encourages the consumer spending that will help turn the economy around.<p>Finally, the Recovery Act is saving and creating jobs all across the country. Just this week, we reached an important milestone. Based on reports coming in from across America, as shovels break ground, as needed public servants are rehired, and as factories whir to life, it is clear that the Recovery Act has now created and saved more than 1 million jobs. That's more than a million people who might otherwise be out of work today, folks who can wake up each day knowing that they'll be able to provide for themselves and for their families.<p>We've saved jobs by closing State budget shortfalls to prevent the layoffs of hundreds of thousands of police officers, firefighters, and teachers who are today on the beat, on call, and in the classrooms because of the Recovery Act. And we've also created hundreds of thousands of jobs through the largest investment in our roads since the building of the Interstate Highway System and through the largest investment in education, medical research, and clean energy in history.<p>These investments aren't just helping us recover in the short term, they're helping to lay a new foundation for lasting prosperity in the long term, and they're giving hard-working, middle class Americans the chance to succeed and raise a family. Because of the investments we've made and the steps we've taken, it's easier for middle class families to send their kids to college and get the training and skills they need to compete in a global economy. We're making it easier for these families to save for retirement. And in areas like clean energy, we're creating the jobs of the future, jobs that pay well and can't be outsourced.<p>In fact, just this week, I traveled to Arcadia, Florida, to announce the largest set of clean energy projects through the Recovery Act so far: 100 grants for businesses, utilities, manufacturers, cities, and other partners across the country to put thousands of people to work modernizing our electric grid, the system that provides power to our homes and businesses, so that it wastes less energy, helps integrate renewables like wind and solar, and saves consumers money. And that's just one example.<p>So we have made progress. At the same time, I want to emphasize that there's still plenty of progress to be made. For we know that positive news for the economy as a whole means little if you've lost your job and can't find another, if you can't afford health care or the mortgage, if you do not see in your own life the improvement we are seeing in these economic statistics. And positive news today doesn't mean there won't be difficult days ahead. As I've said many times, it took years to dig our way into the crisis we've faced. It will take more than a few months to dig our way out. But make no mistake: That's exactly what we will do.<p>For the economy we seek is one where folks who need a job can find one and incomes are rising again. The economy we seek is one where small businesses can flourish and entrepreneurs can get the capital they need to plant new seeds of growth. The economy we seek is one that's no longer based on maxed-out credits cards, wild speculation, and the old cycles of boom or bust, but rather one that is built on a solid foundation, supporting growth that is strong, sustained, and broadly shared by middle class families across America. That's what we are working toward every single day. And we will not stop until we get there. <p>Thanks, and happy Halloween.\" "
"328" "\"All right. Hello, everybody. I am pleased to be joined this morning by my Economic Recovery Advisory Board. Each of these men and women have extraordinary and diverse expertise in the economy. I want to especially thank Paul Volcker, who has been a terrific adviser to me since the transition and has continued to help steer this group in ways that are providing us some very practical advice as we move forward.<p>I've said before, but I think it bears repeating, that we have come a long way since January, when at that time we were losing 700 jobs&mdash;700,000 jobs per month and across the political spectrum, I think, there was fear of the possibility of another great depression. We have pulled the economy back from the brink. We got good news last week showing that for the first time in over a year the economy was actually growing once again. And we have seen some other indicators that manufacturing is beginning to pick up. That's all good news, and we are pleased that the actions that we took swiftly through the Recovery Act helped to stem what could have been a disastrous situation for the economy, and we are starting to see stabilization and, indeed, some improvement.<p>But the reason we're here today is because we just are not where we need to be yet. We've got a long way to go. We are still seeing production levels that are significantly below peak levels and most distressing is the fact that job growth continues to lag. Now, we all know that in every economic recovery there is going to be a lag between the economy growing again, businesses investing again, and businesses hiring again. But given the severity of the job growth that took&mdash;the job losses that took place at the beginning of the year and the need for us to make up a whole lot of job loss, is going to require, I think, some bold, innovative action on our part and on Congress's part and on the private sector's part.<p>It's also going to require that we look at new models for where future growth is going to come from, because one of the, I think, key understandings coming out of this past financial crisis is that a lot of our growth was debt-driven&mdash;credit cards being maxed out, home equity loans being taken out to finance a lot of purchases. Consumers, I think, wisely recognized that they can't get that overextended any more, and businesses are going to be more cautious in terms of how they approach taking on a lot of debt. The Government is going to have to get serious about reducing our debt levels.<p>And so one of our challenges now, and I've been speaking about this for many months now, is how do we get what I call a postbubble growth model, one that is sustainable. That's what we're going to be discussing here today. As I said, we've got experts from a wide range of business sectors, and what we're going to talk about is, are there mechanisms that we can start putting in place where we see the kind of growth that used to characterize the U.S. economy: export-driven growth, manufacturing growth, growth that pays high wages and provides high living standards for a broad-based middle class.<p>And I think that there are some excellent ideas that are already on the table. Some of them are being talked about in Congress. It's likely this week that we start seeing some discussion about potential tax cuts and credits that could make some difference in hiring, but we want to go beyond just tax policy.<p>So for example, we've got John Doerr sitting next to me, who has been one of the leading venture capitalists in the innovation economy and helped to spur on the revolution in the computer industry. John has unequal passions for the possibilities of green job growth in the future, and how, through projects like weatherization and retrofitting of buildings, we could generate millions of jobs and create huge prospects for growth over the long term.<p>Jeff Immelt of GE&mdash;down at the end&mdash;has been at the helm of one of our greatest manufacturers, an international company. Jeff, I think, recognizes that if we don't do more to export, we are not going to succeed in global competition. And so how we coordinate more effectively in our trade policies, in our approaches to working with manufacturing here in the United States&mdash;if we don't do that effectively, we're not going to succeed.<p>Rich Trumka has been talking about infrastructure for a long time, as have I, and I think my team will testify, when we got several trillion dollars worth of infrastructure that is falling apart, we need to put people to work, doing the work that America needs done. But we're also in an era of fiscal constraint, which means that we've got to start finding more creative, new approaches to financing these projects.<p>So those are the discussions we're going to be having, not just today but in the weeks and months to come. This is my administration's overriding focus. Having brought the economy back from the brink, the question is how are we going to make sure that people are getting back to work and able to support their families. It's not going to happen overnight, but we will not rest until we are succeeding in generating the jobs that this economy needs.<p>And I couldn't ask for a better group of people to bounce ideas off of, and we are going to be soliciting ideas from the private sector, from businesses large and small, from academia and from all political persuasions. If somebody can show me a strategy that's going to work, then we are happy to consider it.<p>And just&mdash;I want to end by saying this. We anticipate that we're going to continue to see some job losses in the weeks and months to come. As I said before, there is a&mdash;always a lag of several months between businesses starting to make profits again and investing again and then actually rehiring again. But I want to emphasize I am confident that having moved the economy on the right track, that if we apply some good common sense and some&mdash;and reinvigorate that sector of our economy that's based on innovation and dynamism and entrepreneurship, that there's no reason why we're not going to be able to not only create jobs, but the kind of sustainable economic growth that everybody is looking for.<p>So thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"329" "\"Thank you. Thank you so much. Everybody, please have a seat. Well, welcome to the White House. Michelle and I are delighted to host the fourth evening in a series showcasing the achievements of American musicians. <p>I'd like to welcome the many Members of Congress who've joined us tonight. Despite what you may have heard, they are actually a civilized bunch. [<i>Laughter</i>] Please join me in acknowledging our outstanding Secretary of Veterans Affairs Ric Shinseki is here as well, doing a tremendous job on behalf of our wounded warriors. I would also like to welcome the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities, a group of men and women dedicated to inspiring creative endeavors and strengthening America's deep commitment to the arts. And I understand that you had a wonderful program this afternoon and this morning with Michelle. <p>It's been a busy day of classical music here at the White House. Earlier, more than 100 students participated in a terrific workshop and concert led by tonight's performers. I want to thank those performers for coming to share their passion and their talent with us tonight: Joshua Bell, Sharon Isbin, Awadagin Pratt, and Alisa Weilerstein.<p>Any one of them would tell you that they're only here because of the hard work, dedication, and the fact that somebody along the way was there for them. So I want to thank them for setting an important example for our gifted young musicians, who someday might be performing up here themselves. <p>Tonight's performance also continues a long tradition of sorts in the East Room. Over 120 years ago, the first formal concert was held here as President Chester A. Arthur and guests listened to Her Majesty's Opera Company performing the works of Mozart, Verdi, and Wagner. Since then, it's earned a rich history as a venue for White House concerts, and especially for those dedicated to classical music. From Van Cliburn to Yo-Yo Ma to our own Marine Chamber Orchestra and Marine Chamber Ensembles, this room has been a stage for some of the Nation's most accomplished classical musicians. <p>Now, if any of you in the audience are newcomers to classical music and aren't sure when to applaud, don't be nervous. [<i>Laughter</i>] Apparently, President Kennedy had the same problem. [<i>Laughter</i>] He and Jackie held several classical music events here, and more than once he started applauding when he wasn't supposed to. [<i>Laughter</i>] So the social secretary worked out a system where she'd signal him&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;through a crack in the door to the Cross Hall. <p>Now, fortunately, I have Michelle to tell me when to applaud. [<i>Laughter</i>] The rest of you are on your own. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>This is, of course, a unique concert venue. But tonight, all across America, in community centers and concert halls, in homes and in schools, the sounds of classical music are lifting hearts and spurring imagination, just as they always have. And it's easy to understand why. There's precision, of course, but there's also great feeling and improvisation. There's structure, but there's also creativity. It's music that defies simple definition even as it speaks to a common, universal language.<p>So whether you are new to classical music, or have been an aficionado for many, many years, we hope that you enjoy tonight. <p>Thank you so much.\" "
"330" "\"<i>Secretary of Education </i><i>Arne Duncan</i>. Well, we're thrilled to be here, and this is a school that's getting better and better, and you guys are working really, really hard. And we've been lucky. We have a President here who has got a tough, tough job. Being President is tough without the&mdash;he's fighting two wars, a really, really tough economy&mdash;I like your shirt.<p><i>Student</i>. Thanks. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Secretary </i><i>Duncan</i>. And what amazes me is that week after week, month after month, he just keeps coming back to education, and he's absolutely passionate about it. He and his wife, the First Lady Michelle Obama, received great educations. Neither one was born with a lot of money, but they worked really hard and had great teachers and great principals and made the most of it. And now he's our President. So it's a pretty remarkable journey. The only reason he's the President is because he got a great education.<p>So we're thrilled to be here. He might want to say a few things, and looks like you guys have questions for him. And so we'll be quick, and we'll open up to your questions.<p><i>The President</i>. Well, it is good to see all of you. Thanks so much for having us.<p>First of all, I've got a great Secretary of Education in Arne Duncan. So he helps school districts all across the country in trying to figure out how to improve what's going on in the schools. And let me just pick up on something that Arne said earlier.<p>I was really lucky to have a great education. I didn't have a lot of money. My parents weren't famous. In fact, my father left when I was 2 years old, so I really didn't grow up with a father in the house; mostly it was my mom and my grandparents. But they always emphasized education, and they were able to send me to good schools, and by working hard I was, obviously, in a position to do some good stuff.<p>My wife Michelle, same thing; she grew up on the south side of Chicago. Her dad was actually disabled, he had multiple sclerosis, but he still worked every day in a blue collar job. And her mom didn't work, and when she did she was a secretary. But because she worked really hard in school she ended up getting a scholarship to Princeton and to Harvard Law School and ended up really being able to achieve a lot.<p>So that's the reason why we are spending a lot of time talking to folks like you, because we want all of you to understand that there's nothing more important than what you're doing right here at this school. And Wright has a great reputation; this school is improving all the time. But ultimately, how good a school is depends on how well you guys are doing. <p>And the main message that I just wanted to deliver to you is, every single one of you could be doing the same kinds of things that Arne is doing or I'm doing. Or you could be running a company, or you can be inventing a product or you could&mdash;look, anything you can imagine, you can accomplish, but the only way you do it is if you're succeeding here in school. And we are spending a lot of money to try to improve school buildings and put computers in and make sure that your teachers are well trained and that they are getting the support they need. <p>So we're working really hard to try to reform the schools, but ultimately, what matters most is how badly you want a good education. If you think that somehow somebody is just going to&mdash;you can tilt your head and somebody is going to pour education in your ear, that's just not how it works. The only way that you end up being in a position to achieve is if you want it, if inside you want it. <p>And part of the reason why we wanted to talk to you guys is, you're right at the point now in your lives where what you do is really going to start mattering. My daughters are a little younger than you&mdash;Malia is 11, Sasha is 8&mdash;but when you're in grade school, you're playing&mdash;hopefully, somebody is making sure you're doing your homework when you get it, but to some degree you're still just kind of learning how to learn. <p>By the time you get to middle school, you're now going to be confronted with a lot of choices. You're going to start entering those teenage years where there are a lot of distractions and in some places people will say you don't need to worry about school or it's uncool to be smart or, you know, all kinds of things. And look, I'll be honest, I went through some of that when I was in high school, and I made some mistakes and had some setbacks. <p>So I just want everybody to understand right now that nothing is going to be more important to you than just being hungry for knowledge. And if all of you decide to do that, then there are going to be teachers and principals and secretaries of education who are going to be there to help you. So hopefully, you guys will take that all to heart.<p>All right. Okay. Now we're going to kick out everybody so I can let you&mdash;you guys can ask me all the really tough questions without having the press here.\" "
"331" "\"Please, everybody have a seat. Let me first of all just thank Ken and the entire Department of the Interior staff for organizing just an extraordinary conference. I want to thank my Cabinet members and senior administration officials who participated today. I hear that Dr. Joe Medicine Crow was around, and so I want to give a shout-out to that Congressional Medal of Honor [Presidential Medal of Freedom]* winner. Good to see you.<p>My understanding is, is that you had an extremely productive conference. I want to thank all of you for coming and for your efforts, and I want to give you my solemn guarantee that this is not the end of a process but a beginning of a process, and that we are going to follow up. We are going to follow up. Every single member of my team understands that this is a top priority for us. I want you to know that, as I said this morning, this is not something that we just give lip service to. And we are going to keep on working with you to make sure that the first Americans get the best possible chances in life in a way that's consistent with your extraordinary traditions and culture and values.<p><i>Shootings at Fort Hood Army Base in Texas</i><p>Now, I have to say, though, that beyond that, I had planned to make some broader remarks about the challenges that lay ahead for Native Americans, as well as collaboration with our administration, but as some of you might have heard, there has been a tragic shooting at the Fort Hood Army base in Texas. We don't yet know all the details at this moment; we will share them as we get them. What we do know is that a number of American soldiers have been killed and even more have been wounded in a horrific outburst of violence.<p>My immediate thoughts and prayers are with the wounded and with the families of the fallen, and with those who live and serve at Fort Hood. And these are men and women who have made the selfless and courageous decision to risk and at times give their lives to protect the rest of us on a daily basis. It's difficult enough when we lose these brave Americans in battles overseas. It is horrifying that they should come under fire at an Army base on American soil. <p>I've spoken to Secretary Gates and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mike Mullen, and I will continue to receive a constant stream of updates as new information comes in. We are working with the Pentagon, the FBI, and the Department of Homeland Security, all to ensure that Fort Hood is secure, and we will continue to support the community with the full resources of the Federal Government.<p>In the meantime, I would ask all Americans to keep the men and women of Fort Hood in your thoughts and prayers. We will make sure that we get answers to every single question about this horrible incident. And I want all of you to know that as Commander in Chief, there's no greater honor but also no greater responsibility for me than to make sure that the extraordinary men and women in uniform are properly cared for and that their safety and security when they are at home is provided for.<p>So we are going to stay on this. But I hope in the meantime that all of you recognize the scope of this tragedy and keep everybody in their thoughts and prayers.<p>Again, thank you for your participation here today. I am confident that this is going to be resulting in terrific work between this Government and your governments in the weeks, the months, and years to come. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"332" "\"Hi, guys. Hey! Hello, everybody. Please sit down. Good afternoon, everybody. I wanted to come down and just talk a little bit about health care before Robert gives his regular briefing.<p>I am extraordinarily pleased and grateful to learn that the AARP and the American Medical Association are both supporting the health insurance reform bill that will soon come up to a vote in the House of Representatives. <p>When it comes to the AARP, this is no small endorsement. For more than 50 years, they have been a leader in the fight to reduce the costs of health care and expand coverage for our senior citizens. They are a nonpartisan organization, and their board made their decision to endorse only after a careful, intensive, objective scrutiny of this bill. They're endorsing this bill because they know it will strengthen Medicare, not jeopardize it. They know it will protect the benefits our seniors receive, not cut them. So I want everybody to remember that the next time you hear the same tired arguments to the contrary from the insurance companies and their lobbyists. And remember this endorsement the next time you see a bunch of misleading ads on television. <p>The AARP knows this bill will make health care more affordable. They know it will make coverage more secure. They know it's a good deal for our seniors. And that's why we're thrilled that they're standing up for this effort. <p>The same is true for the doctors and medical professionals who are supporting this bill today. These are men and women who know our health care system best and have been watching this debate closely. They would not be supporting it if they really believed that it would lead to Government bureaucrats making decisions that are best left to doctors. They would not be with us if they believed that reform would in any way damage the critical and sacred doctor-patient relationship. <p>Instead, they're supporting reform because they've seen firsthand what's broken about our health care system. They've seen what happens when patients can't get the care they need because some insurance company has decided to drop their coverage or water it down. They've seen what happens when a patient is forced to pay out-of-pocket costs of thousands of dollars that she doesn't have to get the treatment she desperately needs. They've seen what happens when patients don't come in for regular checkups or screenings because either their insurance company doesn't cover them or they can't afford health insurance in the first place. And they've seen far, far too much of their time spent filling out forms and haggling with insurance company bureaucrats. So the doctors of America know what needs to be fixed about our health care system. They know that health insurance reform would go a long way toward doing that. <p>We are closer to passing this reform than ever before. And now that the doctors and medical professionals of America are standing with us, now that the organizations charged with looking out for the interests of seniors are standing with us, we are even closer. <p>I want to thank both organizations again for their support, and I urge Congress to listen to AARP, listen to the AMA, and pass this reform for hundreds of millions of Americans who will benefit from it. Thank you.\" "
"333" "\"<i>Shootings at Fort Hood Army Base in Texas</i><p>Good morning. I want to begin by offering an update on the tragedy that took place yesterday at Fort Hood.<p>This morning I met with FBI Director Mueller and the relevant agencies to discuss their ongoing investigation into what caused one individual to turn his gun on fellow service men and women. We don't know all the answers yet, and I would caution against jumping to conclusions until we have all the facts.<p>What we do know is that there are families, friends, and an entire nation grieving right now for the valiant men and women who came under attack yesterday in one of the worst mass shootings ever to take place on an American military base. So from now until Veterans Day, I've ordered the flags at the White House and other Federal buildings to be flown at halfstaff. This is a modest tribute to those who lost their lives even as many were preparing to risk their lives for their country. And it's also recognition of the men and women who put their lives on the line every day to protect our safety and uphold our values. We honor their service, we stand in awe of their sacrifice, and we pray for the safety of those who fight and for the families of those who have fallen. And as we continue to learn more about what happened at Fort Hood, this administration will continue to provide you updates in the coming days and weeks.<p>Now, I would also like to announce that I just signed into law a bill that will help grow our economy, save and create new jobs, and provide relief to struggling families and businesses. The need for such a measure was made clear by the jobs report that we received this morning. Although we lost fewer jobs than we did last month, our unemployment rate climbed to over 10 percent, a sobering number that underscores the economic challenges that lie ahead.<p>When we first came into office, our immediate goal was to stop the freefall that caused our economy to shrink at an alarming rate. We have succeeded in achieving that goal, as our economy grew last quarter for the first time in a year. But history tells us that job growth always lags behind economic growth, which is why we have to continue to pursue measures that will create new jobs. And I can promise you that I won't let up until the Americans who want to find work can find work and until all Americans can earn enough to raise their families and keep their businesses open.<p>The bill I signed today will help folks do that while continuing to grow our economy. It's a bill that extends unemployment benefits for up to 20 additional weeks, with the longest extension for the hardest hit States. Already these benefits have helped 16 million unemployed Americans, and now that I've signed this bill, an additional 700,000 Americans who are still searching for work will be able to sign up for an extension of those benefits immediately.<p>Although the extension will help over 1 million Americans, it won't just put money into the people's pockets who are receiving the benefits. Economists tell us that when these benefits are spent on food or clothing or rent, it actually strengthens our economy and creates new jobs.<p>Now, this bill will also cut taxes for struggling businesses, with even larger cuts for small businesses, which means that thousands of entrepreneurs will get the cash they need to avoid laying off workers or closing their doors, and will extend the tax credit for all home buyers through April of next year while strengthening it with stronger antifraud measures.<p>The rebound in the housing market was one of the big factors that contributed to the growth of the economy last quarter and brought hundreds of thousands of families into the housing market. We want to give even more families the chance to own their own home.<p>Now, it's important to note that the bill I signed will not add to our deficit. It is fully paid for, and so it is fiscally responsible. It builds on a Recovery Act that's already saved or created over 100&mdash;over 1 million jobs, and it will lead to even more in the weeks and months ahead.<p>We will also build on the measure I signed today with further steps to grow our economy in the future. To that end, my economic team is looking at ideas such as additional investments in our aging roads and bridges, incentives to encourage families and businesses to make buildings more energy efficient, additional tax cuts for businesses to create jobs, additional steps to increase the flow of credit to small businesses, and an aggressive agenda to promote exports and help American manufacturers sell their products around the world.<p>So although it will take time and it will take patience, I am confident that our economy will recover. I'm confident that we're moving in the right direction. And I promise that I won't rest until America prospers once again.<p>Thank you, everybody.\" "
"334" "\"I'd like to speak with you for a few minutes today about the tragedy that took place at Fort Hood. This past Thursday, on a clear Texas afternoon, an Army psychiatrist walked into the Soldier Readiness Processing Center and began shooting his fellow soldiers. <p>It is an act of violence that would have been heartbreaking had it occurred anyplace in America. It's a crime that would have horrified us had its victims been Americans of any background. But it's all the more heartbreaking and all the more despicable because of the place where it occurred and the patriots who were its victims. <p>The SRP is where our men and women in uniform go before getting deployed. It's where they get their teeth checked and their medical records updated and make sure everything is in order before getting shipped out. It was in this place, on a base where our soldiers ought to feel most safe, where those brave Americans who are preparing to risk their lives in defense of our Nation lost their lives in a crime against our Nation. Soldiers stationed in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world called and emailed loved ones at Fort Hood, all expressing the same stunned reaction: I'm supposed to be the one in harm's way, not you. <p>Thursday's shooting was one of the most devastating ever committed on an American military base. And yet even as we saw the worst of human nature on full display, we also saw the best of America. We saw soldiers and civilians alike rushing to the aid of fallen comrades, tearing off bullet-riddled clothes to treat the injured, using blouses as tourniquets, taking down the shooter even as they bore wounds themselves. <p>We saw soldiers bringing to bear on our own soil the skills they had been trained to use abroad, skills that had been honed through years of determined effort for one purpose and one purpose only: to protect and defend the United States of America. We saw the valor, selflessness, and unity of purpose that makes our service men and women the finest fighting force on Earth, that make the United States military the best the world has ever known, and that make all of us proud to be Americans. <p>On Friday, I met with FBI Director Mueller, Defense Secretary Gates, and representatives of the relevant agencies to discuss their ongoing investigation into what led to this terrible crime, and I'll continue to be in close contact with them as new information comes in. <p>We can't fully know what leads a man to do such a thing. But what we do know is that our thoughts are with every single one of the men and women who were injured at Fort Hood. Our thoughts are with all the families who've lost a loved one in this national tragedy. And our thoughts are with all the Americans who wear or have worn the proud uniform of the United States of America: our soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, and coast guardsmen, and the military families who love and support them.<p>In tribute to those who fell at Fort Hood, I've ordered flags flying over the White House and other Federal buildings to be lowered to halfstaff from now until Veterans Day next Wednesday. Veterans Day is our chance to honor those Americans who've served on the battlefields, from Lexington to Antietam, Normandy to Manila, Inchon to Khe Sanh, Ramadi to Kandahar. <p>They are Americans of every race, faith, and station. They are Christians and Muslims, Jews and Hindus and nonbelievers. They are descendents of immigrants and immigrants themselves. They reflect the diversity that makes this America, but what they share is a patriotism like no other. What they share is a commitment to country that has been tested and proved worthy. What they share is the same unflinching courage, unblinking compassion, and uncommon camaraderie that soldiers and civilians of Fort Hood showed America and showed the world. <p>These are the men and women we honor today. These are the men and women we honor on Veterans Day. And these are the men and women we shall honor every day, in times of war and times of peace, so long as our Nation endures.\" "
"335" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. I just want to say a few words about the landmark vote that the House of Representatives is poised to take today, a vote that can bring us one step closer to making real the promise of quality, affordable health care for the American people.<p>For the better part of a year now, Members of the House and the Senate have been working diligently and constructively to craft legislation that will benefit millions of American families and millions of American businesses who urgently need it. For the first time ever, they've passed bills through every single committee responsible for reform. They've brought us closer than we have ever been to passing health insurance reform on behalf of the American people.<p>Now is the time to finish the job. The bill that the House has produced will provide stability and security for Americans who have insurance, quality, affordable options for those who don't, and lower costs for American families and American businesses. And as I've insisted from the beginning, it is a bill that is fully paid for and will actually reduce our long-term Federal deficit.<p>This bill is change that the American people urgently need. Don't just take my word for it. Consider the national groups who've come out in support of this bill on behalf of their members. The Consumers Union supports it because it will create, and I quote, \\"a more secure, affordable health care system for the American people.\\"<p>The American Medical Association and the American Nurses Association support it on behalf of doctors and nurses and medical professionals who know firsthand what's broken in our current system and who see what happens when their patients can't get the care they need because of insurance industry bureaucracies.<p>The National Farmers Union supports this bill because it will control costs for farmers and ranchers and address the unique challenges rural Americans face when it comes to receiving quality care.<p>And the AARP supports it because it will achieve the goal for which the AARP has been fighting for decades: reducing the cost of health care, expanding coverage for America's seniors, and strengthening Medicare for the long haul.<p>Now, no bill can ever contain everything that everybody wants, or please every constituency and every district. That's an impossible task. But what is possible, what's in our grasp right now is the chance to prevent a future where every day 14,000 Americans continue to lose their health insurance and every year 18,000 Americans die because they don't have it; a future where crushing costs keep small businesses from succeeding and big businesses from competing in the global economy; a future where countless dreams are deferred or scaled back because of a broken system we could have fixed when we had the chance.<p>What we can do right now is choose a better future and pass a bill that brings us to the very cusp of building what so many generations of Americans have sought to build: a better health care system for this country.<p>Millions of Americans are watching right now. Their families and their businesses are counting on us. After all, this is why they sent us here, to finally confront the challenges that Washington had been putting off for decades, to make their lives better, to leave this country stronger than we found it. <p>I just came from the Hill, where I talked to the Members of Congress there, and I reminded them that opportunities like this come around maybe once in a generation. Most public servants pass through their entire careers without the chance to make as important a difference in the lives of their constituents and the life of this country. This is their moment, this is our moment, to live up to the trust that the American people have placed in us&mdash;even when it's hard, especially when it's hard. This is our moment to deliver.<p>I urge Members of Congress to rise to this moment, answer the call of history, and vote yes for health insurance reform for America.<p>Thanks.\" "
"336" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. I just want to say a few words about two milestones that have passed in the last few hours that represent encouraging progress for our country.<p>The first was the historic vote the House took last night on health insurance reform. For years we've been told that this couldn't be done. After all, neither Chamber of Congress has been able to pass a comprehensive health insurance reform bill for generations, but last night the House proved differently. <p>The Affordable Health Care for America Act is a piece of legislation that will provide stability and security for Americans who have insurance, quality, affordable options for those who don't, and bring down the cost of health care for families, businesses, and our Government, while strengthening the financial health of Medicare. It is legislation that is fully paid for, and it will reduce our long-term Federal deficit.<p>Given the heated and often misleading rhetoric surrounding this legislation, I know that this was a courageous vote for many Members of Congress, and I'm grateful to them and for the rest of their colleagues for taking us this far. But more importantly, so are the millions of Americans whose lives will change when we achieve insurance reform: families with preexisting conditions who will finally have insurance coverage; parents who will be protected from annual and lifetime limits that can force them to pay exorbitant out-of-pocket costs for a child's illness; small businesses that will finally be able to cover their employees; and working folks who will finally be able to afford health insurance for the very first time.<p>Americans like Katie Gibson, a cancer survivor from Bozeman, Montana, who shared her story with me this summer. Because of a medical condition, Katie's insurance policy was suddenly revoked when she needed it most, even though she was paying her premiums. I called Katie this morning, and I told her that when the bill that passed last night becomes law, we'll be able to protect Americans just like her from the kinds of insurance company abuses she had to endure. And I told her that it was because of her willingness to share her story and the extraordinary activism that she and people like her all across the country displayed&mdash;not just this year, but over the last several years&mdash;that we are finally this close to getting reform done. <p>Their lives are what's at stake in this debate, and moments like this are why they sent us here, to finally meet the challenges that Washington has put off for decades, to make their lives better and this Nation stronger, to move America forward. That's what the House did last night when it brought us closer than we have ever been to comprehensive health insurance reform in America.<p>Now it falls on the United States Senate to take the baton and bring this effort to the finish line on behalf of the American people. And I'm absolutely confident that they will. And I'm equally convinced that on the day that we gather here at the White House and I sign comprehensive health insurance reform legislation into law, they'll be able to join their House colleagues and say that this was their finest moment in public service, the moment we delivered change we promised to the American people and did something to leave this country stronger than we found it.<p><i>Passage of Election Legislation by the Iraqi Parliament</i><p>The second development I want to mention is a significant breakthrough in Iraq, where Iraq's parliament has approved a new election law that paves the way for national elections early next year. This is an important milestone as the Iraqi people continue to take responsibility for their future. <p>I want to congratulate Iraq's leaders for reaching this agreement. Their flexibility and commitment to their country sends an important signal to the world about Iraq's democracy and national unity. And I look forward to prompt approval of this law by Iraq's Presidency Council.<p>Iraq has known many challenges, and in the past several weeks, we've seen that there are still those who would kill innocent men, women, and children to deny the Iraqi people the future they deserve. Today's step forward is another reminder that these enemies of the Iraqi people will fail.<p>The United States will continue to stand with Iraq as a strong partner and as a friend. Tough challenges remain, and I'm sure that there will be difficult days to come. But this agreement advances the political progress that can bring lasting peace and unity to Iraq and allow for the orderly and responsible transition of American combat troops out of Iraq by next September.<p>So I want to congratulate our troops and civilians who are serving so capably in Iraq, and I want to congratulate the Iraqi people who have taken an important step forward in pursuit of a better future.<p>There's much more work to be done, but with today's news, we're continuing to move in the right direction as we continue to look forward to Iraqi elections early next year.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"337" "\"To the Fort Hood community; to Admiral Mullen, General Casey, General Cone, Secretary McHugh, Secretary Gates; most importantly, to family, friends, and members of our Armed Forces: We come together filled with sorrow for the 13 Americans that we have lost, with gratitude for the lives that they led, and with a determination to honor them through the work we carry on. <p>This is a time of war, yet these Americans did not die on a foreign field of battle. They were killed here, on American soil, in the heart of this great State and the heart of this great American community. This is the fact that makes the tragedy even more painful, even more incomprehensible. <p>For those families who have lost a loved one, no words can fill the void that's been left. We knew these men and women as soldiers and caregivers. You knew them as mothers and fathers, sons and daughters, sisters and brothers.<p>But here is what you must also know: Your loved ones endure through the life of our Nation. Their memory will be honored in the places they lived and by the people they touched. Their life's work is our security and the freedom that we all too often take for granted. Every evening that the sun sets on a tranquil town; every dawn that a flag is unfurled; every moment that an American enjoys life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness&mdash;that is their legacy. Neither this country, nor the values upon which we were founded, could exist without men and women like these 13 Americans. And that is why we must pay tribute to their stories. <p>Chief Warrant Officer Michael Cahill had served in the National Guard and worked as a physician's assistant for decades. A husband and father of three, he was so committed to his patients that on the day he died, he was back at work just weeks after having had a heart attack. <p>Major Libardo Eduardo Caraveo spoke little English when he came to America as a teenager. But he put himself through college, earned a Ph.D., and was helping combat units cope with the stress of deployment. He's survived by his wife, sons, and step-daughters. <p>Staff Sergeant Justin DeCrow joined the Army right after high school, married his high school sweetheart, and had served as a light wheeled mechanic and satellite communications operator. He was known as an optimist, a mentor, and a loving husband and father.<p>After retiring from the Army as a major, John Gaffaney cared for society's most vulnerable during two decades as a psychiatric nurse. He spent 3 years trying to return to active duty in this time of war, and he was preparing to deploy to Iraq as a captain. He leaves behind a wife and son. <p>Specialist Frederick Greene was a Tennessean who wanted to join the Army for a long time, and did so in 2008, with the support of his family. As a combat engineer, he was a natural leader, and he is survived by his wife and two daughters. <p>Specialist Jason Hunt was also recently married, with three children to care for. He joined the Army after high school and did a tour in Iraq. And it was there that he reenlisted for six more years on his 21st birthday so that he could continue to serve.<p>Staff Sergeant Amy Krueger was an athlete in high school and joined the Army shortly after 9/11 and had since returned home to speak to students about her experience. When her mother told her she couldn't take on Usama bin Laden by herself, Amy replied, \\"Watch me.\\" <p>Private First Class Aaron Nemelka was an Eagle Scout who just recently signed up to do one of the most dangerous jobs in the service, diffuse bombs, so that he could help save lives. He was proudly carrying on a tradition of military service that runs deep within his family. <p>Private First Class Michael Pearson loved his family and loved his music, and his goal was to be a music teacher. He excelled at playing the guitar and could create songs on the spot and show others how to play. He joined the military a year ago and was preparing for his first deployment. <p>Captain Russell Seager worked as a nurse for the VA, helping veterans with posttraumatic stress. He had extraordinary respect for the military and signed up to serve so that he could help soldiers cope with the stress of combat and return to civilian life. He leaves behind a wife and son. <p>Private Francheska Velez, daughter of a father from Colombia and a Puerto Rican mother, had recently served in Korea and in Iraq and was pursuing a career in the Army. When she was killed, she was pregnant with her first child and was excited about becoming a mother. <p>Lieutenant Colonel Juanita Warman was the daughter and granddaughter of Army veterans. She was a single mom who put herself through college and graduate school and served as a nurse practitioner while raising her two daughters. She also left behind a loving husband. <p>Private First Class Kham Xiong came to America from Thailand as a small child. He was a husband and father who followed his brother into the military because his family had a strong history of service. He was preparing for his first deployment to Afghanistan. <p>These men and women came from all parts of the country. Some had long careers in the military. Some had signed up to serve in the shadow of 9/11. Some had known intense combat in Iraq and Afghanistan, and some cared for those who did. Their lives speak to the strength, the dignity, the decency of those who serve, and that's how they will be remembered. <p>For that same spirit is embodied in the community here at Fort Hood and in the many wounded who are still recovering. As was already mentioned, in those terrible minutes during the attack, soldiers made makeshift tourniquets out of their clothes. They braved gunfire to reach the wounded and ferried them back to safety in the backs of cars and a pickup truck. <p>One young soldier, Amber Bahr, was so intent on helping others, she did not realize for some time that she herself had been shot in the back. Two police officers, Mark Todd and Kim Munley, saved countless lives by risking their own. One medic, Francisco de la Serna, treated both Officer Munley and the gunman who shot her. <p>It may be hard to comprehend the twisted logic that led to this tragedy. But this much we do know: No faith justifies these murderous and craven acts; no just and loving God looks upon them with favor. For what he has done, we know that the killer will be met with justice in this world and the next. <p>These are trying times for our country. In Afghanistan and Pakistan, the same extremists who killed nearly 3,000 Americans continue to endanger America, our allies, and innocent Afghans and Pakistanis. In Iraq, we're working to bring a war to a successful end, as there are still those who would deny the Iraqi people the future that Americans and Iraqis have sacrificed so much for.<p>As we face these challenges, the stories of those at Fort Hood reaffirm the core values that we are fighting for and the strength that we must draw upon. Theirs are the tales of American men and women answering an extraordinary call, the call to serve their comrades, their communities, and their country. In an age of selfishness, they embody responsibility. In an era of division, they call upon us to come together. In a time of cynicism, they remind us of who we are as Americans. <p>We are a nation that endures because of the courage of those who defend it. We saw that valor in those who braved bullets here at Fort Hood, just as surely as we see it in those who signed up knowing they would serve in harm's way. <p>We are a nation of laws whose commitment to justice is so enduring that we would treat a gunman and give him due process, just as surely as we will see that he pays for his crimes. <p>We're a nation that guarantees the freedom to worship as one chooses. And instead of claiming God for our side, we remember Lincoln's words, and always pray to be on the side of God. <p>We're a nation that is dedicated to the proposition that all men and women are created equal. We live that truth within our military and see it in the varied backgrounds of those we lay to rest today. We defend that truth at home and abroad, and we know that Americans will always be found on the side of liberty and equality. That's who we are as a people. <p>Tomorrow is Veterans Day. It's a chance to pause and to pay tribute: for students to learn the struggles that preceded them; for families to honor the service of parents and grandparents; for citizens to reflect upon the sacrifices that have been made in pursuit of a more perfect union. <p>For history is filled with heroes. You may remember the stories of a grandfather who marched across Europe, an uncle who fought in Vietnam, a sister who served in the gulf. But as we honor the many generations who have served, all of us&mdash;every single American&mdash;must acknowledge that this generation has more than proved itself the equal of those who've come before. <p>We need not look to the past for greatness, because it is before our very eyes. This generation of soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, and coast guardsmen have volunteered in the time of certain danger. They are part of the finest fighting force that the world has ever known. They have served tour after tour of duty in distant, different, and difficult places. They have stood watch in blinding deserts and on snowy mountains. They have extended the opportunity of self-government to peoples that have suffered tyranny and war. They are men and women, White, Black, and Brown, of all faiths and all stations, all Americans, serving together to protect our people, while giving others half a world away the chance to lead a better life. <p>In today's wars, there's not always a simple ceremony that signals our troops' success, no surrender papers to be signed or capital to be claimed. But the measure of the impact of these young men and women is no less great. In a world of threats that know no borders, their legacy will be marked in the safety of our cities and towns and the security and opportunity that's extended abroad. It will serve as testimony to the character of those who served and the example that all of you in uniform set for America and for the world. <p>Here at Fort Hood, we pay tribute to 13 men and women who were not able to escape the horror of war, even in the comfort of home. And later today, at Fort Lewis, one community will gather to remember so many in one Stryker Brigade who have fallen in Afghanistan. <p>Long after they are laid to rest&mdash;when the fighting has finished, and our Nation has endured; when today's service men and women are veterans, and their children have grown&mdash;it will be said that this generation believed under the most trying of tests; believed in perseverance, not just when it was easy, but when it was hard; that they paid the price and bore the burden to secure this Nation, and stood up for the values that live in the hearts of all free peoples. <p>So we say goodbye to those who now belong to eternity. We press ahead in pursuit of the peace that guided their service. May God bless the memory of those that we have lost. And may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"338" "\"Thank you. Please be seated. Thank you, Secretary Shinseki, for the generous introduction, more importantly, the extraordinary bravery in service to our country, both on and off the battlefield. I want to thank our outstanding Vice President, Joe Biden, and his wonderful wife, Dr. Jill Biden, for being here today. We want to thank the Bidens for their son, Beau's, service as well; we're glad he just got back from Iraq.<p>We want to say a special word of thanks to Brigadier General Karl Horst, who's the commander of the Military District of Washington, for being here, and for your lifetime of distinguished service to our Nation. To Gene Crayton, president of the Paralyzed Veterans of America, thank you for being here, and to all the veterans service organizations for the extraordinary work, day in, day out on behalf of our Nation's heroes.<p>To the members of our Armed Forces and the veterans who are here today, I am deeply honored and humbled to spend Veterans Day with you in this sacred place where generations of heroes have come to rest and generations of Americans have come to show their gratitude.<p>There are many honors and responsibilities that come with this job, but none is more profound than serving as Commander in Chief. Yesterday I visited the troops at Fort Hood. We gathered in remembrance of those we recently lost. We paid tribute to the lives they led. There was something that I saw in them, something that I see in the eyes of every soldier and sailor, airman, marine, and coast guardsman that I have had the privilege to meet in this country and around the world, and that thing is determination.<p>In this time of war, we gather here mindful that the generation serving today already deserves a place alongside previous generations for the courage they have shown and the sacrifices that they have made. In an era where so many acted only in pursuit of narrow self-interest, they've chosen the opposite. They chose to serve the cause that is greater than self, many even after they knew they'd be sent into harm's way. And for the better part of a decade, they have endured tour after tour in distant and difficult places, they have protected us from danger, and they have given others the opportunity for a better life.<p>So to all of them&mdash;to our veterans, to the fallen, and to their families&mdash;there is no tribute, no commemoration, no praise that can truly match the magnitude of your service and your sacrifice.<p>This is a place where it is impossible not to be moved by that sacrifice. But even as we gather here this morning, people are gathering all across America, not only to express thanks of a grateful nation, but to tell stories that demand to be told. They're stories of wars whose names have come to define eras, battles that echo throughout history. They're stories of patriots who sacrificed in pursuit of a more perfect union: of a grandfather who marched across Europe, of a friend who fought in Vietnam, of a sister who served in Iraq. They're the stories of generations of Americans who left home barely more than boys and girls, became men and women, and returned home heroes.<p>And when these Americans who had dedicated their lives to defending this country came home, many settled on a life of service, choosing to make their entire lives a tour of duty. Many chose to live a quiet life, trading one uniform and set of responsibilities for another: doctor, engineer, teacher, mom, dad. They bought homes, raised families, built businesses. They built the greatest middle class that the world has ever known. Some put away their medals, stayed humble about their service, and moved on. Some, carrying shrapnel and scars, found that they couldn't.<p>We call this a holiday. But for many veterans, it's another day of memories that drive them to live their lives each day as best as they possibly can. For our troops, it is another day in harm's way. For their families, it is another day to feel the absence of a loved one and the concern for their safety. For our wounded warriors, it is another day of slow and arduous recovery. And in this national cemetery, it is another day when grief remains fresh. So while it is important and proper that we mark this day, it is far more important we spend all our days determined to keep the promises that we've made to all who answer this country's call.<p>Carved into the marble behind me are the words of our first Commander in Chief: \\"When we assumed the soldier, we did not lay aside the citizen.\\" Just as the contributions that our service men and women make to this Nation don't end when they take off their uniform, neither do our obligations to them. And when we fulfill those obligations, we aren't just keeping faith with our veterans; we are keeping faith with the ideals of service and sacrifice upon which this Republic was founded.<p>If we're honest with ourselves, we'll admit that there have been times where we as a nation have betrayed that sacred trust. Our Vietnam veterans served with great honor. They often came home greeted not with gratitude or support, but with condemnation and neglect. That's something that will never happen again. To them and to all who have served, in every battle, in every war, we say that it's never too late to say thank you. We honor your service; we are forever grateful. And just as you have not forgotten your missing comrades, neither, ever, will we. Our service men and women have been doing right by America for generations. And as long as I am Commander in Chief, America's going to do right by them.<p>That is my message to all veterans today. That is my message to all who serve in harm's way. To the husbands and wives back home doing the parenting of two, to the parents who watch their sons and daughters go off to war and the children who wonder when mom and dad is coming home, to all our wounded warriors, and to the families who laid a loved one to rest, America will not let you down. We will take care of our own.<p>And to those who are serving in far-flung places today, when your tour ends, when you see our flag, when you touch our soil, you will be home in an America that is forever here for you just as you've been there for us. That is my promise&mdash;our Nation's promise&mdash;to you.<p>Ninety-one years ago today, the battlefields of Europe fell quiet as World War I came to a close. But we don't mark this day each year as a celebration of victory, as proud of that victory as we are. We mark this day as a celebration of those who made victory possible. It's a day we keep in our minds the brave men and women of this young Nation&mdash;generations of them&mdash;who above all else believed in and fought for a set of ideals. Because they did, our country still stands, our founding principles still shine, nations around the world that once knew nothing but fear now know the blessings of freedom.<p>That is why we fight&mdash;in hopes of a day when we no longer need to. And that is why we gather at these solemn remembrances and reminders of war&mdash;to recommit ourselves to the hard work of peace.<p>There will be a day before long when this generation of service men and women step out of uniform. They will build families and lives of their own. God willing, they will grow old. And someday, their children and their children's children will gather here to honor them.<p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"339" "\"Good morning, everybody. Before departing for Asia this morning, I'd like to make a brief statement about the economy. Over the past 10 months, we've taken a number of bold steps to break the back of this recession. We've worked to stabilize the financial system, revive lending to small businesses and families, and prevent responsible homeowners from losing their homes. And through the Recovery Act, we've cut taxes for middle class families, extended and increased unemployment insurance, and created and saved more than a million jobs.<p>As a result, the economy is now growing again for the first time in more than a year and faster than at any time in the past 2 years. But even though we've slowed the loss of jobs&mdash;and today's report on the continued decline in unemployment claims is a hopeful sign&mdash;the economic growth that we've seen has not yet led to the job growth that we desperately need. As I've said from the start of this crisis, hiring often takes time to catch up to economic growth. And given the magnitude of the economic turmoil that we've experienced, employers are reluctant to hire.<p>Small businesses and large firms are demanding more of their employees, their increasing their hours and adding temporary workers, but these companies have not yet been willing to take the steps necessary to hire again. Meanwhile, millions of Americans, our friends, our neighbors, our family members, are desperately searching for jobs. This is one of the great challenges that remains in our economy, a challenge that my administration is absolutely determined to meet.<p>We all know that there are limits to what Government can and should do, even during such difficult times. But we have an obligation to consider every additional responsible step that we can [take]* to encourage and accelerate job creation in this country. And that's why in December we'll be holding a forum at the White House on jobs and economic growth. We'll gather CEOs and small-business owners, economists and financial experts, as well as representatives from labor unions and nonprofit groups, to talk about how we can work together to create jobs and get this economy moving again.<p>It's important that we don't make any ill-considered decisions, even with the best intentions, particularly at a time when our resources are so limited. But it's just as important that we are open to any demonstrably good idea to supplement the steps we've already taken to put America back to work. That's what this forum is about.<p>In the coming days, I'll also be meeting with leaders abroad to discuss a strategy for growth that is both balanced and broadly shared. It's a strategy in which Asian and Pacific markets are open to our exports and one in which prosperity around the world is no longer as dependent on American consumption and borrowing, but rather more on American innovation and products.<p>It's through these steps with our partners, in addition to the work we're doing here at home, that we will not only revive our economy in the short term, but rebuild it stronger in the long term. That's been the focus of our efforts these past 10 months; it will continue to be our focus in the months ahead.<p>Thanks very much, everybody.\" "
"340" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Elmendorf. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Please&mdash;thank you so much. Anybody who has a seat, go ahead and take a seat. [<i>Laughter</i>] I want to thank General Troy for the introduction and for his extraordinary service; to Colonel Mark Camerer and your outstanding local leaders for welcoming me here today. And I want to give a shout-out to the United States Air Force Band of the Pacific.<p>I realize that your commander, General Atkins, couldn't be here. I'm told that he got called down to Hawaii. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, that's a tough assignment. I know a little something about Hawaii&mdash;<i>shaka brah</i>, what's up? [<i>Laughter</i>] I grew up there, so I hope that he's getting as warm a welcome as I'm getting here.<p>I want to thank your senior enlisted leaders: Command Chief Master Sergeant Robert Moore, Chief Master Sergeant Tom Baker, and Command Sergeant Major David Turnbull. Give them a big round of applause. And please give some applause to all the airmen and soldiers up here. They look terrific. <p>It is wonderful to be here at one of America's great air bases. I have to tell you I'm also really excited because I had up until today visited 49 States, so this is officially my 50th State.<p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you, Obama!<p><i>The President.</i> I love you back. We also have a lot of folks from Fort Richardson. We've got folks from all across Alaskan Command&mdash;Air Force, Army, Navy, Coast Guard, United States Marines; Active, Guard, and Reserve. We have our allies and friends from the Canadian Armed Forces.<p>I see many spouses here today. And I want you to know you are the backbone of our military families, and we honor your service. And I'm thrilled to see the kids who are here today. Hey, guys, thank you. I know you're proud of your mom and dads, but we're all proud of you too.<p>You know, we're here in \\"America's Last Frontier.\\" And most of you are far from home. And I know your service is made a little easier by your unbelievable neighbors. So we want to thank your local and State leaders, Lieutenant Governor Craig Campbell, all the people of Anchorage and Alaska for their incredible support.<p>And we're also joined today by a leader who is fighting for Alaska in Washington and for you and all our men and women in uniform as members of the Armed Services Committee and the Veterans Affairs Committee&mdash;Mark Begich is here; Senator Mark Begich is in the house. Stand up, Mark, so everybody can see you.<p>Now, today I'm on my way to Asia; my first visit there as President. The crews are out there refueling Air Force One. But I didn't want to just pass through, because this is also, as I said, my first visit to Alaska and my first visit to Elmendorf. And I couldn't come here without taking this opportunity to deliver a simple message, a message of thanks to you and your families.<p>Now, these have been days of tribute. Two days ago, we gathered at Fort Hood, and we honored 13 Americans taken from us: soldiers and caregivers, mothers and fathers, husbands and wives, sons and daughters, brothers and sisters. We grieved with families who have endured unimaginable loss. And we found inspiration in the wounded, their spirits unbowed, and in those who braved the bullets so that others might live.<p>Yesterday we gathered at Arlington National Cemetery to salute proud veterans who served on foreign fields long ago and wounded warriors from today. And as citizens of a grateful nation, we are humbled by such service.<p>Today we gather here at Elmendorf, and we see the same spirit. It's the same spirit that I saw in the outstanding airmen and soldiers I met with a few moments ago. It's the spirit that I see in all of you. It's your sense of service, answering your country's call, volunteering in a time of war knowing that you could be sent into harm's way. That's a sense of responsibility on your part, the belief that the blessings we cherish as Americans are not gifts that we take for granted, they are freedoms that are earned. And it's your sense of unity, coming from every corner of the country, from every color and every creed and every faith and every station, to take care of each other and to serve together and to succeed together, as Americans.<p>So I'm here to say to all of you, all of you who serve, all the families who are here: Of all the privileges I have as President, I have no greater honor than serving as your Commander in Chief. We have the finest fighting force the world has ever known. And it's because of you, because we've got the finest personnel in the world. That's our most precious resource.<p>And by being here, all of you are joining a long line of service at Elmendorf, from the liberation of Pacific islands during World War II through a long cold war. You embody that creed: \\"Faithful to a proud heritage, a tradition of honor, and a legacy of valor.\\" And you uphold that legacy every day.<p>Twenty-four hours a day, 365 days a year, you keep America's skies safe. So we salute the 3d Wing and the 11th Air Force. You project power across the Pacific, returning just recently from Guam&mdash;the 90th Fighter Squadron, the Dicemen, and the 525th Fighter Squadron, the Bulldogs, and all the maintenance troops who support them. Welcome home. And when disaster strikes, whether a typhoon in the Philippines or an earthquake in Samoa, you're there, delivering the relief that saved&mdash;saves lives. So thank you Firebirds.<p>Today we also send our thoughts and prayers to all those who at this very moment are serving on the frontlines. They are airmen from Elmendorf in every corner of the world. They're soldiers from Fort Richardson: military police in Iraq; the 4th Brigade Combat Team in Afghanistan.<p>The Fort Rich paratroopers are no strangers to tough assignments. A few years back, you all spent 14 months in Iraq. Now they're working to bring stability and security to eastern Afghanistan, building roads and medical clinics, renovating schools, protecting the Afghan people, giving them a chance at a better future. And they are doing a terrific job, and we salute them.<p>But with services comes sacrifice. All of you know this. You've made the most profound commitment a person can make: You've pledged to dedicate your life to your country, and perhaps give your life for it. Here at Elmendorf and Fort Richardson, some have.<p>They're airmen like Staff Sergeant Timothy Bowles, who, when a comrade fell sick, volunteered to take his place on the patrol in Afghanistan that would end up taking his life. They're soldiers from the 4th Brigade Combat Team, like the husband and father who gave his life in Afghanistan last week, Specialist Julian Berisford.<p>And citizens of this State, like Alaska Native Corporal Gregory Fleury. Raised in Anchorage, he joined the Marines and served two tours in Iraq. He loved the Corps. He loved Alaska, so much so that he carried the State flag with him everywhere. It was with him last month when he was killed in those helicopter crashes in Afghanistan.<p>A little while ago, I had the honor of meeting Greg's family, Donna and Christopher, and his grandfather Albert. And I expressed the gratitude of our Nation, and we thank them for being with us here today. Donna, Albert, please stand.<p>There are no words that are strong enough and no tribute worthy enough to match the magnitude of such service. But to you and all who serve, I say this: The American people thank you. We honor you. And just as you have fulfilled your responsibilities to your Nation, your Nation will fulfill its responsibilities to you.<p>So as your Commander in Chief, here's the commitment I make to you: We'll make sure you can meet the missions we ask of you. And that's why we're increasing the defense budget, including spending on the Air Force and the Army. We'll make sure we have the right force structure. So we've halted reductions in the Air Force, increased the size of the Army ahead of schedule, and also approved a temporary increase in the Army.<p>We'll spend our defense dollars wisely. So we're cutting tens of billions of dollars in waste and projects that even the Pentagon says it doesn't need, money that's better spent on taking care of you and your families and building the 21st-century military that we do need.<p>I want you guys to understand I will never hesitate to use force to protect the American people or our vital interests. But I also make you this promise: I will not risk your lives unless it is necessary to America's vital interests. And if it is necessary, the United States of America will have your back. We will give you the strategy and the clear mission you deserve. We will give you the equipment and support that you need to get the job done. And that includes public support back home. That is a promise that I make to you.<p>And as you meet your missions around the world, we will take care of your families here at home. And that's why the First Lady, Michelle, has been visiting bases across the country. Go Michelle. [<i>Laughter</i>] Your family is a priority for our family. So we're increasing pay; we're increasing childcare; we're increasing support to help spouses and families deal with the stress and separation of war.<p>And finally, we pledge to be there when you come home. We're improving care for our wounded warriors, especially those with PTSD and traumatic brain injuries. I want to salute the outstanding work you do at the hospital here on the base, including your new TBI clinic. Thank you for giving our wounded warriors the world-class care they deserve.<p>We're funding the post-9/11 GI bill because we want to give your families the chance to pursue your dreams. And we're making the biggest commitment to our veterans, the largest percentage increase in the VA budget in more than 30 years.<p>So these are the commitments I'm making to you. Because you've always taken care of America, and America has to take care of you back. America's obligation to our military, as we saw this week, is a sacred trust that we are honorbound to uphold.<p>It's the sacred trust that brought a nation together this week around 13 battlefield crosses. It's the sacred trust that leads us to pause, on that November day, to give thanks for all those who served before us. It's the sacred trust that brings me here to say thank you for serving today, thank you to you and your families for all you do to protect this country we love.<p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"341" "\"Thank you so much. <i>Arigato</i>. Thank you so much. Please. Good morning. It is a great honor to be in Tokyo, the first stop on my first visit to Asia as President of the United States. And it is good to be&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]. Thank you. It is good to be among so many of you&mdash;Japanese and I see a few Americans here&mdash;who work every day to strengthen the bonds between our two countries, including my longtime friend and our new Ambassador to Japan, John Roos.<p>It is wonderful to be back in Japan. Some of you may be aware that when I was a young boy, my mother brought me to Kamakura, where I looked up at that centuries-old symbol of peace and tranquility, the great bronze Amida Buddha. And as a child, I was more focused on the <i>matcha</i> ice cream. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I want to thank Prime Minister Hatoyama for sharing some of those memories with more ice cream last night at dinner. [<i>Laughter</i>] Thank you very much. But I have never forgotten the warmth and the hospitality that the Japanese people showed a young American far from home.<p>And I feel that same spirit on this visit in the gracious welcome of Prime Minister Hatoyama, in the extraordinary honor of the meeting with Their Imperial Majesties, the Emperor and Empress, on the 20th anniversary of his ascension to the Chrysanthemum Throne, in the hospitality shown by the Japanese people. And of course, I could not come here without sending my greetings and gratitude to the citizens of Obama, Japan.<p>Now, I am beginning my journey here for a simple reason. Since taking office, I have worked to renew American leadership and pursue a new era of engagement with the world based on mutual interests and mutual respect. And our efforts in the Asia Pacific will be rooted, in no small measure, through an enduring and revitalized alliance between the United States and Japan.<p>From my very first days in office, we have worked to strengthen the ties that bind our nations. The first foreign leader that I welcomed to the White House was the Prime Minister of Japan, and for the first time in nearly 50 years, the first foreign trip by an American Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, was to Asia, starting in Japan.<p>In 2 months, our alliance will mark its 50th anniversary, a day when President Dwight Eisenhower stood next to Japan's Prime Minister and said that our two nations were creating \\"an indestructible partnership\\" based on \\"equality and mutual understanding.\\"<p>In the half-century since, that alliance has endured as a foundation for our security and prosperity. It has helped us become the world's two largest economies, with Japan emerging as America's second largest trading partner outside of North America. It has evolved as Japan has played a larger role on the world stage and made important contributions to stability around the world, from reconstruction in Iraq to combating piracy off the Horn of Africa to assistance for the people of Afghanistan and Pakistan, most recently through its remarkable leadership in providing additional commitments to international development efforts there.<p>Above all, our alliance has endured because it reflects our common values: a belief in the democratic right of free people to choose their own leaders and realize their own dreams; a belief that made possible the election of both Prime Minister Hatoyama and myself on the promise of change. And together, we are committed to providing a new generation of leadership for our people and our alliance.<p>And that is why, at this critical moment in history, the two of us have not only reaffirmed our alliance, we've agreed to deepen it. We've agreed to move expeditiously through a joint working group to implement the agreement that our two Governments reached on restructuring U.S. forces in Okinawa. And as our alliance evolves and adapts for the future, we will always strive to uphold the spirit that President Eisenhower described long ago, a partnership of equality and mutual respect.<p>But while our commitment to this region begins in Japan, it doesn't end there. The United States of America may have started as a series of ports and cities along the Atlantic Ocean, but for generations, we have also been a nation of the Pacific. Asia and the United States are not separated by this great ocean, we are bound by it. We are bound by our past, by the Asian immigrants who helped build America and the generations of Americans in uniform who served and sacrificed to keep this region secure and free. We are bound by our shared prosperity, by the trade and commerce upon which millions of jobs and families depend. And we are bound by our people, by the Asian Americans who enrich every segment of American life and all the people whose lives, like our countries, are interwoven.<p>My own life is a part of that story. I am an American President who was born in Hawaii and lived in Indonesia as a boy. My sister Maya was born in Jakarta and later married a Chinese Canadian. My mother spent nearly a decade working in the villages of Southeast Asia, helping women buy a sewing machine or an education that might give them a foothold in the world economy. So the Pacific Rim has helped shape my view of the world.<p>And since that time, perhaps no region has changed as swiftly or dramatically. Controlled economies have given way to open markets. Dictatorships have become democracies. Living standards have risen while poverty has plummeted. And through all these changes, the fortunes of America and the Asia Pacific have become more closely linked than ever before.<p>So I want everyone to know, and I want everybody in America to know, that we have a stake in the future of this region, because what happens here has a direct effect on our lives at home. This is where we engage in much of our commerce and buy many of our goods, and this is where we can export more of our own products and create jobs back home in the process. This is a place where the risk of a nuclear arms race threatens the security of the wider world and where extremists who defile a great religion plan attacks on both our continents. And there can be no solution to our energy security and our climate challenge without the rising powers and developing nations of the Asia Pacific.<p>To meet these common challenges, the United States looks to strengthen old alliances and build new partnerships with the nations of this region. To do this, we look to America's treaty alliances with Japan, South Korea, Australia, Thailand, and the Philippines, alliances that are not historical documents from a bygone era, but abiding commitments to each other that are fundamental to our shared security.<p>Now, these alliances continue to provide the bedrock of security and stability that has allowed the nations and peoples of this region to pursue opportunity and prosperity that was unimaginable at the time of my first childhood visit to Japan. And even as American troops are engaged in two wars around the world, our commitment to Japan's security and to Asia's security is unshakeable, and it can be seen in our deployments throughout the region, above all, through our young men and women in uniform, of whom I am so proud.<p>Now, we look to emerging nations that are poised as well to play a larger role, both in the Asia Pacific region and the wider world, places like Indonesia and Malaysia that have adopted democracy, developed their economies, and tapped the great potential of their own people.<p>We look to rising powers with the view that in the 21st century, the national security and economic growth of one country need not come at the expense of another. I know there are many who questioned how the United States perceives China's emergence. But as I have said, in an interconnected world, power does not need to be a zero-sum game and nations need not fear the success of another. Cultivating spheres of cooperation&mdash;not competing spheres of influence&mdash;will lead to progress in the Asia Pacific.<p>Now, as with any nation, America will approach China with a focus on our interests. But it's precisely for this reason that it is important to pursue pragmatic cooperation with China on issues of mutual concern, because no one nation can meet the challenges of the 21st century alone, and the United States and China will both be better off when we are able to meet them together. That's why we welcome China's effort to play a greater role on the world stage, a role in which their growing economy is joined by growing responsibility. China's partnership has proved critical in our effort to jump-start economic recovery. China has promoted security and stability in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and it is now committed to the global nonproliferation regime and supporting the pursuit of denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.<p>So the United States does not seek to contain China, nor does a deeper relationship with China mean a weakening of our bilateral alliances. On the contrary, the rise of a strong and prosperous China can be a source of strength for the community of nations.<p>And so in Beijing and beyond, we will work to deepen our strategic and economic dialogue and improve communication between our militaries. Of course, we will not agree on every issue, and the United States will never waver in speaking up for the fundamental values that we hold dear&mdash;and that includes respect for the religion and cultures of all people&mdash;because support for human rights and human dignity is ingrained in America. But we can move these discussions forward in a spirit of partnership rather than rancor.<p>In addition to our bilateral relations, we also believe that the growth of multilateral organizations can advance the security and prosperity of this region. I know that the United States has been disengaged from many of these organizations in recent years. So let me be clear: Those days have passed. As a Asia Pacific nation, the United States expects to be involved in the discussions that shape the future of this region and to participate fully in appropriate organizations as they are established and evolve.<p>That is the work that I will begin on this trip. The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum will continue to promote regional commerce and prosperity, and I look forward to participating in that forum this evening. ASEAN will remain a catalyst for Southeast Asian dialogue, cooperation, and security, and I look forward to becoming the first American President to meet with all 10 ASEAN leaders. And the United States looks forward to engaging with the East Asia summit more formally as it plays a role in addressing the challenges of our time.<p>We seek this deeper and broader engagement because we know our collective future depends on it. And I'd like to speak for a bit about what that future might look like and what we must do to advance our prosperity, our security, and our universal values and aspirations.<p>First, we must strengthen our economic recovery and pursue growth that is both balanced and sustained. The quick, unprecedented, and coordinated action taken by Asia Pacific nations and others has averted economic catastrophe and helped us to begin to emerge from the worst recession in generations. And we have taken the historic step of reforming our international economic architecture so that the G-20 is now the premier forum for international economic cooperation.<p>Now, this shift to the G-20, along with the greater voice that is being given to Asian nations in international financial institutions, clearly demonstrates the broader, more inclusive engagement that America seeks in the 21st century. And as a key member of the G-8, Japan has and will continue to play a leading and vital role in shaping the future of the international financial architecture.<p>Now that we are on the brink of economic recovery, we must also ensure that it can be sustained. We simply cannot return to the same cycles of boom and bust that led to a global recession. We can't follow the same policies that led to such imbalanced growth. One of the important lessons this recession has taught us is the limits of depending primarily on American consumers and Asian exports to drive growth, because when Americans found themselves too heavily in debt or lost their jobs and were out of work, demand for Asian goods plummeted. When demand fell sharply, exports from this region fell sharply. Since the economies of this region are so dependent on exports, they stopped growing and the global recession only deepened.<p>So we have now reached one of those rare inflection points in history where we have the opportunity to take a different path. And that must begin with the G-20 pledge that we made in Pittsburgh to pursue a new strategy for balanced economic growth.<p>I'll be saying more about this in Singapore, but in the United States, this new strategy will mean that we save more and spend less, reform our financial systems, reduce our long-term deficit and borrowing. It will also mean a greater emphasis on exports that we can build, produce, and sell all over the world. For America, this is a jobs strategy. Right now our exports support millions upon millions of well paying American jobs. Increasing those exports by just a small amount has the potential to create millions more. These are jobs making everything from wind turbines and solar panels to the technology that you use every day.<p>For Asia, striking this better balance will provide an opportunity for workers and consumers to enjoy higher standards of living that their remarkable increases in productivity have made possible. It will allow for greater investments in housing and infrastructure and the service sector. And a more balanced global economy will lead to prosperity that reaches further and deeper.<p>For decades, the United States has had one of the most open markets in the world, and that openness has helped to fuel the success of so many countries in this region and others over the last century. In this new era, opening other markets around the globe will be critical, not just to America's prosperity but to the world's as well.<p>Now, an integral part of this new strategy is working towards an ambitious and balanced Doha agreement, not any agreement, but an agreement that will open up markets and increase exports around the world. And we are ready to work with our Asian partners to see if we can achieve that objective in a timely fashion, and we invite our regional trading partners to join us at the table.<p>We also believe that continued integration of the economies of this region will benefit workers, consumers, and businesses in all our nations. Together with our South Korean friends, we will work through the issues necessary to move forward on a trade agreement with them. The United States will also be engaging with the Trans-Pacific Partnership countries with the goal of shaping a regional agreement that will have broad-based membership and the high standards worthy of a 21st-century trade agreement.<p>Working in partnership, this is how we can sustain this recovery and advance our common prosperity. But it's not enough to pursue growth that is balanced. We also need growth that is sustainable for our planet and the future generations that will live here.<p>Already, the United States has taken more steps to combat climate change in 10 months than we have in our recent history, by embracing the latest science, by investing in new energy, by raising efficiency standards, forging new partnerships, and engaging in international climate negotiations. In short, America knows there is more work to do, but we are meeting our responsibility and will continue to do so.<p>And that includes striving for success in Copenhagen. I have no illusions that this will be easy, but the contours of a way forward are clear. All nations must accept their responsibility. Those nations, like my own, who have been the leading emitters must have clear reduction targets. Developing countries will need to take substantial actions to curb their emissions, aided by finance and technology. And there must be transparency and accountability for domestic actions.<p>Each of us must do what we can to grow our economies without endangering our planet, and we must do it together. But the good news is that if we put the right rules and incentives in place, it will unleash the creative power of our best scientists, engineers, and entrepreneurs. It will lead to new jobs, new businesses, and entire new industries. And Japan has been at the forefront on this issue. We are looking forward to being a important partner with you as we achieve this critical global goal.<p>Yet even as we confront this challenge of the 21st century, we must also redouble our efforts to meet a threat to our security that is the legacy of the 20th century: the danger posed by nuclear weapons.<p>In Prague, I affirmed America's commitment to rid the world of nuclear weapons and laid out a comprehensive agenda to pursue this goal. I am pleased that Japan has joined us in this effort, for no two nations on Earth know better what these weapons can do, and together, we must seek a future without them. This is fundamental to our common security, and this is a great test of our common humanity. Our very future hangs in the balance.<p>Now, let me be clear: So long as these weapons exist, the United States will maintain a strong and effective nuclear deterrent that guarantees the defense of our allies, including South Korea and Japan.<p>But we must recognize that an escalating nuclear arms race in this region would undermine decades of growth and prosperity. So we are called upon to uphold the basic bargain of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty: that all nations have a right to peaceful nuclear energy; that nations with nuclear weapons have a responsibility to move toward nuclear disarmament; and those without nuclear weapons have a responsibility to forsake them.<p>Indeed, Japan serves as an example to the world that true peace and power can be achieved by taking this path. For decades, Japan has enjoyed the benefits of peaceful nuclear energy, while rejecting nuclear arms development, and by any measure, this has increased Japan's security and enhanced its position.<p>And to meet our responsibilities and to move forward with the agenda I laid out in Prague, we have passed, with the help of Japan, a unanimous U.N. Security Council resolution embracing this international effort. We are pursuing a new agreement with Russia to reduce our nuclear stockpiles. We will work to ratify and bring into force the test ban treaty. And next year at our nuclear security summit, we will advance our goal of securing all the world's vulnerable nuclear materials within 4 years.<p>Now, as I've said before, strengthening the global nonproliferation regime is not about singling out any individual nations. It's about all nations living up to their responsibilities. That includes the Islamic Republic of Iran, and it includes North Korea.<p>For decades, North Korea has chosen a path of confrontation and provocation, including the pursuit of nuclear weapons. It should be clear where this path leads. We have tightened sanctions on Pyongyang. We have passed the most sweeping U.N. Security Council resolution to date to restrict their weapons of mass destruction activities. We will not be cowed by threats, and we will continue to send a clear message through our actions and not just our words: North Korea's refusal to meet its international obligations will lead only to less security, not more.<p>Yet there is another path that can be taken. Working in tandem with our partners, supported by direct diplomacy, the United States is prepared to offer North Korea a different future. Instead of an isolation that has compounded the horrific repression of its own people, North Korea could have a future of international integration. Instead of gripping poverty, it could have a future of economic opportunity where trade and investment and tourism can offer the North Korean people the chance at a better life. And instead of increasing insecurity, it could have a future of greater security and respect. This respect cannot be earned through belligerence. It must be reached by a nation that takes its place in the international community by fully living up to its international obligations.<p>So the path for North Korea to realize this future is clear: a return to the six-party talks, upholding previous commitments, including a return to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, and the full and verifiable denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. And full normalization with its neighbors can also only come if Japanese families receive a full accounting of those who have been abducted. These are all steps that can be taken by the North Korean Government if they are interested in improving the lives of their people and joining the community of nations.<p>And as we are vigilant in confronting this challenge, we will stand with all of our Asian partners in combating the transnational threats of the 21st century by rooting out the extremists who slaughter the innocent and stopping the piracy that threatens our sea lanes, by enhancing our efforts to stop infectious disease and working to end extreme poverty in our time, and by shutting down the traffickers who exploit women, children, and migrants and putting a stop to this scourge of modern-day slavery once and for all. Indeed, the final area in which we must work together is in upholding the fundamental rights and dignity of all human beings.<p>The Asia Pacific region is rich with many cultures. It is marked by extraordinary traditions and strong national histories. And time and again, we have seen the remarkable talent and drive of the peoples of this region in advancing human progress. Yet this much is also clear: Indigenous cultures and economic growth have not been stymied by respect for human rights; they have been strengthened by it. Supporting human rights provides lasting security that cannot be purchased in any other way. That is the story that can be seen in Japan's democracy, just as it can be seen in America's democracy.<p>The longing for liberty and dignity is a part of the story of all peoples. For there are certain aspirations that human beings hold in common: the freedom to speak your mind and choose your leaders, the ability to access information and worship how you please, confidence in the rule of law and the equal administration of justice. These are not impediments to stability; they are the cornerstones of stability. And we will always stand on the side of those who seek these rights.<p>That truth, for example, guides our new approach to Burma. Despite years of good intentions, neither sanctions by the United States nor engagement by others succeeded in improving the lives of the Burmese people. So we are now communicating directly with the leadership to make it clear that existing sanctions will remain until there are concrete steps toward democratic reform. We support a Burma that is unified, peaceful, prosperous, and democratic. And as Burma moves in that direction, a better relationship with the United States is possible.<p>There are clear steps that must be taken: the unconditional release of all political prisoners, including Aung San Suu Kyi, an end to conflicts with minority groups, and a genuine dialogue between the Government, the democratic opposition, and minority groups on a shared vision for the future. That is how a Government in Burma will be able to respond to the needs of its people. That is the path that will bring Burma true security and prosperity.<p>These are steps that the United States will take to improve prosperity, security, and human dignity in the Asia Pacific. We will do so through our close friendship with Japan, which will always be a centerpiece of our efforts in the region. We will do so as a partner through the broader engagement that I've discussed today. We will do so as a Pacific nation with a President who was shaped in part by this piece of the globe. And we will do so with the same sense of purpose that has guided our ties with the Japanese people for nearly 50 years.<p>The story of how these ties were forged dates back to the middle of the last century, sometime after the guns of war had quieted in the Pacific. It was then that America's commitment to the security and stability of Japan, along with the Japanese people's spirit of resilience and industriousness, led to what's been called \\"the Japanese miracle,\\" a period of economic growth that was faster and more robust than anything the world had seen for some time.<p>In the coming years and decades, this miracle would spread throughout the region, and in a single generation, the lives and fortunes of millions were forever changed for the better. It is progress that has been supported by a hard-earned peace and strengthened by new bridges of mutual understanding that have bound together the nations of this vast and sprawling space.<p>But we know that there's still work to be done so that new breakthroughs in science and technology can lead to jobs on both sides of the Pacific and security from a warming planet; so that we can reverse the spread of deadly weapons, and on a divided peninsula, the people of South can be free from fear and those in the North can live free from want; so that a young girl can be valued not for her body but for her mind; and so that young people everywhere can go as far as their talent, their drive, and their choices will take them.<p>None of this will come easy, nor without setback or struggle. But at this moment of renewal, in this land of miracles, history tells us it is possible. This is the&mdash;America's agenda. This is the purpose of our partnership with Japan and with the nations and peoples of this region. And there must be no doubt: As America's first Pacific President, I promise you that this Pacific nation will strengthen and sustain our leadership in this vitally important part of the world.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"342" "\"This was a week for honoring the extraordinary service and profound sacrifice of our men and women in uniform. Every fall we set aside a special day to pay tribute to our veterans. But this year, Veterans Day took on an even greater poignancy and meaning because of the tragic events at Fort Hood.<p>On Tuesday, I traveled there to join with the Fort Hood community, the Army, and friends and families of the victims to honor 13 of our fellow Americans who died and the dozens more who were wounded, not on some distant shore, but on a military base here at home.<p>Every man and woman who signs up for military service does so with the full knowledge of the dangers that could come; that's part of what makes the service of our troops and veterans so extraordinary. But it's unthinkable that so many would die in a hail of gunfire on a U.S. Army base in the heart of Texas and that a fellow servicemember could have pulled the trigger.<p>There is an ongoing investigation into this terrible tragedy. That investigation will look at the motives of the alleged gunman, including his views and contacts. As I said in Fort Hood, I am confident that justice will be done, and I will insist that the full story be told. That's paramount, and I won't compromise that investigation today by discussing the details of this case. But given the potential warning signs that may have been known prior to these shootings, we must uncover what steps, if any, could have been taken to avert this tragedy.<p>On the Thursday evening that this tragedy took place, I met in the Oval Office with Secretary of Defense Gates, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mullen, and FBI Director Mueller to review the immediate steps that were necessary to support the families and secure Fort Hood. The next morning I met with the leadership of our military and the intelligence community and ordered them to undertake a full review of the sequence of events that led up to the shootings.<p>The purpose of this review is clear: We must compile every piece of information that was known about the gunman, and we must learn what was done with that information. Once we have those facts, we must act upon them. If there was a failure to take appropriate action before the shootings, there must be accountability. Beyond that, and most importantly, we must quickly and thoroughly evaluate and address any flaws in the system, so that we can prevent a similar breach from happening again. Our Government must be able to act swiftly and surely when it has threatening information, and our troops must have the security that they deserve.<p>I know there will also be inquiries by Congress, and there should. But all of us should resist the temptation to turn this tragic event into the political theater that sometimes dominates the discussion here in Washington. The stakes are far too high.<p>Of all the responsibilities of the Presidency, the one that I weigh most heavily is my duty as Commander in Chief to our splendid service men and women. Their character and bravery were on full display in that processing center at Fort Hood, when so many scrambled under fire to help their wounded comrades. And their great dignity and decency has been on display in the days since as the Fort Hood community has rallied together.<p>We owe our troops prayerful, considered decisions about when and where we commit them to battle to protect our security and freedom, and we must fully support them when they are deployed. We also owe them the absolute assurance that they'll be safe here at home as they prepare for whatever mission may come. As Commander in Chief, I won't settle for anything less.<p>This Nation will never forget the service of those we lost at Fort Hood, just as we will always honor the service of all who wear the uniform of the United States of America. Their legacy will be an America that is safer and stronger, an America that reflects the extraordinary character of the men and women who serve it.<p>Thank you.\" "
"343" "\"Well, Mr. Premier, I want to thank you very much for your hospitality and this meeting. And I want to send my regards not only from my delegation but also from the American people. <p>Now, I can tell you that those members of my Government who have had dealings with you before have always come away impressed with your knowledge and your wisdom.<p>We have had very productive discussions over the last 2 days. I think President Hu and myself agreed in our first meeting that we wanted to try to deepen the strategic partnership and relationship between the United States and China. A relationship that used to be focused just on economic and trade issues is now expanding to deal with a whole host of global issues in which U.S.-China cooperation is critical.\" "
"344" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, Osan! It is good to be here! Thank you so much.<p>First of all, please give Staff Sergeant Randy Gray a big round of applause for the outstanding introduction. I want to thank Randy for his service as one of the best warriors in the United States Army. Randy is a reminder that our noncommissioned officers are the strength of America's military. So thanks to Randy and to all the NCOs. <p>Thank you, Lieutenant Colonel Glover, for the invocation. And please give a big round of applause to Katherine Dennison for singing our national anthem. To the 8th Army Band&mdash;where you guys at?<p><i>Audience members.</i> Hooah!<p><i>The President.</i> There they are, up there. You look fantastic. To all the airmen and soldiers behind me&mdash;you guys make a pretty good photo op. [<i>Laughter</i>] We are grateful for your service. <p>I want to thank your local leaders at Osan for welcoming me here today, including Brigadier General Michael Keltz and Colonel Tom \\"Big\\" Deale. Your great senior enlisted leaders, including Command Sergeant Major Robert Winzenried and Chief Master Sergeant Michael Williams.<p>We are joined by America's outstanding representatives here in the Republic of Korea. I want you guys to give it up for Ambassador Kathleen Stephens and General \\"Skip\\" Sharp. Give them a big round of applause. There is a wonderful story that I just heard&mdash;that the day Skip Sharp was born in West Virginia, his dad was here serving in the Korean war. And that just says something about the extraordinary tradition of your family and service to our country, and we salute you for that. We are grateful to you. Thank you so much. <p>Listen, it is great to be here at Osan Air Base. We've got the 51st Fighter Wing. We've got the 7th Air Force and Air Forces Korea. But I know we have folks from all across U.S. Forces Korea. We've got the 8th Army and Army Forces Korea. We've got the Naval Forces Korea. We've got Marine Forces Korea&mdash;Special Operations Command. And we've got a whole lot of DOD civilians too.<p><i>Audience member</i>. We love you!<p><i>The President</i>. I love you back.<p>Now, Joanne Sharp and Michelle Remington were there to greet me, and I see that we've got a whole lot of spouses and family here. To you and all the spouses back home, I just want to remind you that you serve and sacrifice too, and America honors you as well. <p>And we are joined by our great allies: chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Lee and Mrs. Hwang. We are so nice&mdash;so grateful that you are here. Thank you. Members of the Republic of Korea Armed Forces, and to all our KATUSA partners&mdash;your English is better than my Korean&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;but let me say, <i>katchi kapshida</i>. For those of you guys who have not been doing your homework while you're in Korea, that means: We go together.<p>And to your neighbors, the people of Osan and this country, for more than a half a century, your steadfast resolve has earned you the respect of the world. And your hospitality to Americans serving far from home has earned you the gratitude of the United States. On behalf of us all, thank you to the people of the Republic of Korea. <p>Now, today I'm finishing my first visit to Asia as President. In Tokyo, we renewed and deepened the U.S.-Japan alliance. In Singapore, we worked with leaders from across the Asia Pacific to strengthen the global economic recovery. And in China, we worked to advance the partnership between our two countries on global issues, because cooperation between the United States and China will mean a safer, more prosperous world for all of us, including right here on the Korean Peninsula.<p>In Seoul, President Lee and I reaffirmed the enduring alliance between our countries, an alliance rooted in shared sacrifice, common values, mutual interest, and mutual respect. And as we look to the future with a shared vision of our alliance for the 21st century, I made it clear: America's commitment to the defense of the Republic of Korea will never waver, and our alliance has never been stronger. <p>And I want to deliver, actually, just a quick story, go a little off script. President Lee talked to me about what it was like when he was a young child here in Korea, this country having been torn by war and the poverty that still existed in the country. And he said: \\"I hope the American people understand how grateful we are for what you've done, because we would not be the extraordinarily strong, prosperous nation that we are, had it not been for the sacrifices of your Armed Services and the continued contributions that you've made.\\"<p>And I thought, when the President of a country that's become so successful says that America, and America's Armed Services in particular, had something to do with the extraordinary success of their country&mdash;he said, \\"That's something you should take great pride in.\\" And I want all of you to know that, because you are carrying that tradition on right here at Osan.<p>I couldn't come to the Republic of Korea without coming to see you to deliver a simple message, a message of thanks to you and your families. Because of all the privileges of serving as President, I have no greater honor than serving as Commander in Chief of the finest military that the world has ever known.<p>At every step of my journey, one truth is clear: The security that allows families to live in peace in Asia and America, the prosperity that allows people to pursue their dreams, the freedoms and liberties that we cherish, they're not accidents of history, they are the direct result of the work that you do, the strong alliances that we have. That's the legacy that you are carrying forward. It is no exaggeration to say that the progress we've seen not just in Korea but in this part of the world would not have been possible without the security and stability provided by generations of American men and women in uniform. It has transformed the lives of millions of people. <p>Many people have to wait a lifetime to see the difference they've made. But you see the legacy of your service, and you only have to look around. Like generations before you, you've helped keep the peace on this peninsula, working with the wonderful people of the Republic of Korea as they forged a vibrant democracy, and an example that the world admires, of progress and tradition going hand in hand. <p>Backed by our alliance, this is one of the world's most dynamic economies&mdash;and one of America's largest trading partners&mdash;bringing prosperity and opportunity to both our people. That's the legacy of our Armed Services. <p>Backed by our alliance, the Republic of Korea has taken on a leadership role, promoting security and stability around the world&mdash;in Iraq, in Afghanistan, in the waters off the Horn of Africa, and here in Asia&mdash;helping to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction. That makes us all more secure. That too is part of your legacy.<p>But the story of your service goes beyond this peninsula, for you are members of a generation that has earned your place among the greatest in American history. You volunteered in a time of war, knowing that you could be sent into harm's way. Many of you served in Iraq. You've given people a chance of self-government there. Others among you served in Afghanistan. And you've denied a safe haven to those who attacked us eight Septembers ago, and would do so again if given the opportunity. Others among you will deploy yet again. <p>So you and your families have served tour after tour, year after year. And while you've made sacrifices that few Americans will ever truly understand, I want to assure you, every American appreciates what you do. I say today on behalf of the American people: We thank you for your service; we honor you for your sacrifices. And just as you've fulfilled your responsibilities to your Nation, your Nation will fulfill its responsibilities to you. <p>So as Commander in Chief, here's the commitment I make. We'll make sure you can meet the missions we ask you to go on. That's why we're increasing the defense budget, to keep you the best trained, best led, best equipped military in the world. <p>We've increased the size of the Army and Marines Corps ahead of schedule. We've approved a temporary increase in the Army. And we've halted reductions in the Navy and the Air Force, which will give you more time home between deployments. And it will help us to put an end, once and for all, for stop-loss for those who've done their duty. <p>We'll spend our defense dollars wisely. So we're cutting tens of billions of dollars in waste and unnecessary projects that even the Pentagon says it doesn't need, so that we can spend that money on building the 21st-century military that we do need so we can maintain our military superiority. <p>And I promise you this: I will not hesitate to use force to protect the American people or our vital interests, but I will also not risk your lives unless it is absolutely necessary. And if it is&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;and when it is necessary, America will back you up to the hilt. We'll give you the strategy, the clear mission, the equipment, and the support you need to get the job done. That's the promise I make to you.<p>As you fulfill your duties, we're going to take care of your families. That's why we're increasing pay. That's what's called an applause line in the business. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's why we're increasing childcare. That's why we're increasing support to help spouses and families deal with the stress and separation of war. And I want to commend General Sharp for working to normalize your tours, so more of your families can join you here in Korea. And everywhere I go, from what I've heard, there's an extraordinary quality of life here for our troops. The fact that we can extend these tours a little bit longer just provides more stability and security for your families. <p>Finally, we pledge to be there when you come home. I mean, it's nice here, but we want you coming home. We're improving care for our wounded warriors, especially those with posttraumatic stress and traumatic brain injury. We're funding the post-9/11 GI bill to give you and your families the chance to pursue your dreams. We've made the biggest commitment to our veterans through the largest percentage increase requested for the VA's budget in more than 30 years.<p>So these are the commitments I make to you, because you've always taken care of America, and America needs to take care of you. For you are the latest chapter in a long story of proud service, a story told in quiet places of reflection and tribute, including a memorial on the National Mall in Washington, not far from the White House.<p>There, between the monument to Washington and the memorial to Lincoln, you can find it. Nineteen statues, a squad on patrol as they might have appeared on this peninsula six decades ago, their packs on their backs, clad in their helmets and ponchos, carrying their rifles and radios&mdash;every service: Army, Air Force, Navy, Marines; every race: White, Black, Brown&mdash;standing together, serving together, moving on, pushing ahead. And etched into the black granite wall beside them, thousands of faces: the nurses, the mechanics, the support personnel who served alongside them.<p>There, at the Korean War Veterans Memorial, beside the tranquil waters and&mdash;that help us remember, are the statistics of their sacrifice: the wounded, the captured, the missing, the dead from that war. And under a bright American flag, etched in stone, are timeless words we know to be true: that freedom is not free.<p>Freedom is not free. And it is paid in the service and the sacrifice of all who wear America's uniform. It was paid by their generation, from the Pusan Perimeter to the landings at Inchon, from the skies of MiG Alley to the heroism of Heartbreak Ridge. It's been paid by every generation since. And it's being paid by you, in service that inspires us all. And for this, your country&mdash;and generations yet unborn&mdash;will be forever grateful.<p>So God bless you all. God bless the Armed Services, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you, everybody.\" "
"345" "\"Hi. I'm recording this message from Seoul, South Korea, as I finish up my first Presidential trip to Asia. As we emerge from the worst recession in generations, there is nothing more important than to do everything we can to get our economy moving again and put Americans back to work, and I will go anywhere to pursue that goal.<p>That's one of the main reasons I took this trip. Asia is a region where we now buy more goods and do more trade with than any other place in the world, commerce that supports millions of jobs back home. It's also a place where the risk of a nuclear arms race threatens our security and where extremists plan attacks on America's soil. And since this region includes some of the fastest growing nations, there can be no solution to the challenge of climate change without the cooperation of the Asia Pacific.<p>With this in mind, I traveled to Asia to open a new era of American engagement. We made progress with China and Russia in sending a unified message to Iran and North Korea that they must live up to their international obligations and either forsake nuclear weapons or face the consequences. As the two largest consumers and producers of energy, we developed a host of new clean energy initiatives with China, and our two nations agreed to work toward a successful outcome at the upcoming climate summit in Copenhagen, an outcome that leads to immediate action to reduce carbon pollution. And I spoke to young men and women at a town hall in Shanghai and across the Internet about certain values that we in America believe are universal: the freedom of worship and speech; the right to access information and to choose one's own leaders. <p>But above all, I spoke with leaders in every nation I visited about what we can do to sustain this economic recovery and bring back jobs and prosperity for our people, a task I will continue to focus on relentlessly in the weeks and months ahead. <p>This recession has taught us that we can't return to a situation where America's economic growth is fueled by consumers who take on more and more debt. In order to keep growing, we need to spend less, save more, and get our Federal deficit under control. We also need to place a greater emphasis on exports that we can build, produce, and sell to other nations, exports that can help create new jobs at home and raise living standards throughout the world. <p>For example, if we can increase our exports to Asia Pacific nations by just 5 percent, we can increase the number of American jobs supported by these exports by hundreds of thousands. This is already happening with businesses like American Superconductor Corporation, an energy technology startup based in Massachusetts that's been providing wind power and smart grid systems to countries like China, Korea, and India. By doing so, it's added more than 100 jobs over the last few years. <p>Increasing our exports is one way to create new jobs and new prosperity. But as we emerge from a recession that has left millions without work, we have an obligation to consider every additional, responsible step we can take to encourage and accelerate job creation in this country. That's why I've announced that in the next few weeks, we'll be holding a forum at the White House on jobs and economic growth. I want to hear from CEOs and small-business owners, economists and financial experts, as well as representatives from labor unions and nonprofit groups, about what they think we can do to spur hiring and get this economy moving again. <p>It's important that we do not make any ill-considered decisions&mdash;even with the best of intentions&mdash;particularly at a time when our resources are so limited. But it is just as important that we are open to any demonstrably good idea to supplement the steps we've already taken to put America back to work. That's what I hope to achieve in this forum. <p>Still, there is no forum or policy that can bring all the jobs we've lost overnight. I wish there were, because so many Americans&mdash;friends, neighbors, family members&mdash;are desperately looking for work. But even though it will take time, I can promise you this: we are moving in the right direction; that the steps we are taking are helping; and I will not let up until businesses start hiring again, unemployed Americans start working again, and we rebuild this economy stronger and more prosperous than it was before. That has been the focus of our efforts these past 10 months, and it will continue to be our focus in the months and years to come. <p>Thanks.\" "
"346" "\"Thank you. I am extraordinarily excited to have you all here today. A couple of special acknowledgements I want to make: first of all, two of my outstanding Cabinet members, Secretary Arne Duncan, our Education Secretary, and Secretary Steven Chu, who is our Energy Secretary. They are both doing outstanding work each and every day. <p>I want to acknowledge Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson, who is from Texas, and she is one of the members of our Science and Technology Committee and doing outstanding work. NASA Administrator Charlie Bolden is in the house. Where's Charlie? There he is, right there in front. NSF Director Dr. Arden Bement is here, right there; Dr. John Holdren, my Science and Technology Adviser&mdash;where's John?&mdash;right there; Melody Barnes, our Domestic Policy Council chair or head, Director&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;Director.<p>And then we've got some students from&mdash;some wonderful students from some wonderful schools: Oakton High School in Vienna, Virginia; Longfellow Middle School in Fairfax, Virginia; the Washington Mathematics Science Technology Public Charter High School here in DC; and the Herndon High School in Herndon, Virginia. Welcome, everybody. <p>Now, the students from Oakton High School are going to be demonstrating the \\"cougar cannon,\\" designed to scoop up and toss moon rocks. I am eager to see what they do for two reasons. As Presidents, I believe that robotics can inspire young people to pursue science and engineering. And I also want to keep an eye on those robots, in case they try anything. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It's an honor to be here and to be joined by Sally Ride, the first American woman in space. Sally. This is a person who's inspired a generation of girls and boys to think bigger and set their sights higher. I want to thank NASA and Charlie for providing the interactive globe, an innovative and engaging way of teaching young people about our world. <p>Welcome, Mythbusters, from Discovery Channel. Where are they? There they are. I hope you guys left the explosives at home. [<i>Laughter</i>] And finally, allow me to thank the many leaders here today who've agreed to be part of this historic effort to inspire and educate the new generation in math and science.<p>We live in a world of unprecedented perils, but also unparalleled potential. Our medical system holds the promise of unlocking new cures, but it's attached to a health care system that's bankrupting families and businesses and our Government. The sources of energy that power our economy are also endangering our planet. We confront threats to our security that seek to exploit the very openness that is essential to our prosperity. And we face challenges in a global marketplace that link the trader to Wall Street to the homeowner on Main Street, to the office worker in America to the factory worker in China, an economy in which we all share in opportunity, but we also share, unfortunately, in crisis.<p>So the key to meeting these challenges&mdash;to improving our health and well being, to harnessing clean energy, to protecting our security, and succeeding in the global economy&mdash;will be reaffirming and strengthening America's role as the world's engine of scientific discovery and technological innovation. And that leadership tomorrow depends on how we educate our students today, especially in those fields that hold the promise of producing future innovations and innovators. And that's why education in math and science is so important.<p>Now, the hard truth is that for decades we've been losing ground. One assessment shows American 15-year-olds now rank 21st in science and 25th in math when compared to their peers around the world. And this isn't news. We've seen worrying statistics like this for years. Yet, time and again, we've let partisan and petty bickering stand in the way of progress. And time and again, as a nation, we've let our children down. <p>So I'm here and you are here because we all believe that we can't allow division and indifference to imperil our position in the world. It's time for all of us, in Washington and across America, to take responsibility for our future.<p>And that's why I'm committed to moving our country from the middle to the top of the pack in science and math education over the next decade. To meet this goal, the Recovery Act included the largest investment in education in history while preventing hundreds of thousands of educators from being fired because of State budget shortfalls. Under the outstanding leadership of Arne Duncan, we've launched a $4 billion Race to the Top fund, one of the largest investments in education reform in history.<p>And through the Race to the Top, States won't just be receiving funding, they'll have to compete for funding. And in this competition, producing the most innovative programs in math and science will be an advantage. In addition, we are challenging States to improve achievement by raising standards, using data to better inform decisions, and taking new approaches to turn around struggling schools. And because a great teacher is the single most important factor in a great education, we're asking States to focus on teacher effectiveness and to make it possible for professionals&mdash;like many of the people in this room&mdash;to bring their experience and enthusiasm into the classroom.<p>But you are here because you know the success we seek is not going to be attained by Government alone, it depends on the dedication of students and parents and the commitment of private citizens, organizations, and companies. It depends on all of us. That's why, back in April, at the National Academy of Sciences, I issued a challenge: to encourage folks to think of new and creative ways of engaging young people in science and engineering. And we are here because the leaders in this room answered that call to action.<p>Today we are launching the \\"Educate to Innovate\\" campaign, a nationwide effort to help reach the goal this administration has set: moving to the top in science and math education in the next decade. We've got leaders from private companies and universities, foundations and nonprofits, and organizations representing millions of scientists, engineers, and teachers from across America. The initial commitment of the private sector to this campaign is more than $260 million, and we only expect the campaign to grow.<p>Business leaders from Intel, Xerox, Kodak, and Time Warner Cable are teaming up with Sally Ride, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, as well as the Carnegie Corporation, to find and replicate successful science, math, and technology programs all across America. Sesame Street has begun a 2-year initiative to teach young kids about math and science. And Discovery Communications is going to deliver interactive science content to 60,000 schools reaching 35 million students.<p>These efforts extend beyond the classroom. Time Warner Cable is joining with the Coalition for Science After School and FIRST Robotics&mdash;the program created by inventor Dean Kamen, which gave us the \\"cougar cannon\\"&mdash;to connect one million students with fun after-school activities, like robotics competitions. The MacArthur Foundation and industry leaders like Sony are launching a nationwide challenge to design compelling, freely available, science-related video games. And organizations representing teachers, scientists, mathematicians, and engineers&mdash;joined by volunteers in the community&mdash;are participating in a grassroots effort called \\"National Lab Day\\" to reach 10 million young people with hands-on learning.<p>Students will launch rockets, construct miniature windmills, and get their hands dirty. They'll have the chance to build and create&mdash;and maybe destroy just a little bit&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;to see the promise of being the makers of things and not just the consumers of things.<p>The administration is participating as well. We've already had a number of science-focused events with young people at the White House, including astronomy night a few weeks ago. The National Science Foundation and the Department of Energy, under the leadership of a terrific scientist, Steven Chu, have launched an innovative&mdash;an initiative to inspire tens of thousands of students to pursue careers in clean energy.<p>And today I'm announcing that we're going to have an annual science fair at the White House with the winners of national competitions in science and technology. If you win the NCAA championship, you come to the White House. Well, if you're a young person and you've produced the best experiment or design, the best hardware or software, you ought to be recognized for that achievement too. Scientists and engineers ought to stand side by side with athletes and entertainers as role models, and here at the White House we're going to lead by example. We're going to show young people how cool science can be.<p>Through these efforts, we're going to expand the scope and scale of science and math education all across America. And we're going to expand opportunities for all our young people, including women and minorities who too often have been underrepresented in scientific and technological fields, but who are no less capable of succeeding in math and science and pursuing careers that will help improve our lives and grow our economy. I also want to note that this is only the beginning. We're going to challenge the private sector to partner with community colleges, for example, to help train the workers of today for the jobs of tomorrow, even as we make college more affordable, so that, by 2020, America once again leads the world in producing college graduates.<p>Now, I have to say to the young people who are here, we can't let students off the hook. In the end, the success of this campaign depends on them. But I believe strongly that America's young people will rise to the challenge if given the opportunity and given a little bit of a push. We've got to work together to create those opportunities, because our future depends on it. <p>And I just want to mention the importance not only of students but also of parents. You know, I was in Asia, I think many of you are aware, for a week, and I was having lunch with the President of South Korea, President Lee. And I was interested in education policy&mdash;they've grown enormously over the last 40 years. And I asked him, what are the biggest challenges in your education policy? He said, \\"The biggest challenge that I have is that my parents are too demanding.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] He said, \\"Even if somebody is dirt poor, they are insisting that their kids are getting the best education.\\" He said, \\"I've had to import thousands of foreign teachers because they're all insisting that Korean children have to learn English in elementary school.\\" That was the biggest education challenge that he had, was an insistence, a demand from parents for excellence in the schools. <p>And the same thing was true when I went to China. I was talking to the mayor of Shanghai, and I asked him about how he was doing recruiting teachers, given that they've got 25 million people in this one city. He said, \\"We don't have problems recruiting teachers because teaching is so revered and the pay scales for teachers are actually comparable to doctors and other professions.\\"<p>That gives you a sense of what's happening around the world. There is a hunger for knowledge, an insistence on excellence, a reverence for science and math and technology and learning. That used to be what we were about. That's what we're going to be about again.<p>And I have to say that this doesn't get a lot of focus. Not once was I asked about education policy during my trip by the press. And oftentimes events like this get short shrift. They're not what's debated on cable. But this is probably going to make more of a difference in determining how well we do as a country than just about anything else that we do here.<p>Now, everyone in this room understands how important science and math can be. And it goes beyond the facts in a biology textbook or the questions on an algebra quiz. It's about the ability to understand our world, to harness and train that human capacity to solve problems and think critically, a set of skills that informs the decisions we make throughout our lives.<p>So yes, improving education in math and science is about producing engineers and researchers and scientists and innovators who are going to help transform our economy and our lives for the better. But it's also about something more. It's about expanding opportunity for all Americans in a world where an education is the key to success. It's about an informed citizenry in an era where many of the problems we face as a Nation are, at root, scientific problems. And it's about the power of science to not only unlock new discoveries, but to unlock in the minds of our young people a sense of promise, a sense that with some hard work, with effort, they have the potential to achieve extraordinary things.<p>This is a difficult time in our country, and it would be easy to grow cynical and wonder if America's best days are behind us, especially at a time of economic uncertainty, especially when we've seen so many, from Wall Street to Washington, fail to take responsibility for so long. But I believe we have an opportunity now to move beyond the failures of the recent past and to recapture that spirit of American innovation and optimism. <p>This Nation wasn't built on greed. It wasn't built on reckless risk. It wasn't built on short-term gains and short-sighted policies. It was forged of stronger stuff, by bold men and women who dared to invent something new or improve something old, who took big chances on big ideas, who believed that in America all things are possible. That's our history. And, if we remain fixed on the work ahead, if we build on the progress we've made today, this is going to be our legacy as well.<p>So with that, just as proof of the extraordinary promise of American young people, I'd like to invite Steven Harris and Brian Hortelano from Oakton High School to come up here and demonstrate what their team has built. And it's flashing so far. I don't see it whirling. [<i>Laughter</i>] Where are they? Give them a big round of applause.\" "
"347" "\"Hello, everybody. I assembled my Cabinet today for updates on the progress we've made across several areas. Secretary Gates and Secretary Clinton spoke about issues of national security. Peter Orszag had some discussion of our upcoming budget. And I updated the Cabinet on the progress that we're making on the health insurance reform legislation that's moving its way now through the Senate, and reiterated the urgent need for us to get to the finish line and provide relief, both in terms of costs and the quality of coverage that Americans get&mdash;are getting in their health care.<p>The primary focus of our discussion today, though, it had to do with the same thing that Americans sitting across kitchen tables all across the country are focused on, and that is jobs and the economy. If you look back at where we've been, in the first several months of my administration, because of the steps taken by people like Secretary Geithner and the rest of our economic team, we were able to stabilize the financial system and ensure that the economy didn't slip back into a depression. And we take this for granted now, but it is something that I think all the members of the Cabinet who participated are extremely proud of.<p>Since that time, we've passed a Recovery Act that's put a middle class tax cut into people's pockets, that has invested in infrastructure all across this country, and put people back to work, and something that isn't noted often enough, has helped stabilize state budgets at a time in which we could have seen hundreds of thousands of layoffs in teachers and police officers and firefighters.<p>Our economy is growing again for the first time in more than a year, and we know that economic growth is a prerequisite for job growth. But, having said that, what I emphasize today is we cannot sit back and be satisfied, given the extraordinarily high unemployment levels that we've seen. We have only taken the first step in curing our economy and making sure that it is moving on the right track. And I will not rest until businesses are investing again and businesses are hiring again and people have work again.<p>Now, this is going to be a challenging task. It's challenging because of the extraordinary blow that the financial crisis delivered to the economy as a whole. It is particularly difficult because both the financial sector and the housing sector were the biggest drivers of economic growth prior to the financial crisis, and so the severity of their pullback means that things are moving slower than we would like them to move.<p>One of the ironies that we have right now is, is that businesses across sectors are making profits again, but their primary way of making profit has been to cut costs, as opposed to seeing increased demand. And, unfortunately, the huge rise in productivity, which is normally a good thing, in this circumstance means that they have learned to produce the same amount of goods with fewer people. All these present some significant challenges in terms of us creating more jobs in this economy.<p>But, having said that, something that our economic team emphasized is that there are core strengths to the American economy that will put us in good stead over the long term. Having gone through this very wrenching adjustment, we continue to have the best universities in the world, the best innovation and technologies in the world. We continue to have some of the best workers in the world, the most productive workers in the world. And we have the kind of dynamism and entrepreneurship in our economies that's going to serve us well in the long term. The key is to bridge where we are now to that more prosperous future. And so a lot of the discussion, in a whole range of different sectors, was how do we move that job agendas forward.<p>For example, in the export area, I just came back from a trip to Asia in which one of my highest priorities was discussing how we can increase exports into that region. If we could just increase our exports by 5 percent into that region, that would mean hundreds of thousands of well paying jobs. And there's no reason that we can't do it. In fact, it turns out that they want our products and they want our technology, but partly because of regulatory restrictions, partly because of currency issues, partly because we just haven't been as aggressive as we need to be, we haven't gotten there. <p>That's something that we're going to be focusing on, on infrastructure. Although some of the payout extends beyond just a couple of years, us investing now in revamping our exsting infrastructure and then starting to lay the foundation for things like high-speed rail can make all the difference in the world. <p>And in green technology, we are seeing some terrific ideas that could immediately put people back to work and save consumers money and help with the climate crisis that we have in place. <p>So, as many of you know, we're going to be having a jobs summit on December 3d. Part of the task of this Cabinet was to generate good ideas in anticipation of that jobs summit. We are going to be bringing together people from all across the country&mdash;business, labor, academics, non-for-profits, entrepreneurs, small and large businesses&mdash;to explore how we can jump-start the hiring that typically lags behind economic growth, but we don't want to wait. We want to see if we can accelerate it. And I'm confident that we're going to be able to do it because I've got as good of a Cabinet as I think any President has ever had.<p>Let me just close by saying this. This is a week to give thanks. And I advised this hard-working Cabinet to get a little bit of rest this week, particularly the people who have been traveling around the globe for&mdash;day in and day out and don't know what time zone they're in. <p>But I think it's also a time to remember that this has been a very difficult year and a lot of people out there are having a very, very tough time. And I indicated to my Cabinet that as hard as they're working and as difficult as the political environment can be sometimes, we are extraordinarily blessed to be in a position where we can make a potential difference in the lives of millions of people. We need to take advantage of that opportunity and redouble our efforts in the months and years to come.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"348" "\"Thank you. Please, everybody have a seat. Everybody have a seat. What a wonderful evening. Before I begin, let me just acknowledge some folks here in the crowd. First of all, Mrs. Kerry Kennedy, for the great work that she's doing day in, day out, Mr. Philip Johnston, thank you to both of you for helping to organize this tonight. Obviously, I've got to say thanks to my favorite people, Mrs. Robert F. Kennedy, also known as Ethel Kennedy. To Representative Donald M. Payne, Representative Gregory Meeks, and Representative Edward Markey, who are all here, thank you for your attendance and your support of this important award.<p>You know, every year for 24 years, starting the year this award was established, my friend, Senator Edward \\"Ted\\" Kennedy, spoke at this event. And I'm told that he looked forward to it all year, that he relished the chance to shine a bright light on an injustice and on those fighting it and to support them in that fight. He also enjoyed a family reunion. He relished the chance to pay tribute to those carrying on the unfinished work of his brother's life, work that for nearly half a century in the U.S. Senate he made his own.<p>And he was pleased that this award honored men and women across the globe doing a wide range of urgent work: fighting to end apartheid, advance democracy, empower minorities and indigenous peoples, promote free speech and elections, and more. Because Ted understood that Bobby's legacy wasn't a devotion to one particular cause or a faith in a certain ideology, but rather, it was a sensibility. A belief that in this world there is right and there is wrong, and it is our job to build our laws and our lives around recognizing the difference.<p>A sensitivity to injustice so acute that it can't be relieved by the rationalizations that make life comfortable for the rest of us, that others' suffering is not our problem, that the ills of the world are somehow not our concern, a moral orientation that renders certain people constitutionally incapable of remaining a bystander in the face of evil, a sensibility that recognizes the power of all people, however humble their circumstances, to change the course of history, those are the traits of Bobby Kennedy that this award recognizes and the very traits that define the character and guide the life of this year's recipient.<p>And while we feel a certain sadness that Senator Kennedy is not with us to honor her, let us also take pleasure tonight in knowing just how much he would have loved and admired Magodonga Mahlangu and the organization that she helps lead, WOZA, which stands for Women of Zimbabwe Arise, and is represented tonight by one of its founders, Jenni Williams.<p>Now, as a young girl raised in Matabeleland&mdash;in the Matabeleland region of Zimbabwe in the early 1980s, Magodonga witnessed the&mdash;and I've got to make sure I get this right&mdash;Gukurahundi massacres, a systematic murder of many thousands of people, including her uncle and several cousins, many of whom were buried in mass graves that they'd been forced to dig themselves.<p>And she witnessed the fearful silence that followed, as talking about these events was forbidden. Magodonga found this to be intolerable. She wanted to speak out; she wanted people to know the truth about what was happening in her country.<p>So it was a revelation when, years later, she discovered a group called WOZA whose mission is the very opposite of silence. WOZA was started back in 2003 to empower women to speak out about the issues affecting their families and their country: desperate hunger, crumbling health and education systems, domestic violence and rape, and government repression ranging from restrictions on free expression to abduction and murder of dissidents.<p>WOZA's guiding principle is tough love, the idea that political leaders in Zimbabwe could use a little discipline. And who better to provide that than the nation's mothers? And since its founding, the organization has grown from a handful of activists to a movement of 75,000 strong. There's even a men's branch, I understand, MOZA. And over the past 7 years, they have conducted more than a hundred protests, maids and hairdressers, vegetable sellers and seamstresses, taking to the streets singing and dancing, banging on pots empty of food and brandishing brooms to express their wish to sweep the government clean.<p>They often don't get far before being confronted by President Mugabe's riot police. They have been gassed, abducted, threatened with guns, and badly beaten, forced to count out loud as each blow was administered. Three thousand WOZA members have spent time in custody or in prison, sometimes dragged with their babies into cells. Magodonga and Jenni are due back in court on December 7th, charged with conduct likely to cause a breach of peace. They face a 5 year sentence if convicted.<p>That so many women have decided to risk and endure so much is in many ways a testament to the extraordinary example of tonight's honoree. Each time they see Magodonga beaten back&mdash;beaten black and blue during one protest, only to get right back up and lead another, singing freedom songs at the top of her lungs in full view of security forces, the threat of a policeman's baton loses some of its power.<p>Each time her house is searched or her life is threatened or she's once again arrested&mdash;more than 30 times so far&mdash;she continues to stand in public and inspire the people of Zimbabwe, the power of the state then seems a little less absolute. Each time she's emerged from incarceration after enduring deplorable conditions, brutal abuse and gone right back to work, the prospect of prison loses some of its capacity to deter.<p>And by her example, Magodonga has shown the women of WOZA and the people of Zimbabwe that they can undermine their oppressors' power with their own power, that they can sap a dictator's strength with their own. Her courage has inspired others to summon theirs. And the organization's name, WOZA, which means \\"come forward,\\" has become its impact even&mdash;its impact has been even more as people know of the violence that they face, and more people have come forward to join them.<p>More people have come to realize what Magodonga and the women of WOZA have known all along: That the only real way to teach love and nonviolence is by example. Even when that means sitting down while being arrested, both as a sign that they refuse to retaliate, absorbing each blow without striking back, and a warning that, come what may, they're not going anywhere.<p>They even manage to show love to those who imprison them. As Jenni put it, \\"Many a time we've in effect conducted a workshop for our jailers, acting out the role of a mother and teaching how the country can be rebuilt if we have love in our hearts.\\"<p>When asked how they can endure so much violence and what keeps them going in the face of such overwhelming odds, the women of WOZA reply, simply, each other. And that may be Magodonga's greatest achievement: That she has given the women of Zimbabwe each other; that she has given people who long for peace and justice each other; that she has given them a voice they can only have collectively and a strength that they can only have together.<p>They are a force to be reckoned with. Because history tells us, truth has a life of its own once it's told. Love can transform a nation once it's taught. Courage can be contagious, righteousness can spread, and there is much wisdom in the old proverb that God could not be everywhere, so he created mothers.<p>In the end, history has a clear direction, and it is not the way of those who arrest women and babies for singing in the streets. It's not the way of those who starve and silence their own people and cling to power by threat of force.<p>It is the way of the maid walking home in Montgomery, the young woman marching silently in the streets of Tehran, the leader imprisoned in her own home for her commitment to democracy. It is the way of young people in Cape Town who braved the wrath of their government to hear a young Senator from New York speak about the ripples of hope one righteous act can create. And it is the way that Magadonga Mahlangu and Jenni Williams and the women and men who take to the streets of Harare and Bulawayo, Victoria Falls, because they love their country and love their children and know that something better is possible.<p>Bobby Kennedy once said, \\"All great questions must be raised by great voices, and the greatest voice is the voice of the people&mdash;speaking out&mdash;in prose, or painting or poetry or music; speaking out&mdash;in homes and halls, streets and farms, courts and cafes&mdash;let that voice speak and the stillness you hear will be the gratitude of mankind.\\"<p>Magodongo and WOZA have given so many of their fellow citizens of Zimbabwe that voice and tonight, we express our gratitude for their work. So it is now my pleasure to join with Mrs. Robert F. Kennedy to present the 2009 Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights Award to Magodonga Mahlangu and WOZA.\" "
"349" "\"<i>President Obama</i>. Please be seated. Good evening, everyone. On behalf of Michelle and myself, welcome to the White House. <i>Aapka swagat hai</i>. <p>Many of you were here when I was honored to become the first President to help celebrate Diwali, the festival of lights. Some of you were here for the first White House celebration of the birth of the founder of Sikhism, Guru Nanak. Tonight we gather again for the first state dinner of my Presidency, with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Mrs. Gursharan Kaur, as we celebrate the great and growing partnership between the United States and India.<p>As we all know, in India, some of life's most treasured moments are often celebrated under the cover of a beautiful tent. It's a little like tonight. We have incredible food and music and are surrounded by great friends. For it's been said that \\"the most beautiful things in the universe are the starry heavens above us and the feeling of duty within us.\\" <p>Mr. Prime Minister, today we work to fulfill our duty&mdash;bring our countries closer together than ever before. Tonight, under the stars, we celebrate the spirit that will sustain our partnership, the bonds of friendship between our people.<p>It's a bond that includes more than 2 million Indian Americans who enrich every corner of our great Nation&mdash;leaders in government, science, industry, and the arts&mdash;some of whom join us tonight. And it's the bond of friendship between a President and a Prime Minister who are bound by the same unshakable spirit of possibility and brotherhood that transformed both our nations, a spirit that gave rise to movements led by giants like Gandhi and King and which are the reason that both of us can stand here tonight. <p>And so, as we draw upon these ties that bind our common future together, I want to close with the words that your first Prime Minister spoke at that midnight hour on the eve of Indian independence, because Nehru's words speak to our hopes tonight: \\"The achievement we celebrate today is but a step, an opening of opportunity, to the great triumphs and achievements that await us. . . .The past is over, and it is the future that beckons us now.\\" <p>So I propose a toast to all of you.<p>Does the Prime Minister get a glass? Thank you. Just logistically, we want to make sure the Prime Minister has a glass here. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>To the future that beckons all of us, let us answer its call. And let our two great nations realize all the triumphs and achievements that await us. Cheers.<p>[<i>At this point, President Obama offered a toast.</i>]<p><i>Prime Minister Singh</i>. Mr. President; the First Lady, Mrs. Michelle Obama; distinguished guests: I feel privileged to be invited to this first state banquet, Mr. President, under your distinguished Presidency. You do us and the people of India great honor by this wonderful gesture on your part. We are overwhelmed by the warmth of your hospitality, the courtesy you have extended to us personally, and the grace and charm of the First Lady. <p>Mr. President, your journey to the White House has captured the imagination of millions and millions of people in India. You are an inspiration to all those who cherish the values of democracy, diversity, and equal opportunity. <p>Mr. President, I can do no better than to describe your achievements in the words of Abraham Lincoln, who said, and I quote, \\"In the end, it's not the years in your life that count. It is the life in your years,\\" unquote. <p>Mr. President, we warmly applaud the recognition by the Nobel Committee of the healing touch you have provided and the power of your idealism and your vision. <p>Mr. President, your leadership of this great nation of the United States coincides with a time of profound changes taking place in the world at large. We need to find new pathways of international cooperation that respond more effectively to the grave challenges caused by the growing interdependence of nations. As two leading democracies, India and the United States must play a leading role in building a shared destiny for all humankind. <p>Mr. President, a strong and sustained engagement between our two countries is good for our people, and equally, it is highly important for the world as a whole. We are embarking on a new phase of our partnership. We should build on our common values and interests to realize the enormous potential and promise of our partnership. <p>Our expanding cooperation in areas of social and human development, science and technology, energy, and other related areas will improve the quality of lives of millions of people in our country. The success of the nearly 2.7 million strong American community is a tribute to our common ethos. They have enriched and deepened our ties, and I thank them profoundly from the core of my heart. <p>Mr. President, I convey my very best wishes to you. Mr. President, as you lead this great Nation, I look forward to working with you to renew and expand our strategic partnership. I wish you and the people of America a very, very happy Thanksgiving. <p>Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to join me in a toast to the health and happiness of President Barack Obama and the First Lady, Mrs. Obama, the friendly people of the United States of America, and stronger and stronger friendship between India and the United States of America.<p><i>President Obama</i>. Cheers.<p>[<i>A toast was offered.</i>]<p><i>President Obama</i>. Thank you, everybody. Enjoy your evening.\" "
"350" "\"All right. Happy Thanksgiving, everybody. Welcome to the White House. On behalf of Sasha and Malia and myself, we're thrilled to see you. I want to thank Walter Pelletier, chairman of the National Turkey Federation, and Joel Brandenberger, its president, for donating this year's turkey. His name is Courage. He traveled here from Goldsboro, North Carolina, where he was raised under Walter's own precious care.<p>[<i>At this point, the turkey gobbled.</i>]<p>There you go&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;Walter.<p>Now, the National Turkey Federation has been bringing its finest turkeys to the White House for more than 50 years. I'm told President Eisenhower and Johnson actually ate their turkeys. [<i>Laughter</i>] You can't fault them for that; that's a good-looking bird [<i>Laughter</i>] President Kennedy was even given a turkey with a sign around its neck that said, \\"Good eatin', Mr. President.\\" But he showed mercy, and he said, \\"Let's keep him going.\\" And 20 years ago this Thanksgiving, the first President Bush issued the first official Presidential pardon for a turkey.<p>Now, today I am pleased to announce that thanks to the interventions of Malia and Sasha&mdash;because I was planning to eat this sucker&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;Courage will also be spared this terrible and delicious fate. [<i>Laughter</i>] Later today, he'll head to Disneyland, where he'll be grand marshal of tomorrow's parade. And just in case Courage can't fulfill his responsibilities, Walter brought along another turkey, Carolina, as an alternate, the stand-in.<p>Now, later this afternoon, Michelle, Malia, Sasha, and I will take two of their less fortunate brethren to Martha's Table, an organization that does extraordinary work to help folks here in DC who need it the most. And I want to thank Jaindl's Turkey Farm in Orefield, Pennsylvania, for donating those dressed birds for dinner. So today, all told, I believe it's fair to say that we have saved or created four turkeys. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>You know, there are certain days that remind me of why I ran for this office. And then there are moments like this&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;where I pardon a turkey and send it to Disneyland. [<i>Laughter</i>] But every single day, I am thankful for the extraordinary responsibility that the American people have placed in me. I am humbled by the privilege that it is to serve them and the tremendous honor it is to serve as Commander in Chief of the finest military in the world, and I want to wish a happy Thanksgiving to every servicemember at home or in harm's way. We're proud of you, and we are thinking of you, and we're praying for you.<p>When my family and I sit around the table tomorrow, just like millions of other families across America, we'll take time to give our thanks for many blessings. But we'll also remember this is a time when so many members of our American family are hurting. There's no question this has been a tough year for America. We're at war. Our economy is emerging from an extraordinary recession into recovery. But there's a long way to go and a lot of work to do.<p>In more tranquil times, it's easy to notice our many blessings. It's even easier to take them for granted. But in times like these, they resonate a bit more powerfully. When President Lincoln set aside the National Day of Thanksgiving for the first time, to celebrate America's \\"fruitful fields,\\" \\"healthful skies,\\" and the \\"strength and vigor\\" of the American people, it was in the midst of the Civil War, just when the future of our very Union was most in doubt. So think about that. When times were darkest, President Lincoln understood that our American blessings shined brighter than ever.<p>This is an era of new perils and new hardships. But we are, as ever, a people of endless compassion, boundless ingenuity, limitless strength. We're the heirs to a hard-earned history and stewards of a land of God-given beauty. We are Americans. And for all this, we give our humble thanks to our predecessors, to one another, and to God.<p>So on this quintessentially American holiday, as we give thanks for what we've got, let's also give back to those who are less fortunate. As we give thanks for our loved ones, let us remember those who can't be with us. And as we give thanks for our security, let's in turn thank those who've sacrificed to make it possible, wherever they may be.<p>Now, before this turkey gets too nervous that Bo will escape and screw up this pardon&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;or before I change my mind, I hereby pardon Courage so that he can live out the rest of his days in peace and tranquility in Disneyland.<p>And to every American, I want to wish you, on behalf of myself, Malia, Sasha, and Michelle, the happiest of Thanksgivings. Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"351" "\"For centuries, in peace and in war, in prosperity and in adversity, Americans have paused at this time of year to gather with loved ones and give thanks for life's blessings. This week we carry on this distinctly American tradition. All across our country, folks are coming together to spend time with family, to catch up with old friends, to cook and enjoy a big dinner, and maybe to watch a little football in between.<p>As always, we give thanks for the kindness of loved ones, for the joys of the previous year, and for the pride we feel in our communities and country. We keep in our thoughts and prayers the many families marking this Thanksgiving with an empty seat saved for a son or daughter, a husband or wife stationed in harm's way. And we say a special thanks for the sacrifices those men and women in uniform are making for our safety and freedom and for all those Americans who enrich the lives of our communities through acts of kindness and generosity and service.<p>But as much as we all have to be thankful for, we also know that this year millions of Americans are facing very difficult economic times. Many have lost jobs in this recession, the worst in generations. Many more are struggling to afford health care premiums and house payments, let alone to save for an education or retirement. Too many are wondering if the dream of a middle class life&mdash;that American Dream&mdash;is slipping away. It's the worry I hear from folks across the country, good, hard-working people doing the best they can for their families but fearing that their best just isn't good enough. These aren't strangers. They're our family, our friends, and our neighbors. Their struggles must be our concern.<p>That's why we passed the Recovery Act that cut taxes for 95 percent of working people and for small businesses and that extended unemployment benefits and health coverage for millions of Americans who lost their jobs in this turmoil. That's why we are reforming the health care system so that middle class families have affordable insurance that cannot be denied because of a preexisting condition or taken away because you happen to get sick. We've worked to stem the tide of foreclosures and stopped the decline in home values. We're making it easier to save for retirement and more affordable to send a son or daughter to college.<p>The investments we've made and tough steps we've taken have helped break the back of the recession, and now our economy is finally growing again. But as I said when I took office, job recovery from this crisis will not come easily or quickly. Though the job losses we were experiencing earlier this year have slowed dramatically, we're still not creating enough new jobs each month to make up for the ones we're losing. And no matter what the economists say, for families and communities across this country, this recession will not end until we completely turn that tide.<p>So we've made progress, but we can't rest. And my administration will not rest, until we've revived this economy and rebuilt it stronger than before, until we're creating jobs and opportunities for middle class families, until we have moved beyond the cycles of boom and bust, of reckless risk and speculation, that led us to so much crisis and pain these past few years.<p>Next week, I'll be meeting with owners of large and small businesses, labor leaders, and non-for-profit leaders from across the country to talk about the additional steps we can take to help spur job creation. I'll work with the Congress to enact those proposals quickly. And it's my fervent hope and my heartfelt expectation that next Thanksgiving we will be able to celebrate the fact that many of those who have lost their jobs are back at work and that as a nation we will have come through these difficult storms stronger and wiser and grateful to have reached a brighter day.<p>Thank you, God bless you, and from my family to yours, happy Thanksgiving.\" "
"352" "\"Thank you. Please be seated. Good evening. To the United States Corps of Cadets, to the men and women of our Armed Services, and to my fellow Americans: I want to speak to you tonight about our effort in Afghanistan, the nature of our commitment there, the scope of our interests, and the strategy that my administration will pursue to bring this war to a successful conclusion. It's an extraordinary honor for me to do so here at West Point, where so many men and women have prepared to stand up for our security and to represent what is finest about our country. <p>To address these important issues, it's important to recall why America and our allies were compelled to fight a war in Afghanistan in the first place. We did not ask for this fight. On September 11th, 2001, 19 men hijacked 4 airplanes and used them to murder nearly 3,000 people. They struck at our military and economic nerve centers. They took the lives of innocent men, women, and children without regard to their faith or race or station. Were it not for the heroic actions of passengers onboard one of these flights, they could have also struck at one of the great symbols of our democracy in Washington and killed many more. <p>As we know, these men belonged to Al Qaida, a group of extremists who have distorted and defiled Islam, one of the world's great religions, to justify the slaughter of innocents. Al Qaida's base of operations was in Afghanistan, where they were harbored by the Taliban, a ruthless, repressive, and radical movement that seized control of that country after it was ravaged by years of Soviet occupation and civil war and after the attention of America and our friends had turned elsewhere. <p>Just days after 9/11, Congress authorized the use of force against Al Qaida and those who harbored them, an authorization that continues to this day. The vote in the Senate was 98 to nothing; the vote in the House was 420 to 1. For the first time in its history, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization invoked Article 5, the commitment that says an attack on one member nation is an attack on all. And the United Nations Security Council endorsed the use of all necessary steps to respond to the 9/11 attacks. America, our allies, and the world were acting as one to destroy Al Qaida's terrorist network and to protect our common security. <p>Under the banner of this domestic unity and international legitimacy&mdash;and only after the Taliban refused to turn over Usama bin Laden&mdash;we sent our troops into Afghanistan. Within a matter of months, Al Qaida was scattered and many of its operatives were killed. The Taliban was driven from power and pushed back on its heels. A place that had known decades of fear now had reason to hope. At a conference convened by the U.N., a Provisional Government was established under President Hamid Karzai, and an International Security Assistance Force was established to help bring a lasting peace to a war-torn country. <p>Then, in early 2003, the decision was made to wage a second war, in Iraq. The wrenching debate over the Iraq war is well known and need not be repeated here. It's enough to say that for the next 6 years, the Iraq war drew the dominant share of our troops, our resources, our diplomacy, and our national attention, and that the decision to go into Iraq caused substantial rifts between America and much of the world. <p>Today, after extraordinary costs, we are bringing the Iraq war to a responsible end. We will remove our combat brigades from Iraq by the end of next summer and all of our troops by the end of 2011. That we are doing so is a testament to the character of the men and women in uniform. Thanks to their courage, grit, and perseverance, we have given Iraqis a chance to shape their future, and we are successfully leaving Iraq to its people. <p>But while we've achieved hard-earned milestones in Iraq, the situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated. After escaping across the border into Pakistan in 2001 and 2002, Al Qaida's leadership established a safe haven there. Although a legitimate Government was elected by the Afghan people, it's been hampered by corruption, the drug trade, an underdeveloped economy, and insufficient security forces. <p>Over the last several years, the Taliban has maintained common cause with Al Qaida, as they both seek an overthrow of the Afghan Government. Gradually, the Taliban has begun to control additional swaths of territory in Afghanistan, while engaging in increasingly brazen and devastating attacks of terrorism against the Pakistani people. <p>Now, throughout this period, our troop levels in Afghanistan remained a fraction of what they were in Iraq. When I took office, we had just over 32,000 Americans serving in Afghanistan, compared to 160,000 in Iraq at the peak of the war. Commanders in Afghanistan repeatedly asked for support to deal with the reemergence of the Taliban, but these reinforcements did not arrive. And that's why, shortly after taking office, I approved a longstanding request for more troops. After consultations with our allies, I then announced a strategy recognizing the fundamental connection between our war effort in Afghanistan and the extremist safe havens in Pakistan. I set a goal that was narrowly defined as disrupting, dismantling, and defeating Al Qaida and its extremist allies, and pledged to better coordinate our military and civilian efforts. <p>Since then, we've made progress on some important objectives. High-ranking Al Qaida and Taliban leaders have been killed, and we've stepped up the pressure on Al Qaida worldwide. In Pakistan, that nation's army has gone on its largest offensive in years. In Afghanistan, we and our allies prevented the Taliban from stopping a Presidential election, and although it was marred by fraud, that election produced a Government that is consistent with Afghanistan's laws and Constitution. <p>Yet huge challenges remain. Afghanistan is not lost, but for several years, it has moved backwards. There's no imminent threat of the Government being overthrown, but the Taliban has gained momentum. Al Qaida has not reemerged in Afghanistan in the same numbers as before 9/11, but they retain their safe havens along the border. And our forces lack the full support they need to effectively train and partner with Afghan security forces and better secure the population. Our new commander in Afghanistan, General McChrystal, has reported that the security situation is more serious than he anticipated. In short, the status quo is not sustainable.<p>As cadets, you volunteered for service during this time of danger. Some of you fought in Afghanistan. Some of you will deploy there. As your Commander in Chief, I owe you a mission that is clearly defined and worthy of your service. And that's why, after the Afghan voting was completed, I insisted on a thorough review of our strategy. Now, let me be clear: There has never been an option before me that called for troop deployments before 2010, so there has been no delay or denial of resources necessary for the conduct of the war during this review period. Instead, the review has allowed me to ask the hard questions and to explore all the different options, along with my national security team, our military and civilian leadership in Afghanistan, and our key partners. And given the stakes involved, I owed the American people and our troops no less.<p>This review is now complete. And as Commander in Chief, I have determined that it is in our vital national interest to send an additional 30,000 U.S. troops to Afghanistan. After 18 months, our troops will begin to come home. These are the resources that we need to seize the initiative, while building the Afghan capacity that can allow for a responsible transition of our forces out of Afghanistan. <p>I do not make this decision lightly. I opposed the war in Iraq precisely because I believe that we must exercise restraint in the use of military force and always consider the long-term consequences of our actions. We have been at war now for 8 years, at enormous cost in lives and resources. Years of debate over Iraq and terrorism have left our unity on national security issues in tatters and created a highly polarized and partisan backdrop for this effort. And having just experienced the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, the American people are understandably focused on rebuilding our economy and putting people to work here at home. <p>Most of all, I know that this decision asks even more of you, a military that, along with your families, has already borne the heaviest of all burdens. As President, I have signed a letter of condolence to the family of each American who gives their life in these wars. I have read the letters from the parents and spouses of those who deployed. I've visited our courageous wounded warriors at Walter Reed. I've traveled to Dover to meet the flag-draped caskets of 18 Americans returning home to their final resting place. I see firsthand the terrible wages of war. If I did not think that the security of the United States and the safety of the American people were at stake in Afghanistan, I would gladly order every single one of our troops home tomorrow. <p>So no, I do not make this decision lightly. I make this decision because I am convinced that our security is at stake in Afghanistan and Pakistan. This is the epicenter of violent extremism practiced by Al Qaida. It is from here that we were attacked on 9/11, and it is from here that new attacks are being plotted as I speak. This is no idle danger, no hypothetical threat. In the last few months alone, we have apprehended extremists within our borders who were sent here from the border region of Afghanistan and Pakistan to commit new acts of terror. And this danger will only grow if the region slides backwards and Al Qaida can operate with impunity. We must keep the pressure on Al Qaida, and to do that, we must increase the stability and capacity of our partners in the region. <p>Of course, this burden is not ours alone to bear. This is not just America's war. Since 9/11, Al Qaida's safe havens have been the source of attacks against London and Amman and Bali. The people and Governments of both Afghanistan and Pakistan are endangered. And the stakes are even higher within a nuclear-armed Pakistan, because we know that Al Qaida and other extremists seek nuclear weapons, and we have every reason to believe that they would use them. <p>These facts compel us to act, along with our friends and allies. Our overarching goal remains the same: to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat Al Qaida in Afghanistan and Pakistan and to prevent its capacity to threaten America and our allies in the future. <p>To meet that goal, we will pursue the following objectives within Afghanistan. We must deny Al Qaida a safe haven. We must reverse the Taliban's momentum and deny it the ability to overthrow the Government. And we must strengthen the capacity of Afghanistan's security forces and Government so that they can take lead responsibility for Afghanistan's future. <p>We will meet these objectives in three ways. First, we will pursue a military strategy that will break the Taliban's momentum and increase Afghanistan's capacity over the next 18 months. <p>The 30,000 additional troops that I'm announcing tonight will deploy in the first part of 2010&mdash;the fastest possible pace&mdash;so that they can target the insurgency and secure key population centers. They'll increase our ability to train competent Afghan security forces and to partner with them so that more Afghans can get into the fight. And they will help create the conditions for the United States to transfer responsibility to the Afghans. <p>Because this is an international effort, I've asked that our commitment be joined by contributions from our allies. Some have already provided additional troops, and we're confident that there will be further contributions in the days and weeks ahead. Our friends have fought and bled and died alongside us in Afghanistan. And now we must come together to end this war successfully, for what's at stake is not simply a test of NATO's credibility, what's at stake is the security of our allies and the common security of the world. <p>Now, taken together, these additional American and international troops will allow us to accelerate handing over responsibility to Afghan forces and allow us to begin the transfer of our forces out of Afghanistan in July of 2011. Just as we have done in Iraq, we will execute this transition responsibly, taking into account conditions on the ground. We'll continue to advise and assist Afghanistan's security forces to ensure that they can succeed over the long haul. But it will be clear to the Afghan Government and, more importantly, to the Afghan people that they will ultimately be responsible for their own country. <p>Second, we will work with our partners, the United Nations, and the Afghan people to pursue a more effective civilian strategy so that the Government can take advantage of improved security. This effort must be based on performance. The days of providing a blank check are over. President Karzai's inauguration speech sent the right message about moving in a new direction. And going forward, we will be clear about what we expect from those who receive our assistance. We'll support Afghan ministries, Governors, and local leaders that combat corruption and deliver for the people. We expect those who are ineffective or corrupt to be held accountable. And we will also focus our assistance in areas such as agriculture that can make an immediate impact in the lives of the Afghan people. <p>The people of Afghanistan have endured violence for decades. They've been confronted with occupation by the Soviet Union and then by foreign Al Qaida fighters who used Afghan land for their own purposes. So tonight I want the Afghan people to understand: America seeks an end to this era of war and suffering. We have no interest in occupying your country. We will support efforts by the Afghan Government to open the door to those Taliban who abandon violence and respect the human rights of their fellow citizens. And we will seek a partnership with Afghanistan, grounded in mutual respect, to isolate those who destroy, to strengthen those who build, to hasten the day when our troops will leave, and to forge a lasting friendship in which America is your partner and never your patron. <p>Third, we will act with the full recognition that our success in Afghanistan is inextricably linked to our partnership with Pakistan. We're in Afghanistan to prevent a cancer from once again spreading through that country. But this same cancer has also taken root in the border region of Pakistan. And that's why we need a strategy that works on both sides of the border. <p>In the past, there have been those in Pakistan who've argued that the struggle against extremism is not their fight and that Pakistan is better off doing little or seeking accommodation with those who use violence. But in recent years, as innocents have been killed from Karachi to Islamabad, it has become clear that it is the Pakistani people who are the most endangered by extremism. Public opinion has turned. The Pakistani Army has waged an offensive in Swat and South Waziristan. And there is no doubt that the United States and Pakistan share a common enemy. <p>In the past, we too often defined our relationship with Pakistan narrowly, and those days are over. Moving forward, we are committed to a partnership with Pakistan that is built on a foundation of mutual interest, mutual respect, and mutual trust. We will strengthen Pakistan's capacity to target those groups that threaten our countries and have made it clear that we cannot tolerate a safe haven for terrorists whose location is known and whose intentions are clear. America is also providing substantial resources to support Pakistan's democracy and development. We are the largest international supporter for those Pakistanis displaced by the fighting. And going forward, the Pakistan people must know America will remain a strong supporter of Pakistan's security and prosperity long after the guns have fallen silent so that the great potential of its people can be unleashed. <p>These are the three core elements of our strategy: a military effort to create the conditions for a transition, a civilian surge that reinforces positive action, and an effective partnership with Pakistan. <p>I recognize there are a range of concerns about our approach. So let me briefly address a few of the more prominent arguments that I've heard and which I take very seriously. <p>First, there are those who suggest that Afghanistan is another Vietnam. They argue that it cannot be stabilized and we're better off cutting our losses and rapidly withdrawing. I believe this argument depends on a false reading of history. Unlike Vietnam, we are joined by a broad coalition of 43 nations that recognizes the legitimacy of our action. Unlike Vietnam, we are not facing a broad-based popular insurgency. And most importantly, unlike Vietnam, the American people were viciously attacked from Afghanistan and remain a target for those same extremists who are plotting along its border. To abandon this area now and to rely only on efforts against Al Qaida from a distance would significantly hamper our ability to keep the pressure on Al Qaida and create an unacceptable risk of additional attacks on our homeland and our allies. <p>Second, there are those who acknowledge that we can't leave Afghanistan in its current state, but suggest that we go forward with the troops that we already have. But this would simply maintain a status quo in which we muddle through and permit a slow deterioration of conditions there. It would ultimately prove more costly and prolong our stay in Afghanistan, because we would never be able to generate the conditions needed to train Afghan security forces and give them the space to take over. <p>Finally, there are those who oppose identifying a timeframe for our transition to Afghan responsibility. Indeed, some call for a more dramatic and open-ended escalation of our war effort, one that would commit us to a nation-building project of up to a decade. I reject this course because it sets goals that are beyond what can be achieved at a reasonable cost and what we need to achieve to secure our interests. Furthermore, the absence of a timeframe for transition would deny us any sense of urgency in working with the Afghan Government. It must be clear that Afghans will have to take responsibility for their security and that America has no interest in fighting an endless war in Afghanistan. <p>As President, I refuse to set goals that go beyond our responsibility, our means, or our interests. And I must weigh all of the challenges that our Nation faces. I don't have the luxury of committing to just one. Indeed, I'm mindful of the words of President Eisenhower, who, in discussing our national security, said, \\"Each proposal must be weighed in the light of a broader consideration: the need to maintain balance in and among national programs.\\" <p>Over the past several years, we have lost that balance. We've failed to appreciate the connection between our national security and our economy. In the wake of an economic crisis, too many of our neighbors and friends are out of work and struggle to pay the bills. Too many Americans are worried about the future facing our children. Meanwhile, competition within the global economy has grown more fierce. So we can't simply afford to ignore the price of these wars.<p>All told, by the time I took office, the cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan approached a trillion dollars. And going forward, I am committed to addressing these costs openly and honestly. Our new approach in Afghanistan is likely to cost us roughly $30 billion for the military this year, and I'll work closely with Congress to address these costs as we work to bring down our deficit. <p>But as we end the war in Iraq and transition to Afghan responsibility, we must rebuild our strength here at home. Our prosperity provides a foundation for our power. It pays for our military. It underwrites our diplomacy. It taps the potential of our people and allows investment in new industry. And it will allow us to compete in this century as successfully as we did in the last. That's why our troop commitment in Afghanistan cannot be open ended, because the nation that I'm most interested in building is our own. <p>Now, let me be clear: None of this will be easy. The struggle against violent extremism will not be finished quickly, and it extends well beyond Afghanistan and Pakistan. It will be an enduring test of our free society and our leadership in the world. And unlike the great power conflicts and clear lines of division that defined the 20th century, our effort will involve disorderly regions, failed states, diffuse enemies. <p>So as a result, America will have to show our strength in the way that we end wars and prevent conflict, not just how we wage wars. We'll have to be nimble and precise in our use of military power. Where Al Qaida and its allies attempt to establish a foothold, whether in Somalia or Yemen or elsewhere, they must be confronted by growing pressure and strong partnerships. <p>And we can't count on military might alone. We have to invest in our homeland security, because we can't capture or kill every violent extremist abroad. We have to improve and better coordinate our intelligence so that we stay one step ahead of shadowy networks. <p>We will have to take away the tools of mass destruction. And that's why I've made it a central pillar of my foreign policy to secure loose nuclear materials from terrorists, to stop the spread of nuclear weapons, and to pursue the goal of a world without them, because every nation must understand that true security will never come from an endless race for evermore destructive weapons; true security will come for those who reject them. <p>We'll have to use diplomacy, because no one nation can meet the challenges of an interconnected world acting alone. I've spent this year renewing our alliances and forging new partnerships. And we have forged a new beginning between America and the Muslim world, one that recognizes our mutual interest in breaking a cycle of conflict and that promises a future in which those who kill innocents are isolated by those who stand up for peace and prosperity and human dignity. <p>And finally, we must draw on the strength of our values, for the challenges that we face may have changed, but the things that we believe in must not. That's why we must promote our values by living them at home, which is why I have prohibited torture and will close the prison at Guantanamo Bay. And we must make it clear to every man, woman, and child around the world who lives under the dark cloud of tyranny that America will speak out on behalf of their human rights and tend to the light of freedom and justice and opportunity and respect for the dignity of all peoples. That is who we are. That is the source, the moral source, of America's authority.<p>Since the days of Franklin Roosevelt and the service and sacrifice of our grandparents and great-grandparents, our country has borne a special burden in global affairs. We have spilled American blood in many countries on multiple continents. We have spent our revenue to help others rebuild from rubble and develop their own economies. We have joined with others to develop an architecture of institutions&mdash;from the United Nations to NATO to the World Bank&mdash;that provide for the common security and prosperity of human beings. <p>We have not always been thanked for these efforts, and we have at times made mistakes. But more than any other nation, the United States of America has underwritten global security for over six decades, a time that, for all its problems, has seen walls come down and markets open and billions lifted from poverty, unparalleled scientific progress and advancing frontiers of human liberty.<p>For unlike the great powers of old, we have not sought world domination. Our Union was founded in resistance to oppression. We do not seek to occupy other nations. We will not claim another nation's resources or target other peoples because their faith or ethnicity is different from ours. What we have fought for, what we continue to fight for, is a better future for our children and grandchildren. And we believe that their lives will be better if other peoples' children and grandchildren can live in freedom and access opportunity. <p>As a country, we're not as young, and perhaps not as innocent, as we were when Roosevelt was President. Yet we are still heirs to a noble struggle for freedom. And now we must summon all of our might and moral suasion to meet the challenges of a new age. <p>In the end, our security and leadership does not come solely from the strength of our arms. It derives from our people: from the workers and businesses who will rebuild our economy; from the entrepreneurs and researchers who will pioneer new industries; from the teachers that will educate our children and the service of those who work in our communities at home; from the diplomats and Peace Corps volunteers who spread hope abroad; and from the men and women in uniform who are part of an unbroken line of sacrifice that has made government of the people, by the people, and for the people a reality on this Earth. <p>This vast and diverse citizenry will not always agree on every issue, nor should we. But I also know that we, as a country, cannot sustain our leadership, nor navigate the momentous challenges of our time, if we allow ourselves to be split asunder by the same rancor and cynicism and partisanship that has in recent times poisoned our national discourse. <p>It's easy to forget that when this war began, we were united, bound together by the fresh memory of a horrific attack and by the determination to defend our homeland and the values we hold dear. I refuse to accept the notion that we cannot summon that unity again. I believe with every fiber of my being that we, as Americans, can still come together behind a common purpose. For our values are not simply words written into parchment, they are a creed that calls us together and that has carried us through the darkest of storms as one Nation, as one people. <p>America, we are passing through a time of great trial. And the message that we send in the midst of these storms must be clear: That our cause is just, our resolve unwavering. We will go forward with the confidence that right makes might and with the commitment to forge an America that is safer, a world that is more secure, and a future that represents not the deepest of fears but the highest of hopes. <p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much. Thank you.\" "
"353" "\"Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. Please, have a seat. Good afternoon, everybody. I'm glad you all could join us today for this job forum here at the White House. Now, we've got leaders from just about every sector of the economy: government, labor, academia, nonprofits, and businesses of all sizes. And I know that your unions or universities or cities or companies don't run themselves, so I appreciate that you've taken the time to be here today. And I appreciate the unique perspective each of you brings to the great economic challenge before us: the continuing plight of millions of Americans who are still out of work.<p>Sometimes in this town, we talk about these things in clinical and academic ways. But this is not an academic debate. With 1 in 10 Americans out of work and millions more underemployed, not having enough hours to support themselves, this is a struggle that cuts deep, and it touches people across this Nation. Every day, I meet people or I hear from people who talk about sending out resume after resume, and they've been on the job hunt for a year or a year and a half and still can't find anything and are desperate. They haven't just lost the paycheck they need to live; they're losing the sense of dignity and identity that comes from having a job. I hear from businessowners who face the heartbreak of having to lay off longtime employees or shutting their doors altogether, in some cases businesses that they've taken years to build, in some cases businesses that they inherited from their parents or their grandparents. And I see communities devastated by lost jobs and devastated by the fear that those jobs are never coming back.<p>Now, as Joe mentioned, it's true that we've seen a significant turnaround in the economy overall since the beginning of the year. Our economy was in a freefall. Our financial system was on the verge of collapse. We were losing 700,000 jobs per month. And it was clear then that our first order of business was to keep a recession from slipping into a depression, from preventing financial meltdown and getting the economy growing again, because we knew that without economic growth, there would be little to nothing we could do to stem job losses. And we knew that trying to create jobs in an economy based on inflated home prices and maxed-out credit cards and overleveraged banks was akin to building a house on sand.<p>So we implemented plans to stabilize the financial system and revive lending to families and businesses. We passed the Recovery Act, which stopped our freefall and help spur the growth that we've seen. Today, our economy is growing again for the first time in a year and at the fastest pace that we've seen in 2 years, and productivity is surging. Companies are reporting profits. The stock market is up.<p>But despite the progress we've made, many businesses are still skittish about hiring. Some are still digging themselves out of the losses they incurred over the past year. Many have figured out how to squeeze more productivity out of fewer workers, and that cost-cutting has become embedded in their operations and in their culture. That may result in good profits, but it's not translating into hiring. And so that's the question that we have to ask ourselves today: How do we get businesses to start hiring again? How do we get ourselves to the point where more people are working and more people are spending and you start seeing a virtuous cycle and the recovery starts to feed on itself?<p>Now, we knew from the outset of this recession&mdash;particularly a recession of this severity and a recession that is spurred on by financial crisis rather than as a consequence of the business cycle&mdash;that it would take time for job growth to catch up with economic growth. We all understood that. That's always been the case with recessions. But we cannot hang back and hope for the best when we've seen the kinds of job losses that we've seen over the last year. I am not interested in taking a wait-and-see approach when it comes to creating jobs. <p>What I'm interested in is taking action right now to help businesses create jobs&mdash;right now, in the near term. And that's why we made more credit available to small banks that provide loans to small businesses. That's why we provided tax relief to help small businesses stay afloat and proposed raising SBA loan limits to help them expand. That's why we created the Cash for Clunkers program and made sure the Recovery Act included investments that would start saving and creating jobs this year, as Joe mentioned, as many as 1.6 [million]* so far is estimated, according to the most recent analysis. And that's why I've been working continuously with my economic advisers as well as congressional leaders and others on new job creation ideas. And I'll be speaking in greater detail about several ideas that have already surfaced early next week.<p>But I want to be clear: While I believe that government has a critical role in creating the conditions for economic growth, ultimately, true economic recovery is only going to come from the private sector. We don't have enough public dollars to fill the hole of private dollars that was created as a consequence of the crisis. It is only when the private sector starts to reinvest again, only when our businesses start hiring again and people start spending again and families start seeing improvement in their own lives again that we're going to have the kind of economy that we want. That's the measure of a real economic recovery.<p>So that's why we've invited all of you here today. Many of you run businesses yourselves. Each of you is an expert on some aspect of job creation. Collectively, your views span the spectrum. That was deliberate. We've looking for fresh perspectives and new ideas.<p>I want to hear about what unions and universities can do to better support and prepare our workers, not just for the jobs of today, but for the jobs 5 years from now and 10 years from now and 50 years from now. I want to hear about what mayors and community leaders can do to bring new investment to our cities and towns and help recovery dollars get to where they need to go as quickly as possible. I want to hear from CEOs about what's holding back business investment and how we can increase confidence and spur hiring. And if there are things that we're doing here in Washington that are inhibiting you, then we want to know about it.<p>And I want to continue this conversation outside of Washington, which is why I'll be meeting with some of the small-business owners that you saw in the video, in Allentown, Pennsylvania, tomorrow to get their ideas. It's also why we've asked State and local officials and community organizations to hold their own jobs forums over the next week or so and to report back with the ideas and recommendations that result.<p>Now, let me be clear: I am open to every demonstrably good idea, and I want to take every responsible step to accelerate job creation. We also, though, have to face the fact that our resources are limited. When we walked in, there was an enormous fiscal gap between the money that is going out and the money coming in. The recession has made that worse because of fewer tax receipts and more demands made on government for things like unemployment insurance.<p>So we can't make any ill-considered decisions right now, even with the best of intentions. We're going to have to be surgical, and we're going to have to be creative. We're going to have to be smart and strategic. We'll need to look beyond the old standbys and fallbacks and come up with the best ideas that give us the biggest bang for the buck.<p>So I need everybody here to bring their A-game here today. I'm going to be asking some tough questions. I will be listening for some good answers. And I don't want to just brainstorm up at 30,000 feet. I want details in our discussion today. I'm looking for specific recommendations that can be implemented that will spur on job growth as quickly as possible.<p>Now, I want to be clear: We won't overcome our unemployment challenge in just a few hours this afternoon. I assure you there is extraordinary skepticism that any discussions like this can actually produce results. I'm well aware of that. I don't mind skepticism. If I listened to the skeptics, I wouldn't be here. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But I am confident that we'll make progress. I'm confident that people like you, who've built thriving businesses or revolutionized industries or brought cities and communities together and changed the way we look at the world and innovated and created new products, that you can come up with some additional good ideas on how to create jobs. And I'm confident that the spirit of bold, persistent experimentation that FDR talked about and that's gotten this country through some of our darkest hours remains alive and well, not just in this room, but all across the country.<p>We still have the best universities in the world. We've got some of the finest science and technology in the world. We've got the most entrepreneurial spirit in the world, and we've got some of the most productive workers in the world. And if we get serious, then the 21st century is going to be the American century, just like the 20th century was. But we're going to have to approach this with a sense of seriousness and try to set the politics and the chatter aside for a while and actually get to work.<p>So welcome. Thank you for participating. We are going to maximize the productivity of this effort over the next several hours. And I will be returning back with you so that I can get a report on what kinds of ideas seem to make the most sense. Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"354" "\"Thank you. Merry Christmas, happy holidays, Washington, DC. I want to, first of all, thank Secretary Salazar for not only the kind introduction but the extraordinary work he is doing in preserving the incredible bounty and natural resources of this country. <p>I want to thank all those involved in helping to organize this great event. Thank you to Randy Jackson and all the performers putting on an incredible show. I told Sasha just&mdash;we're not on \\"American Idol\\"&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;no singing. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I also want to thank Neil Mulholland, Jon Jarvis, and Peggy O'Dell from the National Park Service for being with us and all the Park Service employees who've worked so hard to put this event together. Give them a big round of applause. And I want to thank my outstanding Vice President and his gorgeous granddaughters&mdash;Joe Biden. Stand up, Joe.<p>In 1923, the Washington, DC, public schools wrote a letter to the White House asking if they could put up a Christmas tree on the South Lawn. And First Lady Grace Coolidge said they could use the Ellipse. [<i>Laughter</i>] And in the eight decades since, in times of war and peace, hardship and joy, Americans from every corner of this Nation have gathered here to share in the holiday spirit.<p>Tonight we celebrate a story that is as beautiful as it is simple. The story of a child born far from home to parents guided only by faith, but who would ultimately spread a message that has endured for more than 2,000 years, that no matter who we are or where we are from, we are each called to love one another as brother and sister.<p>While this story may be a Christian one, its lesson is universal. It speaks to the hope we share as a people, and it represents a tradition that we celebrate as a country, a tradition that has come to represent more than any one holiday or religion, but a season of brotherhood and generosity to our fellow citizens.<p>It's that spirit of unity that we must remember as we light the National Christmas Tree, a tree that will shine its light far beyond our city and our shores to every American around the world. And that's why tonight our thoughts and prayers are with the men and women who will be spending this holiday far away from home, the mothers and fathers, the sons and daughters of our military who risk their lives every day to keep us safe. We will be thinking of you and praying for you during this holiday season.<p>And let's also remember our neighbors who are struggling here at home, those who've lost a job or a home, a friend or a loved one, because even though it's easy to focus on receiving at this time of year, it's often in the simple act of giving that we find the greatest happiness.<p>So on behalf of Michelle and Malia and Sasha and my mother-in-law Mama Robinson, I want to wish all of you a very merry Christmas. May you go out with joy and be led forth in peace.<p>And now to the serious business of pressing the button and lighting this beautiful tree. So, guys, come up here. I need some assistance. I'm technologically challenged, and some&mdash;I might not get this right. So we're going to do a countdown, starting from five. Everybody got to help me out here. Five, four, three, two, one&mdash;ho! It worked!\" "
"355" "\"Every month since January, when I became your President, I've spoken to you about the periodic reports of the Labor Department on the number of jobs created or lost during the previous month; numbers that tell a story about how America's economy is faring overall. <p>In those first months, the numbers were nothing short of devastating. The worst recession since the 1930s had wreaked havoc on the lives of so many of our fellow Americans. Yesterday the numbers released by the Labor Department reflected a continuing positive trend of diminishing job loss.<p>But for those who were laid off last month and the millions of Americans who have lost their jobs in this recession, a good trend isn't good enough. Trends don't buy the groceries. Trends don't pay the rent or a college tuition. Trends don't fulfill the need within each of us to be productive, to provide for our families, to make the most of our lives, to reach for our dreams.<p>So it's true that we, as a country, are in a very different place than we were when 2009 began. Because of the Recovery Act and a number of other steps we've taken, we're no longer facing the potential collapse of our financial system or a second great depression. We're no longer losing jobs at a rate of 700,000 a month, and our economy's growing for the first time in a year.<p>But too many of our neighbors are still out of work because the growth we've seen hasn't yet translated into all the jobs we need. Stung by this brutal recession, businesses that have kept their doors open are still wary about adding workers. Instead of hiring, many are simply asking their employees to work more hours, or they're adding temporary help. <p>History tells us this is usually what happens with recessions: Even as the economy grows, it takes time for jobs to follow. But the folks who've been looking for work without any luck for months and, in some cases, years, can't wait any longer. For them, I'm determined to do everything I can to accelerate our progress so we're actually adding jobs again.<p>That's why this week I invited a group of business owners from all across the country to the White House to talk about additional steps we can take to help jump-start hiring. We brought together unions and universities to talk about what we can do to support our workers today and prepare our students to outcompete workers around the world tomorrow. We brought together mayors and community leaders to talk about how we can open up new opportunities in our cities and towns.<p>On Friday, I spent the day in Allentown, Pennsylvania, and met with workers and small-business owners there. I stopped by a steel company called Allentown Metal Works and spoke at Lehigh Community College. I visited folks at a job placement center and stopped by a shift change at Alpo. The stories and concerns I heard mirrored the countless letters I receive every single day. And they speak louder than any statistic or government report. The folks in Allentown, and in all the Allentowns across our country, are the most dedicated, productive workers in the world; all they're asking for is a chance and a fair shake. And that's exactly what I'm working to give them.<p>In the coming days, I'll be unveiling additional ideas aimed at accelerating job growth and hiring as we emerge from this economic storm. And so that we don't face another crisis like this again, I am determined to meet our responsibility to do what we know will strengthen our economy in the long run. That's why I'm not going to let up in my efforts to reform our health care system, to give our children the best education in the world, to promote the jobs of tomorrow and energy independence by investing in a clean energy economy, and to deal with the mounting Federal debt.<p>From the moment I was sworn into office, we have taken a number of difficult steps to end this economic crisis. We didn't take them because they were popular or gratifying&mdash;they weren't. We took these steps because they were necessary. But I didn't run for President to pass emergency recovery programs or to bail out banks or to shore up auto companies. I didn't run for President simply to manage the crisis of the moment, while kicking our most pressing problems down the road. I ran for President to help hard-working families succeed and to stand up for the embattled middle class. I ran to fight for a country where responsibility is still rewarded and hard-working people can get ahead. I ran to keep faith with the sacred American principle that we will deliver to our children a future of even greater possibility.<p>And my commitment to you, the American people, is that I will focus every single day on how we can get people back to work, and how we can build an economy that continues to make real the promise of America for generations to come.\" "
"356" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. On behalf of Michelle and myself, welcome to the White House.<p><i>Child in audience.</i> Thank you.<p><i>The President.</i> Thank you. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is a season of joy, tradition, and celebration.<p><i>Child in audience.</i> Yay!<p><i>The President.</i> Yes! [<i>Laughter</i>] And today it is our great joy to continue a White House holiday tradition, a celebration of performers who have transformed the arts in America, our extraordinary Kennedy Center Honorees.<p>We are joined by Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Members of Congress, and members of the Kennedy family. I see sprinkled through the crowd some pretty fancy company as well. You've got the Queen of Soul; you've got Martin Scorsese, he knows a little bit about filmmaking; and my spectacular First Lady is here as well.<p>I especially want to thank the man who created these honors more than three decades ago and who has produced them ever since&mdash;and whom I was proud to name as cochair of the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities&mdash;George Stevens, Jr.&mdash;George.<p>And I want to also thank Stephen Schwarzman and the Kennedy Center trustees, as well as President Michael Kaiser and all those who sustain President Kennedy's vision of a \\"great stage\\" celebrating \\"the best coming from this country and abroad.\\"<p>These performers are indeed the best. They are also living reminders of a simple truth&mdash;and I'm going to steal a line from Michelle here&mdash;the arts are not somehow apart from our national life, the arts are at the heart of our national life.<p>In times of war and sacrifice, the arts and these artists remind us to sing and to laugh and to live. In times of plenty, they challenge our conscience and implore us to remember the least among us. In moments of division or doubt, they compel us to see the common values that we share, the ideals to which we aspire, even if we sometimes fall short. In days of hardship, they renew our hope that brighter days are still ahead.<p>So let's never forget that art strengthens America. And that's why we're making sure that America strengthens its arts. It's why we're reenergizing the National Endowment of the Arts. That's why we're helping to sustain jobs in arts communities across the country. It's why we're supporting arts education in our schools, and why Michelle and I have hosted students here at the White House to experience the best of American poetry and music. And it's why we're honored to celebrate these five remarkable performers who for decades have helped to sustain and strengthen the American spirit.<p>You can't understand America without understanding jazz. And you can't understand jazz, without understanding Dave Brubeck. His mother was a classical pianist with high hopes for her son. And by the time he was 4, he was playing himself. But by the time he was a teenager, he was tearing up local honky-tonks. Even his mother had to admit: \\"There is some hope for David after all.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And perhaps it was World War II&mdash;his service in Patton's army&mdash;that changed his sound, forcing him, as he said, to work the war out of his system by playing some \\"pretty vicious piano.\\" Whatever it was, his sound, the distinctive harmonies and improvisations of the Dave Brubeck Quartet, would change jazz forever, prompting Time magazine to put him on the cover as the leader of a new jazz age.<p>Having brought jazz into the mainstream, he then transformed it with innovative new rhythms on albums like \\"Time Out,\\" the first jazz album to ever sell more than a million copies and still one of the best-selling jazz albums of all time.<p>Dave Brubeck has never stopped reaching new audiences: performing for Presidents from Johnson to Reagan, composing orchestral tributes to Martin Luther King and Pope John Paul II, and even in his eighties, dazzling jazz festivals across America.<p>And I know personally how powerful his performances can be. I mentioned this to Dave backstage: In the few weeks that I spent with my father as a child&mdash;he came to visit me for about a month when I was young&mdash;one of the things he did was to take me to my first jazz concert, in Honolulu, Hawaii, in 1971, and it was a Dave Brubeck concert. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I've been a jazz fan ever since. The world that he opened up for a 10-year-old boy was spectacular.<p>And Dave, for the joy that you've given millions of jazz lovers like me, for your six decades of revolutionary rhythms, you are rightly honored, especially today, on your 89th birthday. [<i>Applause</i>]<p>He was born Melvin Kaminsky&mdash;&mdash;<p><i>Mel </i><i>Brooks.</i> He never understood 4/4 time. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> He's still messing it up, Mel. [<i>Laughter</i>] Mel, I'm trying to say something nice about you, now. [<i>Laughter</i>] Please don't upstage me. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>As you can tell, he was born to entertain. [<i>Laughter</i>] Or as Mel Brooks explains it: \\"Look at Jewish history&mdash;unrelieved lamenting would be intolerable. [<i>Laughter</i>] So every 10 Jews, God designed 1 to be crazy and amuse the others.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] According to Mel, \\"By the time I was 5, I knew I was that one.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And by the time he was 9, this boy from Brooklyn had seen his first musical and dreamed of becoming the King of Broadway. But World War II meant service in the Army, or, as he put it, \\"the European Theater of Operations, with lots of operations and very little theater.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Returning home, he found success cranking out quips for Sid Caesar, or as Mel described his reaction to success, \\"panic, hysteria, insomnia . . . and years of psychoanalysis.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>That's right, we're reading back all your golden moments here, Mel. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Unfortunately, many of the punch lines that have defined Mel Brooks's success cannot be repeated here. [<i>Laughter</i>] I was telling him that I went to see \\"Blazing Saddles\\"&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;when I was 10. And he pointed out that, I think, according to the ratings, I should not have been allowed in the theater. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's true. I think I had a fake ID. [<i>Laughter</i>] But the statute of limitations has passed. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Suffice it to say, in his satires and parodies, no cow is sacred, no genre is safe. He mocked the musical&mdash;and Hitler&mdash;in \\"The Producers,\\" the western in \\"Blazing Saddles,\\" and the horror film in \\"Young Frankenstein.\\"<p>But behind all the insanity and absurdity, there's been a method to Mel's madness. He's described his work as \\"unearthing the truth that is all around us.\\" And by illuminating uncomfortable truths about racism and sexism and anti-Semitism, he's been called \\"our jester, asking us to see ourselves as we really are, determined that we laugh ourselves sane.\\"<p>For this, he is one of the few people ever to receive an Emmy and a Grammy and an Oscar and a Tony. Writer, director, actor, producer, composer, for his success, and for his psychoanalysis, we honor Mel Brooks.<p>Reflecting on the challenge of finding one's voice, Grace Bumbry once said: \\"God has already planted that in your throat. It's your job to free it up, to allow that beautiful thing to shine through.\\"<p>True to her name, Grace allowed her voice to shine through and touch all those within its range: around her family's piano in St. Louis; on the talent show where, as a teenager, she moved the host to tears; and then, after being turned away from one music school because of the color of her skin, her triumphant international debut at the Paris Opera when she was just 23 years old.<p>With a pitch and presence like no other, she became a global sensation, moving audiences at the great opera houses of the world. And performing here at the White House, it was said that she moved Jacqueline Kennedy to lean over and gently sing along the words to the President.<p>Defying every expectation, Grace Bumbry then made the transition from mezzo to soprano. And over the decades that followed, she displayed a range like few others, sometimes the middle ranges as a mezzo, sometimes the highs of a soprano, sometimes both in the same performance. Grace not only triumphed in different techniques, she transformed them.<p>And though she gave her final operatic performance in 1997, she appears in recitals to this day. After nearly 50 years, she remains the definition of a diva in the classical sense: a divine voice worthy of the heavens. And tonight, 32 years after she performed at the first Kennedy Center Honors for her mentor Marian Anderson, we honor Grace Bumbry.<p>Growing up in New York City's Little Italy, Bobby De Niro always knew what he wanted to be. Coming home from the movies, he'd act out the parts. At age 10, in his school play, he made a rather unlikely debut in \\"The Wizard of Oz\\" as the Cowardly Lion. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>He has said, \\"My joy as an actor is to live different lives.\\" And in more than 60 films spanning more than 40 years, Robert De Niro has lived some of the most iconic and intense characters ever portrayed on film: a dying baseball player in \\"Bang The Drum Slowly,\\" a young Vito Corleone in \\"The Godfather Part II,\\" a deranged \\"Taxi Driver,\\" a troubled veteran in \\"The Deer Hunter,\\" a brutal boxer in \\"Raging Bull,\\" a vengeful ex-con in \\"Cape Fear.\\" Let's hope that Martin Scorsese was kidding when he said that Robert is \\"full of something that he wanted to express.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Don't worry, we did a vet on him before he came in tonight. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But alongside his Oscar-winning emotional audacity there's his versatility, from a coma patient in \\"Awakenings,\\" to an ever possessive father in \\"Meet the Parents.\\" There's his legendary method, not simply portraying characters, but becoming them emotionally and physically, and there is his love for his city, whether it's directing films like \\"A Bronx Tale\\" or founding the film center and festival that has energized the arts in New York City.<p>It is perhaps the great irony of his life&mdash;one of America's greatest cinematic actors is a man, famously, of few words off the screen, and I can attest to this. [<i>Laughter</i>] So I'll simply say, thank you, Robert De Niro.<p>Finally, we honor the quiet kid from Jersey&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;who grew up to become the rock 'n' roll laureate of a generation. For in the life of our country, only a handful of people have tapped the full power of music to tell the real American story with honesty, from the heart, and one of those people is Bruce Springsteen.<p>He has said: \\"I've always believed that people listen to your music not to find out about you, but to find out about themselves.\\" And for more than three decades, in his songs of dreams and despair, of struggle and hope, hard-working folks have seen themselves.<p>They've seen their great State of New Jersey, and they've seen their America in songs that become anthems: restless kids who were \\"Born to Run,\\" the struggles of workers in \\"My Hometown,\\" the sacrifices of vets who were \\"Born in the U.S.A.,\\" love and loss in \\"Streets of Philadelphia,\\" a resilient nation in \\"The Rising,\\" and, this year, a country \\"Working on a Dream.\\"<p>It's no wonder that his tours are not so much concerts, but communions. There's a place for everybody, the sense that no matter who you are or what you do, everyone deserves their shot at the American Dream, everybody deserves a little bit of dignity; everybody deserves to be heard.<p>I've seen it myself. Bruce was a great fan&mdash;a great friend over the last year, and when I watched him on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial when he rocked the National Mall before my Inauguration, I thought it captured, as well as anything, the spirit of what America should be about. On a day like that, and today, I remember: I'm the President, but he's \\"The Boss.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And Bruce continues to inspire, along with his house-rocking, earth-shaking E Street Band. At 60 years old, he's still filling stadiums, still whipping fans into a frenzy, still surfing the crowd, still jumping off pianos, and still reaching new fans, and still being nominated for Grammys. It's been a long road from that stage at Stone Pony in Asbury Park to this stage today, but this much we know, after more than 30 years and 120 million albums sold, Bruce Springsteen is still one \\"cool rockin' Daddy.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Dave Brubeck, Mel Brooks, Grace Bumbry, Robert De Niro, Bruce Springsteen, their stories are their own. But the part that they play in the larger American story, that's what we honor here tonight. What they say is that with respect for the past, we can keep strong the traditions and values that enrich us all; that with confidence in the present, and in ourselves, we can overcome whatever comes our way; and that with faith in the future, America's greatest \\"Glory Days\\" are still to come.<p>So thank you to all of our honorees. Thank you all very much for the joy and the beauty that you've contributed to our lives. We are very grateful. Thank you.\" "
"357" "\"Thank you. Please, everybody, have a seat. Thank you so much, Strobe, for your extraordinary leadership here at Brookings, and thanks to all of you in attendance. <p>Almost exactly 1 year ago, on a frigid winter's day, I met with my new economic team at the headquarters of my Presidential transition offices in Chicago. And over the course of 4 hours, my advisers presented an analysis of where the economy at that time stood, accompanied by a chilling set of charts and graphs predicting where we might end up. It was an unforgettable series of presentations.<p>Christy Romer&mdash;who's here today&mdash;tapped to head the Council of Economic Advisers, as well as Larry Summers, who I'd chosen to head the National Economic Council, described an imminent downturn comparable in its severity to almost nothing since the 1930s. Tim Geithner, my incoming Treasury Secretary, reported that the financial system, shaken by the subprime crisis, had halted almost all lending, which in turn threatened to pull the broader economy in a downward spiral. Peter Orszag, my incoming Budget Director, closed out the proceedings with an entirely dismal report on the fiscal health of the country, with growing deficits and debt stretching to the horizon. Now, having concluded that it was too late for me to request a recount&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I tasked my team with mapping out a plan to tackle the crisis on all fronts. <p>It wasn't long after that meeting, as we shaped this economic plan, that we began to see some of these forecasts materialize. Over the previous year, it was obvious that folks were facing hard times. As I traveled across the country during the long campaign, I would meet men and women bearing the brunt of not only a deepening recession but also years, even decades, of growing strains on middle class families. But now the country was experiencing something far worse. Our gross domestic product, the sum total of all that our economy produces, fell at the fastest rate in a quarter century. Five trillion dollars of Americans' household wealth evaporated in just 12 weeks as stocks, pensions, and home values plummeted. We were losing an average of 700,000 jobs each month, equivalent to the population of the State of Vermont. That was true in December, January, February, March. The fear among economists across the political spectrum that was&mdash;was that we were rapidly plummeting towards a second great depression.<p>So in the weeks and months that followed, we undertook a series of difficult steps to prevent that outcome. And we were forced to take those steps largely without the help of an opposition party, which, unfortunately, after having presided over the decisionmaking that had led to the crisis, decided to hand it over to others to solve.<p>We acted to get lending flowing again so businesses could get loans to buy equipment and ordinary Americans could get financing to buy homes and cars, to go to college, and to start or run businesses. We enacted measures to stem the tide of foreclosures in our housing market, helping responsible homeowners stay in their homes and helping to stop the broader decline in home values which was eating away at what tends to be a family's largest asset. <p>To achieve this and to prevent economic collapse, we were forced to extend assistance to some of the very banks and financial institutions whose actions had helped precipitate the turmoil. We also took steps to prevent the rapid dissolution of the American auto industry, which faced a crisis partly of its own making, to prevent the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs during an already fragile, shaky time. Now, these were not decisions that were popular or satisfying; these were decisions that were necessary. <p>Now, even as we worked to address the crises in our banking sector, in our housing market, and in our auto industry, we also began attacking our economic crisis on a broader front. Less than 1 month after taking office, we enacted the most sweeping economic recovery package in history: the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. <p>The Recovery Act was divided into three parts. One-third went for tax relief for small businesses and 95 percent of working families. Another third was for emergency relief to help folks who've borne the brunt of this recession. We extended or increased unemployment benefits for more than 17 million Americans; made health insurance 65 percent cheaper for families relying on COBRA. And for State and local governments facing historic budget shortfalls as demand for services went up and revenues went down, we provided assistance that has saved the jobs of hundreds of thousands of teachers and public school workers, firefighters and police officers.<p>The last third of the Recovery Act is for investments to put Americans to work doing the work that America needs done: doubling our capacity in renewable energy like wind and solar, computerizing medical records to save money and lives, providing the largest boost to medical research in history, renovating classrooms and school laboratories, and upgrading roads and railways as part of the largest investment in infrastructure since the creation of the Interstate Highway System half a century ago. <p>And even as the Recovery Act has created jobs and spurred growth, we have not let up in our efforts to take every responsible action to get the economy growing and America working. <p>This fall, I signed into law more than $30 billion in tax cuts for struggling businesses, extended an effective tax credit for homebuyers, and provided additional unemployment insurance for 1 million Americans. And the Treasury is continuing to adapt our financial stability plan, helping to facilitate the flow of small credit to small businesses and families. In addition, we're working to break down barriers and open overseas markets so our companies can better compete globally, creating jobs in America by exporting our products around the world.<p>Now, partly as a result of these and other steps, we are in a very different place today than we were 1 year ago. We may forget, but we're in a very different place. We can safely say that we are no longer facing the potential collapse of our financial system, and we've avoided the depression many feared. Our economy is growing for the first time in a year, and the swing from contraction to expansion since the beginning of the year is the largest in nearly three decades. <p>Finally, we're no longer seeing the severe deterioration in the job market that we once were. In fact, we learned on Friday that the unemployment rate fell slightly last month. Now, this is welcome news, and news made possible in part by the up to 1.6 million jobs that the Recovery Act has already created and saved according to the Congressional Budget Office. <p>But I'm here today because our work is far from done. For even though we've reduced the deluge of job losses to a relative trickle, we are not yet creating jobs at a pace to help all those families who've been swept up in the flood. There are more than 7 million fewer Americans with jobs today than when this recession began. That's a staggering figure, and one that reflects not only the depths of the hole from which we must ascend but also a continuing human tragedy. <p>It was mentioned that I was in Allentown, Pennsylvania, this past weekend and went to a job center where people were engaged in job search. And it ran the spectrum: Blacks, Whites, Hispanics, young people who were just starting their careers, individuals 50, 60 years old, looking for a job. And they were putting a brave face on it, confident that eventually things would work out, but you could also see the sense of anxiety, the fear that perhaps this time it was different. And sometimes it's hard to break out of the bubble here in Washington and remind ourselves that behind these statistics are people's lives, their capacity to do right by their families. It speaks to an urgent need to accelerate job growth in the short term while laying a new foundation for lasting economic growth. <p>So my economic team has been considering a full range of additional ideas to help accelerate the pace of private sector hiring. We held a jobs forum at the White House that brought together small-business owners, CEOs, union members, economists, folks from nonprofits, and State and local officials to talk about job creation. And I've asked people to lead forums in their own communities, sending the results to me, so we are hearing as many voices as possible as we refine our proposals. And we've already heard a number of good ideas, and I know we'll learn of many more.<p>So today I want to outline some of the broader steps that I believe should be at the heart of our effort to accelerate job growth, those areas that will generate the greatest number of jobs while generating the greatest value for our economy. <p>Now, first, we're proposing a series of steps to help small businesses grow and hire new staff. Over the past 15 years, small businesses have created roughly 65 percent of all new jobs in America. These are companies formed around kitchen tables in family meetings, formed when an entrepreneur takes a chance on a dream, formed when a worker decides it's time she became her own boss. These are also companies that drive innovation, producing 13 times more patents per employee than large companies. And it's worth remembering, every once in a while a small business becomes a big business and changes the world. <p>And that's why it's so important that we help small business struggling to stay open, or struggling to open in the first place during these difficult times. Building on the tax cuts in the Recovery Act, we're proposing a complete elimination of capital gains taxes on small-business investment along with an extension of writeoffs to encourage small businesses to expand in the coming year. And I believe it's worthwhile to create a tax incentive to encourage small businesses to add and keep employees, and I'm going to work with Congress to pass one. <p>Now, these steps will help, but we also have to address the continuing struggle of small businesses to get loans that they need to start up and grow. To that end, we're proposing to waive fees and increase the guarantees for SBA-backed loans. And I'm asking my Treasury Secretary to continue mobilizing the remaining TARP funds to facilitate lending to small businesses.<p>Second, we're proposing a boost in investment in the Nation's infrastructure beyond what was included in the Recovery Act to continue modernizing our transportation and communications networks. These are needed public works that engage private sector companies, spurring hiring all across the country. <p>Already, more than 10,000 of these projects have been funded through the Recovery Act. And by design, Recovery Act work on roads, bridges, water systems, Superfund sites, broadband networks, and clean energy projects will all be ramping up in the months ahead. It was planned this way for two reasons: so the impact would be felt over a 2-year period and, more importantly, because we wanted to do this right. <p>The potential for abuse in a program of this magnitude, while operating at such a fast pace, was enormous. So I asked Vice President Biden and others to make sure to the extent humanly possible that the investments were sound, the projects worthy, and the execution efficient. What this means is that we're going to see even more work&mdash;and workers&mdash;on recovery projects in the next 6 months than we saw in the last 6 months.<p>Even so, there are many more worthy projects than there were dollars to fund them. I recognize that by their nature, these projects often take time and will therefore create jobs over time. But the need for jobs will also last beyond next year, and the benefits of these investments will last years beyond that. So adding to this initiative to rebuild America's infrastructure is the right thing to do. <p>Third, I'm calling on Congress to consider a new program to provide incentives for consumers who retrofit their homes to become more energy efficient, which we know creates jobs, saves money for families, and reduces the pollution that threatens our environment. And I'm proposing that we expand select Recovery Act initiatives to promote energy efficiency and clean energy jobs, which have been proven to be particularly popular and effective. <p>It's a positive sign that many of these programs drew so many applicants for funding that a lot of strong proposals, proposals that will leverage private capital and create jobs quickly, did not make the cut. With additional resources, in areas like advanced manufacturing of wind turbines and solar panels, for instance, we can help turn good ideas into good private sector jobs.<p>Finally, as we are moving forward in these areas, we should also extend the relief in the Recovery Act, including emergency assistance to seniors, unemployment insurance benefits, COBRA, and relief to States and localities to prevent layoffs. This will help folks weathering these storms, while boosting consumer spending and promoting job growth.<p>Of course, there's only so much government can do. Job creation will ultimately depend on the real job creators: businesses across America. We were encouraged today to hear from the Business Roundtable that their survey showed greater confidence and greater potential investment coming out of the business community. <p>Government can help lay the groundwork on which the private sector can better generate jobs, growth, and innovation. After all, small-business tax relief is not a substitute for ingenuity and industriousness by our entrepreneurs, but it can help those with good ideas to grow and expand. Incentives to promote energy efficiency and clean energy manufacturing don't automatically create jobs or lower carbon emissions, but these steps provide a framework in which companies can compete and innovate to create those jobs and reduce energy consumption. And while modernizing the physical and virtual networks that connect us will create private sector jobs, they'll do so while making it possible for companies to more easily and effectively move their products across this country, around the world, and that will create more jobs. <p>And given the challenges of accelerating the pace of hiring in the private sector, these targeted initiatives are right, and they are needed. But with a fiscal crisis to match our economic crisis, we also must be prudent about how we fund it. So to help support these efforts, we are going to wind down the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, the fund created to stabilize the financial system so banks would lend again. <p>I don't think I have to tell you there has rarely been a less loved or more necessary emergency program than TARP, which, as galling as the assistance to banks may have been, indisputably helped prevent a collapse of the entire financial system. Launched hastily&mdash;understandably, but hastily&mdash;under the last administration, the TARP program was flawed, and we have worked hard to correct those flaws and manage it properly. And today, TARP has served its original purpose and at much lower cost than we expected. <p>In fact, because of our stewardship of this program and the transparency and accountability we put in place, TARP is expected to cost the taxpayers at least $200 billion less than what was anticipated just this past summer. And the assistance to banks, once thought to cost taxpayers untold billions, is on track to actually reap billions in profits for the taxpaying public. So this gives us a chance to pay down the deficit faster than we thought possible and to shift funds that would have gone to help the banks on Wall Street to help create jobs on Main Street.<p>Small business, infrastructure, clean energy, these are areas in which we can put Americans to work, while putting our Nation on a sturdier economic footing. And that foundation for sustained economic growth, that must be our continued focus and our ultimate goal. <p>I've said this before. Even before this particular crisis, much of our growth for a decade or more had been fueled by unsustainable consumer debt and reckless financial speculation, while we ignored the fundamental challenges that hold the key to our economic prosperity. We cannot simply go back to the way things used to be. We can't go back to an economy that yielded cycle after cycle of speculative booms and painful busts. We can't continue to accept an education system in which our students trail their peers in other countries, and a health care system in which exploding costs put our businesses at a competitive disadvantage. And we cannot continue to ignore the clean energy challenge or cede global leadership in the emerging industries of the 21st century. And that's why, even as we strive to meet the crisis of the moment, we have insisted on laying a new foundation for the future.<p>Because an educated workforce is essential to a 21st-century global economy, we've launched a competitive Race to the Top fund through the Recovery Act to reform our schools and raise achievement, especially in math and science. And we've made college more affordable, proposed a historic set of reforms and investments in community college, and set a goal of once again leading the world in producing college graduates by the year 2020. <p>Because even the best trained worker in the world can't compete if our businesses are saddled with rapidly increasing health care costs. We are fighting to do what we have discussed in this country for generations: finally reforming our Nation's broken health insurance system and relieving this unsustainable burden. <p>Because our economic future depends on a financial system that encourages sound investments, honest dealings, and long-term growth, we've proposed the most ambitious financial reforms since the Great Depression. We'll set and enforce clear rules of the road, close loopholes in oversight, charge a new agency with protecting consumers, and address the dangerous, systemic risks that brought us to the brink of disaster. These reforms are moving through Congress, we're working to keep these reforms strong, and I'm looking forward to signing them into law. <p>And because our economic future depends on our leadership in the industries of the future, we are investing in basic applied research and working to create the incentives to build a new clean energy economy. For we know the nation that leads in clean energy will be the nation that leads the world. I want America to be that nation. I want America's prosperity to be powered by what we invent and pioneer, not just what we borrow and what we consume. And I know that we can and will be that nation if we are willing to do what it takes to get there. <p>Now, there are those who claim we have to choose between paying down our deficits on the one hand and investing in job creation and economic growth on the other. This is a false choice. Ensuring that economic growth and job creation are strong and sustained is critical to ensuring that we are increasing revenues and decreasing spending on things like unemployment insurance so that our deficits will start coming down. At the same time, instilling confidence in our commitment to being fiscally prudent gives the private sector the confidence to make long-term investments in our people and in America.<p>So one of the central goals of this administration is restoring fiscal responsibility. Even as we have had to spend our way out of this recession in the near term, we've begun to make the hard choices necessary to get our country on a more stable fiscal footing in the long run. So let me just be clear here: Despite what some have claimed, the cost of the Recovery Act is only a very small part of our current budget imbalance. In reality, the deficit had been building dramatically over the previous 8 years. We have a structural gap between the money going out and the money coming in. <p>Folks passed tax cuts and expansive entitlement programs without paying for any of it, even as health care costs kept rising, year after year. As a result, the deficit had reached $1.3 trillion when we walked into the White House. And I'd note, these budget-busting tax cuts and spending programs were approved by many of the same people who are now waxing political about fiscal responsibility, while opposing our efforts to reduce deficits by getting health care costs under control. It's a sight to see. <p>The fact is, we have refused to go along with business as usual; we are taking responsibility for every dollar we spend. We've done what some said was impossible: preventing wasteful spending on outdated weapons systems that even the Pentagon said it didn't want. We've combed the budget, cutting waste and excess wherever we could. I'm still committed to halving the deficit we inherited by the end of my first term&mdash;cutting it in half. And I made clear from day one that I would not sign a health insurance reform bill if it raised the deficit by one dime, and neither the House, nor the Senate bill does. We've begun not only changing policies in Washington, we've also begun to change the culture in Washington.<p>In the end, the economic crisis of the past year was not just the result of weaknesses in our economy. It was also the result of weaknesses in our political system, because for decades, too many in Washington put off the hard decisions. For decades, we've watched as efforts to solve tough problems have fallen prey to the bitterness of partisanship, to prosaic concerns of politics, to ever-quickening news cycles, to endless campaigns focused on scoring points instead of meeting our common challenges.<p>We've seen the consequences of this failure of responsibility. The American people have paid a heavy price. And the question we'll have to answer now is if we're going to learn from our past, or if, even in the aftermath of disaster, we're going to repeat those same mistakes. As the alarm bells fade, the din of Washington rises, as the forces of the status quo marshal their resources, we can be sure that answering this question will be a fight to the finish. But I have every hope and expectation that we can rise to this moment, that we can transcend the failures of the past, that we can once again take responsibility for our future. <p>Now, every night I read letters and e-mails sent to me from people across America, ordinary folks, people who share their hopes and their hardships, their faith in this country, their frustration with what's happened in this economy. I hear from small-business owners worried about making payroll and keeping their doors open. I hear from mothers and fathers, sons and daughters, who've seen one or two or more family members out of work. The toughest letters are in children's handwriting. Kids write to me: \\"My dad just lost a job.\\" \\"My grandma's sick. She can't afford health insurance.\\" Kids who can't just be kids because they're worried about moms having their hours cut, or dad losing a job, or a family without health insurance. <p>Now, these folks aren't looking for a handout, they're not looking for a bailout&mdash;just like those people I visited in Allentown&mdash;all they're looking for is a chance to make their own way, to work, to succeed using their talents and skills. And they're looking for folks in Washington to have a seriousness of purpose that matches the reality of their struggle.<p>Everywhere I've gone, every stop I've made, there are people like this, men and women who have faced misfortune, but who stand ready to build a better future: students ready to learn, workers eager to work, scientists on the brink of discovery, entrepreneurs seeking the chance to open a small business. Everywhere I go, there are once-shuttered factories just waiting to whir back to life in burgeoning industries. There is a nation ready to meet the challenges of this new age and to lead the world in this new century. And as we look back on the progress of the past year and look forward to the work ahead, I have every confidence that we will do exactly that. <p>These have been a tough 2 years. And there will no doubt be difficult months ahead. But the storms of the past are receding. The skies are brightening. And the horizon is beckoning once more.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"358" "\"<i>The President</i>. Thank you, guys. Please, have a seat. Good afternoon, everybody. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Good afternoon.<p><i>The President</i>. I am pleased that you could all join us today as we announce three new initiatives to help our community health centers provide better care to people in need all across America. <p>I want to thank our Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius, our Surgeon General, Dr. Regina Benjamin, our Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration, Dr. Mary Wakefield, and our Deputy Secretary of HHS, Bill Corr, for being here today and for their outstanding work to support community health centers. There they are. By the way, Regina, it's good to see you in your uniform. [<i>Laughter</i>] We had been waiting for that.<p>I also want to thank the many Members of Congress who are with us today both in the audience and up on the stage, particularly Bernie Sanders and Representative Jim Clyburn. We are grateful for all that you've done. <p>And I especially want to recognize the leaders here today from health centers across the country for what all of you are doing in your communities every day, working long hours to provide quality care at prices that people can afford, with the dignity and respect they deserve, and in a way that takes into account the challenges that they face in their lives.<p>For you folks, health care isn't just about diagnosing patients and treating illness, it's about caring for people and promoting wellness. It's about emphasizing education and prevention and helping people lead healthier lives so they don't get sick in the first place. <p>And it works. Studies show that people living near a health center are less likely to go to the emergency room and less likely to have unmet critical medical needs. CHCs are proven to reduce ethnic and racial disparities in care. And the medical expenses of regular CHC patients are nearly 25 percent lower than those folks who get their care elsewhere&mdash;25 percent lower. <p>So you can see why, in a speech marking the first anniversary of the first community health centers in America, Senator Ted Kennedy declared: \\"You have not only assured the best in health care for your families and neighbors, but you've also begun a minor revolution in American medicine.\\"<p>Now, unfortunately, today, nearly 45 years later, that care has yet to reach many of the folks in this country who need it most. Today, millions of Americans still have difficulty accessing primary health care, and many of them are uninsured. Many have insurance, but live in underserved areas, whether in urban or rural communities. So they don't get regular checkups, they don't get regular&mdash;routine screenings. When they get sick or hurt, they tough it out and hope for the best, and when things get bad enough, they head to the emergency room. <p>So we end up treating complications, crises, and chronic conditions that could have been prevented in the first place. And the cost is measured not just in dollars spent on health care, or in lost workplace absences and lower productivity, but in the kind of raw human suffering that has no place in the United States of America in the year 2009.<p>No matter what party we belong to or where on the political spectrum we fall, none of us thinks this is acceptable. None of us would defend this system. And that's why we've taken up the cause of health insurance reform this year. It's why many of the folks in this room fought so hard to ensure that the Recovery Act included unprecedented investments, a total of $2 billion, to upgrade and expand our health centers, investments that embody the act's core mission: to help folks hardest hit by this recession, to put people back to work, and to leave a legacy of improvements that will continue to lift up communities for generations to come. <p>Today, we're well on our way to meeting these goals. We've created or saved up to 1.6 million jobs, according to the CBO, the Congressional Budget Office, through the Recovery Act. Our economy is growing again. We're doubling our capacity in renewable energy and rebuilding schools and laboratories, railways, and highways. Yesterday the Kaiser Family Foundation issued a new report showing the Recovery Act has helped many States keep and improve access to health insurance for families in need.<p>And so far, we've allocated nearly $1.4 billion to health centers across America so they can get to work building and renovating and hiring new staff this year. And today I'm pleased to announce that we're awarding more than $500 million to 85 centers in more than 30 States and Puerto Rico that are providing critical care for so many folks with nowhere else to turn.<p>We're investing in places like Canyonlands Community Health Care in Arizona, that has one facility operating in a building originally constructed as a chicken coop and another in a cramped fire station. We're investing in places like Avis Goodwin Community Health Center in Dover, New Hampshire&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;that's become so overcrowded&mdash;you must be from there. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's become so overcrowded the doctors are using bathrooms and closets as offices. We're investing in Bucksport Regional Health Center in Maine, where doctors are double-booked and the waiting rooms are often standing room only. We're giving places like these the funding they need to upgrade and expand their facilities so they can meet the sky-rocketing demand for services that's come with this economic downturn. <p>But we won't just want our health centers to provide more care for more patients; we want them to provide better care as well. So starting today, we're making $88 million in funding available for centers to adopt new health information technology systems to manage their administrative and financial matters and transfer old paper files to electronic medical records. These investments won't just increase efficiency and lower costs, they'll improve the quality of care as well, preventing countless medical errors and allowing providers to spend less time with paperwork and more time with patients. <p>That's the purpose of the final initiative I'm announcing today as well, a demonstration project to evaluate the benefits of the medical home model of care that many of our health centers aspire to. The idea here is very simple, that in order for care to be effective, it needs to be coordinated. It's a model where the center that serves as your medical home might help you keep track of your prescriptions, or get the referrals you need, or work with you to develop a plan of care that ensures your providers are working together to keep you healthy. <p>So taken together, these three initiatives&mdash;funding for construction, technology, and a medical home demonstration&mdash;they won't just save money over the long term and create more jobs, they're also going to give more people the peace of mind of knowing that health care will be there for them and their families when they need it. And ultimately, that's what health insurance reform is really about. That's what the Members of Congress here today will be voting on in the coming weeks. <p>Now, let me just end by saying a little bit about this broader effort. I know it's been a long road. [<i>Laughter</i>] I know it's been a tough fight. But I also know the reason we've taken up this cause is the very same reason why so many members from both parties are here today, because no matter what our politics are, we know that when it comes to health care, the people we serve deserve better.<p>The legislation in Congress today contains both Democratic ideas and Republican ideas and plenty of compromises in between. The Senate made critical progress last night with a creative new framework that I believe will help pave the way for final passage and a historic achievement on behalf of the American people. I support this effort, especially since it's aimed at increasing choice and competition and lowering cost. So I want to thank all of you for sticking with it, for all those late nights, all the long weekends that you guys have put in. With so much at stake, this is well worth all of our efforts.<p>It is now my pleasure to sign the memo that will direct Secretary Sebelius to get started on that medical home demonstration. So let's do that.\" "
"359" "\"Hello, everybody. Sorry I'm a little late. I have just concluded an informative and constructive discussion with Republican and Democratic leaders about job creation and our economic future. We spoke about the challenges facing our families, our businesses, and our country as a whole, and what we can do to overcome them. Today's meeting built on some of the ideas that I offered in the economic speech that I gave yesterday and on some of the ideas discussed at the job forum that we held at the White House last week.<p>Now, looking at the situation we face today, what's clear is, is that our economy is in a very different place than it was when I took office last year. Our economy at that time was on the brink of collapse. The credit and the housing markets were in deep trouble, and we were losing 700,000 jobs a month. And economists of every stripe were concerned that we might be slipping into a second depression.<p>That's not what happened. Because of the Recovery Act and a number of other measures, and because of distasteful but necessary steps to help our auto industry recover and stabilize our banks, we've pulled our economy back from the abyss. And while there's a lot of work left to do, our economy is now growing for the first time in over a year, and we just received the best jobs report in over 2 years. <p>Of course, it's a sign of how tough times are that the best job report in 2 years still shows a loss of 11,000 jobs. And I'm not going to rest until every American who's looking for work can find a job, until we put America back to work. <p>And it's no secret that there's been less than full bipartisan support for the Recovery Act and some of the steps that have broken the freefall of our economy. But my hope is that as we move forward, we can do so together, recognizing that we have a shared responsibility to meet our economic challenges on behalf of all Americans, those who elected us to make sure that we're doing the people's business.<p>Small businesses, for example, are the engines that drive much of the hiring in our economy. So we should be able to forge a consensus around a series of steps to help small businesses grow and hire new employees. These steps include elimination of the capital gains taxes on small-business investment along with an extension of writeoffs to encourage expansion in the coming year. And I've urged congressional leaders to create a tax incentive to create&mdash;to encourage small businesses to add and keep workers. <p>I've proposed making an additional investment in the Nation's infrastructure, beyond what was included in the Recovery Act, to continue modernizing our transportation and communications networks. We've already begun to do so. In the first 6 months of 2010, Recovery Act outlays on projects related to infrastructure will actually double what was done over the previous 6 months. This is not only going to put more Americans back to work, but this is also work that America needs done and will help fortify our economy for years to come.<p>I've called on Congress to provide temporary incentives for consumers to buy the materials needed to retrofit their homes for greater energy efficiency. This program will spur hiring and spending, promote energy conservation, and help Americans put more money in their pockets by saving on their energy bills. I've also proposed that we extend proven initiatives that promote energy efficiency and clean energy jobs. And to help Americans weather this economic storm, I've called for an extension of emergency relief to States, seniors, and citizens who need it most.<p>Finally, to support these efforts, we're going to wind down the Troubled Asset Relief Program, what's known as TARP, the emergency fund created to stabilize the banking system. This program has served its original purpose, and the cost has been much lower than we expected, giving us a chance to pay down the deficit faster than we thought at the time and also allowing us to invest in job creation on Main Street rather than on Wall Street. Now, more will need to be done to put our Nation on a firm fiscal footing, and I'm looking forward to working with the group of leaders that I just met today about how we can structure a plausible scenario to get to medium- and long-term deficit reduction. <p>Now, it's appropriate that I met with leaders of both parties. Spurring hiring and economic growth are not Democratic or Republican issues; they are American issues that affect every single one of our constituents. Now, I am absolutely committed to working with anybody who is willing to do the job to make sure that we can rebuild our economy and make sure that Americans all across the country, regardless of political persuasion, are seeing the kinds of opportunities that we expect here in the United States of America. <p>I'm confident we can do so. I'm confident we can put our economic troubles behind us. But it's going to require some work and cooperation and a seriousness of purpose here in Washington. And I hope that as we enter into the holiday season, the leaders that I just met with will feel the same way.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"360" "\"Thank you very much. Your Majesties, Your Excellencies, Your Royal Highnesses, to all my friends, my family, this is obviously an extraordinary evening. And I must say, I was telling the committee members that having entirely exhausted myself with the speech this afternoon&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I have&mdash;I spoke for a very long time&mdash;I have only a very few words to say.<p>First of all, I would like to thank the committee once again for the extraordinary confidence that they've placed in me and this great honor that I have received tonight. As I indicated before, no one was more surprised than me. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I have to say that when the Chairman spoke introducing me, I told him afterwards that I thought it was an excellent speech and that I was almost convinced that I deserved it. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I also wanted to pick up on a theme in both our speeches, and that is, the extraordinary power that this prize has in lifting up those who otherwise would be forgotten, in magnifying the cause of justice when it's confronting great resistance. In 1964, when Dr. King received this prize, the course of the civil rights movement was still uncertain. How that would play itself out was not yet entirely known. And for a Baptist preacher from the South to be lifted up on the international stage, to highlight the fact that this was not simply a parochial struggle but was rather a struggle for the ages, a struggle for the hearts and minds not just of the American people but of the world, and how we thought about each other and how we thought about minorities in countries everywhere, what extraordinary power that had. And as a consequence, I think it's fair to say that it helped to put the wind behind the sails of a movement that is largely responsible for both Michelle and my presence here tonight.<p>You know, it's obviously one of life's great ironies that Alfred Nobel, the man responsible for inventing dynamite&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;helped to establish this extraordinary moral force in the world. He bequeathed his largest share of fortune to the Nobel Prizes, and the roster of Nobel Laureates has grown to include not only the finest minds in science and literature and economics, but I think what captivates people most is the giants of peace that it has acknowledged.<p>When Alfred Nobel signed his last will and testament on November 27, 1895, it's not entirely clear that he could have foreseen the impact that his prizes would have. But he did know this truth: That our destinies are what we make of them, and that each of us in our own lives can do our part in order to make a more just and lasting peace and forge the kind of world that we want to bequeath to our children and our grandchildren. That has been the mission of the committee. It has carried out over these 108 years this charge with extraordinary diligence, creativity, and as I indicated today at lunch, great moral imagination. And so for that, I am grateful not only to the current committee but past committee members who I know are here. The world thanks you for the work that you do. And as a consequence, what I'd like to do is to propose a toast&mdash;once I get some wine. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I'd like to propose&mdash;actually, if you will bear with me, in Washington, in the Senate or the House, this is called a point of personal privilege. I don't want to make her cry, but I do want to say my sister is here tonight. And it was in&mdash;one of the earlier toasts discussed a passage in my book that talks about my mother and the values that she instilled in me, and I do think that it's worth noting that to the extent I am deserving of this esteemed prize, either now or in the future, it will be largely because of her and the largeness of her heart.<p>So to Alfred Nobel, <i>skal</i>. Cheers. Thank you. Thank you very much.\" "
"361" "\"Your Majesties, Your Royal Highnesses, distinguished members of the Norwegian Nobel Committee, citizens of America, and citizens of the world: I receive this honor with deep gratitude and great humility. It's an award that speaks to our highest aspirations, that for all the cruelty and hardship of our world, we are not mere prisoners of fate; our actions matter and can bend history in the direction of justice.<p>And yet I would be remiss if I did not acknowledge the considerable controversy that your generous decision has generated. [<i>Laughter</i>] In part, this is because I am at the beginning and not the end of my labors on the world stage. Compared to some of the giants of history who've received this prize&mdash;Schweitzer and King, Marshall and Mandela&mdash;my accomplishments are slight. And then there are the men and women around the world who have been jailed and beaten in the pursuit of justice, those who toil in humanitarian organizations to relieve suffering, the unrecognized millions whose quiet acts of courage and compassion inspire even the most hardened cynics. I cannot argue with those who find these men and women, some known, some obscure to all but those they help, to be far more deserving of this honor than I.<p>But perhaps the most profound issue surrounding my receipt of this prize is the fact that I am the Commander in Chief of the military of a nation in the midst of two wars. One of these wars is winding down. The other is a conflict that America did not seek, one in which we are joined by 42 other countries, including Norway, in an effort to defend ourselves and all nations from further attacks.<p>Still, we are at war, and I'm responsible for the deployment of thousands of young Americans to battle in a distant land, and some will kill, and some will be killed. And so I come here with an acute sense of the costs of armed conflict, filled with difficult questions about the relationship between war and peace and our effort to replace one with the other.<p>Now, these questions are not new. War, in one form or another, appeared with the first man. At the dawn of history, its morality was not questioned; it was simply a fact, like drought or disease, the manner in which tribes and then civilizations sought power and settled their differences.<p>And over time, as codes of law sought to control violence within groups, so did philosophers and clerics and statesmen seek to regulate the destructive power of war. The concept of a just war emerged, suggesting that war is justified only when certain conditions were met: if it is waged as a last resort or in self-defense; if the force used is proportional; and if, whenever possible, civilians are spared from violence.<p>Of course, we know that for most of history, this concept of just war was rarely observed. The capacity of human beings to think of new ways to kill one another proved inexhaustible, as did our capacity to exempt from mercy those who look different or pray to a different God. Wars between armies gave way to wars between nations, total wars, in which the distinction between combatant and civilian became blurred. In the span of 30 years, such carnage would twice engulf this continent. And while it's hard to conceive of a cause more just than the defeat of the Third Reich and the Axis powers, World War II was a conflict in which the total number of civilians who died exceeded the number of soldiers who perished.<p>In the wake of such destruction and with the advent of the nuclear age, it became clear to victor and vanquished alike that the world needed institutions to prevent another world war. And so a quarter century after the United States Senate rejected the League of Nations&mdash;an idea for which Woodrow Wilson received this prize&mdash;America led the world in constructing an architecture to keep the peace: a Marshall plan and a United Nations, mechanisms to govern the waging of war, treaties to protect human rights, prevent genocide, restrict the most dangerous weapons.<p>In many ways, these efforts succeeded. Yes, terrible wars have been fought and atrocities committed. But there has been no third world war. The cold war ended with jubilant crowds dismantling a wall. Commerce has stitched much of the world together. Billions have been lifted from poverty. The ideals of liberty and self-determination, equality and the rule of law have haltingly advanced. We are the heirs of the fortitude and foresight of generations past, and it is a legacy for which my own country is rightfully proud.<p>And yet, a decade into a new century, this old architecture is buckling under the weight of new threats. The world may no longer shudder at the prospect of war between two nuclear superpowers, but proliferation may increase the risk of catastrophe. Terrorism has long been a tactic, but modern technology allows a few small men with outsized rage to murder innocents on a horrific scale.<p>Moreover, wars between nations have increasingly given way to wars within nations. The resurgence of ethnic or sectarian conflicts, the growth of secessionist movements, insurgencies, and failed states, all these things have increasingly trapped civilians in unending chaos. In today's wars, many more civilians are killed than soldiers, the seeds of future conflict are sown, economies are wrecked, civil societies torn asunder, refugees amassed, children scarred.<p>I do not bring with me today a definitive solution to the problems of war. What I do know is that meeting these challenges will require the same vision, hard work, and persistence of those men and women who acted so boldly decades ago. And it will require us to think in new ways about the notions of just war and the imperatives of a just peace.<p>We must begin by acknowledging a hard truth: We will not eradicate violent conflict in our lifetimes. There will be times when nations, acting individually or in concert, will find the use of force not only necessary but morally justified.<p>I make this statement mindful of what Martin Luther King, Jr., said in this same ceremony years ago: \\"Violence never brings permanent peace. It solves no social problem: it merely creates new and more complicated ones.\\" As someone who stands here as a direct consequence of Dr. King's life work, I am living testimony to the moral force of nonviolence. I know there's nothing weak, nothing passive, nothing naive in the creed and lives of Gandhi and King.<p>But as a head of state sworn to protect and defend my nation, I cannot be guided by their examples alone. I face the world as it is and cannot stand idle in the face of threats to the American people. For make no mistake: Evil does exist in the world. A nonviolent movement could not have halted Hitler's armies. Negotiations cannot convince Al Qaida's leaders to lay down their arms. To say that force may sometimes be necessary is not a call to cynicism; it is a recognition of history, the imperfections of man, and the limits of reason.<p>I raise this point&mdash;I begin with this point because in many countries, there is a deep ambivalence about military action today, no matter what the cause. And at times, this is joined by a reflexive suspicion of America, the world's sole military superpower.<p>Yet the world must remember that it was not simply international institutions, not just treaties and declarations that brought stability to a post-World War II world. Whatever mistakes we have made, the plain fact is this: The United States of America has helped underwrite global security for more than six decades with the blood of our citizens and the strength of our arms. The service and sacrifice of our men and women in uniform has promoted peace and prosperity from Germany to Korea and enabled democracy to take hold in places like the Balkans. We have borne this burden not because we seek to impose our will. We have done so out of enlightened self-interest, because we seek a better future for our children and grandchildren, and we believe that their lives will be better if others' children and grandchildren can live in freedom and prosperity.<p>So yes, the instruments of war do have a role to play in preserving the peace. And yet this truth must coexist with another: That no matter how justified, war promises human tragedy. The soldier's courage and sacrifice is full of glory, expressing devotion to country, to cause, to comrades in arms. But war itself is never glorious, and we must never trumpet it as such.<p>So part of our challenge is reconciling these two seemingly irreconcilable truths: That war is sometimes necessary, and war at some level is an expression of human folly. Concretely, we must direct our effort to the task that President Kennedy called for long ago. \\"Let us focus,\\" he said, \\"on a more practical, more attainable peace, based not on a sudden revolution in human nature but on a gradual evolution in human institutions\\"&mdash;a gradual evolution of human institutions. What might this evolution look like? What might these practical steps be?<p>To begin with, I believe that all nations, strong and weak alike, must adhere to standards that govern the use of force. I, like any head of state, reserve the right to act unilaterally if necessary to defend my nation. Nevertheless, I am convinced that adhering to standards&mdash;international standards strengthens those who do and isolates and weakens those who don't.<p>The world rallied around America after the 9/11 attacks and continues to support our efforts in Afghanistan because of the horror of those senseless attacks and the recognized principle of self-defense. Likewise, the world recognized the need to confront Saddam Hussein when he invaded Kuwait, a consensus that sent a clear message to all about the cost of aggression.<p>Furthermore, America&mdash;in fact, no nation&mdash;can insist that others follow the rules of the road if we refuse to follow them ourselves. For when we don't, our actions appear arbitrary and undercut the legitimacy of future interventions, no matter how justified.<p>And this becomes particularly important when the purpose of military action extends beyond self-defense or the defense of one nation against an aggressor. More and more, we all confront difficult questions about how to prevent the slaughter of civilians by their own government or to stop a civil war whose violence and suffering can engulf an entire region.<p>I believe that force can be justified on humanitarian grounds, as it was in the Balkans or in other places that have been scarred by war. Inaction tears at our conscience and can lead to more costly intervention later. That's why all responsible nations must embrace the role that militaries with a clear mandate can play to keep the peace. <p>America's commitment to global security will never waver. But in a world in which threats are more diffuse and missions more complex, America cannot act alone. America alone cannot secure the peace. This is true in Afghanistan. This is true in failed states like Somalia, where terrorism and piracy is joined by famine and human suffering. And sadly, it will continue to be true in unstable regions for years to come.<p>The leaders and soldiers of NATO countries and other friends and allies demonstrate this truth through the capacity and courage they've shown in Afghanistan. But in many countries, there is a disconnect between the efforts of those who serve and the ambivalence of the broader public. I understand why war is not popular, but I also know this: The belief that peace is desirable is rarely enough to achieve it. Peace requires responsibility; peace entails sacrifice. That's why NATO continues to be indispensable. That's why we must strengthen U.N. and regional peacekeeping and not leave the task to a few countries. That's why we honor those who return home from peacekeeping and training abroad to Oslo and Rome, to Ottawa and Sydney, to Dhaka and Kigali. We honor them not as makers of war, but of wagers&mdash;but as wagers of peace.<p>Let me make one final point about the use of force. Even as we make difficult decisions about going to war, we must also think clearly about how we fight it. The Nobel Committee recognized this truth in awarding its first prize for peace to Henry Dunant, the founder of the Red Cross and a driving force behind the Geneva Conventions.<p>Where force is necessary, we have a moral and strategic interest in binding ourselves to certain rules of conduct. And even as we confront a vicious adversary that abides by no rules, I believe the United States of America must remain a standard bearer in the conduct of war. That is what makes us different from those whom we fight. That is a source of our strength. That is why I prohibited torture. That is why I ordered the prison at Guantanamo Bay closed. And that is why I have reaffirmed America's commitment to abide by the Geneva Conventions. We lose ourselves when we compromise the very ideals that we fight to defend, and we honor those ideals by upholding them not when it's easy, but when it is hard.<p>I have spoken at some length to the question that must weigh on our minds and our hearts as we choose to wage war. But let me now turn to our effort to avoid such tragic choices and speak of three ways that we can build a just and lasting peace.<p>First, in dealing with those nations that break rules and laws, I believe that we must develop alternatives to violence that are tough enough to actually change behavior. For if we want a lasting peace, then the words of the international community must mean something. Those regimes that break the rules must be held accountable. Sanctions must exact a real price. Intransigence must be met with increased pressure, and such pressure exists only when the world stands together as one.<p>One urgent example is the effort to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons and to seek a world without them. In the middle of the last century, nations agreed to be bound by a treaty whose bargain is clear: All will have access to peaceful nuclear power; those without nuclear weapons will forsake them; and those with nuclear weapons will work towards disarmament. I am committed to upholding this treaty. It is a centerpiece of my foreign policy. And I'm working with President Medvedev to reduce America and Russia's nuclear stockpiles.<p>But it's also incumbent upon all of us to insist that nations like Iran and North Korea do not game the system. Those who claim to respect international law cannot avert their eyes when those laws are flouted. Those who care for their own security cannot ignore the danger of an arms race in the Middle East or East Asia. Those who seek peace cannot stand idly by as nations arm themselves for nuclear war.<p>The same principle applies to those who violate international laws by brutalizing their own people. When there is genocide in Darfur, systematic rape in Congo, repression in Burma, there must be consequences. Yes, there will be engagement; yes, there will be diplomacy. But there must be consequences when those things fail. And the closer we stand together, the less likely we will be faced with the choice between armed intervention and complicity in oppression.<p>This brings me to a second point: the nature of the peace that we seek. For peace is not merely the absence of visible conflict. Only a just peace based on the inherent rights and dignity of every individual can truly be lasting.<p>It was this insight that drove drafters of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights after the Second World War. In the wake of devastation, they recognized that if human rights are not protected, peace is a hollow promise.<p>And yet too often these words are ignored. For some countries, the failure to uphold human rights is excused by the false suggestion that these are somehow Western principles, foreign to local cultures or stages of a nation's development. And within America, there's long been a tension between those who describe themselves as realists or idealists, a tension that suggests a stark choice between the narrow pursuit of interests or an endless campaign to impose our values around the world.<p>I reject these choices. I believe that peace is unstable where citizens are denied the right to speak freely or worship as they please, choose their own leaders or assemble without fear. Pent-up grievances fester, and the suppression of tribal and religious identity can lead to violence. We also know that the opposite is true. Only when Europe became free did it finally find peace. America has never fought a war against a democracy, and our closest friends are governments that protect the rights of their citizens. No matter how callously defined, neither America's interests nor the world's are served by the denial of human aspirations.<p>So even as we respect the unique culture and traditions of different countries, America will always be a voice for those aspirations that are universal. We will bear witness to the quiet dignity of reformers like Aung Sang Suu Kyi, to the bravery of Zimbabweans who cast their ballots in the face of beatings, to the hundreds of thousands who have marched silently through the streets of Iran. It is telling that the leaders of these governments fear the aspirations of their own people more than the power of any other nation. And it is the responsibility of all free people and free nations to make clear that these movements of hope and history, they have us on their side.<p>Let me also say this: The promotion of human rights cannot be about exhortation alone. At times, it must be coupled with painstaking diplomacy. I know that engagement with repressive regimes lacks the satisfying purity of indignation. But I also know that sanctions without outreach, condemnation without discussion, can carry forward only a crippling status quo. No repressive regime can move down a new path unless it has the choice of an open door.<p>In light of the Cultural Revolution's horrors, Nixon's meeting with Mao appeared inexcusable, and yet it surely helped set China on a path where millions of its citizens have been lifted from poverty and connected to open societies. Pope John Paul's engagement with Poland created space not just for the Catholic Church, but for labor leaders like Lech Walesa. Ronald Reagan's efforts on arms control and embrace of <i>perestroika</i> not only improved relations with the Soviet Union but empowered dissidents throughout Eastern Europe. There's no simple formula here. But we must try as best we can to balance isolation and engagement, pressure and incentives, so that human rights and dignity are advanced over time.<p>Third, a just peace includes not only civil and political rights, it must encompass economic security and opportunity. For to&mdash;true peace is not just freedom from fear, but freedom from want. It is undoubtedly true that development rarely takes root without security. It is also true that security does not exist where human beings do not have access to enough food, or clean water, or the medicine and shelter they need to survive. It does not exist where children can't aspire to a decent education or a job that supports a family. The absence of hope can rot a society from within.<p>And that's why helping farmers feed their own people or nations educate their children and care for the sick is not mere charity. It's also why the world must come together to confront climate change. There's little scientific dispute that if we do nothing, we will face more drought, more famine, more mass displacement, all of which will fuel more conflict for decades. For this reason&mdash;and it's not merely scientists and environmental activists who call for swift and forceful action, it's military leaders in my own country and others who understand our common security hangs in the balance.<p>Agreements among nations, strong institutions, support for human rights, investments in development: All these are vital ingredients in bringing about the evolution that President Kennedy spoke about. And yet I do not believe that we will have the will, the determination, the staying power to complete this work without something more, and that's the continued expansion of our moral imagination, an insistence that there's something irreducible that we all share.<p>As the world grows smaller, you might think it would be easier for human beings to recognize how similar we are, to understand that we're all basically seeking the same things. That we all hope for the chance to live out our lives with some measure of happiness and fulfillment for ourselves and our families.<p>And yet somehow, given the dizzying pace of globalization, the cultural leveling of modernity, it perhaps comes as no surprise that people fear the loss of what they cherish in their particular identities: their race, their tribe, and perhaps most powerfully, their religion. In some places, this fear has led to conflict. At times, it even feels like we're moving backwards. We see it in the Middle East, as the conflict between Arabs and Jews seems to harden. We see it in nations that are torn asunder by tribal lines.<p>And most dangerously, we see it in the way that religion is used to justify the murder of innocents by those who have distorted and defiled the great religion of Islam, and who attacked my country from Afghanistan. These extremists are not the first to kill in the name of God; the cruelties of the Crusades are amply recorded. But they remind us that no holy war can ever be a just war. For if you truly believe that you are carrying out divine will, then there is no need for restraint, no need to spare the pregnant mother, or the medic, or the Red Cross worker, or even a person of one own's faith. Such a warped view of religion is not just incompatible with the concept of peace, but I believe it's incompatible with the very purpose of faith. For the one rule that lies at the heart of every major religion is that we do unto others as we would have them do unto us.<p>Adhering to this law of love has always been the core struggle of human nature. For we are fallible; we make mistakes and fall victim to the temptations of pride and power and, sometimes, evil. Even those of us with the best of intentions will at times fail to right the wrongs before us.<p>But we do not have to think that human nature is perfect for us to still believe that the human condition can be perfected. We do not have to live in an idealized world to still reach for those ideals that will make it a better place. The nonviolence practiced by men like Gandhi and King may not have been practical or possible in every circumstance, but the love that they preached, their fundamental faith in human progress, that must always be the North Star that guides us on our journey.<p>For if we lose that faith, if we dismiss it as silly or naive, if we divorce it from the decisions that we make on issues of war and peace, then we lose what's best about humanity. We lose our sense of possibility. We lose our moral compass.<p>Like generations have before us, we must reject that future. As Dr. King said at this occasion so many years ago: \\"I refuse to accept despair as the final response to the ambiguities of history. I refuse to accept the idea that the 'isness' of man's present condition makes him morally incapable of reaching up for the eternal 'oughtness' that forever confronts him.\\" Let us reach for the world that ought to be, that spark of the divine that still stirs within each of our souls.<p>Somewhere today, in the here and now, in the world as it is, a soldier sees he's outgunned, but stands firm to keep the peace. Somewhere today in this world, a young protestor awaits the brutality of her government, but has the courage to march on. Somewhere today, a mother facing punishing poverty still takes the time to teach her child, scrapes together what few coins she has to send that child to school because she believes that a cruel world still has a place for that child's dreams.<p>Let us live by their example. We can acknowledge that oppression will always be with us and still strive for justice. We can admit the intractability of depravation and still strive for dignity. Clear eyed, we can understand that there will be war and still strive for peace. We can do that, for that is the story of human progress. That's the hope of all the world, and at this moment of challenge, that must be our work here on Earth.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"362" "\"Over the past 2 years, more than 7 million Americans have lost their jobs and factories and businesses across our country have been shuttered. In one way or another, we've all been touched by the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression.<p>The difficult steps we've taken since January have helped to break our fall and begin to get us back on our feet. The economy is growing again. The flood of job losses we saw at the beginning of this year slowed to a relative trickle last month. These are all good signs for the future, but they're little comfort to all our neighbors who remain out of a job. And my solemn commitment is to work every day, in every way that I can, to push this recovery forward and build a new foundation for our lasting growth and prosperity.<p>That's why I announced some additional steps this week to spur private sector hiring. We'll give an added boost to small businesses across our Nation through additional tax cuts and access to lending they desperately need to grow. We'll rebuild more of our vital infrastructure and promote advanced manufacturing in clean energy to put Americans to work doing the work we need done. And I've called for the extension of unemployment insurance and health benefits to help those who've lost their jobs weather these storms until we reach that brighter day.<p>But even as we dig our way out of this deep hole, it's important that we address the irresponsibility and recklessness that got us into this mess in the first place. Some of it was the result of an era of easy credit, when millions of Americans borrowed beyond their means, bought homes they couldn't afford, and assumed that housing prices would always rise and the day of reckoning would never come.<p>But much of it was due to the irresponsibility of large financial institutions on Wall Street that gambled on risky loans and complex financial products, seeking short-term profits and big bonuses with little regard for long-term consequences. It was, as some put it, risk management without the management. And their actions, in the absence of strong oversight, intensified the cycle of bubble and bust and led to a financial crisis that threatened to bring down the entire economy.<p>It was a disaster that could have been avoided if we'd had clearer rules of the road for Wall Street and actually enforced them. We can't change that history. But we have an absolute responsibility to learn from it and take steps to prevent a repeat of the crisis from which we are still recovering.<p>And that's why I've proposed a series of financial reforms that would target the abuses we've seen and leave us less exposed to the kind of breakdown we just experienced. They would bring new transparency and accountability to the financial markets, so that the kind of risky dealings that sparked the crisis would be fully disclosed and properly regulated.<p>They would give us the tools to ensure that the failure of one large bank or financial institution won't spread like a virus throughout the entire financial system. Because we should never again find ourselves in the position in which our only choices are bailing out banks or letting our economy collapse.<p>And they would consolidate the consumer protection functions currently spread across half a dozen agencies and vest them in a new consumer financial protection agency. This agency would have the authority to put an end to misleading and dishonest practices by banks and institutions that market financial products like credit cards and debit cards, mortgage and auto and payday loans.<p>These are all commonsense reforms that respond to the obvious problems exposed by the financial crisis. But as we've learned so many times before, common sense doesn't always prevail in Washington.<p>Just this week, Republican leaders in the House summoned more than 100 key lobbyists for the financial industry to a pep rally and urged them to redouble their efforts to block meaningful financial reform. Not that they needed the encouragement. The industry has already spent more than $300 million on lobbying to influence the debate this year.<p>The special interests and their agents in Congress claim that reforms like the consumer financial protection agency will stifle consumer choice and that updated rules and oversight will frustrate innovation in the financial markets. But Americans don't choose to be victimized by mysterious fees and changing terms and pages and pages of fine print. And while innovation should be encouraged, risky schemes that threaten our entire economy should not. We can't afford to let the same phony arguments and bad habits of Washington kill financial reform and leave American consumers and our economy vulnerable to another meltdown.<p>Yesterday the House passed comprehensive reform legislation that incorporates many of the essential changes we need, and the Senate Banking Committee is working on its own package of reforms. I urge both Houses to act as quickly as possible to pass real reform that restores free and fair markets, in which recklessness and greed are thwarted and hard work, responsibility, and competition are rewarded, reforms that work for businesses, investors, and consumers alike.<p>That's how we'll keep our economy and our institutions strong. That's how we'll restore a sense of responsibility and accountability to both Wall Street and Washington. And that's how we'll safeguard everything the American people are working so hard to build: a broad-based recovery, a lasting prosperity, and a renewed American Dream. Thanks.\" "
"363" "\"<i>The President</i>. Thank you very much. Thank you. Please, everybody, have a seat. Good evening, and merry Christmas. Thank you, George Lopez. Thank you to all the incredible performers for sharing your wonderful holiday spirit with us this evening: Mary J. Blige, Neil Diamond, Sugarland, Rob Thomas, Usher, and Justin Bieber&mdash;&mdash;<p><i>First Lady Michelle </i><i>Obama</i>. Bieber.<p><i>The President</i>. Bieber&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;he was just discovered&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;the American Family Choir, and the Washington Youth Choir and the United States Army Herald Trumpets.<p>And to the producers and crew behind the scenes, thank you for bringing us together at this historic and beautiful National Building Museum and for bringing this celebration to our fellow Americans.<p>For many of your families, this is a holiday tradition, the 28th \\"Christmas in Washington\\" celebration. For our family, this is our first Christmas in the White House. And Michelle and I are honored to be with you. And I know that Malia, Sasha, and my mother-in-law, Marian Robinson, want to wish you all a wonderful holiday, and I'm sure they're watching here at home this evening.<p>This season we celebrate that sacred moment, the birth of a child and the message of love He would preach to the world: That we are our brother's keeper; that we are our sister's keeper; that \\"pure in heart,\\" we do unto others as we would have them do unto us; that we devote ourselves to \\"good works\\"; that we are summoned to be peacemakers.<p>More than 2,000 years later, that spirit still inspires us. It's why this celebration tonight benefits the Children's National Medical Center and all the children whose lives they touch and they save. And it's why, as so many of our fellow citizens struggle through tough times, we are called upon to help neighbors in need. And it's why, with our men and women in uniform serving far from home in harm's way, our fervent wish remains, this season and all seasons, let there be peace on Earth.<p>To all Americans, from our family to yours, merry Christmas, and God bless you.\" "
"364" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. I've just finished a candid and productive meeting with the CEOs of 12 of our Nation's largest financial institutions. I asked them to come to Washington today, at the end of this difficult year for their industry but also for the economy, to discuss where we've been, what we expect of them going forward, and how we can work together to accelerate economic recovery.<p>Our Nation's banks play, and have always played, a crucial role in our national economy, from providing loans for homes and cars and colleges to supplying the capital that allows entrepreneurs to turn ideas into products and businesses to grow to helping people save for a rainy day and a secure retirement. So it's clear that each of us has a stake in ensuring the strength and the vitality of the financial system.<p>And that's why 1 year ago, when many of these institutions were on the verge of collapse&mdash;a predicament largely of their own making, oftentimes because they failed to manage risk properly&mdash;we took difficult and, frankly, unpopular steps to pull them back from the brink, steps that were necessary not just to save our financial system, but to save our economy as a whole.<p>Today, due to the timely loans from the American people, our financial system has stabilized, the stock market has sprung back to life, our economy is growing, and our banks are once again recording profits. A year ago, many doubted that we would ever recover these investments, but we've managed this program well. This morning another major bank announced that it would be repaying taxpayers in full, and when they do, we'll have collected 60 percent of the money owed, with interest. We expect other institutions to follow suit, and we are determined to recover every last dime for the American taxpayer.<p>So my main message in today's meeting was very simple: that America's banks received extraordinary assistance from American taxpayers to rebuild their industry, and now that they're back on their feet, we expect an inordinate&mdash;extraordinary commitment from them to help rebuild our economy.<p>That starts with finding ways to help creditworthy small and medium-sized businesses get the loans that they need to open their doors, grow their operations, and create new jobs. This is something I hear about from businessowners and entrepreneurs across America, that despite their best efforts, they're unable to get loans. At the same time, I've been hearing from bankers that they're willing to lend, but face a shortage of creditworthy individuals and businesses.<p>Now, no one wants banks making the kinds of risky loans that got us into this situation in the first place. And it's true that regulators are requiring them to hold more of their capital as a hedge against the kind of problems that we saw last year. But given the difficulty businesspeople are having as lending has declined and given the exceptional assistance banks received to get them through a difficult time, we expect them to explore every responsible way to help get our economy moving again.<p>And I heard from these executives that they are engaging in various programs, like second look programs, hiring more folks, raising their target goals in terms of lending, all of which sounded positive. But we expect some results, because I'm getting too many letters from small businesses who explain that they are creditworthy and banks that they've had a long-term relationship with are still having problems giving them loans. We think that's something that we can&mdash;that can be fixed. And so I urged these institutions here today to go back and take a third and fourth look about how they are operating when it comes to small-business and medium-sized business lending.<p>We also discussed the need to pass meaningful financial reform that will protect American consumers from exploitation and American&mdash;the American economy from another financial crisis of the kind which we just came out of.<p>I noted the resistance of many of the financial sectors to these reforms; the industry has lobbied vigorously against some of them&mdash;some of these reforms on Capitol Hill. So I made it clear that it is both in the country's interest and, ultimately, in the financial industry's interest to have updated rules of the road to prevent abuse and excess. Short-term gains are of little value to our banks if they lead to long-term chaos in the economy.<p>And I made very clear that I have no intention of letting their lobbyists thwart reforms necessary to protect the American people. If they wish to fight commonsense consumer protections, that's a fight I'm more than willing to have.<p>The way I see it, having recovered from&mdash;with the help of the American Government and the American taxpayer, our banks now have a greater obligation to the goal of a wider recovery, a more stable system, and more broadly shared prosperity.<p>So I urged them to work with us in Congress to finish the job of reforming our financial system to bring transparency and accountability to the financial markets, to ensure that the failure of one bank or financial institution won't spread throughout the entire system, and to help protect consumers from misleading and dishonest practices with products like credit and debit cards, with mortgages and auto and payday loans.<p>Now, I should note that around the table, all of the financial industry executives said they supported financial regulatory reform. The problem is there's a big gap between what I'm hearing here in the White House and the activities of lobbyists on behalf of these institutions or associations of which they're a member up on Capitol Hill. I urged them to close that gap, and they assured me that they would make every effort to do so.<p>In the end, my interest isn't in vilifying any one person or institution or industry; it's not to dictate to them or micromanage their compensation practices, to ensure that consumers and. My job is to ensure that consumers and the larger economy are protected from risky speculation and predatory practices, that credit is flowing, that businesses can grow, and jobs are once again being created at the pace we need.<p>Some of the banks and financial institutions have taken small but positive steps to improve lending to small and medium-sized businesses, as I indicated. They've begun reworking mortgages that are now underwater because of declining home values, and have&mdash;they have acknowledged that much more needs to be done going forward. Many have begun to follow our lead in shifting from paying huge cash bonuses to awarding long-term stock, which will encourage more prudent decisionmaking, but as I indicated in this meeting, they certainly could be doing more on this front as well.<p>Now, these efforts reflect a recognition, ultimately, that the fate of our financial institutions is tied to the fate of our economy and our country, and these institutions can't endure if workers don't have jobs and businesses can't grow and consumers don't have money to spend. Ultimately, in this country, we rise and fall together, banks and small businesses, consumers and large corporations, and we have a shared interest in working together to ensure a lasting recovery that will benefit all of us and not just some of us.<p>I called today's meeting with this in mind. And I told the group that I look forward to continued engagement and progress in the months and years ahead.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"365" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. Hello! Hello! Thank you, guys. Thank you. Everybody, please, have a seat. <p>We've got a couple of special guests here today. First of all, the outstanding Senator from the great State&mdash;Commonwealth of Virginia, Senator Mark Warner is here. Where's Mark? Right there. We've got a couple of champions for job creation here in Northern Virginia: Gerry Connolly and Jim Moran. Can I just ask how come they got the Home Depot thing and you guys don't have it? [<i>Laughter</i>] What, the Senators are too cool to put it on? What's going on here? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Working to jump-start our retrofit efforts around the country, Senator Jeff Merkley and Congressman Peter Welch are here as well. We've got Alexandria Mayor William Euille. Where's William? There he is. Good to see you, Bill. And we've got Frank Blake and his team here at Home Depot. Where's Frank? There he is.<p>So seeing how Christmas is just around the corner, and we're at Home Depot, I thought I might knock out some of my holiday shopping. [<i>Laughter</i>] I figure my Energy Secretary wants a few million energy efficient light bulbs. [<i>Laughter</i>] My Press Secretary wants something that will prevent leaks.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Ooh!<p><i>The President.</i> Come on, guys. [<i>Laughter</i>] It took a while there for&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]. But I've also come here to spend some time with workers and contractors and manufacturers and small-business owners who've been especially hard hit by our economic downturn. A few of us just spent some time at a roundtable talking about the role they want to play in job creation and in our economic recovery and how government can best help to give them a boost.<p>Now, I don't need to remind them or any of you about the situation we found ourselves in at the beginning of this year. The economy was in a freefall. As a result of our financial crisis, folks couldn't access affordable credit to run their businesses or take out an auto loan or a student loan or in some cases pay their mortgages. Home values were plummeting, and we were hemorrhaging about 700,000 jobs per month.<p>Now, today, the economy is growing for the first time in more than a year, and November's job report was the best that we've had in nearly 2 years. But the fact is, even though we've stopped the rapid job losses that we were seeing just a few months ago, more than 7 million Americans have lost their jobs in the 2 years since this recession began. Unemployment still stands at 10 percent. So we're not finished with our task, far from it. We've got a lot of work to do. And I promise you, in the White House, we're hard at work every single day until every single person who wants a job can find a job.<p>And that's why last week I announced some additional targeted steps to spur private sector hiring and give an added boost to small businesses by building on the tax cuts in the Recovery Act and increasing access to the loans desperately needed for small businesses to grow. We'll rebuild and modernize even more of our transportation and communication networks across the country. And I called for the extension of emergency relief like unemployment insurance and health benefits to help those who've lost their jobs, while boosting consumer spending and promoting job growth.<p>Now, we also want to take some strategic surgical steps in areas that are going to generate the greatest number of jobs, while generating the greatest value for our economy. And from the moment we took office, even as we took immediate steps to deal with the financial crisis, we began investing in newer, stronger foundations for lasting growth, one that would free us from the cycle of boom and bust that has been so painful, one that can create good jobs and opportunities for a growing middle class. That's at the heart of our efforts, and clean energy can be a powerful engine for creating that kind of growth.<p>And that's why the Recovery Act included the single biggest investment in job-creating clean energy in our history: in renewable sources of energy, in advanced manufacturing; in clean vehicle technology, in a bigger, better, smarter electric grid that can carry clean, homegrown energy from the places that harness it to the places that need it.<p>And after these investments have been given the better part of a year to take root, a picture of their impact is starting to emerge. I just received a report from Vice President Biden that confirms that as a result of the steps that we've taken, a major transformation of our economy is well underway. We are on track to double renewable energy production and double our capacity to manufacture clean energy components like wind turbines and solar panels right here in the United States by the year 2012&mdash;doubling it.<p>But there's a lot more that we can do, and that's what I've come to Home Depot to talk about. In our Nation's buildings, our homes and our offices consume almost 40 percent of the energy we use and contribute almost 40 percent of the carbon pollution that we produce and everybody is talking about right now in Copenhagen. Homes built in the first half of the last century can use about 50 percent more energy than homes that are built today. And because most of our homes and offices aren't energy efficient, much of that energy just goes to waste, while costing our families and businesses money they can't afford to throw away.<p>The simple act of retrofitting these buildings to make them more energy efficient&mdash;installing new windows and doors, insulation, roofing, sealing leaks, modernizing heating and cooling equipment&mdash;is one of the fastest, easiest, and cheapest things we can do to put Americans back to work, while saving money and reducing harmful emissions.<p>As a result of a variety of investments made under the Recovery Act, including State and local energy grants, we're on pace to upgrade the homes of half a million Americans by this time next year&mdash;half a million Americans&mdash;boosting the economy, saving money and energy, creating clean energy jobs that can't be outsourced. But this is an area that has huge potential to grow. That's why I'm calling on Congress to provide new temporary incentives for Americans to make energy efficiency retrofit investments in their homes. And we want them to do it soon.<p>I know the idea may not be very glamorous, although I get really excited about it. We were at the roundtable, and somebody said insulation is not sexy. I disagree. [<i>Laughter</i>] Frank, don't you think insulation is sexy stuff? [<i>Laughter</i>] Here's what's sexy about it: saving money. Think about it this way: If you haven't upgraded your home yet, it's not just heat or cool air that's escaping, it's energy and money that you are wasting. If you saw $20 bills just sort of floating through the window up into the atmosphere, you'd try to figure out how you were going to keep that. But that's exactly what's happening because of the lack of efficiency in our buildings.<p>So what we want to do is create incentives that stimulate consumer spending, because folks buy materials from home improvement stores like this one, which then buys them from manufacturers. It spurs hiring because local contractors and construction workers do the installation. It saves consumers money&mdash;perhaps hundreds of dollars off their utility bills each year&mdash;and it reduces our energy consumption in the process.<p>In other words, a lot of&mdash;most of this stuff is going to pay for itself. You put in the insulation, you weatherize your home now, you will make up that money in a year or 2 years or 3 years, and then everything after that is just gravy. But the challenge for a lot of people is getting that money up front. They know that this is a smart thing to do, but times are tight right now, and it's hard to afford making that capital investment. And that's where the Government can come in to provide the incentive to help people make that initial investment so that they can recover that money over the long term.<p>These incentives will build on the work that my administration is doing to eliminate existing barriers to retrofitting millions of homes across the country. My Middle Class Task Force and the Council on Environmental Quality recently released a report titled \\"Recovery Through Retrofit\\" that explains some of these hurdles and how we can overcome them: providing homeowners with straightforward and reliable information on retrofitting their homes, reducing their costs to do it, and ensuring that we've got a well trained workforce ready to make it happen.<p>So I think this is an extraordinary idea. All the ideas that we've discussed were talked about at the jobs forum we held at the White House a couple of weeks ago. And in fact, Frank Blake was there and mentioned that 30 percent of Home Depot's business is made up of small contractors of five or fewer employees who often do this kind of work. And they and the folks that I met with earlier know just how important a program like this could be. <p>The economic downturn hit both small contractors and our broader construction industry especially hard. Construction unemployment reached 21 percent in the beginning of this year. The investments we made under the Recovery Act has helped, but obviously, there's a lot more work to do to put construction workers and millions of other Americans who are ready and eager to rebuild America and move our recovery forward back on the job again. And we're not going to rest until we do it.<p>So it's fitting that we're here today at Home Depot with folks who play a vital role in helping America's families build strong homes and strengthen the ones that they've got, because that's exactly what we're trying to do, rebuild our&mdash;rebuild America's house on a stronger foundation of growth and prosperity. It's not going to be easy, but we've got the concrete poured. And one thing is clear: We're moving in the right direction. So I promise you we are going to get this job done. Together, we can leave something for future generations that makes America that much stronger.<p>And I just want to emphasize one last point. There's a lot&mdash;a lot of times there's an argument about economic growth versus the environment. And in the debate that's going on about climate change right now, a lot of people say we can't afford to deal with these emissions to the environment. But the fact of the matter is, energy efficiency is a perfect example of how this can be a win-win. Manufacturers like Owen Corning, their&mdash;whose CEO is here today&mdash;they win because they produce this stuff. And those are American jobs. And right now I just heard from the CEO, because Australia put an incentive to do exactly what we're talking about, they've seen a huge increase in their volume of experts&mdash;exports to Australia. Well, why can't we do the same thing here?<p>When it comes to contractors, contractors all around the country know that this is work they can do, they can do effectively, they can do well. And it's a reliable business. It's not going to be subject to as many of the vacillations as home sales are in the current environment where you've got a soft housing market. So this can help fill the void in a major industry that's taken a big hit.<p>And the workers&mdash;we have somebody who just got trained and is already on the job crawling through attics and putting all this stuff together. Over the course of 6 months or a year, somebody can get trained effectively. And LIUNA is doing terrific work with this, its apprenticeship program. And what this means is that people who are unemployed right now, they can get a marketable skill that they can take anywhere.<p>So this is a smart thing to do, and we've got to get beyond this point where we think that somehow being smart on energy is a job destroyer. It is a job creator. But it's going to require some imagination and some foresight, and it requires us to all work together. And that's what this White House is committed to doing. I know that's what all of you are committed to doing. <p>We are going to generate so much business for you, Frank, we are going to generate so much work for you guys from LIUNA, we're going to create so much business&mdash;so many business opportunities for contractors here that over the course of the next several years, people are going to see this, I think, as an extraordinary opportunity. And it's going to help America turn the corner when it comes to energy use.<p>I'm excited about it. I hope you are too. See, I told you, insulation is sexy. Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"366" "\"Hello, everybody. We just had a very productive session about the final stages of health care reform in the Senate. And from the discussions we had it's clear that we are on the precipice of an achievement that's eluded Congresses and Presidents for generations, an achievement that will touch the lives of nearly every American.<p>There are still some differences that have to be worked on. This was not a roll call; this was a broad-based discussion about how we move forward. But whatever differences remain, there is broad consensus around reforms that will finally&mdash;number one&mdash;protect every American from the worst practices in the health insurance industry. No longer will these companies be able to deny you coverage if you have a preexisting illness or condition. No longer will they be able to drop you from coverage when you get sick. No longer will you have to pay unlimited amounts out of your own pocket for the treatments that you need. We are all in agreement on those reforms.<p>We agree on reforms that will finally reduce the costs of health care. Families will save on their premiums; businesses that will see their costs rise if we do nothing will save money now and in the future. This plan will strengthen Medicare and extend the life of that program. And because it gets rid of the waste and inefficiencies in our health care system, this will be the largest deficit reduction plan in over a decade.<p>I just want to repeat this because there's so much misinformation about the cost issue here. You talk to every health care economist out there, and they will tell you that whatever ideas are&mdash;whatever ideas exist in terms of bending the cost curve and starting to reduce costs for families, businesses, and government, those elements are in this bill.<p>And in terms of deficits, because we keep on hearing these ads about how this is going to add to the deficit, the CBO has said that this is a deficit reduction, not a deficit increase. So all the scare tactics out there, all the ads that are out there, are simply inaccurate. <p>Some of the same people who cited the CBO when it was saying it didn't reduce the deficit, saying CBO is the most credible possible arbiter of whether or not this adds to our deficit, now suddenly are ignoring what the CBO says. <p>Finally, we agree on reforms that will make coverage affordable for 30 million Americans who don't have it. Every day that goes by, another 14,000 Americans lose their health care coverage. A recent study shows that in the next decade, half of all Americans under the age of 65 will be without coverage at some point. On the other hand, if this reform passes&mdash;when it passes&mdash;for the very first time in their lives, these Americans will be able to provide health insurance for their families. And those Americans who are already covered will no longer have to live in fear that their family might fall through the cracks of the system we have now.<p>These aren't small changes; these are big changes. They represent the most significant reform of our health care system since the passage of Medicare. They will save money; they will save families money, they will save businesses money, and they will save government money. And they're going to save lives. And that's why this reform is supported by groups like the AARP who represents most of America's seniors. That's why this reform has to pass on our watch.<p>Now, let's be clear: The final bill won't include everything that everybody wants. No bill can do that. But what I told my former colleagues today is that we simply cannot allow differences over individual elements of this plan to prevent us from meeting our responsibility to solve a longstanding and urgent problem for the American people. They are waiting for us to act. They are counting on us to show leadership. And I don't intend to let them down, and neither do the people standing next to me. There's too much at stake for families who can't pay their medical bills, or see a doctor when they need to, or get the treatment they need. The stakes are enormous for them.<p>The stakes are enormous for businesses, who are already seeing their premiums go up 15, 20, 30 percent. A lot of the critics of this entire process fail to note what happens if nothing gets done, and the American people have to be very clear about this: If we don't get this done, your premiums are guaranteed to go up. If this does not get done, more employers are going to drop coverage cause they can't afford it. If this does not get done, it is guaranteed that Medicare and Medicaid will blow a hole through our budget. <p>Those things are guaranteed. That's the status quo. That is the trajectory that we are currently on. I don't intend to have that happen. And I believe that the Senate doesn't intend to have that happen. And I think any fair reading of this bill will indicate that all the criteria that I laid out when I met before a joint session have now been met. It is deficit neutral, it bends the cost curve, it covers 30 million Americans who don't have health insurance, and it has extraordinary insurance reforms in there that make sure that we're preventing abuse.<p>By the way, it also does things that Tom Harkin has been a champion of for years: prevention and wellness, to make sure that people are getting the care they need and the checkups they need and the screenings they need before they get sick, which will save all of us money and reduce pressures on emergency rooms all across the country.<p>So there are still disagreements that have to be ironed out. There is still work to be done in the next few days. I think it's important for every single Member of the Senate to take a careful look at what's in the bill. <p>We welcome the scrutiny from the press. Recently there was an article in the New Yorker that talked about all the cost savings and how important they are going to be in terms of bending the cost curve over the long term. <p>I am absolutely confident that if the American people know what's in this bill and if the Senate knows what's in this bill that this is going to pass, because it's right for America. And I'm feeling cautiously optimistic that we can get this done and start rolling up our sleeves and getting to work improving the lives of the American people.<p>All right. Thank you, everybody.\" "
"367" "\"Good morning. It is an honor for me to join this distinguished group of leaders from nations around the world. We come here in Copenhagen because climate change poses a grave and growing danger to our people. All of you would not be here unless you, like me, were convinced that this danger is real. This is not fiction, it is science. Unchecked, climate change will pose unacceptable risks to our security, our economies, and our planet. This much we know.<p>The question then before us is no longer the nature of the challenge, the question is our capacity to meet it. For while the reality of climate change is not in doubt, I have to be honest, as the world watches us today, I think our ability to take collective action is in doubt right now, and it hangs in the balance. I believe we can act boldly and decisively in the face of a common threat. That's why I come here today not to talk but to act.<p>Now, as the world's largest economy and as the world's second largest emitter, America bears our responsibility to address climate change, and we intend to meet that responsibility. That's why we've renewed our leadership within international climate change negotiations. That's why we've worked with other nations to phase out fossil fuel subsidies. That's why we've taken bold action at home by making historic investments in renewable energy, by putting our people to work increasing efficiency in our homes and buildings, and by pursuing comprehensive legislation to transform to a clean energy economy.<p>These mitigation actions are ambitious, and we are taking them not simply to meet global responsibilities. We are convinced, as some of you may be convinced, that changing the way we produce and use energy is essential to America's economic future, that it will create millions of new jobs, power new industries, keep us competitive, and spark new innovation. We're convinced, for our own self-interest, that the way we use energy, changing it to a more efficient fashion, is essential to our national security, because it helps to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and helps us deal with some of the dangers posed by climate change.<p>So I want this plenary session to understand, America is going to continue on this course of action to mitigate our emissions and to move towards a clean energy economy no matter what happens here in Copenhagen. We think it is good for us as well as good for the world. But we also believe that we will all be stronger, all be safer, all be more secure, if we act together. That's why it is in our mutual interest to achieve a global accord in which we agree to certain steps and to hold each other accountable to certain commitments.<p>After months of talk, after two weeks of negotiations, after innumerable side meetings, bilateral meetings, endless hours of discussion among negotiators, I believe that the pieces of that accord should now be clear.<p>First, all major economies must put forward decisive national actions that will reduce their emissions and begin to turn the corner on climate change. I'm pleased that many of us have already done so. Almost all the major economies have put forward legitimate targets, significant targets, ambitious targets. And I'm confident that America will fulfill the commitments that we have made, cutting our emissions in the range of 17 percent by 2020 and by more than 80 percent by 2050, in line with final legislation.<p>Second, we must have a mechanism to review whether we are keeping our commitments and exchange this information in a transparent manner. These measures need not be intrusive or infringe upon sovereignty. They must, however, ensure that an accord is credible and that we're living up to our obligations. Without such accountability any agreement would be empty words on a page. I don't know how you have an international agreement where we all are not sharing information and ensuring that we are meeting our commitments. That doesn't make sense. It would be a hollow victory.<p>Number three, we must have financing that helps developing countries adapt, particularly the least developed and most vulnerable countries to climate change. America will be a part of fast-start funding that will ramp up to $10 billion by 2012. And yesterday Secretary Hillary Clinton, my Secretary of State, made it clear that we will engage in a global effort to mobilize $100 billion in financing by 2020, if&mdash;and only if&mdash;it is part of a broader accord that I have just described.<p>Mitigation, transparency, financing, it's a clear formula, one that embraces the principle of common but differentiated responses and respective capabilities. And it adds up to a significant accord, one that takes us farther than we have ever gone before as an international community.<p>I just want to say to this plenary session that we are running short on time. And at this point, the question is whether we will move forward together or split apart, whether we prefer posturing to action. I'm sure that many consider this an imperfect framework that I just described. No country will get everything that it wants. There are those developing countries that want aid with no strings attached and no obligations with respect to transparency. They think that the most advanced nations should pay a higher price. I understand that. There are those advanced nations who think that developing countries either cannot absorb this assistance, or that will not be held accountable effectively, and that the world's fastest growing emitters should bear a greater share of the burden.<p>We know the fault lines because we've been imprisoned by them for years. These international discussions have essentially taken place now for almost two decades, and we have very little to show for it other than an increased acceleration of the climate change phenomenon. The time for talk is over. This is the bottom line: We can embrace this accord, take a substantial step forward, continue to refine it and build upon its foundation. We can do that, and everyone who is in this room will be part of a historic endeavor, one that makes life better for our children and our grandchildren.<p>Or we can choose delay, falling back into the same divisions that have stood in the way of action for years. And we will be back having the same stale arguments month after month, year after year, perhaps decade after decade, all while the danger of climate change grows until it is irreversible.<p>Ladies and gentlemen, there is no time to waste. America has made our choice. We have charted our course. We have made our commitments. We will do what we say. Now I believe it's the time for the nations and the people of the world to come together behind a common purpose.<p>We are ready to get this done today, but there has to be movement on all sides to recognize that it is better for us to act than to talk; it's better for us to choose action over inaction, the future over the past. And with courage and faith, I believe that we can meet our responsibilities to our people and the future of our planet. Thank you very much.\" "
"368" "\"Over the past few decades, there has been an intense struggle in Washington between the lobbyists for the insurance industry and the interests of the American people over what's been called a patient's bill of rights, a set of rules to protect Americans from some of the worst practices of the health insurance industry, rules to ensure that all Americans are getting the care they need from their doctors and the care they deserve from their insurance companies.<p>The last time a patient's bill of rights was within reach was roughly a decade ago, and it was supported by Democrats and Republicans alike, from Ted Kennedy to John McCain. It included the right to an appeals process so you could challenge an unfair decision by an insurance company before a third party. It included the right to choose your own doctor. It included the right to access information about what your health insurance plan means for you, and it called for a new level of transparency so that patients would know if their doctor had a conflict of interest when providing services.<p>Now, this patient's bill of rights never made it into law. It fell victim, again and again, to the same special interest lobbying that has blocked passage of health insurance reform for so many decades. But today, we are being given another chance to make it a reality, because each of these rights, and many more, are incorporated in the health insurance reform bill that recently passed the House of Representatives and in the bill that is currently making its way through the Senate.<p>Both the House and the Senate bills would make it against the law for insurance companies to deny you coverage on the basis of a preexisting condition or illness. Both would stop insurers from charging exorbitant premiums on the basis of age, health, or gender. Both would prevent insurance companies from dropping your coverage when you get sick, and both would put a limit on how much you have to pay out of pocket for the treatments you need in a year or a lifetime.<p>Simply put, the protections currently included in both the health insurance reform bill passed by the House and the version currently on the Senate floor would represent the toughest measures we've ever taken to hold the insurance industry accountable. Anyone who says otherwise simply hasn't read the bills. Just open these proposals at random and you'll find on almost any page patient protections that dwarf any of those passed by Congress in at least a decade.<p>These protections are just one part of a landmark reform that will finally reduce the cost of health care. When it becomes law, families will save on their premiums. Small businesses and Americans who don't get any insurance today through their employers will no longer be forced to pay punishingly high rates to get coverage. This legislation will also strengthen Medicare and extend the life of the program, while saving senior citizens hundreds of dollars a year in prescription costs. And reforms to target waste, inefficiency, and price gouging by the insurance industry will help make this the largest deficit reduction plan in over a decade.<p>The insurance industry knows all this. That's why they're at it again, using their muscle in Washington to try to block a vote that they know they will lose. They're lobbying; they're running ads; they're spending millions of dollars to kill health insurance reform, just like they've done so many times before. They want to preserve a system that works better for the insurance industry than it does for the American people.<p>But now, for the first time, there is a clear majority in the Senate that's willing to stand up to the insurance lobby and embrace lasting health insurance reforms that have eluded us for generations. The question is whether the minority that opposes these reforms will continue to use parliamentary maneuvers to try and stop the Senate from voting on them.<p>Whatever their position on health insurance reform, Senators ought to allow an up-or-down vote. Let's bring this long and vigorous debate to an end. Let's deliver on the promise of health insurance reforms that will make our people healthier, our economy stronger, and our future more secure. And as this difficult year comes to a close, let's show the American people that we are equal to the task of meeting our great challenges.<p>Thanks for listening, and on behalf of Michelle, Malia, Sasha, and Bo, happy holidays from our family to yours.\" "
"369" "\"Hello. Good afternoon, everybody. You know that I am from Chicago, so let me first say that with the place where I live covered with snow, I'm finally starting to feel like home. And I am sorry to drag you guys out in this weather, but I wanted to speak briefly to you about the significant progress that we've made on two of the major challenges facing the American people: the crushing costs of health care and our dangerous dependence on fossil fuels.<p>On health care, with today's developments, it now appears that the American people will have the vote they deserve on genuine reform that offers security to those who have health insurance and affordable options for those who do not. And so I want to thank Senator Harry Reid and every Senator who's been working around the clock to make this happen.<p>There's still much work left to be done, but not a lot of time left to do it. But today is a major step forward for the American people. After a nearly century-long struggle, we are on the cusp of making health care reform a reality in the United States of America.<p>As with any legislation, compromise is part of the process. But I'm pleased that recently added amendments have made this landmark bill even stronger. Between the time the bill passes and the time when the insurance exchange gets up and running, there will now be penalties for insurance companies that arbitrarily jack up rates on consumers. And while insurance companies will be prevented from denying coverage on the basis of preexisting conditions once the exchange is open, in the meantime, there will be a high risk pool where people with preexisting conditions can purchase affordable coverage.<p>And a recent amendment has made these protections even stronger. Insurance companies will now be prohibited from denying coverage to children immediately after this bill passes. There's also explicit language in this bill that will protect a patient's choice of doctor. And small businesses will get additional assistance as well.<p>Now, these protections are in addition to the ones we've been talking about for some time. No longer will insurance companies be able to drop your coverage if you become sick, and no longer will you have to pay unlimited amounts out of your own pocket for treatments that you need.<p>Under this bill, family will save on their premiums, businesses that will see their costs rise if we don't act will save money now and in the future. This bill will strengthen Medicare and extend the life of the program. Because it's paid for and gets rid of waste and inefficiency in our health care system, this will be the largest deficit reduction plan in over a decade. In fact, we just learned from the Congressional Budget Office that this bill will reduce our deficit by $132 billion over the first decade of the program and more than $1 trillion in the decade after that. Finally, this reform will make coverage affordable for over 30 million Americans who don't have it&mdash;over 30 million Americans.<p>As I said before, these are not small changes. These are big changes. They're fundamental reforms. They will save money. They will save lives. And I look forward to working with the Senate and the House to finish the work that remains so that we can make this reform a reality for the American people.<p>I also want to briefly mention the progress we made in Copenhagen yesterday. For the first time in history, all of the major&mdash;the world's major economies have come together to accept their responsibility to take action to confront the threat of climate change. After extremely difficult and complex negotiations, this important breakthrough lays the foundation for international action in the years to come.<p>Now, this progress did not come easily, and we know that progress on this particular aspect of climate change negotiations is not enough. And going forward, we're going to have to build on the momentum that we established in Copenhagen to ensure that international action to significantly reduce emissions is sustained and sufficient over time.<p>At home that means continuing our efforts to build a clean energy economy that has the potential to create millions of new jobs and new industries, and it means passing legislation that will create the incentives necessary to spark this clean energy revolution.<p>So even though we have a long way to go, there's no question that we've accomplished a great deal over the last few days. And I want America to continue to lead on this journey, because if America leads in developing clean energy, we will lead in growing our economy and putting our people back to work and leaving a stronger and more secure country to our children. That's why I went to Copenhagen yesterday, and that's why I will continue in these efforts in the weeks and months to come.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"370" "\"<i>Health Care Reform</i><p>Hello, everybody. Good morning. Before I begin, I want to say a brief word about the historic vote which took place earlier this morning. The United States Senate knocked down a filibuster aimed at blocking a final vote on health care reform and scored a big victory for the American people. By standing up to the special interests who've prevented reform for decades and who are furiously lobbying against it now, the Senate has moved us closer to reform that makes a tremendous difference for families, for seniors, for businesses, and for the country as a whole.<p>For those who have insurance, reform will mean greater security and stability. No longer will people with preexisting conditions be excluded from coverage. No longer will people who are seriously ill be dropped from coverage. And no longer will families be allowed to go broke because they're forced to pay exorbitant out-of-pocket expenses. <p>Many people recall the enormous fights around the patient's bill of rights that never got done. Well, you know what? The patient's bill of rights is embedded in this health care bill and&mdash;to make sure that all Americans who have insurance right now are getting a fair deal from their insurance companies.<p>Small businesses and those who don't get insurance through their employer will finally be able to get insurance at a price that they can afford with tax credits to help. And Medicare will be stronger and its solvency extended by nearly a decade. Seniors will get more assistance with prescription drug costs than they're getting right now. And finally, these reforms will help the inexorable and unsustainable rise in health care costs that are overwhelming families, businesses, and the Federal budget. <p>The Congressional Budget Office now reports that this bill will reduce our deficit by $132 billion over the first decade and by as much as $1.3 trillion in the decade after that. So I just want to be clear: For all those who are continually carping about how this is somehow a big spending Government bill, this cuts our deficit by $132 billion the first 10 years and by over a trillion in the second. That argument that opponents are making against this bill does not hold water. <p><i>SAVE Award Presentation</i><p>Now, embracing this kind of responsibility in Washington is what also brings us here today. I am pleased to be joined this morning by my Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Ric Shinseki; my Budget Director, Peter Orszag; and our special guest, last but not least, the winner of the first annual SAVE Award, and that's Nancy Fichtner of Loma, Colorado. <p>Now, having met with Nancy a few minutes ago, I can tell you Nancy means business. She is a single working mom; she's a clerk with the VA; she's an artist; she's an outdoorswoman; and she is an avid hunter. In fact, somewhere in the Western United States, there is an elk that is breathing a sigh of relief because Nancy is here instead of where she would have been: hunting with her kids. And I believe her children are here; where's Nancy's kids? There they are right there. It's great to see you guys. Nancy's daughter, she skins and guts her elk&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;so don't mess with her either. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>We're all here for a simple reason. At a time when we face not only a fiscal crisis but also a host of difficult challenges as a nation, business as usual in Washington just won't cut it. We need a Government that's more efficient, that's more effective, and far more fiscally responsible. <p>And when my administration walked through the door, the country faced a growing economic downturn as well as a deepening fiscal hole. Washington had passed massive tax cuts for the wealthy and an expensive new entitlement program without paying for any of it. Health care costs continued to rise, year after year. And little effort was made to cut wasteful spending. As a result, over the previous 8 years, the national debt doubled&mdash;doubled. In January, the deficit stood at $1.3 trillion, and we had to make the difficult decision to add to the deficit in the short term to prevent the potential collapse of our economy. <p>But as I've said, in the long run, we can't continue to spend as if deficits don't have consequences, as if waste doesn't matter, as if the hard-earned tax dollars of the American people can be treated like Monopoly money. That's what we've seen time and time again. Washington's become more concerned about the next election than the next generation. It's put off hard choices, spending bill after spending bill, budget after bloated budget. <p>Government contracting is a perfect example. Between 2002 and 2008, the amount spent on Government contracts more than doubled. And the amount spent on no-bid, noncompetitive contracts jumped by 129 percent. This is an inexcusable waste of money. And that's why, back in March, I ordered Federal departments and agencies to come up with plans to save up to $40 billion a year in contracting by 2011. And over the past 6 months, agencies have been making cuts by looking for better deals, by ending contracts and doing work in house, and by opening up no-bid contracts to competitive bidding. Because of these efforts, I'm proud to announce today that we are on track to meet our goals. Twenty-four departments have identified more than $19 billion in savings for this year alone. <p>And this is only the latest example. At my very first Cabinet meeting, I directed every Secretary to join us in scouring the budget, line by line, to find ways to make Government more efficient and less wasteful. Together, we identified more than 100 programs to scale back or end completely, as well as other ways to cut costs, finding $17 billion in savings so far. <p>We're also going after roughly $100 billion wasted on improper payments to contractors, organizations, and individuals. To put this in perspective, these mistakes, and in some cases abuses, cost taxpayers more each year than the budgets for the Education and Homeland Security Departments combined. <p>We've done what some said was impossible: preventing wasteful spending on outdated weapons systems that even the Pentagon says it doesn't need. And I've insisted from the beginning that health care reform will not add one dime to our deficit. And as I just noted, not only is it not adding to our deficit, it's actually reducing it. <p>And finally, I've issued a challenge to every man and woman who works for the Federal Government: If you see a way that Government can do its job better, or do the same job for less money, I want to know about it. And that's why we started the SAVE Award, to draw on those who know Government best to improve how Government works. We asked Federal employees to submit reform proposals based on their experiences. And in a testament to the seriousness with which these folks are taking their jobs, we received more than 38,000 proposals in just 3 weeks. <p>From these submissions, four finalists were selected and put to an online vote. Nancy is here because she won. Her idea stems from her experience at the VA Medical Center where she works. She noticed that whenever patients left the hospital, leftover medications like eye drops or inhalers were just thrown away. And often, veterans would have to go right back to the pharmacy to refill what was discarded. So the VA is paying twice. It's waste, plain and simple. And thanks to Nancy and to Secretary Shinseki and the folks at Veterans Affairs, we're putting a stop to it. The change is already underway.<p>Of course, Nancy's proposal was just one of many great ideas that came to us. We've already begun to implement a host of suggestions made through the SAVE contest. And while promoting electronic paystubs or scheduling Social Security appointments online or repurposing unused Government supplies may not be the most glamorous reforms in history, when taken together, these small changes add up; they add up to a transformation of how Government works. <p>And that's why we're going to turn the SAVE Award into an annual event. That's why we're holding a forum at the White House next month to seek more ideas from the private sector, specifically about how we can better use technology to reform our Government for the 21st century. <p>After years of irresponsibility, we are once again taking responsibility for every dollar we spend, the same way families do. It's true that what I've described today will not be enough to get us out of our fiscal mess by itself. We face a deficit that will take some tough decisions in the next year's budget and in years to come to get under control. But these changes will save the American people billions of dollars. And they'll help to put in place a Government that's more efficient and effective, that wastes less money on no-bid contracts, that's cutting bureaucracy and harnessing technology, that's more fiscally responsible, and that better serve the American taxpayer. That's the Government we need. That's the Government I intend to implement. That's the kind of Government that the American people deserve. And that's the kind of Government that people like Nancy are helping to build each and every day. <p>So, Nancy, congratulations. We're proud of you. Thank you so much. Thank you. We're very proud of your mom. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's great.<p>Thank you, everybody.\" "
"371" "\"<i>The President</i>. I think one thing that's important to remember is that even though there's a lot of fun at Christmas, you know, you got&mdash;especially when it's snowy like this&mdash;the&mdash;so it's pretty outside&mdash;you got the Christmas tree, you got the Christmas cookies, you've got presents. You know, I think that the most important thing is just to remember why we celebrate Christmas, which is&mdash;&mdash;<p><i>Child</i>. I know.<p><i>The President</i>. Do you know?<p><i>Child</i>. The birth of baby Jesus.<p><i>The President</i>. The birth of baby Jesus, and the&mdash;and what he symbolizes for people all around the world is the possibility of peace and people treating each other with respect. And so I just hope that spirit of giving that's so important at Christmas, I hope all of you guys remember that as well. You know, it's not just about getting a gift, but it's also doing something for other people. <p><i>Child.</i> I know.<p><i>The President.</i> So being nice to your mom and dad and grandma and aunties and showing respect to people, that's really important too, that's part of the Christmas spirit, don't you think? Do you agree with me?<p><i>Children</i>. Yes.<p><i>The President</i>. You do? Do you have an interesting observation?<p><i>Child</i>. I know why we give gifts to other people.<p><i>The President</i>. Why is that?<p><i>Child</i>. Because the three wise men gave gifts to baby Jesus.<p><i>The President</i>. That's exactly right. But the three wise men&mdash;the reason&mdash;&mdash;<p>[<i>At this point, a sign fell off the wall.</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> &mdash;&mdash;uh-oh, I thought that was the cookies going down. <p><i>Child.</i> Oh, no, we can't have that.<p><i>The President.</i> We couldn't have that. <p>You know, the three wise men&mdash;if you think about it, here are these guys, they have all this money, they've got all this wealth and power, and yet they took a long trip to a manger just to see a little baby. And it just shows you that just because you're powerful or you're wealthy, that's not what's important. What's important is what's&mdash;the kind of spirit you have.<p>So I hope everybody has a spirit of kindness and thoughtfulness, and everybody is really thinking about how can they do for other people&mdash;treating them well, because that's really the spirit of Christmas.<p>Does everybody agree with that? <p><i>Children</i>. Yes!<p><i>The President</i>. I agree with that. Well, you guys all seem like really sharp, sharp young people. And I'm very proud of you. And let me just ask you one last question. Is everybody here working pretty hard in school?<p><i>Children</i>. Yes!<p><i>The President</i>. Okay, because the thing that I want everybody to remember&mdash;the most important message I can leave is, is that you guys are&mdash;have so much potential. One of you could end up being President some day. But it's only going to happen if you stay focused and you work hard in school. And you guys, there's nothing wrong with having fun and fooling around and playing sports and listening to rap music and all that stuff. But I want you guys to read and hit the books and do your math, because that's really what's going to determine how you do in the future. All right? That's the most important thing you can do.\" "
"372" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, everyone, and merry Christmas. As you and your families gather to celebrate the holidays, we want to take a moment to send greetings from our family: from me, from Michelle, from Malia, Sasha, and from Bo.<p><i>The First </i><i>Lady</i>. This is our first Christmas in the White House, and we are so grateful for this extraordinary experience. Not far from here, in the Blue Room, is the official White House Christmas tree. It's an 18-foot tall Douglas-fir from West Virginia, and it's decorated with hundreds of ornaments designed by people and children from all over the country. Each one is a reminder of the traditions we cherish as Americans and the blessings we're thankful for this holiday season.<p><i>The President</i>. That's right, especially as we continue to recover from an extraordinary recession that still has so many Americans hurting: parents without a job who struggled to put presents under the Christmas tree; families and neighbors who've seen their homes foreclosed; and folks wondering what the new year will bring.<p>But even in these tough times, there's still so much to celebrate this Christmas: a message of peace and brotherhood that continues to inspire more than 2,000 years after Jesus' birth, the love of family and friends, the bonds of community and country, and the character and courage of our men and women in uniform who are far from home for the holidays, away from their families, risking their lives to protect ours.<p>To all our soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, and coast guardsmen: I have no greater honor than serving as your Commander in Chief. I've been awed by your selfless spirit, your eagerness to serve, at the Naval Academy and West Point. I've been energized by your dedication to duty, from Baghdad to the Korean Peninsula. Michelle and I have been moved by your determination: wounded warriors at Walter Reed and Bethesda fighting to recover, to get back to your units.<p>And I've been humbled profoundly by patriots who have made the ultimate sacrifice for our freedom, in flag-draped caskets coming home at Dover, in the quiet solitude of Arlington. And after years of multiple tours of duty, as you carry on our missions in Iraq and Afghanistan, your service, your readiness to make that same sacrifice, is an inspiration to us and to every single American.<p><i>The </i><i>First Lady</i>. And so are your families. As First Lady, one of my greatest privileges is to visit with military families across the country. I've met military spouses doing the parenting of two, keeping the household together, juggling play dates and soccer games, helping with homework, doing everything they can to make the kids feel okay even as they try to hide their own fears and worries.<p>I've met kids who wonder when mom or dad is coming home, grandparents and relatives who step in to care for wounded warriors, and folks trying to carry on after losing the person they loved most in the world. And through it all, these families somehow still find the time and the energy to serve their communities as well, coaching Little League, running the PTA, raising money to help those less fortunate than they are, and more. <p>But even these strong military families can use a hand, especially during the holidays. If you live near a military base, you can reach out through your workplaces, your schools, your churches. There are so many ways to help, with childcare, with errands, or just by bringing over a home-cooked meal. Even if you don't know a military family nearby, your family can still help by donating or volunteering at organizations that support military families.<p><i>The President</i>. You can also reach out directly to our forces around the world. Kids can make a card that will bring a smile to an American far from home. Adults can send a care package or a prepaid phone card that makes the tour just a little bit easier. Every American can do something to support our troops, even if it's as simple as just saying thank you. For more ways to let our troops know you care, go to www.whitehouse.gov.<p>So to all our men and women in uniform spending the holidays far away from home, whether it's at a base here in the States, a mess hall in Iraq, or a remote outpost in Afghanistan, know that you are in our thoughts and in our prayers. And this holiday season&mdash;and every holiday season&mdash;know that we are doing everything in our power to make sure you can succeed in your missions and come home safe to your families.<p><i>The </i><i>First Lady</i>. And to all Americans, from our family to yours, merry Christmas.<p><i>The President</i>. Merry Christmas, everybody.\" "
"373" "\"<i>Attempted Terrorist Act on Northwest Airlines Flight 253</i><p>Hey, guys. Good morning, everybody. I want to take just a few minutes to update the American people on the attempted terrorist attack that occurred on Christmas Day and the steps we're taking to ensure the safety and security of the country.<p>The investigation's ongoing, and I spoke again this morning with Attorney General Eric Holder, the Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano, and my Counterterrorism and Homeland Security Adviser, John Brennan. I asked them to keep&mdash;continue monitoring the situation, to keep the American people and Members of Congress informed.<p>Here's what we know so far. On Christmas Day, Northwest Airlines Flight 253 was en route from Amsterdam, Netherlands, to Detroit. As the plane made its final approach to Detroit Metropolitan Airport, a passenger allegedly tried to ignite an explosive device on his body, setting off a fire.<p>Thanks to the quick and heroic actions of passengers and crew, the suspect was immediately subdued, the fire was put out, and the plane landed safely. The suspect is now in custody and has been charged with attempting to destroy an aircraft. And a full investigation has been launched into this attempted act of terrorism, and we will not rest until we find all who were involved and hold them accountable.<p>Now, this was a serious reminder of the dangers that we face and the nature of those who threaten our homeland. Had the suspect succeeded in bringing down that plane, it could have killed nearly 300 passengers and crew, innocent civilians preparing to celebrate the holidays with their families and friends.<p>The American people should be assured that we are doing everything in our power to keep you and your families safe and secure during this busy holiday season. Since I was first notified of this incident, I've ordered the following actions to be taken to protect the American people and to secure air travel.<p>First, I directed that we take immediate steps to ensure the safety of the traveling public. We made sure that all flights still in the air were secure and could land safely. We immediately enhanced screening and security procedures for all flights, domestic and international. We added Federal air marshals to flights entering and leaving the United States. And we're working closely in this country&mdash;Federal, State, and local law enforcement&mdash;with our international partners.<p>Second, I've ordered two important reviews, because it's absolutely critical that we learn from this incident and take the necessarymeasures to prevent future acts of terrorism. The first review involves our watch list system, which our Government has had in place for many years to identify known and suspected terrorists so that we can prevent their entry into the United States.<p>Apparently, the suspect in the Christmas incident was in this system, but not on a watch list such as the so-called no-fly list. So I've ordered a thorough review not only of how information related to the subject was handled but of the overall watch list system and how it can be strengthened.<p>The second review will examine all screening policies, technologies, and procedures related to air travel. We need to determine just how the suspect was able to bring dangerous explosives aboard an aircraft and what additional steps we can take to thwart future attacks.<p>Third, I've directed my national security team to keep up the pressure on those who would attack our country. We do not yet have all the answers about this latest attempt, but those who would slaughter innocent men, women, and children must know that the United States will more&mdash;do more than simply strengthen our defenses; we will continue to use every element of our national power to disrupt, to dismantle, and defeat the violent extremists who threaten us, whether they are from Afghanistan or Pakistan, Yemen or Somalia, or anywhere where they are plotting attacks against the U.S. homeland.<p>Finally, the American people should remain vigilant, but also be confident. Those plotting against us seek not only to undermine our security but also the open society and the values that we cherish as Americans. This incident, like several that have preceded it, demonstrates that an alert and courageous citizenry are far more resilient than an isolated extremist. As a nation, we will do everything in our power to protect our country. As Americans, we will never give in to fear or division; we will be guided by our hopes, our unity, and our deeply held values. That's who we are as Americans. That's what our brave men and women in uniform are standing up for as they spend the holidays in harm's way. And we will continue to do everything that we can to keep America safe in the new year and beyond.<p><i>Situation in Iran</i><p>Before I leave, let me also briefly address the events that have taken place over the last few days in the Islamic Republic of Iran.<p>The United States joins with the international community in strongly condemning the violent and unjust suppression of innocent Iranian citizens, which has apparently resulted in detentions, injuries, and even death. <p>For months, the Iranian people have sought nothing more than to exercise their universal rights. Each time they have done so, they have been met with the iron fist of brutality, even on solemn occasions and holy days. And each time that has happened the world has watched with deep admiration for the courage and the conviction of the Iranian people, who are part of Iran's great and enduring civilization.<p>What's taking place within Iran is not about the United States or any other country; it's about the Iranian people and their aspirations for justice and a better life for themselves. And the decision of Iran's leaders to govern through fear and tyranny will not succeed in making those aspirations go away. As I said in Oslo, it's telling when governments fear the aspirations of their own people more than the power of any other nation.<p>Along with all free nations, the United States stands with those who seek their universal rights. We call upon the Iranian Government to abide by the international obligations that it has to respect the rights of its own people. We call for the immediate release of all who have been unjustly detained within Iran. We will continue to bear witness to the extraordinary events that are taking place there. And I'm confident that history will be on the side of those who seek justice.<p>Thank you very much, everybody, and happy New Year.\" "
"374" "\"Good morning. Yesterday I updated the American people on the immediate steps we took, the increased screening and security of air travel, to keep our country safe in the wake of the attempted terrorist attack on Christmas Day. And I announced two reviews, a review of our terrorist watch list system and a review of our air travel screening, so we can find out what went wrong, fix it, and prevent future attacks.<p>Those reviews began on Sunday and are now underway. Earlier today I issued the former [formal]* guidelines for those reviews and directed that preliminary findings be provided to the White House by this Thursday. It's essential that we diagnose the problems quickly and deal with them immediately.<p>Now, the more comprehensive, formal reviews and recommendations for improvement will be completed in the coming weeks, and I'm committed to working with Congress and our intelligence, law enforcement, and homeland security communities to take all necessary steps to protect the country.<p>I wanted to speak to the American people again today because some of this preliminary information that has surfaced in the last 24 hours raises some serious concerns. It's been widely reported that the father of the suspect in the Christmas incident warned U.S. officials in Africa about his son's extremist views. It now appears that weeks ago, this information was passed to a component of our intelligence community, but was not effectively distributed so as to get the suspect's name on a no-fly list.<p>There appears to be other deficiencies as well. Even without this one report, there were bits of information available within the intelligence community that could have and should have been pieced together. We've achieved much since 9/11 in terms of collecting information that relates to terrorists and potential terrorist attacks, but it's becoming clear that the system that has been in place for years now is not sufficiently up to date to take full advantage of the information we collect and the knowledge we have.<p>Had this critical information been shared, it could have been compiled with other intelligence and a fuller, clearer picture of the suspect would have emerged. The warning signs would have triggered red flags and the suspect would have never been allowed to board that plane for America.<p>Now, the professionalism of the men and women in our intelligence, counterterrorism, and law enforcement and homeland security communities is extraordinary. They are some of the most hard-working, most dedicated Americans that I've ever met. In pursuit of our security here at home, they risk their lives, day in, day out, in this country and around the world.<p>Few Americans see their work, but all Americans are safer because of their successes. They have targeted and taken out violent extremists; they have disrupted plots and saved countless American lives; they are making real and daily progress in our mission to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat Al Qaida and other extremist networks around the world. And for this, every American owes them a profound and lasting debt of gratitude.<p>Moreover, as Secretary Napolitano has said, once the suspect attempted to take down Flight 253&mdash;after his attempt, it's clear that passengers and crew, our homeland security systems, and our aviation security took all appropriate actions. But what's also clear is this: When our Government has information on a known extremist and that information is not shared and acted upon as it should have been, so that this extremist boards a plane with dangerous explosives that could have cost nearly 300 lives, a systemic failure has occurred. And I consider that totally unacceptable.<p>The reviews I've ordered will surely tell us more. But what already is apparent is that there was a mix of human and systemic failures that contributed to this potential catastrophic breach of security. We need to learn from this episode and act quickly to fix the flaws in our system, because our security is at stake and lives are at stake.<p>I fully understand that even when every person charged with ensuring our security does what they are trained to do, even when every system works exactly as intended, there is still no 100 percent guarantee of success. Yet this should only compel us to work even harder, to be even more innovative and relentless in our efforts.<p>As President, I will do everything in my power to support the men and women in intelligence, law enforcement, and homeland security to make sure they've got the tools and resources they need to keep America safe. But it's also my job to ensure that our intelligence, law enforcement, and homeland security systems and the people in them are working effectively and held accountable. I intend to fulfill that responsibility and insist on accountability at every level.<p>That's the spirit guiding our reviews into the attempted attack on Christmas Day. That's the spirit that will guide all our efforts in the days and years ahead.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
