"x"
"1" "\"It's now been more than a week since the attempted act of terrorism aboard the flight in Detroit on Christmas Day. On Thursday, I received the preliminary findings of the review that I ordered into our terrorist watch list system and air travel screening. I've directed my Counterterrorism and Homeland Security Adviser at the White House, John Brennan, to lead these reviews going forward and to present the final results and recommendations to me in the days to come.<p>As I said this week, I will do everything in my power to make sure our hard-working men and women in our intelligence, law enforcement, and homeland security communities have the tools and resources they need to keep America safe. This includes making sure these communities and the people in them are coordinating effectively and are held accountable at every level. And as President, that's what I'll do.<p>Meanwhile, the investigation into the Christmas Day incident continues, and we're learning more about the suspect. We know that he traveled to Yemen, a country grappling with crushing poverty and deadly insurgencies. It appears that he joined an affiliate of Al Qaida and that this group, Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, trained him, equipped him with those explosives, and directed him to attack that plane headed for America.<p>This is not the first time this group has targeted us. In recent years, they've bombed Yemeni Government facilities and Western hotels, restaurants, and Embassies, including our Embassy in 2008, killing one American. So, as President, I've made it a priority to strengthen our partnership with the Yemeni Government, training and equipping their security forces, sharing intelligence, and working with them to strike Al Qaida terrorists.<p>And even before Christmas Day, we had seen the results. Training camps have been struck, leaders eliminated, plots disrupted. And all those involved in the attempted act of terrorism on Christmas must know: You too will be held to account.<p>But these efforts are only part of a wider cause. It's been nearly a year since I stood on the steps of the U.S. Capitol and took the oath of office as your President. And with that oath came the solemn responsibility that I carry with me every moment of every day, the responsibility to protect the safety and security of the American people.<p>On that day, I also made it very clear our Nation is at war against a far-reaching network of violence and hatred and that we will do whatever it takes to defeat them and defend our country, even as we uphold the values that have always distinguished America among nations.<p>Make no mistake, that's exactly what we've been doing. It's why I refocused the fight, bringing to a responsible end the war in Iraq, which had nothing to do with the 9/11 attacks, and dramatically increasing our resources in the region where Al Qaida is actually based, in Afghanistan and Pakistan. That's why I've set a clear and achievable mission to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat Al Qaida and its extremist allies and prevent their return to either country. And it's why we've forged new partnerships, as in Yemen, and put unrelenting pressure on these extremists wherever they plot and train, from East Africa to Southeast Asia, from Europe to the Persian Gulf.<p>And though often out of sight, our progress has been unmistakable. Along with our partners, we've disrupted terrorist financing, cut off recruiting chains, inflicted major losses on Al Qaida's leadership, thwarted plots here in the United States, and saved countless American lives.<p>Yet as the Christmas Day attempt illustrates, and as we were reminded this week by the sacrifices of more brave Americans in Afghanistan, including those seven dedicated men and women of the CIA, the hard work of protecting our Nation is never done. So as our reviews continue, let us ask the questions that need to be asked. Let us make the changes that need to be made. Let us debate the best way to protect the country we all love. That's the right and responsibility of every American and every elected official.<p>But as we go forward, let us remember this: Our adversaries are those who would attack our country, not our fellow Americans, not each other. Let us never forget what has always carried us through times of trial, including those attacks eight Septembers ago.<p>Instead of giving in to fear and cynicism, let's renew that timeless American spirit of resolve and confidence and optimism. Instead of succumbing to partisanship and division, let's summon the unity that this moment demands. Let's work together, with a seriousness of purpose, to do what must be done to keep our country safe.<p>As we begin this new year, I can't imagine a more fitting resolution to guide us as a people and as a nation. <p>Happy New Year.\" "
"2" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. I just concluded a meeting with members of my national security team, including those from our intelligence, homeland security, and law enforcement agencies involved in the security reviews that I ordered after the failed attack on Christmas Day.<p>I called these leaders to the White House because we face a challenge of the utmost urgency. As we saw on Christmas, Al Qaida and its extremist allies will stop at nothing in their efforts to kill Americans. And we are determined not only to thwart those plans but to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat their networks once and for all.<p>Indeed, over the past year, we've taken the fight to Al Qaida and its allies wherever they plot and train, be it in Afghanistan and Pakistan, in Yemen and Somalia, or in other countries around the world.<p>Here at home, our intelligence, homeland security, and law enforcement agencies have worked together with considerable success, gathering intelligence, stitching it together, and making arrests--from Denver to Texas, from Illinois to New York--disrupting plots and saving American lives. And these successes have not come without a price, as we saw last week in the loss of our courageous CIA officers in Afghanistan.<p>But when a suspected terrorist is able to board a plane with explosives on Christmas Day, the system has failed in a potentially disastrous way. And it's my responsibility to find out why and to correct that failure so that we can prevent such attacks in the future.<p>And that's why, shortly after the attempted bombing over Detroit, I ordered two reviews. I directed Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano to review aviation screening technology and procedures. She briefed me on her initial findings today, and I'm pleased that this review is drawing on the best science and technology, including the expertise of Secretary of Energy Steven Chu and his Department.<p>I also directed my Counterterrorism and Homeland Security Adviser, John Brennan, to lead a thorough review into our terrorist watch-listing system so we can fix what went wrong. As we discussed today, this ongoing review continues to reveal more about the human and systemic failures that almost cost nearly 300 lives. We will make a summary of this preliminary report public within the next few days, but let me share some of what we know so far.<p>As I described over the weekend, elements of our intelligence community knew that Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab had traveled to Yemen and joined up with extremists there. It now turns out that our intelligence community knew of other red flags, that Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula sought to strike not only American targets in Yemen but the United States itself. And we had information that this group was working with an individual who was known--who we now know was in fact the individual involved in the Christmas attack.<p>The bottom line is this: The U.S. Government had sufficient information to have uncovered this plot and potentially disrupt the Christmas Day attack. But our intelligence community failed to connect those dots, which would have placed the suspect on the no-fly list.<p>In other words, this was not a failure to collect intelligence, it was a failure to integrate and understand the intelligence that we already had. The information was there. Agencies and analysts who needed it had access to it. And our professionals were trained to look for it and to bring it all together.<p>Now, I will accept that intelligence, by its nature, is imperfect, but it is increasingly clear that intelligence was not fully analyzed or fully leveraged. That's not acceptable, and I will not tolerate it. Time and again, we've learned that quickly piecing together information and taking swift action is critical to staying one step ahead of a nimble adversary.<p>So we have to do better, and we will do better, and we have to do it quickly. American lives are on the line. So I made it clear today to my team, I want our initial reviews completed this week; I want specific recommendations for corrective actions to fix what went wrong; I want those reforms implemented immediately, so that this doesn't happen again and so we can prevent future attacks. And I know that every member of my team that I met with today understands the urgency of getting this right. And I appreciate that each of them took responsibility for the shortfalls within their own agencies.<p>Immediately after the attack, I ordered concrete steps to protect the American people: new screening and security for all flights, domestic and international, more explosive detection teams at airports, more air marshals on flights, and deepening cooperation with international partners.<p>In recent days, we've taken additional steps to improve security. Counterterrorism officials have reviewed and updated our terrorist watch list system, including adding more individuals to the no-fly list. And while our review has found that our watch-listing system is not broken, the failure to add Abdulmutallab to the no-fly list shows that this system needs to be strengthened.<p>The State Department is now requiring Embassies and consulates to include current visa information in their warning on individuals with terrorist or suspected terrorist connections. As of yesterday, the Transportation Security Administration, or TSA, is requiring enhanced screening for passengers flying into the United States from or flying through, nations on our list of state sponsors of terrorism or other countries of interest. And in the days ahead, I will announce further steps to disrupt attacks, including better integration of information and enhanced passenger screening for air travel.<p>Finally, some have suggested that the events on Christmas Day should cause us to revisit the decision to close the prison at Guantanamo Bay. So let me be clear: It was always our intent to transfer detainees to other countries only under conditions that provide assurances that our security is being protected.<p>With respect to Yemen in particular, there's an ongoing security situation, which we have been confronting for some time, along with our Yemeni partner. Given the unsettled situation, I've spoken to the Attorney General and we've agreed that we will not be transferring additional detainees back to Yemen at this time.<p>But make no mistake: We will close Guantanamo prison, which has damaged our national security interests and become a tremendous recruiting tool for Al Qaida. In fact, that was an explicit rationale for the formation of Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula. And as I've always said, we will do so--we will close the prison in a manner that keeps the American people safe and secure.<p>Our reviews, and the steps that we've taken and will continue to take, go to the heart of the kind of intelligence and homeland security we need in the 21st century. Just as Al Qaida and its allies are constantly evolving and adapting their efforts to strike us, we have to constantly adapt and evolve to defeat them, because as we saw on Christmas, the margin for error is slim and the consequences of failure can be catastrophic.<p>As these violent extremists pursue new havens, we intend to target Al Qaida wherever they take root, forging new partnerships to deny them sanctuary, as we are doing currently with the Government in Yemen. As our adversaries seek new recruits, we'll constantly review and rapidly update our intelligence and our institutions. As they refine our tactics, we'll enhance our defenses, including smarter screening and security at airports and investing in the technologies that might have detected the kind of explosives used on Christmas.<p>In short, we need our intelligence, homeland security, and law enforcement systems, and the people in them, to be accountable and to work as intended: collecting, sharing, integrating, analyzing, and acting on intelligence as quickly and effectively as possible to save innocent lives, not just most of the time, but all of the time. That's what the American people deserve. As President, that's exactly what I will demand.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"3" "\"Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. Thank you. Well, it is wonderful to be here. Barbara, thank you for the outstanding introduction. I want to acknowledge a few other special guests that we have here. First of all, my terrific Vice President, mainly because he takes orders from Dr. Jill Biden. [<i>Laughter</i>] Dr. Jill Biden and Vice President Joe Biden are here. Somebody--I've never met somebody who's more passionate about making sure that young people do well than my Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan--Arne Duncan. My--before I won a Nobel Peace Prize, this guy had won it, and nobody questioned whether he deserved it or not--[<i>Laughter</i>]--my Secretary of Energy, Steven Chu.<p>Three wonderful Members of Congress who have devoted a lot of energy to the issue of science and math education; I want to acknowledge them. Representative Bart Gordon, who's the chairman of the Science and Technology Committee, Democrat from Tennessee--where's Bart? There he is--thank you, Bart. Representative William Lacy Clay, from the great State of Missouri, and his district is home to two teachers who are being honored here today, so he's very proud of them. And a great champion of education generally, he's the chairman of the Education and Labor Committee, Representative George Miller of California who's in the house.<p>We also--since so many people were inspired in this country originally from our space program to think about math and science in new ways, it's terrific to have our NASA Administrator and former astronaut Charles Bolden in the house. We've got Regina Dugan, who is the Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or DARPA, as many of you know. We can thank them for the Internet and all kinds of other stuff. So please give Regina a big round of applause. And our National Science Foundation Director, Arden Bement, is here. Thank you so much, Arden. <p>Now, most importantly, to all the teachers who are here, as President, I am just thrilled to welcome you, teachers and mentors, to the White House, because I believe so strongly in the work that you do. And as I mentioned to some of you, because I've got two girls upstairs with math tests coming up, I figure that a little extra help from the best of the best couldn't hurt. So you're going to have assignments after this. [<i>Laughter</i>] These awards were not free. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We are here today to honor teachers and mentors like Barb who are upholding their responsibility not just to the young people who they teach, but to our country, by inspiring and educating a new generation in math and science. But we're also here because this responsibility can't be theirs alone. All of us have a role to play in building an education system that is worthy of our children and ready to help us seize the opportunities and meet the challenges of the 21st century. <p>Whether it's improving our health or harnessing clean energy, protecting our security or succeeding in the global economy, our future depends on reaffirming America's role as the world's engine of scientific discovery and technological innovation. And that leadership tomorrow depends on how we educate our students today, especially in math, science, technology, and engineering. <p>But despite the importance of education in these subjects, we have to admit we are right now being outpaced by our competitors. One assessment shows American 15-year-olds now ranked 21st in science and 25th in math when compared to their peers around the world. Think about that, 21st and 25th, that's not acceptable. And year after year the gap between the number of teachers we have and the number of teachers we need in these areas is widening. The shortfall is projected to climb past a quarter of a million teachers in the next 5 years, and that gap is most pronounced in predominately poor and minority schools. <p>And meanwhile, other nations are stepping up, a fact that was plain to see when I visited Asia at the end of last year. The President of South Korea and I were having lunch, and I asked him, What's the biggest education challenge that you have? He told me his biggest challenge in education wasn't budget holes, it wasn't crumbling schools, it was that the parents were too demanding. [<i>Laughter</i>] He's had to import thousands of foreign teachers because parents insisted on English language training in elementary school. The mayor of Shanghai, China, a city of over 20 million people, told me that even in such a large city, they had no problem recruiting teachers in whatever subject, but particularly math and science, because teaching is revered and the pay scales are comparable to professions like doctors. <p>So make no mistake: Our future is on the line. The nation that outeducates us today is going to outcompete us tomorrow. To continue to cede our leadership in education is to cede our position in the world. That's not acceptable to me, and I know it's not acceptable to any of you. And that's why my administration has set a clear goal: to move from the middle to the top of the pack in science and math education over the next decade. <p>To reach this goal, we've paid particular attention to how we can better prepare and support, reward and retain, good teachers. So the Recovery Act included the largest investment in education by the Federal Government in history while preventing more than 300,000 teachers and school workers from being fired because of State budget shortfalls. The Department of Education will be announcing an additional $10 [$100]* million in grants for innovative programs to train new teachers, whether a young person embarking on his or her first career, or a scientist or engineer starting his or her second. <p>And under the outstanding leadership of Arne Duncan, we've launched a $4 billion Race to the Top Fund, one of the largest investments in education reform in history. Through the Race to the Top, States are competing for funding, and producing the most innovative programs in science and math will be an advantage in this competition, as will allowing scientists and statisticians and engineers to more easily become teachers. We want States and school districts to start being more creative about how they can attract more science and math teachers.<p>We're also pursuing reforms to better serve America's math and science teachers so that each and every one can be as effective as the educators that we honor today. So we're challenging States to raise standards, to use data to better inform decisions, to recruit and retain more good teachers, and to promote stronger curricula that encourage young people to not only learn the facts in a textbook, but to explore and discover the world around them. <p>Now as important as this will be, the success we seek is not going to be attained by government alone. And that's why I've challenged the scientific community to think of new and creative ways to engage young people in their fields. That's why we launched the \\"Educate to Innovate\\" campaign, a nationwide effort by citizens, non-for-profits, universities, and companies from across America to help us move to the top of the pack in math and science education. <p>And today we're expanding this campaign. Several new public-private partnerships are going to offer additional training to more than 100,000 teachers and prepare more than 10,000 new teachers in the next 5 years alone. And through the partnerships we are announcing today, support for the \\"Educate to Innovate\\" campaign has doubled to more than half a billion dollars in private funding. That's a figure that we only expect to grow. <p>To help educators already in the classroom, Intel is launching a 10-year, $200 million campaign to train math and science teachers in all 50 States to better use new technologies and techniques in their lessons plans. PBS and the National Science Teachers Association will also create a new online platform so science and math teachers can share best practices and learn from one another. <p>To bring more educators into the classroom, the National Math and Science Initiative is working with Texas Instruments and the Dell Foundation to prepare almost 5,000 new math and science teachers in the next 5 years through a program that allows young people to earn teaching certificates and science degrees at the same time. And presidents from more than 75 of the largest public universities in the country have committed to produce thousands of additional science and math teachers at their institutions. And the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation is expanding, with the help of several States and nonprofits, to place more math and science teachers in more high-need schools. <p>And just because you aren't a teacher, that doesn't mean you can't help educate our young people. We need to look no further than the mentors that we honor here today. I'm calling on all 200,000 scientists who work for the Federal Government to do their part in their communities: to speak at schools, to create hands-on learning opportunities through efforts like National Lab Day, and to help stoke that same curiosity in students which perhaps led them to pursue a career in science in the first place. NASA will also be launching an enrichment program to bring their scientists and engineers to students in the classroom and to bring students to NASA, so that they might experience that same sense of wonder and excitement while maybe learning a little bit at the same time. <p>And finally, as President, I'm going to try to do my part. We've held science-themed events like astronomy night here at the White House. That was very fun, by the way. [<i>Laughter</i>] We're planning an annual science fair to honor the student winners of national science and technology competitions. Secretary Duncan and I will be working to promote the teaching profession to show young people that teaching is one of the best and most rewarding ways to serve our country. And we are of course recognizing the folks in this room with awards for excellence in teaching and mentoring.<p>It's with these men and women that I'd like to conclude today, because in the end, the work that you do and the difference you make are what all these reforms are all about. Whether it's showing students how to record the habits of a resident reptile or teaching kids to test soil samples on a class trip to Costa Rica, whether it's helping young people from tough neighborhoods in Chicago to become junior paleontologists or creating a mentoring program that connects engineering students with girls and minorities, who are traditionally underserved in the field, all of you are demonstrating why teaching and mentoring is so important, and why we have to support you, equip you, and send in some reinforcements for you. <p>Every person in this room remembers a teacher or mentor that made a difference in their lives. Every person in this room remembers a moment in which an educator showed them something about the world, or something about themselves, that changed their lives. It could be a word of encouragement, a helping hand, a lesson that sparked a question that ignited a passion and ultimately may have propelled a career. And innovators, folks like Michael Dell who are here today, are made in those moments. Scientists and engineers are made in those moments; doctors are made in those moments; teachers are made in those moments, those small interactions.<p>So yes, improving our schools is about training a new generation of workers and succeeding in new industries. But a good education, provided with the help of great teachers and mentors, is about something more. It's about instilling in a young person a love of learning and a sense of possibility in their own lives, an understanding of the world around them that will serve them no matter what they do. That's what we have to do as a nation. That's what all of you do every day. And that's what, at root, will lead to greater opportunities and brighter horizons for the next generation and for generations to come.<p>So thank you very much everybody. Congratulations.\" "
"4" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. The immediate reviews that I ordered after the failed Christmas terrorist attack are now complete. I was just briefed on the findings and recommendations for reform, and I believe it's important that the American people understand the new steps that we're taking to prevent attacks and keep our country safe. <p>This afternoon my Counterterrorism and Homeland Security Adviser, John Brennan, will discuss his review into our terrorist watch list system, how our Government failed to connect the dots in a way that would have prevented a known terrorist from boarding a plane for America, and the steps we're going to take to prevent that from happening again.<p>Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano will discuss her review of aviation screening, technology, and procedures, how that terrorist boarded a plane with explosives that could have killed nearly 300 innocent people, and how we'll strengthen aviation security going forward.<p>So today I want to just briefly summarize their conclusions and the steps that I've ordered to address them. In our ever-changing world, America's first line of defense is timely, accurate intelligence that is shared, integrated, analyzed, and acted upon quickly and effectively. That's what the intelligence reforms after the 9/11 attacks largely achieved. That's what our intelligence community does every day. But unfortunately, that's not what happened in the lead-up to Christmas Day. It's now clear that shortcomings occurred in three broad and compounding ways. <p>First, although our intelligence community had learned a great deal about the Al Qaida affiliate in Yemen called Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula--that we knew that they sought to strike the United States, and that they were recruiting operatives to do so--the intelligence community did not aggressively follow up on and prioritize particular streams of intelligence related to a possible attack against the homeland. <p>Second, this contributed to a larger failure of analysis, a failure to connect the dots of intelligence that existed across our intelligence community and which together could have revealed that Abdulmutallab was planning an attack.<p>Third, this in turn fed into shortcomings in the watch-listing system, which resulted in this person not being placed on the no-fly list, thereby allowing him to board that plane in Amsterdam for Detroit. <p>In sum, the U.S. Government had the information--scattered throughout the system--to potentially uncover this plot and disrupt the attack. Rather than a failure to collect or share intelligence, this was a failure to connect and understand the intelligence that we already had.<p>Now, that's why we took swift action in the immediate days following Christmas, including reviewing and updating the terrorist watch list system and adding more individuals to the no-fly list and directing our Embassies and consulates to include current visa information in their warnings of individuals with terrorist or suspected terrorist ties. <p>Today I'm directing a series of additional corrective steps across multiple agencies. Broadly speaking, they fall into four areas.<p>First, I'm directing that our intelligence community immediately begin assigning specific responsibility for investigating all leads on high-priority threats so that these leads are pursued and acted upon aggressively, not just most of the time, but all of the time. We must follow the leads that we get, and we must pursue them until plots are disrupted. And that means assigning clear lines of responsibility.<p>Second, I'm directing that intelligence reports, especially those involving potential threats to the United States, be distributed more rapidly and more widely. We can't sit on information that could protect the American people. <p>Third, I'm directing that we strengthen the analytical process, how our analysis--how our analysts process and integrate the intelligence that they receive. My Director of National Intelligence, Denny Blair, will take the lead in improving our day-to-day efforts. My Intelligence Advisory Board will examine the longer term challenge of sifting through vast universes of intelligence and data in our information age. <p>And finally, I'm ordering an immediate effort to strengthen the criteria used to add individuals to our terrorist watch lists, especially the no-fly list. We must do better in keeping dangerous people off airplanes while still facilitating air travel. <p>So taken together, these reforms will improve the intelligence community's ability to collect, share, integrate, analyze, and act on intelligence swiftly and effectively. In short, they will help our intelligence community do its job even better and protect American lives. <p>But even the best intelligence can't identify in advance every individual who would do us harm. So we need the security--at our airports, ports, and borders, and through our partnerships with other nations--to prevent terrorists from entering America. <p>At the Amsterdam airport, Abdulmutallab was subjected to the same screening as other passengers. He was required to show his documents, including a valid U.S. visa. His carry-on bag was x-rayed. He passed through a metal detector. But a metal detector can't detect the kind of explosives that were sewn into his clothes.<p>As Secretary Napolitano will explain, the screening technologies that might have detected these explosives are in use at the Amsterdam airport, but not at the specific checkpoints that he passed through. Indeed, most airports in the world and in the United States do not yet have these technologies. Now, there's no silver bullet to securing the thousands of flights into America each day, domestic and international. It will require significant investments in many areas. And that's why, even before the Christmas attack, we increased investments in homeland security and aviation security. This includes an additional $1 billion in new systems and technologies that we need to protect our airports: more baggage screening, more passenger screening, and more advanced explosive detection capabilities, including those that can improve our ability to detect the kind of explosive used on Christmas. These are major investments, and they'll make our skies safer and more secure.<p>Now, as I announced this week, we've taken a whole range of steps to improve aviation screening and security since Christmas, including new rules for how we handle visas within the Government and enhanced screening for passengers flying from or through certain countries. <p>And today I'm directing that the Department of Homeland Security take additional steps, including strengthening our international partnerships to improve aviation screening and security around the world, greater use of the advanced explosive detection technologies that we already have, including imaging technology, and working aggressively in cooperation with the Department of Energy and our national labs to develop and deploy the next generation of screening technologies. <p>Now, there is, of course, no foolproof solution. As we develop new screening technologies and procedures, our adversaries will seek new ways to evade them, that was--as was shown by the Christmas attack. In the never-ending race to protect our country, we have to stay one step ahead of a nimble adversary. That's what these steps are designed to do. And we will continue to work with Congress to ensure that our intelligence, homeland security, and law enforcement communities have the resources they need to keep the American people safe.<p>I ordered these two immediate reviews so that we could take immediate action to secure our country. But in the weeks and months ahead, we will continue a sustained and intensive effort of analysis and assessment so that we leave no stone unturned in seeking better ways to protect the American people. <p>I have repeatedly made it clear--in public with the American people and in private with my national security team--that I will hold my staff, our agencies, and the people in them accountable when they fail to perform their responsibilities at the highest levels. <p>Now, at this stage in the review process, it appears that this incident was not the fault of a single individual or organization, but rather a systemic failure across organizations and agencies. That's why, in addition to the corrective efforts that I've ordered, I've directed agency heads to establish internal accountability reviews and directed my national security staff to monitor their efforts. We will measure progress. And John Brennan will report back to me within 30 days and on a regular basis after that. All of these agencies and their leaders are responsible for implementing these reforms, and all will be held accountable if they don't. <p>Moreover, I am less interested in passing out blame than I am in learning from and correcting these mistakes to make us safer, for ultimately, the buck stops with me. As President, I have a solemn responsibility to protect our Nation and our people. And when the system fails, it is my responsibility. <p>Over the past 2 weeks, we've been reminded again of the challenge we face in protecting our country against a foe that is bent on our destruction. And while passions and politics can often obscure the hard work before us, let's be clear about what this moment demands. We are at war. We are at war against Al Qaida, a far-reaching network of violence and hatred that attacked us on 9/11, that killed nearly 3,000 innocent people, and that is plotting to strike us again. And we will do whatever it takes to defeat them. <p>And we've made progress. Al Qaida's leadership is hunkered down. We have worked closely with partners, including Yemen, to inflict major blows against Al Qaida leaders. And we have disrupted plots at home and abroad and saved American lives.<p>And we know that the vast majority of Muslims reject Al Qaida. But it is clear that Al Qaida increasingly seeks to recruit individuals without known terrorist affiliations, not just in the Middle East, but in Africa and other places, to do their bidding. That's why I've directed my national security team to develop a strategy that addresses the unique challenges posed by lone recruits. And that's why we must communicate clearly to Muslims around the world that Al Qaida offers nothing except a bankrupt vision of misery and death, including the murder of fellow Muslims, while the United States stands with those who seek justice and progress.<p>To advance that progress, we've sought new beginnings with Muslim communities around the world, one in which we engage on the basis of mutual interest and mutual respect and work together to fulfill the aspirations that all people share: to get an education, to work with dignity, to live in peace and security. That's what America believes in. That's the vision that is far more powerful than the hatred of these violent extremists. <p>Here at home we will strengthen our defenses, but we will not succumb to a siege mentality that sacrifices the open society and liberties and values that we cherish as Americans, because great and proud nations don't hunker down and hide behind walls of suspicion and mistrust. That is exactly what our adversaries want, and so long as I am President, we will never hand them that victory. We will define the character of our country, not some band of small men intent on killing innocent men, women, and children.<p>And in this cause, every one of us--every American, every elected official--can do our part. Instead of giving into cynicism and division, let's move forward with the confidence and optimism and unity that defines us as a people. For now is not a time for partisanship, it's a time for citizenship, a time to come together and work together with the seriousness of purpose that our national security demands.<p>That's what it means to be strong in the face of violent extremism. That's how we will prevail in this fight. And that's how we will protect our country and pass it safer and stronger to the next generation. <p>Thanks very much.\" "
"5" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. Before I announce a significant new investment we're making in clean energy, I want to give an update on a matter of concern to every American, and that's our employment picture.<p>The jobs numbers that were released by the Labor Department this morning are a reminder that the road to recovery is never straight and that we have to continue to work every single day to get our economy moving again. For most Americans, and for me, that means jobs. It means whether we are putting people back to work.<p>Job losses for the last quarter of 2009 were one-tenth of what we were experiencing in the first quarter. In fact, in November, we saw the first gain in jobs in nearly 2 years. Now, last month, however, we slipped back, losing more jobs than we gained, though the overall trend of job loss is still pointing in the right direction.<p>What this underscores, though, is that we have to continue to explore every avenue to accelerate the return to hiring, which brings me to my announcement today. The Recovery Act has been a major force in breaking the trajectory of this recession and stimulating growth and hiring. And one of the most popular elements of it has been a clean energy manufacturing initiative that will put Americans to work while helping America gain the lead when it comes to clean energy.<p>It's clear why such an effort is so important. Building a robust clean energy sector is how we will create the jobs of the future, jobs that pay well and can't be outsourced. But it's also how we will reduce our dangerous dependence on foreign oil, a dependence that endangers our economy and our security. And it is how we will combat the threat of climate change and leave our children a planet that's safer than the one we inherited.<p>Now, harnessing new forms of energy will be one of the defining challenges of the 21st century. And unfortunately, right now the United States, the Nation that pioneered the use of clean energy, is being outpaced by nations around the world. It's China that has launched the largest effort in history to make their economy energy efficient. We spearheaded the development of solar technology, but we've fallen behind countries like Germany and Japan in producing it. And almost all of the batteries that we use to power our hybrid vehicles are still manufactured by Japanese companies or in Asia. Though, because of one of the steps like the one we're taking today, we're beginning to produce more of these batteries here at home.<p>Now, I welcome and am pleased to see a real competition emerging around the world to develop these kinds of clean energy technologies. Competition is what fuels innovation. But I don't want America to lose that competition. I don't want the industries that yield the jobs of tomorrow to be built overseas. I don't want the technology that will transform the way we use energy to be invented abroad. I want the United States of America to be what it has always been, and that is a leader--the leader--when it comes to a clean energy future.<p>And that's exactly what this clean energy manufacturing initiative will help us do. It will help close the clean energy gap that's grown between America and other nations. Through this initiative, we're awarding $2.3 billion in tax credits for American manufacturers of clean energy technologies, companies that build wind turbines, and produce solar panels, and assemble cutting-edge batteries. The initiative we're outlining today will likely generate 17,000 jobs, and the roughly $5 billion more that we'll leverage in the private sector investments could help create tens of thousands of additional jobs.<p>At the same time, this initiative will give a much needed boost to our manufacturing sector by building new plants or upgrading old ones. And we'll take an important step toward meeting the goal I've set of doubling the amount of renewable power we use in the next 3 years with wind turbines and solar panels built right here in the U.S. of A. Put simply, this initiative is good for middle class families. It is good for our security. It's good for our planet.<p>Over 180 projects in over 40 States will receive these tax credits. And one of them is TPI Composites, Inc., which is based in Newton, Iowa, one of America's leading wind turbine manufacturers. Because of these tax credits, TPI Composites will not only be able to expand an existing facility in Newton, they'll not only be able to build a brand new facility in Nebraska, they'll also be able to hire over 200 new workers. And it's my hope that similar stories will be told in cities and towns across America because of this initiative.<p>In fact, this initiative has been so popular that we've--we have far more qualified applicants than we've been able to fund. We received requests for roughly three times as much in funding--$7.6 billion--as we could provide. And that's why, as part of the jobs package on which I'm urging Congress to act, I've called for investing another 5 billion in this program, which could put even more Americans to work right away building and equipping clean energy manufacturing facilities here in the United States.<p>You know, in the letters that I receive at night, and I--many of you know I get about 10 letters a night that I take a look at--I often hear from Americans who are facing hard times, Americans who've lost their jobs or can't afford to pay their bills; they're worried about what the future holds. I am confident that if we harness the ingenuity of companies like TPI Composites, if we can tap the talents of our workers and our innovators and our entrepreneurs, if we can gain the lead in clean energy worldwide, then we'll forge a future where a better life is possible in our country over the long run. That's a future we're now closer to building because of the steps that we're taking today.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"6" "\"A year ago, when I took office in the midst of the worst recession since the Great Depression, I promised you two things. The first was that there would be better days ahead. And the second was that the road to recovery would be long and sometimes bumpy.<p>That was brought home again yesterday. We learned that in November, our economy saw its first month of job gains in nearly 2 years, but last month, we lost more than we gained. Now, we know that no single month makes a trend, and job losses for the final quarter of 2009 were one-tenth of what they were in the first quarter. But until we see a trend of good, sustainable job creation, we will be relentless in our efforts to put America back to work.<p>That task goes even deeper than replacing the 7 million jobs that have been lost over the past 2 years. We need to rebuild our economy in such a way that our families can feel a measure of security again. Too many of the folks I've talked with this year, and whose stories I read in letters at night, tell me that they've known their own private recessions since long before economists declared one, and they'll still feel the recession long after economists have declared it over.<p>And that's because for decades, Washington avoided doing what was right in favor of doing what was easy. And the result was an economy where some made out well, but the middle class too often took a beating.<p>Over the past decade, the income of the average household actually declined, and we lost as many jobs as we created. Hard-working folks who did everything right suddenly found themselves forced to downscale their dreams because of economic factors beyond their control. We're talking about simple dreams, American dreams: a good job with a good wage, a secure and dignified retirement, stable health care so you don't go broke just because you get sick, the chance to give our kids a better shot than we got.<p>And that's why, as we begin to emerge from this crisis, we will not return to that complacency that helped cause the crisis. Even as we focus on putting America back to work, we're building a new foundation for our economy to create the good, lasting jobs and shared prosperity of tomorrow.<p>We're making historic investments in science and in the clean energy economy that will generate and keep the jobs and industries of the future right here in America. We're reforming our education system so that our kids are fully prepared to compete with workers anywhere in the world and win the race for the 21st century. We're fixing our broken health insurance system that's crushing families, eating away at workers' take-home pay, and nailing small businesses with double-digit premium increases.<p>And that's what I'd like to focus on for a moment. After a long and thorough debate, we are on the verge of passing health insurance reform that will finally offer Americans the security of knowing they'll have quality, affordable health care whether they lose their job, change their jobs, move, or get sick. The worst practices of the insurance industry will be forever banned. And costs will finally come down for families, businesses, and our Government.<p>Now, it'll take a few years to fully implement these reforms in a responsible way. But what every American should know is that once I sign health insurance reform into law, there are dozens of protections and benefits that will take effect this year.<p>Uninsured Americans with a preexisting illness or condition will finally be able to purchase coverage they can afford. Children with preexisting conditions will no longer be refused coverage, and young adults will be able to stay on their parent's policy until they're 26 or 27 years old. Small-business owners who can't afford to cover their employees will be immediately offered tax credits to purchase coverage. Early retirees who receive coverage from their employers will see their coverage protected and their premiums go down. Seniors who fall into the coverage gap known as the doughnut hole will receive discounts of up to 50 percent on their prescriptions as we begin to close that gap altogether. And every patient's choice of doctor will be protected, along with access to emergency care.<p>Here's what else will happen within the first year. Insurance plans will be required to offer free preventive care to their customers so that we can start catching preventable illnesses and diseases on the front end. They'll no longer be allowed to impose restrictive annual limits on the amount of coverage you receive or lifetime limits on the amount of benefits you receive. They'll be prohibited from dropping your coverage when you get sick and need it most. And there will be a new, independent appeals process for anyone who feels they were unfairly denied a claim by their insurance company.<p>In short, once I sign health insurance reform into law, doctors and patients will have more control over their health care decisions and insurance company bureaucrats will have less. All told, these changes represent the most sweeping reforms and toughest restrictions on insurance companies that this country has ever known. That's how we'll make 2010 a healthier and more secure year for every American, for those who have health insurance and those who don't.<p>And we enter a new decade now with new perils, but we're going to meet them. It's also a time of tremendous promise, and we're going to seize it. We will rebuild the American Dream for our middle class and put the American economy on a stronger footing for the future. And this year, I am as hopeful and as confident as ever that we're going to rise to this moment the same way that generations of Americans always have, as one Nation and one people. Thanks for listening.\" "
"7" "\"Good morning, everybody. This morning I want to extend to the people of Haiti the deep condolences and unwavering support of the American people following yesterday's terrible earthquake. <p>We are just now beginning to learn the extent of the devastation, but the reports and images that we've seen of collapsed hospitals, crumbled homes, and men and women carrying their injured neighbors through the streets are truly heart wrenching. Indeed, for a country and a people who are no strangers to hardship and suffering, this tragedy seems especially cruel and incomprehensible. Our thoughts and prayers are also with the many Haitian Americans around our country who do not yet know the fate of their families and loved ones back home.<p>I have directed my administration to respond with a swift, coordinated, and aggressive effort to save lives. The people of Haiti will have the full support of the United States in the urgent effort to rescue those trapped beneath the rubble and to deliver the humanitarian relief--the food, water, and medicine--that Haitians will need in the coming days. In that effort, our Government, especially USAID and the Departments of State and Defense, are working closely together and with our partners in Haiti, the region, and around the world. <p>Right now our efforts are focused on several urgent priorities. First, we're working quickly to account for U.S. Embassy personnel and their families in Port-au-Prince, as well as the many American citizens who live and work in Haiti. Americans trying to locate family members in Haiti are encouraged to contact the State Department at 888-407-4747. I'm going to repeat that: 888-407-4747.<p>Second, we've mobilized resources to help rescue efforts. Military overflights have assessed the damage, and by early afternoon our civilian disaster assistance team are beginning to arrive. Search and rescue teams from Florida, Virginia, and California will arrive throughout today and tomorrow, and more rescue and medical equipment and emergency personnel are being prepared. Because in disasters such as this, the first hours and days are absolutely critical to saving lives and avoiding even greater tragedy, I have directed my teams to be as forward leaning as possible in getting the help on the ground and coordinating with our international partners as well.<p>Third, given the many different resources that are needed, we are taking steps to ensure that our Government acts in a unified way. My national security team has led an interagency effort overnight. And to ensure that we coordinate our effort going forward, I've designated the Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, Dr. Raj Shah, to be our Government's unified disaster coordinator. <p>Now, this rescue and recovery effort will be complex and challenging. As we move resources into Haiti, we will be working closely with partners on the ground, including the many NGOs from Haiti and across Haiti, the United Nations Stabilization Mission, which appears to have suffered its own losses, and our partners in the region and around the world. This must truly be an international effort.<p>Finally, let me just say that this is a time when we are reminded of the common humanity that we all share. With just a few hundred miles of ocean between us and a long history that binds us together, Haitians are our neighbors in the Americas and here at home. So we have to be there for them in their hour of need. <p>Despite the fact that we are experiencing tough times here at home, I would encourage those Americans who want to support the urgent humanitarian efforts to go to whitehouse.gov, where you can learn how to contribute. We must be prepared for difficult hours and days ahead as we learn about the scope of the tragedy. We will keep the victims and their families in our prayers. We will be resolute in our response, and I pledge to the people of Haiti that you will have a friend and partner in the United States of America today and going forward. <p>May God bless the people of Haiti and those working on their behalf. Thank you very much.\" "
"8" "\"Good morning, everybody. I've directed my administration to launch a swift, coordinated, and aggressive effort to save lives and support the recovery in Haiti. The losses that have been suffered in Haiti are nothing less than devastating, and responding to a disaster of this magnitude will require every element of our national capacity: our diplomacy and development assistance, the power of our military, and most importantly, the compassion of our country. And this morning I'm joined by several members of my national security team who are leading this coordinated response.<p>I've made it clear to each of these leaders that Haiti must be a top priority for their departments and agencies right now. This is one of those moments that calls out for American leadership. For the sake of our citizens who are in Haiti, for the sake of the Haitian people, who have suffered so much, and for the sake of our common humanity, we stand in solidarity with our neighbors to the south, knowing that, but for the grace of God, there we go.<p>This morning I can report that the first waves of our rescue and relief workers are on the ground and at work. A survey team worked overnight to identify priority areas for assistance and shared the results of that review throughout the United States Government and with international partners who are also sending support. Search and rescue teams are actively working to save lives. Our military has secured the airport and prepared it to receive the heavy equipment and resources that are on the way and to receive them around the clock, 24 hours a day. An airlift has been set up to deliver high-priority items like water and medicine. And we're coordinating closely with the Haitian Government, the United Nations, and other countries who are also on the ground.<p>Now, we have no higher priority than the safety of American citizens, and we've airlifted injured Americans out of Haiti. We're running additional evacuations and will continue to do so in the days ahead. I know that many Americans, especially Haitian Americans, are desperate for information about their family and friends, and the State Department has set up a phone number and e-mail address that you can find at www.state.cov--www.state.gov--to inquire about your loved ones. And you should know that we will not rest until we account for our fellow Americans in harm's way.<p>Even as we move as quickly as possible, it will take hours, and in many cases days, to get all of our people and resources on the ground. Right now in Haiti roads are impassable, the main port is badly damaged, communications are just beginning to come online, and aftershocks continue.<p>None of this will seem quick enough if you have a loved one who's trapped, if you're sleeping on the streets, if you can't feed your children. But it's important that everybody in Haiti understand, at this very moment one of the largest relief efforts in our recent history is moving towards Haiti. More American search and rescue teams are coming, more food, more water, doctors, nurses, paramedics, more of the people, equipment, and capabilities that can make the difference between life and death.<p>The United States Armed Forces are also on their way to support this effort. Several Coast Guard cutters are already there, providing everything from basic services like water to vital technical support for this massive logistical operation. Elements of the Army's 82d Airborne Division will arrive today. We're also deploying a Marine expeditionary unit, the aircraft carrier USS <i>Carl Vinson</i>, and the Navy's hospital ship, the <i>Comfort</i>.<p>And today I'm also announcing an immediate investment of $100 million to support our relief efforts. This will mean more of the life-saving equipment, food, water, and medicine that will be needed. This investment will grow over the coming year as we embark on the long-term recovery from this unimaginable tragedy.<p>The United States of America will also forge the partnerships that this undertaking demands. We will partner with the Haitian people. And that includes the Government of Haiti, which needs our support as they recover from the devastation of this earthquake. It also includes the many Haitian Americans who are determined to help their friends and family. And I've asked Vice President Biden to meet in south Florida this weekend with members of the Haitian American community and with responders who are mobilizing to help the Haitian people.<p>Now, we will partner with the United Nations and its dedicated personnel and peacekeepers, especially those from Brazil, who are already on the ground due to their outstanding peacekeeping efforts there. And I want to say that our hearts go out to the United Nations, which has experienced one of the greatest losses in its history. We have no doubt that we can carry on the work that was done by so many of the U.N. effort that have been lost, and we see that their legacy is Haiti's hope for the future.<p>Now, we will partner with other nations and organizations. And that's why I've been reaching out to leaders from across the Americas and beyond who are sending resources to support this effort. And we will join with the strong network of nongovernmental organizations across the country who understand the daily struggles of the Haitian people.<p>Yet even as we bring our resources to bear on this emergency, we need to summon the tremendous generosity and compassion of the American people. I want to thank the many Americans who have already contributed to this effort. I want to encourage all Americans who want to help to go to whitehouse.gov to learn more. And in the days ahead, we will continue to work with those individuals and organizations who want to assist this effort so that you can do so.<p>Finally, I want to speak directly to the people of Haiti: Few in the world have endured the hardships that you have known. Long before this tragedy, daily life itself was often a bitter struggle. And after suffering so much for so long, to face this new horror must cause some to look up and ask, have we somehow been forsaken?<p>To the people of Haiti, we say clearly and with conviction: You will not be forsaken; you will not be forgotten. In this, your hour of greatest need, America stands with you. The world stands with you. We know that you are a strong and resilient people. You have endured a history of slavery and struggle, of natural disaster and recovery. And through it all, your spirit has been unbroken and your faith has been unwavering. So today, you must know that help is arriving; much, much more help is on the way.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"9" "\"Thank you, everybody, for being here. As we all know, our country has endured the deepest recession we've faced in generations. And much of the turmoil was caused by irresponsibility on the part of banks and financial institutions. Now, firms took reckless risks in pursuit of short-term profits and soaring bonuses, triggering a financial crisis that nearly pulled the economy into a second great depression.<p>Now, it was a little more than a year ago that we stood on that precipice. And several of the world's largest financial institutions had already failed. Credit markets froze, and banks refused to lend. Trillions of dollars in household savings evaporated as stocks, pensions, and home values plummeted. And we were losing hundreds of thousands of jobs each month. It was at this time that many large financial firms--those left standing--teetered on the brink of collapse, overwhelmed by the consequences of their irresponsible decisions.<p>Now, even though these firms were largely facing a crisis of their own making, their failure could have led to an even greater calamity for the country. So the Federal Reserve and other agencies took emergency measures to prevent that outcome. And the previous administration started a program, the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, to provide these financial institutions with funds to survive the turmoil that they had helped unleash. It was a distasteful but necessary thing to do.<p>Now, we've worked over the last year to manage this program effectively, to hold firms accountable, and to recoup as much tax money as possible. Many originally feared that most of the $700 billion in TARP money would be lost. But because of the management of this program by Secretary Geithner and my economic team, we've now recovered the majority of the funds provided to banks.<p>As far as I'm concerned, however, that's not good enough. My commitment is to the taxpayer. My commitment is to recover every single dime the American people are owed. And my determination to achieve this goal is only heightened when I see reports of massive profits and obscene bonuses at some of the very firms who owe their continued existence to the American people, folks who have not been made whole and who continue to face real hardship in this recession.<p>We want our money back, and we're going to get it. And that's why I'm proposing a financial crisis responsibility fee to be imposed on major financial firms until the American people are fully compensated for the extraordinary assistance they provided to Wall Street. If these companies are in good enough shape to afford massive bonuses, they are surely in good enough shape to afford paying back every penny to taxpayers.<p>Now, our estimate is that the TARP program will end up costing taxpayers around $117 billion, obviously a lot less than the $700 billion that people had feared, but still a lot of money. The fee will be in place for 10 years or as long as it takes to raise the full amount necessary to cover all taxpayer losses. This will not be a cost borne by community banks or small financial firms; only the largest firms with more than $50 billion in assets will be affected. And the size of the fee each bank owes will be based on its size and exposure to debt, so that we are recovering tax dollars while promoting reform of the banking practices that contributed to this crisis.<p>Now, the fact is these financial institutions are essential to our economy. They provide capital and credit to families purchasing homes, students attending college, businesses seeking to start up or expand. And that's why the rescue program was as necessary as it was unfortunate. And that is why, through this fee and broader reforms that we seek, our goal is not to punish Wall Street firms, but rather to prevent the abuse and excess that nearly caused the collapse of many of these firms and the financial system itself.<p>We cannot go back to business as usual. And when we see reports of firms once again engaging in risky bets to reap quick rewards, when we see a return to compensation practices that seem not to reflect what the country's been through, all that looks like business as usual to me. The financial industry has even launched a massive lobbying campaign, locking arms with the opposition party to stand in the way of reforms to prevent another crisis. That too, unfortunately, is business as usual. And we're already hearing a hue and cry from Wall Street suggesting that this proposed fee is not only unwelcome but unfair, that by some twisted logic, it is more appropriate for the American people to bear the costs of the bailout rather than the industry that benefited from it, even though these executives are out there giving themselves huge bonuses.<p>What I'd say to these executives is this: Instead of sending a phalanx of lobbyists to fight this proposal or employing an army of lawyers and accountants to help evade the fee, I suggest you might want to consider simply meeting your responsibilities. And I'd urge you to cover the costs of the rescue not by sticking it to your shareholders or your customers or fellow citizens with the bill, but by rolling back bonuses for top earners and executives. And more broadly, I am continuing to call on these firms to put greater effort into helping families stay in their homes, to provide small businesses with needed loans, and to embrace, rather than fight, serious financial reform.<p>Ultimately, it is by taking responsibility--on Wall Street, here in Washington, all the way to Main Street--that we're going to move past this period of turmoil. That's how we're going to avoid the cycles of boom and bust that have caused so much havoc. That's how we're going to promote vibrant markets that reward innovation and entrepreneurship and hard work. That's how we're going to create sustained growth without the looming threat of another costly crisis. That's not only in the best interests of the economy as a whole, it's actually in the interest of these large banks.<p>So I'm going to be working closely with Congress on this proposal. And on behalf of the American people, I look forward to signing it into law.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"10" "\"Thank you. Please have a seat, everybody. Thank you so much. Well, good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for all of you for being here today.<p>I'd like to recognize the Deputy Cabinet Secretaries who are with us for their leadership at our agencies. And it's exciting to see the leaders of some of the most innovative, cutting-edge, tech-savvy companies in the world gathered in the city where I had to fight tooth and nail just to get a BlackBerry. [<i>Laughter</i>] There may be a little bit of a cultural clash here--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but that's exactly why we want you here. I really appreciate the time all of you have taken to be in Washington for this forum. I know how busy all of you are.<p>We stand in the midst of challenging times for our economy. I don't think that's any secret. And I know that many of you have felt these challenges in your industries and in your businesses. Some of you have felt them quite acutely. But I also know how you've managed to meet them and managed through them, experimenting and innovating and finding new ways to increase productivity and better serve your customers. We're here today because I believe your Government should be doing exactly the same thing.<p>When I first started campaigning for this office, I said, I want to change the way that Washington works. And when I said that, I meant how it works for the American people. I meant making Government more responsive to their needs. I meant getting rid of the waste and the inefficiencies that bloat our deficits and squander their hard-earned savings. I meant finally revamping the outdated technologies and information systems that undermine our efficiency and threaten our security and fail to serve their interests. And I asked all of you to this forum on Government modernization today because I believe that this last objective, bringing our Government into the 21st century, is critical to achieving all those other objectives.<p>Now, I can say without any hesitation that our Government employees are some of the hardest working, most dedicated, most competent people I know. Government workers get a bad rap. They are dedicated, they put in a lot of hours, and they care deeply about what they do. And they desperately want to provide the very best service for the American people. But all too often, their best efforts are thwarted because the technological revolution that has transformed our society over the past two decades has yet to reach many parts of our Government. Many of these folks will tell you that their kids have better technology in their backpacks and in their bedrooms than they have at the desks at their work.<p>To this day, there are still places in the Federal Government where reams of yellow files in manila envelopes are walked from desk to desk or boxes of documents are shipped back and forth between offices because files aren't yet online. Believe it or not, in our Patent Office--now, this is embarrassing; this is an institution responsible for protecting and promoting innovation--our Patent Office receives more than 80 percent of patent applications electronically, then manually prints them out, scans them, and enters them into an outdated case management system. Now, this is one of the reasons why the average processing time for a patent is roughly 3 years. Imminently solvable; hasn't been solved yet.<p>Even worse, too often, when we've attempted to update or replace outdated technology, we end up spending exorbitant sums of money on technologies that don't meet our needs or that took so long to implement that they were obsolete before we even started using them.<p>I just met with Department of Veterans Affairs, Eric Shinseki, who, a veteran himself, cares so deeply about making sure that veterans get their claims processed efficiently. We've been talking for 10 years about putting electronic systems in place for Veterans Affairs to reduce the backlog, and so far, it has not yet happened, not because people don't want it to happen, but partly because previous purchasing decisions have mismatched what VA has with what the Department of Defense has. They don't speak to each other; they don't merge.<p>None of this is acceptable, particularly at a time when we're experiencing such economic difficulty and so many people are struggling. We've got to get the best bang for every single dollar that the Government has in its possession. And when Washington lags a generation behind in how we do business, that has real and serious impact on people's lives. When we waste billions of dollars, in part because our technology is out of date, that's billions of dollars we're not investing in better schools for our children, in tax relief for our small businesses, in creating jobs and funding research to spur the scientific breakthroughs and economic growth of this new century.<p>And we know that the tools, the technology, the solutions are out there. You know because you put them in place every day. It's time we started putting them to work for the American people. If you can book dinner on OpenTable or a flight on Southwest or United online, then why shouldn't you be able to make an appointment at your local Social Security office the same way? If you can track your UPS package with your iPhone, then why not be able to check the status of your citizenship application on a web site, rather than having to write a letter and wait for a letter back?<p>Now, these are simple, cost-effective steps, ones which we've already taken or, at least, are in the process of taking. But these are just the beginning. Going forward, I want to see solutions like this in every agency. I want to ask ourselves every day, how are we using technology to make a real difference in people's lives? How are we making it easier for small-business owners to get loans so they can open their doors and expand their operations and create new jobs? How are we helping young people get student loans so they can get the education they need to pursue their dreams? How are we ensuring that the brave men and women who've served this country get their benefits as quickly and as easily as possible? How are we cutting costs and reducing our deficit so that our children and our grandchildren aren't saddled with debt?<p>Now, improving the technology our Government uses isn't about having the fanciest bells and whistles on our web site. It's about how we use the American people's hard-earned tax dollars to make Government work better for them. And this is something I'm very serious about.<p>Now, this is why I appointed the very first ever Federal Government CIO and CTO, and Vivek Kundra and Aneesh Chopra are both coordinating our efforts and ensuring that we're embracing the best, most effective technologies possible.<p>It's also why we introduced our IT Dashboard at USAspending.gov. Here's a web site, which I've personally reviewed, where the American people can monitor every IT project in the Federal Government. If a project is over budget or behind schedule, this site tells you that and by how much, and it provides the name, the e-mail, and the phone number of the person responsible. To date, the site's gotten 78 million hits. We've already terminated a number of projects that weren't performing, and going forward, we won't hesitate to cut more and then take that money and reinvest it in someplace that's actually going to make a difference.<p>But here's the reason all of you are here: We can't do this alone. Many of you are pioneers, harnessing new technologies to build thriving businesses. Some of you have revolutionized industries. You've changed the ways that we look at the world. And if I had any doubt about how much Government has to learn from all of you, then the homework assignment you all completed would have certainly convinced me otherwise. I think the depth and the thoughtfulness of your responses indicate that all of you spent real time on preparing for today, and I deeply thank you for it.<p>I hope all of you will continue these efforts at the forum today. I want the very best of what you've got. I want you to tell us not just what we can do to better serve the American people, but how we can do it. How we can do it without spending a whole lot of taxpayer dollars is especially what I want to hear from you.<p>I just--and I also want to emphasize, I don't want to just hear your input today. We're going to need it in the months and years ahead as well. A lot of this stuff takes time to implement, even when it's implemented well. And that's why I've charged our Federal Chief Performance Officer, Jeff Zients, who you already heard from, to work with Vivek and Aneesh and all of you to make sure the changes we make have a lasting impact.<p>Now, we'll need each of you to keep stepping up and sharing your insights and your ideas and your expertise. We're going to need you to help us build the kind of Government that the American people expect and the kind of Government that they deserve, and that's one that spends their money wisely, serves their interests well, and is fully worthy of their trust and their respect.<p>So that's the purpose of today's forum. That's the ongoing mission of this administration. And I very much look forward to hearing what you have to offer us. Thank you very much for being here, everybody.\" "
"11" "\"Thank you, House of Representatives. Please, everybody have a seat. Have a seat. <p>Thank you, Madam Speaker. To Xavier, thank you; Jim Clyburn; outstanding work by Chris Van Hollen; and of course, Steny Hoyer. To all the leadership, to all the Members, thank you for inviting me here today. Thank you. <p>The House of Representatives has been an incredible partner throughout this year, but I hope you don't mind me singling out one of the best partners any President could ever have, and that is your unbelievable Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi. I was out in California doing--I think it was a DNC event, and Nancy introduced me, and I said, you know, Nancy, she's smart, she's articulate, she knows her issues. But what people don't understand is, Nancy is tough. [<i>Laughter</i>] She is tough. And she is tough for her Members, for this caucus, and she's tough for the American people. And so--[<i>applause</i>]--her extraordinary leadership is one of the reasons why the House of Representatives has consistently set the bar on a whole host of issues that--and legislative accomplishments that we've seen this year and--this past year and that we're going to see this year coming up.<p>Now, before I begin, I want to give all of you a quick update on our urgent efforts to save lives and support the recovery in Haiti. Our, obviously, thoughts and prayers go out to all the people of Haiti, Haitian Americans who have family members. One of my top advisers, Patrick Gaspard, is Haitian American. He's got cousins and aunts and uncles who are still missing. His family priest, who he's known since he was a baby, who baptized him, is suspected dead. Those stories ripple throughout the Haitian American community, but obviously, they ripple throughout all humanity when we see the kind of tragedy that we're seeing. <p>I want everybody here to understand that I've directed my administration to take swift and coordinated and aggressive action. I've made it clear to my national security team that this has to be a top priority across agencies--Department of Defense, Department of State, USAID. All the agencies involved--Homeland Security, our FEMA director--they are all intimately involved in making sure that we can get in there as quickly as possible to engage in search and rescue and to provide immediate medical attention, and then long-term help with the recovery.<p>Now, our highest priority is the safety of American citizens, and we are currently airlifting injured Americans out of Haiti. I know many of you have constituents desperate for news of their loved ones, and you should direct them to the State Department web site for a phone number and e-mail address and let them know that we will not rest until we have accounted for every single of our fellow Americans that are in harm's way.<p>The first wave of our rescue and relief workers arrived on the ground yesterday. Search and rescue teams are now working around the clock to save lives. More waves of major assets are going to be arriving. This morning I announced an immediate investment of $100 million to support our relief efforts in the early days of this crisis. Most of this is for the basics: lifesaving equipment, food, water, medicine. This investment will grow over the year as we help our neighbors embark on what is going to be a long-term recovery. <p>And so I just want everybody in the House of Representatives to understand, this is a moment for American leadership. This is a time when the world looks to us and they say, given our capacity, given our unique capacity to project power around the world, that we have to project that not just for our own interests, but for the interests of the world as a whole. And my national security team understands that I will not put up with any excuses for us not doing the very best in this time of tragedy. <p>Now, it is good to be here with all of you. I want to make a guarantee that 2010 will not be a boring year. [<i>Laughter</i>] Let me also say this: 2010 will mark a year of remarkable progress for the American people. And much of the reason for that is because of actions that were taken by the House of Representatives.<p>I just want everybody to go back, because sometimes in this town memories are short. When this Congress convened a year ago, after 8 years of failed policies and decades of broken politics, we faced down the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. So we knew that we were going to confront an unprecedented battery of challenges, not to mention long-simmering problems that had been put off for decades. We knew the solutions would not be quick and they would not be easy and they would not always be popular. But we made a decision that we were going to govern. There was--there were easier paths to take, because we knew that when I was sworn in, for example, we had already lost 650,000 jobs; we were going to lose another 700,000 jobs the month I was sworn in, the next month, 650,000 jobs. We knew that the recovery coming out of this extraordinary recession was going to be long and hard, and the easiest thing to do would have been to not take tough decisions and simply to point fingers. There is a long and hallowed tradition in Washington of doing that.<p>But that's not what you did. And think about what's happened as a consequence. In one of America's darkest hours, you answered the call. Time and again you stood up and you led. And thanks to what you did we can say now what we couldn't say a year ago: that America is moving forward again. The economy is growing. Job losses have slowed to a trickle. Job losses over the last quarter of 2009 were still unacceptable, but they were one-tenth of what we endured in the first quarter. <p>So you have a lot to be proud of, but let's be honest with each other. I mean, this is still a tough environment for a huge number of Americans. This is a tough time for this country. I know that what you've seen in your districts, the same thing that I've seen in towns across this country, the same thing I read about in letters each and every day: pain and anxiety and sometimes anger felt by our friends and our constituents and our fellow Americans. <p>There are 7 million Americans out there who have lost their jobs over the past 2 years and they still need our help. What they can expect from this administration, and I know what they can expect from you, is that we are going to have a sustained and relentless focus over the next several months on accelerating the pace of job creation, because that's priority number one.<p>Last month, I outlined the next steps that I believe we have to take to spur job creation, and the House has already acted on many of these: first, tax breaks and loans to help accelerate small-business hiring; second, additional investment in putting people to work modernizing our national infrastructure; third, incentives for consumers to make their homes more energy efficient, which doesn't just create jobs, but also saves consumers money and puts us on the path of energy independence. And I want to thank all of you for stepping up to pass a jobs bill along these lines. <p>Now, if these were ordinary times, the legislative victories of this Congress, the ones we've already accomplished, would be historic by any measure. Think about the enormous challenges we faced. That explains why some of the things we already did haven't gotten as much attention as they deserve. <p>What's so amazing, though, is out of the major initiatives we were talking about before we took office, you've either completed or set the stage for almost all of them. Because of what you did, we cut taxes for small businesses and 95 percent of working Americans, just as we said we would. Because of what you did, women now are getting equal pay for equal work. Because of what you did, 4 million children now have health insurance that didn't have it before.<p>Our veterans know that they're going to be taken care of in a way that had been neglected for too long. Before--because of what you did, there will finally be new rules preventing credit card companies from ripping off Americans and tobacco companies from targeting our children. And there are new laws in place to protect consumers from mortgage fraud and predatory lending. Because of what you did, young people and old people alike have new pathways to serve this country through our national service legislation. Because of what you did, we've strengthened protections against hate crimes based solely on who you are or what you look like or who you love.<p>We made historic investments--I know Eric Schmidt's here today, an extraordinary leader in our corporate community and in our technology communities--he knows what we've done in science and technology and a clean energy economy: historic investments, the largest that have ever been made. We made historic investments in education so that we're fully prepared to win the race for the 21st century. <p>We reformed our defense spending to cut out waste and save taxpayers billions of dollars while keeping us safe. I don't know if you saw today, the Washington Times, not known for a big promoter of the Obama agenda, pointed out that we had succeeded where previous administrations had failed because of the work that was done here in this Congress to finally get serious on some of these spending cuts that had been talked about for years. And this House passed commonsense financial regulatory reform to help prevent a crisis like this from ever happening again.<p>So each achievement represents promises kept. And we're not stopping. Today we are on the doorstep of accomplishing something that Washington has been talking about since Teddy Roosevelt was President, and that is reforming health care and health insurance here in America.<p>Now, believe me, I know how big a lift this has been. I see the polls. I get 40,000 letters every day, and I read a stack of them each night. I catch the occasional blog post or cable clip that breathlessly declares what something means for a political party, without really talking much about what it means for a country. I know that the virtues of this legislation for Americans with insurance and Americans without it have been entirely obscured by fear and distraction. <p>But I also know what happens once we get this done, once we sign this law--sign this bill into law. The American people will suddenly learn that this bill does things they like and doesn't do things that people have been trying to say it does. The worst fears will prove groundless, and the American people's hope for a fair shake from their insurance companies for quality, affordable health care they need will finally be realized.<p>This year alone, this reform will ban some of the worst practices of the insurance industry forever. They'll no longer be allowed to refuse coverage for preexisting conditions for children or drop coverage when folks get sick and need it the most. They'll no longer be allowed to impose restrictive annual limits on the amount of coverage that you receive, lifetime limits on the amounts of benefits received. They'll be required to offer free preventive care, like checkups and routine tests and mammograms, at no cost. Patients will have rights. They will get what they pay for. And that's just the beginning.<p>All told, it's reform that finally offers Americans the security of knowing that they'll have quality, affordable health care whether they lose their job or change their job or they get sick. And by the way, it's reform that begins to bring down costs for families and businesses and governments. <p>And for those of you who are concerned about the deficit, when you've got the Congressional Budget Office that says in the second 10 years this brings down the deficit by a trillion dollars, in the first 10 years it brings it down by over $100 billion, you have nothing to apologize for when it comes to talking about deficit reduction. The irresponsible thing would have been to do nothing, and that's not what you've decided to do. This represents the biggest step towards deficit reduction in years. <p>So I know everybody in the media is all in a tizzy: \\"Oh, what's this going to mean politically?\\" Well, let me tell you something. If Republicans want to campaign against what we've done by standing up for the status quo and for insurance companies over American families and businesses, that is a fight I want to have. If their best idea is to return to the bad policies and the bad ideas of yesterday, they are going to lose that argument. What are they going to say, \\"Well, you know, the old system really worked well; let's go back to the way it was\\"? That's not going to appeal to seniors who are now seeing the possibility of that doughnut hole finally closing, and so they can finally get discounts on their prescriptions. That's not going to appeal to the small businesses who find out all the tax credits that they're going to get for doing right by their employees, something that they have been wanting to do, but may not have been able to afford. It's not going to be very appealing to Americans who, for the first time, are going to find out that they can provide coverage to their children, their dependents, all the way up to the age of 26 or 27.<p>And that's why I'll be out there waging a great campaign from one end of the country to the other, telling Americans with insurance or without insurance what they stand to gain; about the arsenal of consumer protections; about the long-awaited stability that they're going to begin to experience. And I'm going to tell them that I am proud we are putting the future of America before the politics of the moment, the next generation before the next election. And that, after all, is what we were sent up here to do: standing up for the American people against the special interests, solve problems that we've been talking about for decades, make their lives a little bit better, make tough choices sometimes when they're unpopular. And that's something that every one of you who support this bill can be proud to campaign on in November. <p>Now, I know that some of the fights we've been going through have been tough. I know that some of you have gotten beaten up at home. Some of the fights that we're going to go through this year are going to be tough as well. But just remember why each of us got into public service in the first place: We found something that was worth fighting for. There was something we thought was important enough that we were willing to stand up in the public square, risk loss, risk embarrassment, because we knew in our hearts that something wasn't right, that we weren't, in some measure, living up to the American ideal, and that we thought that if we got involved and engaged in the democratic process, somehow we could make it a little bit better.<p>We've asked the American people for the chance to lead at this defining moment, and they have entrusted that extraordinary privilege to us. And if we live up to that responsibility, if we're fighting for the American people with the same sense of urgency that they feel in their own lives, then I am absolutely confident we're going to be able to look back at the end of this year and say that things are getting better; that we've reignited confidence in our economy, in America, and in each other; that we've restored a sense of responsibility here in Washington; and that, above all, we've begun to renew the American Dream and keep it alive, not just for this time, but for all time. <p>That's what you did last year. That's what I want you to join me in doing this year and all the years to come.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"12" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. I wanted to just make a brief statement on the latest situation in Haiti so that the American people are fully up to date on our efforts there.<p>This morning I spoke with President Preval of Haiti, who has been in regular contact with our Ambassador on the ground. I expressed to President Preval my deepest condolences for the people of Haiti and our strong support for the relief efforts that are underway.<p>Like so many Haitians, President Preval himself has lost his home, and his Government is working under extraordinarily difficult conditions. Many communications are down and remain--and many people remain unaccounted for. The scale of the devastation is extraordinary, as I think all of us are seeing on television, and the losses are heartbreaking.<p>I pledged America's continued commitment to the Government and the people of Haiti in the immediate effort to save lives and deliver relief and in the long-term effort to rebuild. President Preval and I agreed that it is absolutely essential that these efforts are well coordinated among the United States and the Government of Haiti, with the United Nations, which continues to play an essential role, and with the many international partners and aid organizations that are now on the ground.<p>Meanwhile, American resources continue to arrive in Haiti. Search and rescue efforts continue to work, pulling people out of the rubble. Our team has saved both the lives of American citizens and Haitian citizens, often under extraordinarily difficult circumstances.<p>Now, this morning the aircraft carrier USS <i>Carl Vinson</i> arrived, along with helicopters that will be critical in delivering assistance in the days to come. They are preparing to move badly needed water, food, and other lifesaving supplies to priority areas in Port-au-Prince. Food, water, and medicine continues to arrive, along with doctors and aid workers.<p>At the airport, help continues to flow in, not just from the United States, but from Brazil, Mexico, Canada, France, Colombia, and the Dominican Republic, among others. This underscores the point that I made to the President this morning: The entire world stands with the Government and the people of Haiti. For in Haiti's devastation, we all see the common humanity that we share.<p>And as the international community continues to respond, I do believe that America has a continued responsibility to act. Our Nation has a unique capacity to reach out quickly and broadly and to deliver assistance that can save lives.<p>That responsibility obviously is magnified when the devastation that's been suffered is so near to us. Haitians are our neighbors in the Americas, and for Americans, they are family and friends. It's characteristic of the American people to help others in time of such severe need. That's the spirit that we will need to sustain this effort as it goes forward. <p>There are going to be many difficult days ahead. So many people are in need of assistance. The port continues to be closed, and the roads are damaged. Food is scarce, and so is water. It will take time to establish distribution points so that we can ensure that resources are delivered safely and effectively and in an orderly fashion.<p>But I want the people of Haiti to know that we will do what it takes to save lives and to help them get back on their feet. In this effort, I want to thank our people on the ground: our men and women in uniform, who have moved so swiftly; our civilians and Embassy staff, many of whom suffered their own losses in this tragedy; and those members of search and rescue teams from Florida and California and Virginia, who've left their homes and their families behind to help others. To all of them: I want you to know that you demonstrate the courage and decency of the American people, and we are extraordinarily proud of you.<p>I also want to thank the American people more broadly. In these tough times, you've shown extraordinary compassion, already donating millions of dollars. I encourage all of you who want to help to do so through whitehouse.gov, where you can learn about how to contribute.<p>And tomorrow I will be meeting with President Clinton and President George W. Bush here at the White House to discuss how to enlist and help the American people in this recovery and rebuilding effort going forward.<p>I would note that as I ended my call with President Preval, he said that he has been extremely touched by the friendship and the generosity of the American people. It was an emotional moment. And this President, seeing the devastation around him, passed this message to the American people. He said, \\"From the bottom of my heart and on behalf of the people of Haiti, thank you, thank you, thank you.\\"<p>As I told the President, we realize that he needs more help and his country needs more help, much more. And in this difficult hour, we will continue to provide it.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"13" "\"Over the past 2 years, more than 7 million Americans have lost their jobs. Countless businesses have been forced to shut their doors. Few families have escaped the pain of this terrible recession. And rarely does a day go by that I don't hear from folks who are hurting. That's why we have pushed so hard to rebuild this economy. <p>But even as we work tirelessly to dig our way out of this hole, it's important that we address what led us into such a deep mess in the first place. Much of the turmoil of this recession was caused by the irresponsibility of banks and financial institutions on Wall Street. These financial firms took huge, reckless risks in pursuit of short-term profits and soaring bonuses. They gambled with borrowed money without enough oversight or regard for the consequences. And when they lost, they lost big. Little more than a year ago, many of the largest and oldest financial firms in the world teetered on the brink of collapse, overwhelmed by the consequences of their irresponsible decisions. This financial crisis nearly pulled the entire economy into a second great depression. <p>As a result, the American people, struggling in their own right, were placed in a deeply unfair and unsatisfying position. Even though these financial firms were largely facing a crisis of their own making, their failure could have led to an even greater calamity for the country as a whole. And that's why the previous administration started a program, the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, to provide these financial institutions with funds to survive the turmoil that they had helped unleash. It was a distasteful but necessary thing to do. <p>Now, many originally feared that most of the $700 billion in TARP money would be lost forever. But when my administration came into office, we put in place rigorous rules for accountability and transparency, which cut the costs of the bailout dramatically. We've now recovered most of the money we provided to the banks. That's good news, but as far as I'm concerned, it's not good enough. We want the taxpayers' money back, all of it, and we're going to collect every dime.<p>That's why this week I proposed a new fee on major financial firms to compensate the American people for the extraordinary assistance they provided to the financial industry. And the fee would be in place until the American taxpayer is made whole. Only the largest financial firms with more than $50 billion in assets will be affected, not community banks. And the bigger the firm, and the more debt it holds, the larger the fee. Because we are not only going to recover our money and help close our deficits, we are going to attack some of the banking practices that led to the crisis.<p>That's important. The fact is, financial firms play an essential role in our economy. They provide capital and credit to families purchasing homes, students attending college, businesses looking to start up or expand. That's critical to our recovery. That's why our goal with this fee--and with the commonsense financial reforms we seek--is not to punish the financial industry. Our goal is to prevent the abuse and excess that nearly led to its collapse. Our goal is to promote fair dealings while punishing those who game the system, to encourage sustained growth while discouraging the speculative bubbles that inevitably burst. Ultimately, that's in the shared interest of the financial industry and the American people. <p>And of course, I would like the banks to embrace this sense of mutual responsibility. So far, though, they have ferociously fought financial reform. The industry has even joined forces with the opposition party to launch a massive lobbying campaign against commonsense rules to protect consumers and prevent another crisis. <p>Now, like clockwork, the banks and the politicians who curry their favor are already trying to stop this fee from going into effect. The very same firms reaping billions of dollars in profits and reportedly handing out more money in bonuses and compensation than ever before in history are now pleading poverty. It's a sight to see.<p>Those who oppose this fee say the banks can't afford to pay back the American people without passing on the costs to their shareholders and customers. But that's hard to believe when there are reports that Wall Street is going to hand out more money in bonuses and compensation just this year than the cost of this fee over the next 10 years. If the big financial firms can afford massive bonuses, they can afford to pay back the American people.<p>Those who oppose this fee have also had the audacity to suggest that it's somehow unfair, that because these firms have already returned what they borrowed directly, their obligation is fulfilled. But this willfully ignores the fact that the entire industry benefited not only from the bailout, but from the assistance extended to AIG and homeowners and from the many unprecedented emergency actions taken by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and others to prevent a financial collapse. And it ignores a far greater unfairness: sticking the American taxpayer with the bill.<p>That's unacceptable to me and to the American people. We're not going to let Wall Street take the money and run. We're going to pass this fee into law. And I'm going to continue to work with Congress on commonsense financial reforms to protect people and the economy from the kind of costly and painful crisis we've just been through. Because after a very tough 2 years, after a crisis that has caused so much havoc, if there is one lesson that we can learn, it's this: We cannot return to business as usual.<p>Thanks very much.\" "
"14" "\"Good morning, everybody. In times of great challenge in our country and around the world, Americans have always come together to lend a hand and to serve others and to do what's right. That's what the American people have been doing in recent days with their extraordinary generosity and contributions to the Haitian people.<p>At this moment, we're moving forward with one of the largest relief efforts in our history, to save lives and to deliver relief that averts an even larger catastrophe. The two leaders with me today will ensure that this is matched by a historic effort that extends beyond our Government, because America has no greater resource than the strength and the compassion of the American people.<p>We just met in the Oval Office, an office they both know well. And I'm pleased that President George W. Bush and President Bill Clinton have agreed to lead a major fundraising effort for relief, the Clinton Bush Haiti Fund. On behalf of the American people, I want to thank both of you for returning to service and leading this urgent mission.<p>This is a model that works. After the terrible tsunami in Asia, President Bush turned to President Clinton and the first President Bush to lead a similar fund. That effort raised substantial resources for the victims of that disaster, money that helped save lives, deliver aid, and rebuild communities. And that's exactly what the people of Haiti desperately need right now.<p>Every day that goes by, we learn more about the horrifying scope of this catastrophe, destruction and suffering that defies comprehension: entire communities buried under mountains of concrete, families sleeping in the streets, injured desperate for care, many thousands feared dead. That's why thousands of American personnel, civilian and military, are on the scene working to distribute clean drinking water and food and medicine, and thousands of tons of emergency food supplies are arriving every day.<p>It will be difficult. It is an enormous challenge to distribute this aid quickly and safely in a place that has suffered such destruction. That's what we're focused on now, working closely with our partners, the Haitian Government, the United Nations, and many organizations and nations, friends from Argentina and France, from Dominican Republic and Brazil, and countries all around the world.<p>And Secretary Hillary Clinton will be in Haiti today to meet with President Preval and continue our close coordination with his Government. But we also know that our longer-term effort will not be measured in days and weeks; it will be measured in months and even years. And that's why it's so important to enlist and sustain the support of the American people. That's why it's so important to have a point of coordination for all the support that extends beyond our Government.<p>Here at home, Presidents Bush and Clinton will help the American people to do their part, because responding to a disaster must be the work of all of us. Indeed, those wrenching scenes of devastation remind us not only of our common humanity, but also of our common responsibilities. This time of suffering can and must be a time of compassion.<p>As the scope of the destruction became apparent, I spoke to each of these gentlemen, and they each asked the same simple question: How can I help? In the days ahead, they'll be asking everyone what they can do: individuals, corporations, NGOs, and institutions. And I urge everyone who wants to help to visit www.clintonbushhaitifund.org.<p>We're fortunate to have the service of these two leaders. President Bush led America's response to the Asian tsunami, aid and relief that prevented even greater loss of life in the months after that disaster. And his administration's efforts to fight against HIV/AIDS in Africa treated more than 10 million men, women, and children.<p>As President, Bill Clinton helped restore democracy in Haiti. As a private citizen, he has helped to save the lives of millions of people around the world. And as the United Nations Special Envoy to Haiti, he understands intimately the daily struggles and needs of the Haitian people.<p>And by coming together in this way, these two leaders send an unmistakable message to the people of Haiti and to the people of the world: In these difficult hours, America stands united. We stand united with the people of Haiti, who have shown such incredible resilience, and we will help them to recover and to rebuild.<p>Yesterday we witnessed a small but remarkable display of that determination--some of you may have seen it--Haitians with little more than the clothes on their back marched peacefully through a ruined neighborhood, and despite all their loss and all their suffering, they sang songs of faith and songs of hope.<p>These are the people we're called upon to help. Those are the hopes that we're committed to answering. That's why the three of us are standing together today. And with that, I would invite each President to say a few words. I'm going to start with President Bush.<p><i>[At this point, former Presidents George W. Bush and William J. Clinton made brief remarks.]</i><p>Well, these gentlemen are going to do an extraordinary job, but really what they're going to be doing is just tapping into the incredible generosity, the ingenuity, the can-do spirit of the American people in helping our neighbors in need. So I want to thank each of them not only for being here today, but what I know is going to be an extraordinary effort.<p>I want to make sure that everybody got that web site one more time. Obviously, we're just standing it up, but it will immediately give people a means to contact our offices: www.clintonbushhaitifund.org.<p>And I just want to amplify one thing that was said--we were talking in the back. In any extraordinary catastrophe like this, the first several weeks are just going to involve getting immediate relief on the ground. And there are going to be some tough days over the next several days. People are still trying to figure out how to organize themselves. There's going to be fear, anxiety, a sense of desperation in some cases.<p>I've been in contact with President Preval. I've been talking to the folks on the ground. We are going to be making slow and steady progress, and the key now is to--for everybody in Haiti to understand that there is going to be sustained help on the way.<p>But what these gentlemen are going to be able to do is when the news media starts seeing its attention drift to other things but there's still enormous needs on the ground, these two gentlemen of extraordinary stature, I think, are going to be able to help ensure that these efforts are sustained. And that's why it's so important and that's why I'm so grateful that they agreed to do it.<p>Thank you, gentlemen.\" "
"15" "\"<i>The President. </i>Good morning. Praise be to God. Let me begin by thanking the entire Vermont Avenue Baptist Church family for welcoming our family here today. It feels like a family. Thank you for making us feel that way. To Pastor Wheeler, first lady Wheeler, thank you so much for welcoming us here today. Congratulations on Jordan Denice, a.k.a. Cornelia. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Michelle and I have been blessed with a new nephew this year as well, Austin Lucas Robinson. So maybe at the appropriate time we can make introductions. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, if you're--if Jordan's father is like me, then that will be in about 30 years. [<i>Laughter</i>] That is a great blessing.<p>Michelle and Malia and Sasha and I are thrilled to be here today. And I know that sometimes you have to go through a little fuss to have me as a guest speaker. [<i>Laughter</i>] So let me apologize in advance for all the fuss. <p>We gather here on a Sabbath during a time of profound difficulty for our Nation and for our world. In such a time, it soothes the soul to seek out the Divine in a spirit of prayer, to seek solace among a community of believers. But we are not here just to ask the Lord for His blessing. We aren't here just to interpret His Scripture. We're also here to call on the memory of one of His noble servants, the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. <p>Now, it's fitting that we do so here, within the four walls of Vermont Avenue Baptist Church, here in a church that rose like the phoenix from the ashes of the Civil War; here in a church formed by freed slaves, whose founding pastor had worn the Union blue; here in a church from whose pews congregants set out for marches and from whom choir anthems of freedom were heard, from whose sanctuary King himself would sermonize from time to time. <p>Now, one of those times was Thursday, December 6, 1956. Pastor, I think you said you were a little older than me, so were you around at that point? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Pastor Cornelius R. Wheeler.</i> I was 3 years old.<p><i>The President. </i>You were 3 years old, all right, okay. [<i>Laughter</i>] I wasn't born yet. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>On Thursday, December 6, 1956, and before Dr. King had pointed us to the mountaintop, before he told us about his dream in front of the Lincoln Memorial, King came here, as a 27-year-old preacher, to speak on what he called \\"The Challenge of a New Age.\\" The challenge of a new age. It was a period of triumph, but also uncertainty for Dr. King and his followers, because just weeks earlier, the Supreme Court had ordered the desegregation of Montgomery's buses, a hard-wrought, hard-fought victory that would put an end to the 381-day historic boycott down in Montgomery, Alabama. <p>And yet as Dr. King rose to take that pulpit, the future still seemed daunting. It wasn't clear what would come next for the movement that Dr. King led. It wasn't clear how we were going to reach the promised land, because segregation was still rife, lynchings still a fact. Yes, the Supreme Court had ruled not only on the Montgomery buses, but also on <i>Brown</i> v. <i>Board of Education</i>. And yet that ruling was defied throughout the South by schools and by States; they ignored it with impunity. And here in the Nation's Capital, the Federal Government had yet to fully align itself with the laws on its books and the ideals of its founding. <p>So it's not hard for us, then, to imagine that moment. We can imagine folks coming to this church, happy about the boycott being over. We can also imagine them, though, coming here concerned about their future, sometimes second-guessing strategy, maybe fighting off some creeping doubts, perhaps despairing about whether the movement in which they had placed so many of their hopes, a movement in which they believed so deeply, could actually deliver on its promise. <p>So here we are, more than half a century later, once again facing the challenges of a new age. Here we are, once more marching toward an unknown future, what I call the Joshua generation to their Moses generation, the great inheritors of progress paid for with sweat and blood and sometimes life itself. <p>We've inherited the progress of unjust laws that are now overturned. We take for granted the progress of a ballot being available to anybody who wants to take the time to actually vote. We enjoy the fruits of prejudice and bigotry being lifted, slowly, sometimes in fits and starts, but irrevocably, from human hearts. It's that progress that made it possible for me to be here today, for the good people of this country to elect an African American the 44th President of the United States of America. <p>Reverend Wheeler mentioned the Inauguration, last year's election. You know, on the heels of that victory over a year ago, there were some who suggested that somehow we had entered into a postracial America, all those problems would be solved. There were those who argued that because I had spoke of a need for unity in this country that our Nation was somehow entering into a period of postpartisanship. That didn't work out so well. [<i>Laughter</i>] There was a hope shared by many that life would be better from the moment that I swore that oath. <p>Of course, as we meet here today, 1 year later, we know the promise of that moment has not yet been fully fulfilled. Because of an era of greed and irresponsibility that sowed the seeds of its own demise, because of persistent economic troubles unaddressed through the generations, because of a banking crisis that brought the financial system to the brink of catastrophe, we are being tested--in our own lives and as a nation--as few have been tested before. <p>Unemployment is at its highest level in more than a quarter of a century. Nowhere is it higher than the African American community. Poverty is on the rise. Home ownership is slipping. Beyond our shores, our sons and daughters are fighting two wars. Closer to home, our Haitian brothers and sisters are in desperate need. Bruised, battered, many people are legitimately feeling doubt, even despair, about the future. Like those who came to this church on that Thursday in 1956, folks are wondering, where do we go from here? <p>I understand those feelings. I understand the frustration and sometimes anger that so many folks feel as they struggle to stay afloat. I get letters from folks around the country every day; I read 10 a night out of the 40,000 that we receive. And there are stories of hardship and desperation, in some cases, pleading for help: \\"I need a job.\\" \\"I'm about to lose my home\\". \\"I don't have health care; it's about to cause my family to be bankrupt.\\" Sometimes you get letters from children: \\"My mama or my daddy have lost their jobs. Is there something you can do to help?\\" Ten letters like that a day we read.<p>So yes, we're passing through a hard winter. It's the hardest in some time. But let's always remember that, as a people, the American people, we've weathered some hard winters before. This country was founded during some harsh winters. The fishermen, the laborers, the craftsmen who made camp at Valley Forge, they weathered a hard winter. The slaves and the freedmen who rode an underground railroad, seeking the light of justice under the cover of night, they weathered a hard winter. The seamstress whose feet were tired, the pastor whose voice echoes through the ages, they weathered some hard winters. It was for them, as it is for us, difficult in the dead of winter to sometimes see spring coming. They too sometimes felt their hopes deflate. And yet each season, the frost melts, the cold recedes, the Sun reappears. So it was for earlier generations, and so it will be for us. <p>What we need to do is to just ask what lessons we can learn from those earlier generations about how they sustained themselves during those hard winters, how they persevered and prevailed. Let us in this Joshua generation learn how that Moses generation overcame. <p>Let me offer a few thoughts on this. First and foremost, they did so by remaining firm in their resolve. Despite being threatened by sniper fire or planted bombs, by shoving and punching and spitting and angry stares, they adhered to that sweet spirit of resistance, the principles of nonviolence that had accounted for their success. <p>Second, they understood that as much as our Government and our political parties had betrayed them in the past, as much as our Nation itself had betrayed its own ideals, government, if aligned with the interests of its people, can be--and must be--a force for good. So they stayed on the Justice Department. They went into the courts. They pressured Congress; they pressured their President. They didn't give up on this country. They didn't give up on government. They didn't somehow say government was the problem. They said, we're going to change government; we're going to make it better. Imperfect as it was, they continued to believe in the promise of democracy, in America's constant ability to remake itself, to perfect this Union. <p>Third, our predecessors were never so consumed with theoretical debates that they couldn't see progress when it came. Sometimes I get a little frustrated when folks just don't want to see that even if we don't get everything, we're getting something. King understood that the desegregation of the Armed Forces didn't end the movement, because Black and White soldiers still couldn't sit together at the same lunch counter when they came home. But he still insisted on the rightness of desegregating the Armed Forces. That was a good first step, even as he called for more. He didn't suggest that somehow by the signing of the Act that somehow all discrimination would end. But he also didn't think that we shouldn't sign the Act because it hasn't solved every problem. Let's take a victory, he said, and then keep on marching. Forward steps, large and small, were recognized for what they were, which was progress. <p>Fourth, at the core of King's success was an appeal to conscience that touched hearts and opened minds, a commitment to universal ideals--of freedom, of justice, of equality--that spoke to all people, not just some people. For King understood that without broad support, any movement for could not be sustained. That's why he marched with the White auto worker in Detroit. That's why he linked arm with the Mexican farm worker in California and united people of all colors in the noble quest for freedom. <p>Of course, King overcame in other ways as well. He remained strategically focused on gaining ground--his eyes on the prize constantly--understanding that change would not be easy, understand that change wouldn't come overnight, understanding that there'd be setbacks and false starts along the way, but understanding, as he said in 1956, that \\"we can walk and never get weary, because we know there is a great camp meeting in the promised land of freedom and justice.\\" <p>And it's because the Moses generation overcame that the trials we face today are very different from the ones that tested us in previous generations. Even after the worst recession in generations, life in America is not even close to being as brutal as it was back then for so many. That's the legacy of Dr. King and his movement. That's our inheritance. Having said that, let there be no doubt: The challenges of our new age are serious in their own right, and we must face them as squarely as they faced the challenges they saw. <p>Now, I know it's been a hard road we've traveled this year to rescue the economy, but the economy is growing again. The job losses have finally slowed, and around the country, there's signs that businesses and families are beginning to rebound. We are making progress.<p>I know it's been a hard road that we've traveled to reach this point on health reform. I promise you I know. [<i>Laughter</i>] But under the legislation I will sign into law, insurance companies won't be able to drop you when you get sick, and more than 30 million people, our fellow Americans, will finally have insurance. More than 30 million men and women and children, mothers and fathers, won't be worried about what might happen to them if they get sick. This will be a victory not for Democrats; this will be a victory for dignity and decency, for our common humanity. This will be a victory for the United States of America. <p>Let's work to change the political system, as imperfect as it is. I know people can feel down about the way things are going sometimes here in Washington. I know it's tempting to give up on the political process. But we've put in place tougher rules on lobbying and ethics and transparency, tougher rules than any administration in history. It's not enough, but it's progress. Progress is possible. Don't give up on voting. Don't give up on advocacy. Don't give up on activism. There are too many needs to be met, too much work to be done. Like Dr. King said, \\"We must accept finite disappointment but never lose infinite hope.\\" <p>Let us broaden our coalition, building a confederation not of liberals or conservatives, not of red States or blue States, but of all Americans who are hurting today and searching for a better tomorrow. The urgency of the hour demands that we make common cause with all of America's workers--White, Black, Brown--all of whom are being hammered by this recession, all of whom are yearning for that spring to come. It demands that we reach out to those who've been left out in the cold even when the economy is good, even when we're not in recession: the youth in the inner cities, the youth here in Washington, DC; people in rural communities who haven't seen prosperity reach them for a very long time. It demands that we fight discrimination, whatever form it may come. That means we fight discrimination against gays and lesbians, and we make common cause to reform our immigration system.<p>And finally, we have to recognize, as Dr. King did, that progress can't just come from without, it also has to come from within. And over the past year, for example, we've made meaningful improvements in the field of education. I've got a terrific Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan. He's been working hard with States and working hard with the DC school district, and we've insisted on reform, and we've insisted on accountability. And we we're putting in more money, and we've provided more Pell grants and more tuition tax credits and simpler financial aid forms. We've done all that, but parents still need to parent. Kids still need to own up to their responsibilities. We still have to set high expectations for our young people. Folks can't simply look to government for all the answers without also looking inside themselves, inside their own homes, for some of the answers. <p>Progress will only come if we're willing to promote that ethic of hard work, a sense of responsibility, in our own lives. I'm not talking, by the way, just to the African American community. Sometimes when I say these things people assume, well, he's just talking to Black people about working hard. No, no, no. I'm talking to the American community, because somewhere along the way, we as a nation began to lose touch with some of our core values. You know what I'm talking about. We became enraptured with the false prophets who prophesized an easy path to success, paved with credit cards and home equity loans and get-rich-quick schemes, and the most important thing was to be a celebrity; it doesn't matter what you do, as long as you get on TV. That's everybody. <p>We forgot what made the bus boycott a success, what made the movement a success, what made the United States of America a success, that in this country, there's no substitute for hard work, no substitute for a job well done, no substitute for being responsible stewards of God's blessings. <p>What we're called to do, then, is rebuild America from its foundation on up. To reinvest in the essentials that we've neglected for too long, like health care, like education, like a better energy policy, like basic infrastructure, like scientific research. Our generation is called upon to buckle down and get back to basics. <p>We must do so not only for ourselves, but also for our children and their children, for Jordan--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and for Austin. That's a sacrifice that falls on us to make. It's a much smaller sacrifice than the Moses generation had to make, but it's still a sacrifice. <p>Yes, it's hard to transition to a clean energy economy. Sometimes it may be inconvenient, but it's a sacrifice that we have to make. It's hard to be fiscally responsible when we have all these human needs and we're inheriting enormous deficits and debt, but that's a sacrifice that we're going to have to make. You know, it's easy, after a hard day's work, to just put your kid in front of the TV set--you're tired, don't want to fuss with them--instead of reading to them, but that's a sacrifice we must joyfully accept. <p>Sometimes it's hard to be a good father and good mother. Sometimes it's hard to be a good neighbor or a good citizen, to give up time in service of others, to give something of ourselves to a cause that's greater than ourselves, as Michelle and I are urging folks to do tomorrow to honor and celebrate Dr. King. But these are sacrifices that we are called to make. These are sacrifices that our faith calls us to make: our faith in the future, our faith in America, our faith in God.<p>And on his sermon all those years ago, Dr. King quoted a poet's verse:<blockquote>Truth forever on the scaffold, Wrong forever on the throne,--<br>. . . and, behind the dim unknown,<br>Stands God within the shadows, keeping watch above his own.</blockquote><p>Even as Dr. King stood in this church, a victory in the past and uncertainty in the future, he trusted God. He trusted that God would make a way, a way for prayers to be answered, a way for our Union to be perfected, a way for the arc of the moral universe, no matter how long, to slowly bend towards truth and bend towards freedom, to bend towards justice. He had faith that God would make a way out of no way.<p>You know, folks ask me sometimes why I look so calm. [<i>Laughter</i>] They say, \\"All this stuff coming at you, how come you just seem calm?\\" And I have a confession to make here. There are times where I'm not so calm. [<i>Laughter</i>] Reggie Love knows. My wife knows. There are times when progress seems too slow. There are times when the words that are spoken about me hurt. There are times when the barbs sting. There are times when it feels like all these efforts are for naught, and change is so painfully slow in coming, and I have to confront my own doubts. <p>But let me tell you, during those times, it's faith that keeps me calm. It's faith that gives me peace, the same faith that leads a single mother to work two jobs to put a roof over her head when she has doubts; the same faith that keeps an unemployed father to keep on submitting job applications even after he's been rejected a hundred times; the same faith that says a teacher, even if the first nine children she's teaching she can't reach, that that 10th one she's going to be able to reach; the same faith that breaks the silence of an earthquake's wake with the sound of prayers and hymns sung by a Haitian community; a faith in things not seen, in better days ahead, in Him who holds the future in the hollow of His hand; and a faith that lets us mount up on wings like eagles, lets us run and not be weary, lets us run--lets us walk and not faint.<p>So let us hold fast to that faith, as Joshua held fast to the faith of his fathers, and together, we shall overcome the challenges of a new age. Together, we shall seize the promise of this moment. Together, we shall make a way through the winter, and we're going to welcome the spring. Through God all things are possible. <p>May the memory of Dr. Martin Luther King continue to inspire us and ennoble our world and all who inhabit it, and may God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"16" "\"Thank you. To Dr. DeGioia, thank you so much; to the entire Georgetown family; to my Cabinet, who is working tirelessly each and every day on behalf of the American people; to Members of Congress who are in attendance; to dignitaries and Ambassadors; to tonight's honorees; to Coach. It is wonderful to be here this evening. It is a great privilege. Thank you.<p>It is a great privilege to be with all of you tonight in this place that we set aside to celebrate America's arts, but on this day we set aside to commemorate an American giant. And it's fitting that we are commemorating the life of the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King with an evening of song. Because songs played, as all of you know, an important part in the movement that he led.<p>It's been said that during the movement, Dr. King and his associates would go around to different communities in the hopes of organizing and mobilizing them, and they'd know which were serious about the boycott, which had the discipline to actually help pull it off, if folks in those communities were singing freedom songs. And when he saw young people singing in the face of hostility, he said that's when he first saw \\"the real meaning of the movement.\\" He said it was about the \\"faith in the future.\\" He said that it was \\"based on hope.\\" So I'm pleased to be here tonight to listen to some beautiful music that I think would have made Dr. King share a little extra faith in our future.<p>Of course, as we gather here to celebrate Dr. King's life with an evening of the arts, we're also mindful that this is a difficult time for our people and for our world. Across this country, Americans are struggling, and few more than African Americans, those very same inheritors of progress sown by Dr. King and the movement; too many are struggling right now. Around the world, our sons and daughters are fighting two wars. Closer to home, our Haitian neighbors are in desperate need. Across an ocean, in Africa, many people are still living amid poverty and violence and disease--of the kind that Dikembe Mutombo, who's being honored here tonight, is attacking with the same ferocity with which he used to block shots in the NBA. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I want to commend Dikembe on his outstanding leadership in giving back to his nation and his people and in honoring the life and legacy of Dr. King by doing such extraordinary acts of service.<p>The bottom line is, this is a difficult time. But we are here tonight to remember and celebrate a man who inspired a people and a nation to overcome another difficult time. That's why they sang \\"We Shall Overcome,\\" because it was hard. There was something to overcome. We're all very familiar, of course, with the speech Dr. King delivered from the steps of the Lincoln Memorial in the late summer of 1963. We're all familiar with the booming voice echoing across a sea of people from all corners of the country. We're familiar with the dream he described to a nation.<p>But what I don't think we stop to reflect on enough is the strength it took to articulate that dream. It would have been easy for Dr. King to rise to that podium and preach a message of division or hate or blame somebody else. This is a man whose own life and whose own family had been the target of attacks, a man who had been beaten, a man who had been stabbed, a man who had been jailed, a man who had been denied his most basic rights despite all the erudition, despite his fancy degrees, because of the color of his skin.<p>Throughout the land, he saw segregation still rife. Throughout the land he saw States and schools, Governors and police chiefs, unwilling to accept the onward march of history, unwilling to accept an expansion of the American Dream to include all of its citizens. <p>And yet despite all of this, despite the bitterness of the past, despite the difficulties of the present, despite the uncertainty of the future, Dr. King held fast to his dream. King rose to that podium and said, clear eyed and straight backed, to the multitude that had gathered, \\"Even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream.\\"<p>So tonight let us remember the courage of the man who had that dream. Let us remember the perseverance of all those who have worked to fulfill that dream. Let us recommit ourselves to doing our part, in our own lives and as a nation, to make that dream real in the 21st century. Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"17" "\"Hello, everybody. We have just had a wonderful conversation. I want to just tell you a little bit about why we did this. I think sometimes in celebration of Dr. King's birthday we act as if this history was so long ago. <p>And the reason we brought together some elders and some young people very briefly was not just to visit the Oval Office and see the Emancipation Proclamation, which is going to be on loan to us, but it's also just to remind us that there were some extraordinarily courageous young people like Dr. Dorothy Height, like Mrs. Eleanor Banks and Romaine Thomas and her husband, and others who were actively involved in bringing about one of the great moments in United States history.<p>And so what we've done is, we've heard some stories, shared--Dr. Height's shared with us what it was like meeting Martin Luther King when he was a 15-year-old at Morehouse, visiting there. We heard from Ms. Glanton, Willie Glanton, who is a great activist in Iowa, about the work that she's done there on behalf of the movement, reminding us that it wasn't just isolated in some areas.<p>I am especially proud to have the Harveys here, Mr. Joseph Harvey and Ms. Mabel Harvey. Mr. Joseph Harvey is 105, and Ms. Mabel Harvey here is the spry young one at 102. [<i>Laughter</i>] And Ms. Harvey just now was whispering in my ear, as you guys were walking in, that this must be the Lord's doing, because we've come a mighty long way. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's what she said. And so that's wonderful to hear. <p>We've heard from some young people here who were sharing in these stories and understanding that this is a living history. And I was very pleased to hear from Taylor Branch, author of one of the definitive biographies of the movement and Dr. King. He shared, I thought, a really interesting idea, which is that not only is Dr. King's birthday a time to celebrate service, to reflect and study on how we have helped to perfect our Union, but that it should be a day in which each of us individually also try to stretch out of our comfort zones and try to do something for others and to reach out and learn about things that maybe we've shied away from, because part of what the movement was all about was changing people's hearts and minds and breaking out of old customs and old habits.<p>And that's, I think, an important lesson for all of us on this day, is--are the things that we can try to do that might have seemed impossible but we know are worth doing, and can we apply those principles that we know to be true in our own lives and in our society.<p>So I'm just so grateful that we had this opportunity to share with everybody. And I want to wish everybody around the country a day in which they reflect on the extraordinary contributions that ordinary citizens can make each and every day to make America the most hopeful country in the world. <p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"18" "\"Hello, everybody. You guys look really cute in those chairs. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I am pleased to be joined today by my outstanding Education Secretary, Arne Duncan, at Graham Road Elementary School, one of Virginia's finest schools. And here at Graham Road, they're using innovative approaches to provide effective teaching to all their students, and that's something that all of America's schools have to do. <p>As I said before, there are any number of actions we can take as a nation to enhance our competitiveness and secure a better future for our people, but few of them will make as much of a difference as improving the way we educate our sons and daughters. Offering our children an outstanding education is one of our most fundamental--perhaps our most fundamental--obligation as a country. And whether we meet that obligation not only reflects who we are as Americans, it will shape our future as a nation. Countries that outeducate us today will outcompete us tomorrow, and I refuse to let that happen on my watch. <p>Now, it's clear that doing the same old things will not get the job done for our kids, or for America, or for our future. So when I took office, I asked Arne Duncan to work with States and local school districts to take on business as usual in our education system, and that's how the Race to the Top competition was born last July. It's a national competition among States to improve our schools. <p>Over the past few months, we've seen such a positive response that today I'm announcing our intention to make a major new investment, more than $1.3 billion in this year's budget to continue the Race to the Top. And this support will not only reaffirm our commitment to States engaged in serious reform, it will also expand the Race to the Top competition to include local school districts that are also committed to change, so innovative districts like the one in Texas whose reform efforts are being stymied by State decisionmakers will soon have the chance to earn funding to help them pursue those reforms. <p>After months of planning and preparation, the first round of Race to the Top applications is coming due today. And it's a sign of how much States and schools believe this initiative would benefit them that we're expecting significantly more States to apply than will actually receive a grant. <p>And here's how Race to the Top works. Last year, we set aside more than $4 billion to improve our schools, one of the largest investments in reform in our Nation's history. But we didn't just hand this money out to States that wanted it; we challenged them to compete for it. And it's the competitive nature of this initiative that we believe helps make it so effective. We laid out a few key criteria and said if you meet these tests, we'll reward you by helping you reform your schools. <p>First, we encouraged States to adopt more challenging standards that will actually prepare our kids for college and their careers. We also encouraged schools to adopt better assessments, not just one-size-fits-all approaches, to measure what our kids know and what they're able to do. <p>Second, we urged schools and school districts to make sure we have excellent principals leading our schools and great teachers leading our classes by promoting rigorous plans to develop and evaluate teachers and principals and by rewarding their success. <p>Third, we urged States to use cutting-edge data systems to track a child's progress throughout their academic career and to link that child's progress to their teachers so we know what's working and what's not working in the classroom. <p>Fourth, we encouraged States to show a stronger commitment to turning around some of their lowest performing schools.<p>And even before States have received a single dime of taxpayer money, many of them have committed to instituting important reforms to better position themselves for a Race to the Top grant. Forty-eight States have now joined a nationwide partnership to develop a common set of rigorous, career-ready standards in reading and math. Wisconsin has enacted legislation permitting schools to link student achievement to the performance of teachers and principals. In Illinois, Louisiana, Tennessee, California, we've seen changes in laws or policies to let public charter schools expand and succeed. These are public schools with more independence that are formed by teachers, parents, and community members. <p>So by rewarding some of these States submitting applications today, by extending the Race to the Top for States, by launching a Race to the Top among school districts, and by applying the principles of Race to the Top to other Federal programs, we'll build on this success. We're going to raise the bar for all our students and take bigger steps towards closing the achievement gap that denies so many students, especially Black and Latino students, a fair shot at their dreams. <p>We'll open up opportunity, evenly and equitably, across our education system. We'll develop a culture of innovation and excellence in our public schools. And we'll reward success and replicate it across the country. These are some of the principles that drive Race to the Top. These are some of the principles that will drive my forthcoming budget. <p>And these steps won't transform our education system overnight; not every school is going to be a Graham immediately. But they will help put us on a path to raise the quality of American education, to prepare our children to succeed in their lives and in their careers, and to secure America's success in the 21st century. That's a goal my administration will be focused on achieving in the months and years to come. <p>Thanks very much, everybody.\" "
"19" "\"Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. Thank you, Anthony, for that outstanding introduction. And thank you, Michelle Obama, also known around here as FLOTUS--[laughter]--which stands for First Lady of the United States; I'm POTUS. [Laughter]<p>Good afternoon, everybody, and welcome. I'm glad you all could join us today as we mark National Mentoring Month here at the White House. And as I said, Anthony did a wonderful job introducing me. I'm told that with the guidance of his mentor, Ben De Leon--where's Ben? There's Ben, right there. Anthony, I hear you're working hard, doing great in school. And so we are very proud of you, and we expect you to keep up the good work. And, Ben, thank you for your extraordinary service.<p>I do want to thank Michelle for launching our White House mentoring program. This is one of those that I can't take full credit for. She has shown extraordinary leadership on this issue in our administration.<p>Now, we've got several Members of Congress here: Representatives Susan Davis, Gwen Moore, and Mike Rogers. Why don't you guys just stand up so everybody can see you? They've done terrific work promoting mentoring. Thanks to Acting CEO Nicky Goren, as well as John Kelly and Kristin McSwain, from the Corporation of National and Community Service, and to the members of our Federal Mentoring Council for all their great work. Please give them a big round of applause.<p>And I want to recognize all the mentors who are here, including the people who are up on stage with their mentees, for their encouragement, their inspiration, the example they're providing to young people all across this country.<p>And finally, I want to recognize the outstanding young men who are here today who are joining our White House mentoring program. It's going to be a program that matches them up with caring adults from our staff here at the White House. And I had a chance to meet them earlier. They're wonderful young men, although one of them started talking trash about basketball already. [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, it didn't take but 5 minutes before he was explaining how he was going to rain down jumpers on me. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, to all those young men, you were chosen because of the promise that you've shown, because of your willingness to work, your eagerness to learn, your determination to succeed. And all of you deserve enormous credit for that. Now, it's not easy being a young person these days. Fewer young people are growing up in homes with two parents. I'm one of those people who didn't grow up with two parents in a household. Parents are working longer hours, and they've got less time to spend with their kids. And many young people don't have the advantage of living in those tight-knit neighborhoods that many of us who are older grew up in, where people looked out for each other and for each other's children.<p>We've also seen a rise of a popular culture that doesn't exactly celebrate diligence and self-discipline, but instead, sends a message that you can be rich and famous without doing any work, that your ticket to success is only through rapping or basketball or being a reality TV star. And many young people don't have anyone in their lives to counteract that message, to tell them that gratification that comes instantaneously usually disappears just as quickly and that real success in life comes from commitment and persistence, effort, hard work.<p>I know something about the impact these factors can have in the life of a child. And as I mentioned earlier, my father left my family when I was 2 years old. I was raised by a single mom who struggled at times to provide for me and my sister. And while I was lucky to have loving grandparents who poured everything they had into helping my mother take care of us, I still felt the weight of my father's absence throughout my childhood.<p>So I wasn't always focused in school the way I should have been. I did some things I'm not proud of. I got in more trouble than I should have. Without a bunch of second chances and a whole lot of luck, my life could have taken easily a turn for the worse.<p>But many kids today aren't as lucky. They've got a much smaller margin for error. A generation or two ago, if you didn't finish school or if you only had a high school diploma, you could still make a pretty decent living. That's usually not the case today. More than ever, success in life depends on success in school. And young people who start down the wrong path and don't have anybody to steer them straight aren't just consigning themselves to a life of financial hardship; they're consigning all of us to an economy that's less competitive and a nation that doesn't fulfill its promise.<p>That's why mentoring's so important. We know the difference a responsible, caring adult can make in a child's life: buck them up when they're discouraged, provide tough love when they veer off track, being that person in their lives who doesn't want to let them down and that they don't want to let down, and refusing to give up on them, even when they want to give up on themselves.<p>Now, studies have shown that young people in mentoring relationships get better grades in school, they're less likely to drink, they're less likely to do drugs. And you ask any successful person how they got to where they are today, chances are they'll tell you about a mentor they had somewhere along the way.<p>The great poet and author Maya Angelou didn't discover poetry until her mentor took her to the tiny library at her school and challenged her to read every book in the room. Cofounder and CEO of Apple Steve Jobs was an incorrigible troublemaker until his fourth grade teacher took him under her wing and convinced him to focus on math instead of mischief. That turned out pretty well. Ray Charles first discovered his gift for music when, at the age of 3, his next-door neighbor taught him how to play the piano. And it was the enthusiasm of her mentor, Dr. Elizabeth Blackburn, that drew Carol Greider to the groundbreaking work in genetics that would win both of them the Nobel Prize for medicine.<p>So there's no doubt about the value of mentoring. And there's no doubt about the tremendous need for mentors in this country, with at least 15 million young people in need of a mentor. What we need now is for committed adults to step forward and help us meet that need.<p>Now, I understand times are tough, and I know people are busy. And so sometimes people think, well, I'd like to do it, but I'm not sure I can make the commitment. Here's the thing people need to understand: It doesn't take much to make a big difference. A couple of hours a week shooting hoops, helping with homework, talking about what's going on in their lives can make a big, lasting impact in the life of a young person.<p>And as the folks up here on stage will tell you, the mentor usually gets as much or more out of it than the mentee. So I'm pleased that nonprofit organizations like Big Brothers Big Sisters are stepping up, expanding their efforts to connect children of deployed servicemembers to mentors, who are often veterans themselves.<p>Corporations are stepping up as well. Viacom, for example, is working with a national nonprofit called MENTOR to provide flextime to employees who sign up to be mentors and to produce educational materials for mentoring organizations across the country. <p>Government's doing its part too, launching the serve.gov/mentor web site to help people find mentoring opportunities and expanding mentoring efforts in Native American communities and in rural areas, working with the Federal Mentoring Council to ensure that our initiatives and investments are coordinated, effective, and focused on those most in need.<p>But here's the thing--and I'm talking specifically to the young people who are here today: In the end, we can start all kinds of mentoring programs and give you guys all the mentors in the world, but it won't make much of a difference unless you do your parts as well. That's the thing about mentoring; it's a two-way street.<p>So we need you engaged here. We need you to open up. As Michelle said, you've got to ask questions; you've got to ask for help when you need it. I do that every day. Michelle does that every day. It's not a sign of weakness to look for help, to try to answer questions that you don't know the answers to; it's a sign of strength when you do that. It shows that you have the courage to admit when you're unsure of yourself and the willingness to learn and grow and become a better person.<p>Now, if young people like you are willing to do this, and if compassionate, committed adults are willing to step up, then think about the incredible impact that we can have. Think about the potential that we will discover and the talent that we will nurture and the lives that we can turn around and the effect that we can have on our schools and our communities and the future of this country.<p>Now, that's the power of mentoring. That's the purpose of what all of you are doing across America. And today I thank you for your work, and I look forward to working with all of you in the months and years ahead. And I'm especially looking forward to seeing all the young men who are here as they spend time in the White House over the next several months.<p>So thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"20" "\"Good morning, everybody. Before I start, let me introduce the folks behind me: obviously, the Vice President. In addition, we've got Senator Claire McCaskill, Congressman Ed Towns, Congressman Brad Ellsworth. We've got Douglas Shulman, who's the Commissioner of the IRS, and Jeffrey Zients, our Chief Performance Officer of the United States.<p>Here in our Nation's Capital, there are a number of ways to advance the ideals and interests of the American people. Often it's done through Congress. But it can also be done through what's called a Presidential memorandum, a directive that I give to Cabinet Secretaries and to Federal Government employees to change how our Government works. In a few moments, I will issue one of these directives to help stop Government contracts from going to companies that are seriously delinquent in their taxes.<p>This is not simply a matter of signing a piece of paper or taking a bureaucratic act. By issuing this directive, all of us in Washington will be required to be more responsible stewards of your tax dollars. <p>All across this country, there are people who meet their obligations each and every day. You do your jobs. You support your families. You pay the taxes you owe, because it's a fundamental responsibility of citizenship. And yet somehow it's become standard practice in Washington to give contracts to companies that don't pay their taxes. <p>Studies by the Government Accountability Office have identified tens of thousands of such deadbeat companies that are being awarded Government contracts. One company owner who owed over $1 million in taxes was paid over $1 million as a defense contractor, and instead of using that money to pay his back taxes, he chose to buy a boat, some cars, and a home abroad with his earnings. The total amount owed in unpaid taxes by companies like that is estimated at more than $5 billion. <p>Now, in Washington, $5 billion might not seem like a lot of money. But if we were to invest that money in education, it would be enough to cover the cost of annual college tuition for more than half a million students. If we were to invest in health care, it would be enough to cover 2 1/2 million children. If we were to invest it in energy, it would be enough to weatherize more than half a million homes.<p>In a time of great need, when our families and our Nation are finding it necessary to tighten our belts and be more responsible with how we spend our money, we can't afford to waste taxpayer dollars. And we especially can't afford to let companies game the system. We need to make sure every tax dollar we spend is going to address our Nation's urgent needs and to make a difference in the lives of our people.<p>The status quo, then, is inefficient and it's wasteful. But the larger and more fundamental point is that it's wrong. It is simply wrong for companies to take taxpayer dollars and not be taxpayers themselves. So we need to insist on the same sense of responsibility in Washington that so many of you strive to uphold in your own lives, in your own families, and in your own businesses.<p>That's exactly what the memorandum I'm issuing today is meant to do. I'm directing my budget office, together with the Treasury Department and other Federal agencies, to take steps to block contractors who are seriously delinquent in their taxes from receiving new Government contracts. I'm also directing the IRS to conduct a review of the overall accuracy of companies' claims about tax delinquencies. We need to be sure that when a company says it's paying taxes, that company is, in fact, paying taxes.<p>Beyond these steps, I'm also calling on Congress to build on the kind of legislation that Senator McCaskill, Congressman Ellsworth, and Chairman Towns have introduced--and that I introduced when I was Senator--legislation that will crack down on tax cheats by allowing the IRS to share information about tax delinquency with contracting officials. And by the way, when I introduced that Senate bill, Claire stood by me, and Brad led the way in the House. <p>Further, my budget from last year proposed that if a company with lots of unpaid taxes receives a Federal contract, the Government ought to be able to pay taxpayers back in full before it's required to pay the contractors themselves. It also proposed that tax collection, on behalf of American taxpayers, should not be subject to long bureaucratic delays, it should be done swiftly. Since Congress did not act last year on this proposal, I am introducing it in this year's budget, and I once again urge Congress to act on it.<p>So the steps I'm directing today and the steps I'm calling on Congress to take are just basic commonsense steps. They're not going to eliminate all the waste or all the abuse in Government contracting in one fell swoop. And going forward, we'll also have to do more to hold contractors more accountable, not just for paying taxes, but for following other laws as well, including employment and environmental laws. <p>But the efforts I'm outlining today will scale back waste and abuse. And they will help bring the values of American Government and the values of America's companies in line with the values of the American people. <p>So with that, I'm going to sign this memorandum. And I'm expecting our team to implement it as quickly and as effectively as we can.\" "
"21" "\"Good morning, everybody. I just had a very productive meeting with two members of my Economic Recovery Advisory Board: Paul Volcker, who's the former Chair of the Federal Reserve Board, and Bill Donaldson, previously the head of the SEC. And I deeply appreciate the counsel of these two leaders and the board that they've offered as we have dealt with a broad array of very difficult economic challenges.<p>Over the past 2 years, more than 7 million Americans have lost their jobs in the deepest recession our country has known in generations. Rarely does a day go by that I don't hear from folks who are hurting. And every day, we are working to put our economy back on track and put America back to work. But even as we dig our way out of this deep hole, it's important that we not lose sight of what led us into this mess in the first place.<p>This economic crisis began as a financial crisis, when banks and financial institutions took huge, reckless risks in pursuit of quick profits and massive bonuses. When the dust settled and this binge of irresponsibility was over, several of the world's oldest and largest financial institutions had collapsed or were on the verge of doing so. Markets plummeted, credit dried up, and jobs were vanishing by the hundreds of thousands each month. We were on the precipice of a second great depression.<p>To avoid this calamity, the American people, who were already struggling in their own right, were forced to rescue financial firms facing crises largely of their own creation. And that rescue, undertaken by the previous administration, was deeply offensive, but it was a necessary thing to do, and it succeeded in stabilizing the financial system and helping to avert that depression.<p>Since that time, over the past year, my administration has recovered most of what the Federal Government provided to banks. And last week, I proposed a fee to be paid by the largest financial firms in order to recover every last dime. But that's not all we have to do. We have to enact commonsense reforms that will protect American taxpayers and the American economy from future crises as well.<p>For while the financial system is far stronger today than it was 1 year ago, it's still operating under the same rules that led to its near collapse. These are rules that allowed firms to act contrary to the interests of customers, to conceal their exposure to debt through complex financial dealings, to benefit from taxpayer-insured deposits while making speculative investments, and to take on risks so vast that they posed threats to the entire system.<p>That's why we are seeking reforms to protect consumers. We intend to close loopholes that allowed big financial firms to trade risky financial products, like credit default swaps and other derivatives without oversight, to identify system-wide risks that could cause a meltdown, to strengthen capital and liquidity requirements to make the system more stable, and to ensure that the failure of any large firm does not take the entire economy down with it. Never again will the American taxpayer be held hostage by a bank that is too big to fail.<p>Now, limits on the risks major financial firms can take are central to the reforms that I've proposed. They are central to the legislation that has passed the House under the leadership of Chairman Barney Frank and that we're working to pass in the Senate under the leadership of Chairman Chris Dodd. As part of these efforts, today I'm proposing two additional reforms that I believe will strengthen the financial system, while preventing future crises.<p>First, we should no longer allow banks to stray too far from their central mission of serving their customers. In recent years, too many financial firms have put taxpayer money at risk by operating hedge funds and private equity funds and making riskier investments to reap a quick reward. And these firms have taken these risks while benefiting from special financial privileges that are reserved only for banks.<p>Our Government provides deposit insurance and other safeguards and guarantees to firms that operate banks. We do so because a stable and reliable banking system promotes sustained growth and because we learned how dangerous the failure of that system can be during the Great Depression.<p>But these privileges were not created to bestow banks operating hedge funds or private equity funds with an unfair advantage. When banks benefit from the safety net that taxpayers provide, which includes lower cost capital, it is not appropriate for them to turn around and use that cheap money to trade for profit. And that is especially true when this kind of trading often puts banks in direct conflict with their customers' interests.<p>The fact is, these kinds of trading operations can create enormous and costly risks, endangering the entire bank if things go wrong. We simply cannot accept a system in which hedge funds or private equity firms inside banks can place huge, risky bets that are subsidized by taxpayers and that could pose a conflict of interest. And we cannot accept a system in which shareholders make money on these operations if the bank wins, but taxpayers foot the bill if the bank loses.<p>It's for these reasons that I'm proposing a simple and commonsense reform, which we're calling the \\"Volcker rule,\\" after this tall guy behind me. Banks will no longer be allowed to own, invest, or sponsor hedge funds, private equity funds, or proprietary trading operations for their own profit, unrelated to serving their customers. If financial firms want to trade for profit, that's something they're free to do. Indeed, doing so responsibly is a good thing for the markets and the economy. But these firms should not be allowed to run these hedge funds and private equities funds while running a bank backed by the American people.<p>In addition, as part of our efforts to protect against future crises, I'm also proposing that we prevent the further consolidation of our financial system. There has long been a deposit cap in place to guard against too much risk being concentrated in a single bank. The same principle should apply to wider forms of funding employed by large financial institutions in today's economy. The American people will not be served by a financial system that comprises just a few massive firms. That's not good for consumers; it's not good for the economy. And through this policy, that is an outcome we will avoid.<p>My message to Members of Congress of both parties is that we have to get this done. And my message to leaders of the financial industry is to work with us, and not against us, on needed reforms. I welcome constructive input from folks in the financial sector. But what we've seen so far, in recent weeks, is an army of industry lobbyists from Wall Street descending on Capitol Hill to try and block basic and commonsense rules of the road that would protect our economy and the American people.<p>So if these folks want a fight, it's a fight I'm ready to have. And my resolve is only strengthened when I see a return to old practices at some of the very firms fighting reform and when I see soaring profits and obscene bonuses at some of the very firms claiming that they can't lend more to small business, they can't keep credit card rates low, they can't pay a fee to refund taxpayers for the bailout without passing on the cost to shareholders or customers. That's the claims they're making. It's exactly this kind of irresponsibility that makes clear reform is necessary.<p>And we've come through a terrible crisis. The American people have paid a very high price. We simply cannot return to business as usual. That's why we're going to ensure that Wall Street pays back the American people for the bailout. That's why we're going to rein in the excess and abuse that nearly brought down our financial system. That's why we're going to pass these reforms into law.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"22" "\"Thank you very much. Please have a seat. Have a seat. Well, welcome to the White House, everybody. And let me, first of all, say what a outstanding job that the Vice President has done, not just on a whole range of issues in this administration, but in working with the mayors to make sure this Recovery Act works the way it should. So please give Joe Biden a big round of applause.<p>A couple of other acknowledgements I have to make: First of all, I want to say congratulations to Elizabeth Kautz, the new president. Congratulations. Give Elizabeth a big round of applause. I have to acknowledge my own mayor, Mayor Richard Daley, for the outstanding work he's done in Chicago. I want to say thank you to Joe Riley of Charleston, not only for creating one of the greatest--helping to make one of the greatest cities in the country bloom, but also for giving us David Agnew. So give him a big round of applause. Mayor John Hickenlooper of Denver, who also is running for the Governor of Colorado; I hope you all talk to him still even when he becomes Governor. And I've got to acknowledge Mufi Hannemann because he was such a great host for me and my family when we were there in Honolulu. So thank you, Mufi. I have to say, Rich, the weather was a lot better--[<i>Laughter</i>]--in Honolulu. I just want to let you know. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, I know all of you met the First Lady yesterday to begin an important national discussion on our national childhood obesity epidemic. I hate following my wife. [<i>Laughter</i>] She's more charming, smarter, tougher, better looking. But I am looking forward to a productive discussion with all of you on the urgent need to create jobs and move our metropolitan areas forward.<p>Now, I always enjoy meeting with mayors because it reminds me of where I got my start, working with folks at the local level, doing our best to make a real impact on the lives of ordinary Americans, and that's what each of you does every single day. You're the first interaction citizens have with their government when they step outside every morning. The things that make our cities work and our people go--transit and public safety, safe housing, sanitation, parks, recreation--all these tasks fall to you. It was President Johnson who once said: \\"When the burdens of the Presidency seem unusually heavy, I always remind myself it could be worse. I could be a mayor.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So I--it's why we organized this meeting today. [<i>Laughter</i>] I look at all of you and I say, I'm doing fine. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's just not easy being a mayor. But rarely, if ever, has it been more difficult than it is today. Your constituents are feeling the pain of the greatest economic crisis since the Great Depression, not to mention an economy that wasn't working for a lot of them long before this particular crisis hit.<p>Many have lost jobs; many have lost their health care; some may have even lost their homes. And they're looking to you and all of us to regain some sense of economic security. And just when they need more from you, you're stuck with falling revenues, leaving you with impossible choices that keep mounting up--putting projects on hold or having to furlough key employees. I know some of you have had the heartbreak of laying folks off. I also know that each and every one of you is 100 percent resolved to pick your city up and move it forward.<p>And that's why, even as we worked to rescue our broader economy last year, we took some steps to help. We cut taxes, as Joe mentioned, for workers and small businesses. We extended unemployment insurance and health benefits for those who lost their jobs. We provided aid to local governments so you could keep essential services running and keep cops and firefighters and teachers, who make your cities safe places to grow and to learn, on your payroll. <p>We invested in proven strategies like the COPS program and the Byrnes Grants that you rely on to bring down crime and boost public safety. We funded and awarded more than 1,800 of the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grants that you conceived, flexible products that reduce energy use, put people back to work, and save taxpayers' money.<p>We increased funding for the Summer Youth Employment Program, helping more than 300,000 young people hit especially hard by the recession. That did more than just give them a chance to earn money; it gave them the critical chance to gain experience in good jobs that build good skills so that they can come out of this crisis in a better position to build a life for themselves.<p>And we're working every day to get our economy back on track and put America back to work. Because while Wall Street may be recovering, you and I know your Main Streets have a long way to go. Unemployment in your cities is still far too high. And because our metropolitan areas account for 90 percent of our economic output, they are the engines that we need to get started again.<p>Now, last month, I announced some additional targeted steps to spur private sector hiring and boost small businesses by building on the tax cuts in the Recovery Act and increasing access to the loans they desperately need to grow. I said we'd rebuild and modernize even more of our transportation and communications networks across the country, in addition to the infrastructure projects that are already scheduled to come on line this year. I called for the extension of emergency relief to help hurting Americans who've lost their jobs. And you can expect a continued, sustained, and relentless effort to create good jobs for the American people. I will not rest until we've gotten there.<p>But I also know that each of you worries about the longer term effects this economy might have on your children, on your families, and on workers. You worry about what shape everything will be in once we emerge from this crisis. So you're focused on addressing the pressing problems we face today, but you've also got a vision for your city. And no matter what party you belong to or where you've traveled here from, that vision is one I share: of vibrant communities that provide our children with every chance to learn and to grow, that allow our businesses and workers the best opportunity to innovate and succeed, that let our older Americans live out their best years in the midst of all that metropolitan life has to offer. All of us have an obligation to make sure that even as we work to rescue and rebuild our economy, we don't lose sight of that, because job creation and investing in our communities aren't competing priorities, they are complementary.<p>Now, 2 years ago, I addressed your gathering, and I outlined a new strategy for urban America that changed the way Washington does business with our cities and our metropolitan areas. And since taking office, my administration has taken a hard look at that relationship, from matters of infrastructure to transportation, education to energy, housing to sustainable development. My staff has traveled around the country to see the fresh ideas and successful solutions that you've devised. And we've learned a great deal about what we can do, and shouldn't do, to help rebuild and revitalize our cities and metropolitan areas for the future.<p>So the budget that I'll present next month will begin to back up this urban vision by putting an end to throwing money after what doesn't work and by investing responsibly in what does.<p>Our strategy to build economically competitive, environmentally sustainable, opportunity-rich communities that serve as the backbone for our long-term growth and prosperity--three items: First, we'll build strong regional backbones for our economy by coordinating Federal investment in economic and workforce development, because today's metropolitan areas don't stop at downtown. What's good for Denver, for example, is usually good for places like Aurora and Boulder too. Strong cities are the building blocks of strong regions, and strong regions are essential for a strong America.<p>Second, we'll focus on creating more livable and environmentally sustainable communities. Because when it comes to development, it's time to throw out old policies that encouraged sprawl and congestion, pollution, and ended up isolating our communities in the process. We need strategies that encourage smart development linked to quality public transportation that bring our communities together.<p>That's why we'll improve our Partnership for Sustainable Communities by working with HUD, EPA, and the Department of Transportation in making sure that when it comes to development, housing, energy, and transportation policy go hand in hand. And we will build on the successful TIGER discretionary grants program to put people to work and help our cities rebuild their roads and their bridges, train stations, and water systems.<p>Third, we'll focus on creating neighborhoods of opportunity. Many of our neighborhoods have been economically distressed long before this crisis hit, for as long as many of us can remember. And while the underlying causes may be deeply rooted and complicated, there are some needs that are simple: access to good jobs, affordable housing, convenient transportation that connects both, quality schools and health services, safe streets and parks, and access to a fresh, healthy food supply.<p>So we'll invest in innovative and proven strategies that change the odds for our communities, strategies like Promise Neighborhoods, neighborhood-level interventions that saturate our kids with the services that offer them a better start in life; strategies like Choice Neighborhoods, which focuses on new ideas for housing by recognizing that different communities need different solutions. And by the way, we're also expanding the successful Race to the Top competition to improve our schools and raise the bar for all our students to local school districts that are committed to change.<p>That's what we're doing to bring jobs and opportunity to every corner of our cities and our economy, focusing on what works. And that's what all of you do each and every day. You're not worried about ideology. Obviously, all of you are elected, so you think about politics, but it's not in terms of scoring cheap political points; you're going to be judged on whether you deliver the goods or not. You focus on solving problems for people who trusted us with solving them. And that's a commitment that all of us who serve should keep in mind.<p>As long as I'm President, I'm committed to being your partner in that work. We're going to keep on reaching out to you and listening to you and working with you towards our common goals. And I want to start that right now by taking some of your questions. But first, I think all these cameras are going to move out, so you can tell me the truth. [<i>Laughter</i>] All right? Thank you.\" "
"23" "\"One of the reasons I ran for President was because I believed so strongly that the voices of everyday Americans, hard-working folks doing everything they can to stay afloat, just weren't being heard over the powerful voices of the special interests in Washington. And the result was a national agenda too often skewed in favor of those with the power to tilt the tables.<p>In my first year in office, we pushed back on that power by implementing historic reforms to get rid of the influence of those special interests. On my first day in office, we closed the revolving door between lobbying firms and the Government so that no one in my administration would make decisions based on the interests of former or future employers. We barred gifts from Federal lobbyists to executive branch officials. We imposed tough restrictions to prevent funds for our recovery from lining the pockets of the well connected, instead of creating jobs for Americans. And for the first time in history, we have publicly disclosed the names of lobbyists and nonlobbyists alike who visit the White House every day so that you know what's going on in the White House, the people's house.<p>We've been making steady progress. But this week, the United States Supreme Court handed a huge victory to the special interests and their lobbyists and a powerful blow to our efforts to rein in corporate influence. This ruling strikes at our democracy itself. By a 5-4 vote, the Court overturned more than a century of law, including a bipartisan campaign finance law written by Senators John McCain and Russ Feingold that had barred corporations from using their financial clout to directly interfere with elections by running advertisements for or against candidates in the crucial closing weeks.<p>This ruling opens the floodgates for an unlimited amount of special interest money into our democracy. It gives the special interest lobbyists new leverage to spend millions on advertising to persuade elected officials to vote their way, or to punish those who don't. That means that any public servant who has the courage to stand up to the special interests and stand up for the American people can find himself or herself under assault come election time. Even foreign corporations can now get into the act.<p>I can't think of anything more devastating to the public interest. The last thing we need to do is hand more influence to the lobbyists in Washington or more power to the special interests to tip the outcome of elections.<p>All of us, regardless of party, should be worried that it will be that much harder to get fair, commonsense financial reforms or close unwarranted tax loopholes that reward corporations from sheltering their income or shipping American jobs offshore.<p>It will make it more difficult to pass commonsense laws to promote energy independence because even foreign entities would be allowed to mix in our elections. It would give the health insurance industry even more leverage to fend off reforms that would protect patients.<p>We don't need to give any more voice to the powerful interests that already drown out the voices of everyday Americans, and we don't intend to. When this ruling came down, I instructed my administration to get to work immediately with Members of Congress willing to fight for the American people to develop a forceful, bipartisan response to this decision. We've begun that work, and it will be a priority for us until we repair the damage that has been done.<p>One of the great Republican Presidents, Teddy Roosevelt, fought to limit special interest spending and influence over American political campaigns and warned of the impact of unbridled corporate spending. His message rings as true as ever today, in this age of mass communications, when the decks are too often stacked against ordinary Americans. And as long as I'm your President, I'll never stop fighting to make sure that the most powerful voice in Washington belongs to you.<p>Thanks.\" "
"24" "\"<i>The President</i>. Thank you so much, everybody. Please have a seat. Welcome to the White House, and congratulations, a little belatedly, to the Los Angeles Lakers for winning your 15th--15th--NBA title and 4th in the past 10 years.<p>Before I say a few things about the Lakers, I just want to acknowledge some wonderful Members of Congress and big Lakers fans who are here: Congresswoman Jane Harman, Congresswoman Laura Richardson, Congressman Adam Schiff, Congressman Brad Sherman, and Lucille Roybal-Allard. Please, everybody, give them a big round of applause. <p>Now, as folks here will tell you, the only thing that is better than playing basketball--the only thing that's better than watching basketball is playing basketball, but I'm 48, and soon to be 49, and it's a little harder these days to move around on the court, especially when you're playing against kids who are half your age. But I still get enormous, enormous pleasure from watching great athletes on the court. And nobody exemplifies excellence in basketball better than the Los Angeles Lakers last year. <p>I want to congratulate everybody who helped make this team what it is, from the assistants to the front office staff, to the trainers and the ticket takers, all the fans back in L.A. who bleed purple and gold. You all should be very proud. That's you. Is that--yes? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I want to congratulate Jeanie Buss and the rest of the Buss family for guiding this team so well for the last 30 years. <p>I'm especially excited to meet Coach Phil Jackson, the Zen master. [<i>Laughter</i>] I've been a fan of Coach Jackson's ever since his days running the triangle offense in Chicago. I want to congratulate him on his 10th NBA championship, the most in history. I do want to point out that six of them came with the Bulls. [<i>Laughter</i>] I just want to point that out.<p>You remember that, Magic----<p><i>Earvin \\"Magic\\" Johnson, Jr</i>. Yes, sir. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President</i>. ----'90-'91? Remember when Jordan went up and then--[<i>applause</i>]. You know, they won the first game, and they were feeling cocky. [<i>Laughter</i>] And then Paxson was hitting all those shots. Oh, anyway, we don't want to--that's not why we're here. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I was hoping that, Coach, you were going to bring some books for Republicans and Democrats in Congress maybe to get them to start playing like a team together. [<i>Laughter</i>] Coach is famous for passing out books and helping people get the job done.<p>We are obviously honored to have one of the alltime greats in NBA history, Magic Johnson. Magic did pretty well during his time with the Lakers. He wasn't bad. [<i>Laughter</i>] And now a new generation is continuing his legacy. But obviously, part of what makes Magic special wasn't just how he played on the court, but also just the infectious enthusiasm about life and what he's now doing with businesses and minority communities. He's just been an outstanding leader in our country for a long time. <p>Of course, I've got to recognize Kobe Bryant, one of the most competitive players I've ever seen, for being named finals MVP last year--obviously already MVPs under his belt, the youngest player ever to reach 25,000 points in his career. And he's playing with a broken finger. Now, if I was--if I had a broken finger, I would have trouble getting out of bed. [<i>Laughter</i>] And he's still leading the team day in and day out. <p>This is a team that never lost its focus last season, from the first tipoff to the final buzzer. I know that the Lakers have a tradition of ending each team gathering--whether it's a practice or a game or a team meeting--with the chant, \\"One, two, three, rings.\\" As Lamar Odom said, \\"We kind of always saw that light.\\" Everyone was willing to do what it took to get a little stronger, to play a little harder, and to bring home that title. <p>But I think it's important to note that this team also knows that being a champ is about more than trophies and rings. It's about being a winner off the court as well as on it and giving back to those who are less fortunate. The Lakers and the NBA have always been about serving others, at home and around the world. And that tradition continued last week, when the NBA and the Players Association, led by Derek Fisher, pledged to donate $1 million to support relief efforts in Haiti. Jordan Farmar and Pau Gasol are also donating their money to the Clinton Bush Haiti Fund. Pau pledged $1,000 for every point he scored against the Knicks, and I'm glad he dropped 20--[<i>Laughter</i>]--helping the Lakers to beat New York and changing the lives of Haitians thousands of miles away.<p>And earlier today, the team joined with our United We Serve initiative to hold a fitness clinic for kids from Stanton Elementary School right here in Washington, DC, teaching them about a few moves, but also how to live healthy and active lives.<p>So I just want to again thank the entire Lakers organization for your service, for the great joy that you have given the city of Los Angeles, but also the incredible competition that your organization has graced the basketball court with for decades now. If this season is anything like the last one--I know that you guys have your sights on the NBA finals--so we might see you here before long. But we are very grateful for your presence here today. Give them a big round of applause. <p>Now, one last thing, I was also told that Mr. Brown here intends to win the dunk contest--[<i>Laughter</i>]--so we'll see how that goes.\" "
"25" "\"Thank you. Thank you, Joe. Hey, guys, everybody have a seat, have a seat. Well, I wanted to stop by to comment on all the great work that the Middle Class Task Force is doing. And you've just seen why Joe is the right person to do it. No one brings to the table the same combination of personal experience and substantive expertise. He's come a long way and achieved incredible things along the ride, but he's never forgotten where he came from and his roots as a working class kid from Scranton. He's devoted his life to making the American Dream a reality for everyone because he's lived it.<p>Now, we all know what that American Dream is. It's the idea that in America, we can make of our lives what we will. It's the idea that if you work hard and live up to your responsibilities, you can get ahead and enjoy some of the basic guarantees in life: a good job that pays a good wage, health care that will be there when you get sick, a secure retirement even if you're not rich, an education that will give our kids a better life than we had. They're very simple ideas, but they're the ideas that are at the heart of our middle class, the middle class that made the 20th century the American century.<p>Unfortunately, the middle class has been under assault for a long time. Too many Americans have known their own painful recessions long before any economist declared that there was a recession. We've just come through what was one of the most difficult decades the middle class has ever faced, a decade in which median income fell and our economy lost about as many jobs as it gained.<p>For 2 years, Joe and I traveled this country, and we heard stories that are all too familiar: stories of Americans barely able to stay afloat despite working harder and harder for less; premiums that were doubling, tuition fees that were rising almost as fast; savings being used up, retirements put off, dreams put on hold. That was all before the middle class got pounded by the full fury of the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression.<p>Their stories are why Joe and I ran for this office: to reverse those trends, to fight for the middle class, to make sure working families have a voice in the White House, and to do everything within our power to make sure they don't just survive the crisis, but again they can thrive.<p>And when we walked through these doors last year, our first and most urgent task was to rescue our economy, to give immediate relief to those who were hurt by its downturn, but also to rebuild it on a new, stronger foundation for job creation. So we helped State and local governments keep cops and firefighters and teachers on the job, helping to plug their budgets. We invested in areas with the most potential for job growth--both immediate and lasting--in our infrastructure, in science and technology, in education, in clean energy. And these steps have saved or created about 2 million jobs so far.<p>But more than 7 million have been lost as a consequence of this recession, an epidemic that demands our relentless and sustained response. Now, last month, the House passed a new jobs bill. The Senate, as we speak, is hard at work developing its own job creation package. Creating good, sustainable jobs is the single most important thing we can do to rebuild the middle class, and I won't rest until we're doing just that.<p>But we also need to reverse the overall erosion in middle class security so that when this economy does come back, working Americans are free to pursue their dreams again. There are a variety of immediate steps we can take to do just that, steps we're poised to begin taking in the budget that I'll put forward next week.<p>Joe already spoke about some of these proposals in detail, proposals that make it a bit easier for families to get by, for students to get ahead, and for workers to retire. To make balancing work and family more realistic, we'll make it easier to care for children and aging loved ones. To make college more affordable, we'll make it easier for students to pay back their loans, and forgive their debt earlier if they choose a career in public service. And to make retirement more secure, we're going to make it easier to save through the workplace.<p>Joe and I are going to keep on fighting for what matters to middle class families: an education that gives our kids a chance in life, new clean energy economy that generates the good jobs of the future, meaningful financial reforms that protect consumers, and health reform that prohibits the worst practices of the insurance industry and restores some stability and peace of mind for middle class families.<p>Now, none of these steps alone will solve all the challenges facing the middle class. Joe understands that. So do I. So do all my members of the Cabinet and our economic team. But hopefully some of these steps will reestablish some of the security that's slipped away in recent years. Because in the end, that's how Joe and I measure progress, not by how the markets are doing, but by how the American people are doing. It's about whether they see some progress in their own lives.<p>So we're going to keep fighting to rebuild our economy so that hard work is once again rewarded, wages and incomes are once again rising, and the middle class is once again growing. And above all, we're going to keep fighting to renew the American Dream and keep it alive, not just in our time, but for all time.<p>So again, to our team--and that includes, by the way, the folks over here--thank you for the great work that you've done. I'm excited about a lot of the proposals that you've come up with. And we expect that we're going to be able to get some of these critical initiatives passed soon so that folks can get some help right away.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"26" "\"Madam Speaker, Vice President Biden, Members of Congress, distinguished guests, and fellow Americans: Our Constitution declares that from time to time, the President shall give to Congress information about the state of our Union. For 220 years, our leaders have fulfilled this duty. They've done so during periods of prosperity and tranquility, and they've done so in the midst of war and depression, at moments of great strife and great struggle.<p>It's tempting to look back on these moments and assume that our progress was inevitable, that America was always destined to succeed. But when the Union was turned back at Bull Run and the Allies first landed at Omaha Beach, victory was very much in doubt. When the market crashed on Black Tuesday and marchers were beaten on Bloody Sunday, the future was anything but certain. These were the times that tested the courage of our convictions and the strength of our Union. And despite all our divisions and disagreements, our hesitations and our fears, America prevailed because we chose to move forward as one Nation, as one people. Again, we are tested. And again, we must answer history's call.<p>One year ago, I took office amid two wars, an economy rocked by a severe recession, a financial system on the verge of collapse, and a Government deeply in debt. Experts from across the political spectrum warned that if we did not act, we might face a second depression. So we acted, immediately and aggressively. And 1 year later, the worst of the storm has passed.<p>But the devastation remains. One in 10 Americans still cannot find work. Many businesses have shuttered. Home values have declined. Small towns and rural communities have been hit especially hard. And for those who'd already known poverty, life's become that much harder.<p>This recession has also compounded the burdens that America's families have been dealing with for decades: the burden of working harder and longer for less, of being unable to save enough to retire or help kids with college.<p>So I know the anxieties that are out there right now. They're not new. These struggles are the reason I ran for President. These struggles are what I've witnessed for years, in places like Elkhart, Indiana; Galesburg, Illinois. I hear about them in the letters that I read each night. The toughest to read are those written by children asking why they have to move from their home, asking when their mom or dad will be able to go back to work.<p>For these Americans and so many others, change has not come fast enough. Some are frustrated, some are angry. They don't understand why it seems like bad behavior on Wall Street is rewarded, but hard work on Main Street isn't, or why Washington has been unable or unwilling to solve any of our problems. They're tired of the partisanship and the shouting and the pettiness. They know we can't afford it. Not now.<p>So we face big and difficult challenges. And what the American people hope, what they deserve, is for all of us, Democrats and Republicans, to work through our differences, to overcome the numbing weight of our politics. For while the people who sent us here have different backgrounds, different stories, different beliefs, the anxieties they face are the same. The aspirations they hold are shared: a job that pays the bills, a chance to get ahead, most of all, the ability to give their children a better life.<p>And you know what else they share? They share a stubborn resilience in the face of adversity. After one of the most difficult years in our history, they remain busy building cars and teaching kids, starting businesses and going back to school. They're coaching Little League and helping their neighbors. One woman wrote to me and said, \\"We are strained but hopeful, struggling but encouraged.\\"<p>It's because of this spirit, this great decency and great strength, that I have never been more hopeful about America's future than I am tonight. Despite our hardships, our Union is strong. We do not give up. We do not quit. We do not allow fear or division to break our spirit. In this new decade, it's time the American people get a Government that matches their decency, that embodies their strength. And tonight I'd like to talk about how together we can deliver on that promise.<p>It begins with our economy. Our most urgent task upon taking office was to shore up the same banks that helped cause this crisis. It was not easy to do. And if there's one thing that has unified Democrats and Republicans and everybody in between, it's that we all hated the bank bailout. I hated it. I hated it; you hated it. It was about as popular as a root canal. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But when I ran for President, I promised I wouldn't just do what was popular; I would do what was necessary. And if we had allowed the meltdown of the financial system, unemployment might be double what it is today. More businesses would certainly have closed. More homes would have surely been lost.<p>So I supported the last administration's efforts to create the financial rescue program. And when we took that program over, we made it more transparent and more accountable. And as a result, the markets are now stabilized, and we've recovered most of the money we spent on the banks--most but not all.<p>To recover the rest, I've proposed a fee on the biggest banks. Now, I know Wall Street isn't keen on this idea. But if these firms can afford to hand out big bonuses again, they can afford a modest fee to pay back the taxpayers who rescued them in their time of need.<p>Now, as we stabilized the financial system, we also took steps to get our economy growing again, save as many jobs as possible, and help Americans who had become unemployed. That's why we extended or increased unemployment benefits for more than 18 million Americans, made health insurance 65 percent cheaper for families who get their coverage through COBRA, and passed 25 different tax cuts.<p>Now, let me repeat: We cut taxes. We cut taxes for 95 percent of working families. We cut taxes for small businesses. We cut taxes for first-time home buyers. We cut taxes for parents trying to care for their children. We cut taxes for 8 million Americans paying for college. [<i>Applause</i>] I thought I'd get some applause on that one. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>As a result, millions of Americans had more to spend on gas and food and other necessities, all of which helped businesses keep more workers. And we haven't raised income taxes by a single dime on a single person--not a single dime.<p>Now, because of the steps we took, there are about 2 million Americans working right now who would otherwise be unemployed. Two hundred thousand work in construction and clean energy. Three hundred thousand are teachers and other education workers. Tens of thousands are cops, firefighters, correctional officers, first-responders. And we're on track to add another 1 1/2 million jobs to this total by the end of the year.<p>The plan that has made all of this possible, from the tax cuts to the jobs, is the Recovery Act. That's right, the Recovery Act, also known as the stimulus bill. Economists on the left and the right say this bill has helped save jobs and avert disaster. But you don't have to take their word for it. Talk to the small business in Phoenix that will triple its workforce because of the Recovery Act. Talk to the window manufacturer in Philadelphia who said he used to be skeptical about the Recovery Act, until he had to add two more work shifts just because of the business it created. Talk to the single teacher raising two kids who was told by her principal in the last week of school that because of the Recovery Act, she wouldn't be laid off after all.<p>There are stories like this all across America. And after 2 years of recession, the economy is growing again. Retirement funds have started to gain back some of their value. Businesses are beginning to invest again, and slowly some are starting to hire again.<p>But I realize that for every success story, there are other stories, of men and women who wake up with the anguish of not knowing where their next paycheck will come from, who send out resumes week after week and hear nothing in response. That is why jobs must be our number-one focus in 2010, and that's why I'm calling for a new jobs bill tonight.<p>Now, the true engine of job creation in this country will always be America's businesses. [<i>Applause</i>] I agree, absolutely. But Government can create the conditions necessary for businesses to expand and hire more workers. We should start where most new jobs do, in small businesses, companies that begin when an entrepreneur takes a chance on a dream or a worker decides it's time she became her own boss. Through sheer grit and determination, these companies have weathered the recession, and they're ready to grow. But when you talk to small-business owners in places like Allentown, Pennsylvania, or Elyria, Ohio, you find out that even though banks on Wall Street are lending again, they're mostly lending to bigger companies. Financing remains difficult for small-business owners across the country, even those that are making a profit.<p>So tonight I'm proposing that we take $30 billion of the money Wall Street banks have repaid and use it to help community banks give small businesses the credit they need to stay afloat. I'm also proposing a new small business tax credit, one that will go to over 1 million small businesses who hire new workers or raise wages. While we're at it, let's also eliminate all capital gains taxes on small-business investment and provide a tax incentive for all large businesses and all small businesses to invest in new plants and equipment.<p>Next, we can put Americans to work today building the infrastructure of tomorrow. From the first railroads to the Interstate Highway System, our Nation has always been built to compete. There's no reason Europe or China should have the fastest trains or the new factories that manufacture clean energy products. Tomorrow I'll visit Tampa, Florida, where workers will soon break ground on a new high-speed railroad funded by the Recovery Act. There are projects like that all across this country that will create jobs and help move our Nation's goods, services, and information.<p>We should put more Americans to work building clean energy facilities and give rebates to Americans who make their homes more energy efficient, which supports clean energy jobs. And to encourage these and other businesses to stay within our borders, it is time to finally slash the tax breaks for companies that ship our jobs overseas and give those tax breaks to companies that create jobs right here in the United States of America.<p>Now, the House has passed a jobs bill that includes some of these steps. As the first order of business this year, I urge the Senate to do the same, and I know they will. They will. People are out of work. They're hurting. They need our help. And I want a jobs bill on my desk without delay.<p>But the truth is, these steps won't make up for the 7 million jobs that we've lost over the last 2 years. The only way to move to full employment is to lay a new foundation for long-term economic growth and finally address the problems that America's families have confronted for years.<p>We can't afford another so-called economic expansion like the one from the last decade, what some call the \\"lost decade,\\" where jobs grew more slowly than during any prior expansion, where the income of the average American household declined while the cost of health care and tuition reached record highs, where prosperity was built on a housing bubble and financial speculation.<p>From the day I took office, I've been told that addressing our larger challenges is too ambitious; such an effort would be too contentious. I've been told that our political system is too gridlocked and that we should just put things on hold for a while. For those who make these claims, I have one simple question: How long should we wait? How long should America put its future on hold?<p>You see, Washington has been telling us to wait for decades, even as the problems have grown worse. Meanwhile, China's not waiting to revamp its economy. Germany's not waiting. India's not waiting. These nations are--they're not standing still. These nations aren't playing for second place. They're putting more emphasis on math and science. They're rebuilding their infrastructure. They're making serious investments in clean energy because they want those jobs. Well, I do not accept second place for the United States of America. As hard as it may be, as uncomfortable and contentious as the debates may become, it's time to get serious about fixing the problems that are hampering our growth.<p>Now, one place to start is serious financial reform. Look, I am not interested in punishing banks. I'm interested in protecting our economy. A strong, healthy financial market makes it possible for businesses to access credit and create new jobs. It channels the savings of families into investments that raise incomes. But that can only happen if we guard against the same recklessness that nearly brought down our entire economy.<p>We need to make sure consumers and middle class families have the information they need to make financial decisions. We can't allow financial institutions, including those that take your deposits, to take risks that threaten the whole economy.<p>Now, the House has already passed financial reform with many of these changes, and the lobbyists are trying to kill it. But we cannot let them win this fight. And if the bill that ends up on my desk does not meet the test of real reform, I will send it back until we get it right. We've got to get it right.<p>Next, we need to encourage American innovation. Last year, we made the largest investment in basic research funding in history, an investment that could lead to the world's cheapest solar cells or treatment that kills cancer cells, but leaves healthy ones untouched. And no area is more ripe for such innovation than energy. You can see the results of last year's investments in clean energy in the North Carolina company that will create 1,200 jobs nationwide helping to make advanced batteries or in the California business that will put a thousand people to work making solar panels.<p>But to create more of these clean energy jobs, we need more production, more efficiency, more incentives. And that means building a new generation of safe, clean nuclear power plants in this country. It means making tough decisions about opening new offshore areas for oil and gas development. It means continued investment in advanced biofuels and clean coal technologies. And yes, it means passing a comprehensive energy and climate bill with incentives that will finally make clean energy the profitable kind of energy in America. Now, I am grateful to the House for passing such a bill last year. And this year, I'm eager to help advance the bipartisan effort in the Senate.<p>I know there have been questions about whether we can afford such changes in a tough economy. I know that there are those who disagree with the overwhelming scientific evidence on climate change. But here's the thing: Even if you doubt the evidence, providing incentives for energy efficiency and clean energy are the right thing to do for our future, because the nation that leads the clean energy economy will be the nation that leads the global economy. And America must be that nation.<p>Third, we need to export more of our goods, because the more products we make and sell to other countries, the more jobs we support right here in America. So tonight we set a new goal: We will double our exports over the next 5 years, an increase that will support 2 million jobs in America. To help meet this goal, we're launching a National Export Initiative that will help farmers and small businesses increase their exports and reform export controls consistent with national security.<p>We have to seek new markets aggressively, just as our competitors are. If America sits on the sidelines while other nations sign trade deals, we will lose the chance to create jobs on our shores. But realizing those benefits also means enforcing those agreements so our trading partners play by the rules. And that's why we'll continue to shape a Doha trade agreement that opens global markets and why we will strengthen our trade relations in Asia and with key partners like South Korea and Panama and Colombia.<p>Fourth, we need to invest in the skills and education of our people. Now, this year, we've broken through the stalemate between left and right by launching a national competition to improve our schools. And the idea here is simple: Instead of rewarding failure, we only reward success. Instead of funding the status quo, we only invest in reform, reform that raises student achievement, inspires students to excel in math and science, and turns around failing schools that steal the future of too many young Americans, from rural communities to the inner city. In the 21st century, the best antipoverty program around is a world-class education. And in this country, the success of our children cannot depend more on where they live than on their potential. When we renew the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, we will work with Congress to expand these reforms to all 50 States.<p>Still, in this economy, a high school diploma no longer guarantees a good job. That's why I urge the Senate to follow the House and pass a bill that will revitalize our community colleges, which are a career pathway to the children of so many working families.<p>To make college more affordable, this bill will finally end the unwarranted taxpayer subsidies that go to banks for student loans. Instead, let's take that money and give families a $10,000 tax credit for 4 years of college and increase Pell grants. And let's tell another 1 million students that when they graduate, they will be required to pay only 10 percent of their income on student loans and all of their debt will be forgiven after 20 years and forgiven after 10 years if they choose a career in public service, because in the United States of America, no one should go broke because they chose to go to college. And by the way, it's time for colleges and universities to get serious about cutting their own costs, because they too have a responsibility to help solve this problem.<p>Now, the price of college tuition is just one of the burdens facing the middle class. That's why last year, I asked Vice President Biden to chair a task force on middle class families. That's why we're nearly doubling the childcare tax credit and making it easier to save for retirement by giving access to every worker a retirement account and expanding the tax credit for those who start a nest egg. That's why we're working to lift the value of a family's single largest investment, their home. The steps we took last year to shore up the housing market have allowed millions of Americans to take out new loans and save an average of $1,500 on mortgage payments. This year, we will step up refinancing so that homeowners can move into more affordable mortgages.<p>And it is precisely to relieve the burden on middle class families that we still need health insurance reform. Yes, we do.<p>Now, let's clear a few things up. I didn't choose to tackle this issue to get some legislative victory under my belt. And by now it should be fairly obvious that I didn't take on health care because it was good politics. [<i>Laughter</i>] I took on health care because of the stories I've heard from Americans with preexisting conditions whose lives depend on getting coverage, patients who've been denied coverage, families, even those with insurance, who are just one illness away from financial ruin.<p>After nearly a century of trying--Democratic administrations, Republican administrations--we are closer than ever to bringing more security to the lives of so many Americans. The approach we've taken would protect every American from the worst practices of the insurance industry. It would give small businesses and uninsured Americans a chance to choose an affordable health care plan in a competitive market. It would require every insurance plan to cover preventive care.<p>And by the way, I want to acknowledge our First Lady, Michelle Obama, who this year is creating a national movement to tackle the epidemic of childhood obesity and make kids healthier. [<i>Applause</i>] Thank you, honey. She gets embarrassed. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Our approach would preserve the right of Americans who have insurance to keep their doctor and their plan. It would reduce costs and premiums for millions of families and businesses. And according to the Congressional Budget Office, the independent organization that both parties have cited as the official scorekeeper for Congress, our approach would bring down the deficit by as much as $1 trillion over the next two decades.<p>Still, this is a complex issue, and the longer it was debated, the more skeptical people became. I take my share of the blame for not explaining it more clearly to the American people. And I know that with all the lobbying and horse-trading, the process left most Americans wondering, \\"What's in it for me?\\"<p>But I also know this problem is not going away. By the time I'm finished speaking tonight, more Americans will have lost their health insurance. Millions will lose it this year. Our deficit will grow. Premiums will go up. Patients will be denied the care they need. Small-business owners will continue to drop coverage altogether. I will not walk away from these Americans, and neither should the people in this Chamber.<p>So as temperatures cool, I want everyone to take another look at the plan we've proposed. There's a reason why many doctors, nurses, and health care experts who know our system best consider this approach a vast improvement over the status quo. But if anyone from either party has a better approach that will bring down premiums, bring down the deficit, cover the uninsured, strengthen Medicare for seniors, and stop insurance company abuses, let me know. Let me know. Let me know. I'm eager to see it.<p>Here's what I ask Congress, though: Don't walk away from reform. Not now. Not when we are so close. Let us find a way to come together and finish the job for the American people. Let's get it done. Let's get it done.<p>Now, even as health care reform would reduce our deficit, it's not enough to dig us out of a massive fiscal hole in which we find ourselves. It's a challenge that makes all others that much harder to solve and one that's been subject to a lot of political posturing. So let me start the discussion of Government spending by setting the record straight.<p>At the beginning of the last decade, the year 2000, America had a budget surplus of over $200 billion. By the time I took office, we had a 1-year deficit of over $1 trillion and projected deficits of $8 trillion over the next decade. Most of this was the result of not paying for two wars, two tax cuts, and an expensive prescription drug program. On top of that, the effects of the recession put a $3 trillion hole in our budget. All this was before I walked in the door. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now--[<i>applause</i>]--just stating the facts. Now, if we had taken office in ordinary times, I would have liked nothing more than to start bringing down the deficit. But we took office amid a crisis. And our efforts to prevent a second depression have added another $1 trillion to our national debt. That too is a fact.<p>I'm absolutely convinced that was the right thing to do. But families across the country are tightening their belts and making tough decisions. The Federal Government should do the same. So tonight I'm proposing specific steps to pay for the trillion dollars that it took to rescue the economy last year.<p>Starting in 2011, we are prepared to freeze Government spending for 3 years. Spending related to our national security, Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security will not be affected. But all other discretionary Government programs will. Like any cash-strapped family, we will work within a budget to invest in what we need and sacrifice what we don't. And if I have to enforce this discipline by veto, I will.<p>We will continue to go through the budget, line by line, page by page, to eliminate programs that we can't afford and don't work. We've already identified $20 billion in savings for next year. To help working families, we'll extend our middle class tax cuts. But at a time of record deficits, we will not continue tax cuts for oil companies, for investment fund managers, and for those making over $250,000 a year. We just can't afford it.<p>Now, even after paying for what we spent on my watch, we'll still face the massive deficit we had when I took office. More importantly, the cost of Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security will continue to skyrocket. That's why I've called for a bipartisan fiscal commission, modeled on a proposal by Republican Judd Gregg and Democrat Kent Conrad. This can't be one of those Washington gimmicks that lets us pretend we solve a problem. The commission will have to provide a specific set of solutions by a certain deadline.<p>Now, yesterday the Senate blocked a bill that would have created this commission, so I'll issue an Executive order that will allow us to go forward, because I refuse to pass this problem on to another generation of Americans. And when the vote comes tomorrow, the Senate should restore the pay-as-you-go law that was a big reason for why we had record surpluses in the 1990s.<p>Now, I know that some in my own party will argue that we can't address the deficit or freeze Government spending when so many are still hurting. And I agree, which is why this freeze won't take effect until next year, when the economy is stronger. That's how budgeting works. [<i>Laughter</i>] But understand, if we don't take meaningful steps to rein in our debt, it could damage our markets, increase the cost of borrowing, and jeopardize our recovery, all of which would have an even worse effect on our job growth and family incomes.<p>From some on the right, I expect we'll hear a different argument, that if we just make fewer investments in our people, extend tax cuts, including those for the wealthier Americans, eliminate more regulations, maintain the status quo on health care, our deficits will go away. The problem is, that's what we did for 8 years. That's what helped us into this crisis. It's what helped lead to these deficits. We can't do it again.<p>Rather than fight the same tired battles that have dominated Washington for decades, it's time to try something new. Let's invest in our people without leaving them a mountain of debt. Let's meet our responsibility to the citizens who sent us here. Let's try common sense--[<i>Laughter</i>]--a novel concept.<p>Now, to do that, we have to recognize that we face more than a deficit of dollars right now. We face a deficit of trust, deep and corrosive doubts about how Washington works that have been growing for years. To close that credibility gap, we have to take action on both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue to end the outsized influence of lobbyists, to do our work openly, to give our people the Government they deserve.<p>Now, that's what I came to Washington to do. That's why, for the first time in history, my administration posts on--our White House visitors online. That's why we've excluded lobbyists from policymaking jobs or seats on Federal boards and commissions. But we can't stop there. It's time to require lobbyists to disclose each contact they make on behalf of a client, with my administration or with Congress. It's time to put strict limits on the contributions that lobbyists give to candidates for Federal office.<p>With all due deference to separation of powers, last week, the Supreme Court reversed a century of law that I believe will open the floodgates for special interests, including foreign corporations, to spend without limit in our elections. I don't think American elections should be bankrolled by America's most powerful interests, or worse, by foreign entities. They should be decided by the American people. And I'd urge Democrats and Republicans to pass a bill that helps correct some of these problems.<p>I'm also calling on Congress to continue down the path of earmark reform, Democrats and Republicans--Democrats and Republicans. Look, you've trimmed some of this spending, you've embraced some meaningful change, but restoring the public trust demands more. For example, some Members of Congress post some earmark requests online. Tonight I'm calling on Congress to publish all earmark requests on a single web site before there's a vote so that the American people can see how their money is being spent.<p>Of course, none of these reforms will even happen if we don't also reform how we work with one another. Now, I'm not naive. I never thought that the mere fact of my election would usher in peace and harmony and--[<i>Laughter</i>]--some postpartisan era. I knew that both parties have fed divisions that are deeply entrenched. And on some issues, there are simply philosophical differences that will always cause us to part ways. These disagreements, about the role of government in our lives, about our national priorities and our national security, they've been taking place for over 200 years. They're the very essence of our democracy.<p>But what frustrates the American people is a Washington where every day is election day. We can't wage a perpetual campaign where the only goal is to see who can get the most embarrassing headlines about the other side, a belief that if you lose, I win. Neither party should delay or obstruct every single bill just because they can. The confirmation of--I'm speaking to both parties now--the confirmation of well-qualified public servants shouldn't be held hostage to the pet projects or grudges of a few individual Senators.<p>Washington may think that saying anything about the other side, no matter how false, no matter how malicious, is just part of the game. But it's precisely such politics that has stopped either party from helping the American people. Worse yet, it's sowing further division among our citizens, further distrust in our Government. So no, I will not give up on trying to change the tone of our politics. I know it's an election year. And after last week, it's clear that campaign fever has come even earlier than usual. But we still need to govern.<p>To Democrats, I would remind you that we still have the largest majority in decades and the people expect us to solve problems, not run for the hills. And if the Republican leadership is going to insist that 60 votes in the Senate are required to do any business at all in this town--a supermajority--then the responsibility to govern is now yours as well. Just saying no to everything may be good short-term politics, but it's not leadership. We were sent here to serve our citizens, not our ambitions. So let's show the American people that we can do it together.<p>This week, I'll be addressing a meeting of the House Republicans. I'd like to begin monthly meetings with both Democratic and Republican leadership. I know you can't wait. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, throughout our history, no issue has united this country more than our security. Sadly, some of the unity we felt after 9/11 has dissipated. And we can argue all we want about who's to blame for this, but I'm not interested in relitigating the past. I know that all of us love this country. All of us are committed to its defense. So let's put aside the schoolyard taunts about who's tough. Let's reject the false choice between protecting our people and upholding our values. Let's leave behind the fear and division and do what it takes to defend our Nation and forge a more hopeful future for America and for the world.<p>That's the work we began last year. Since the day I took office, we've renewed our focus on the terrorists who threaten our Nation. We've made substantial investments in our homeland security and disrupted plots that threatened to take American lives. We are filling unacceptable gaps revealed by the failed Christmas attack, with better airline security and swifter action on our intelligence. We've prohibited torture and strengthened partnerships from the Pacific to South Asia to the Arabian Peninsula. And in the last year, hundreds of Al Qaida's fighters and affiliates, including many senior leaders, have been captured or killed, far more than in 2008.<p>And in Afghanistan, we're increasing our troops and training Afghan security forces so they can begin to take the lead in July of 2011 and our troops can begin to come home. We will reward good governance, work to reduce corruption, and support the rights of all Afghans, men and women alike. We're joined by allies and partners who have increased their own commitments and who will come together tomorrow in London to reaffirm our common purpose. There will be difficult days ahead, but I am absolutely confident we will succeed.<p>As we take the fight to Al Qaida, we are responsibly leaving Iraq to its people. As a candidate, I promised that I would end this war, and that is what I am doing as President. We will have all of our combat troops out of Iraq by the end of this August. We will support the Iraqi Government as they hold elections, and we will continue to partner with the Iraqi people to promote regional peace and prosperity. But make no mistake: This war is ending, and all of our troops are coming home.<p>Tonight all of our men and women in uniform, in Iraq, in Afghanistan, and around the world, they have to know that we--that they have our respect, our gratitude, our full support. And just as they must have the resources they need in war, we all have a responsibility to support them when they come home. That's why we made the largest increase in investments for veterans in decades last year. That's why we're building a 21st-century VA. And that's why Michelle has joined with Jill Biden to forge a national commitment to support military families.<p>Now, even as we prosecute two wars, we're also confronting perhaps the greatest danger to the American people, the threat of nuclear weapons. I've embraced the vision of John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan through a strategy that reverses the spread of these weapons and seeks a world without them. To reduce our stockpiles and launchers, while ensuring our deterrent, the United States and Russia are completing negotiations on the farthest reaching arms control treaty in nearly two decades. And at April's Nuclear Security Summit, we will bring 44 nations together here in Washington, DC, behind a clear goal: securing all vulnerable nuclear materials around the world in 4 years so that they never fall into the hands of terrorists.<p>Now, these diplomatic efforts have also strengthened our hand in dealing with those nations that insist on violating international agreements in pursuit of nuclear weapons. That's why North Korea now faces increased isolation and stronger sanctions, sanctions that are being vigorously enforced. That's why the international community is more united and the Islamic Republic of Iran is more isolated. And as Iran's leaders continue to ignore their obligations, there should be no doubt: They too will face growing consequences. That is a promise.<p>That's the leadership we are providing: engagement that advances the common security and prosperity of all people. We're working through the G-20 to sustain a lasting global recovery. We're working with Muslim communities around the world to promote science and education and innovation. We have gone from a bystander to a leader in the fight against climate change. We're helping developing countries to feed themselves and continuing the fight against HIV/AIDS. And we are launching a new initiative that will give us the capacity to respond faster and more effectively to bioterrorism or an infectious disease, a plan that will counter threats at home and strengthen public health abroad.<p>As we have for over 60 years, America takes these actions because our destiny is connected to those beyond our shores. But we also do it because it is right. That's why, as we meet here tonight, over 10,000 Americans are working with many nations to help the people of Haiti recover and rebuild. That's why we stand with the girl who yearns to go to school in Afghanistan, why we support the human rights of the women marching through the streets of Iran, why we advocate for the young man denied a job by corruption in Guinea. For America must always stand on the side of freedom and human dignity--always.<p>Abroad, America's greatest source of strength has always been our ideals. The same is true at home. We find unity in our incredible diversity, drawing on the promise enshrined in our Constitution: The notion that we're all created equal; that no matter who you are or what you look like, if you abide by the law, you should be protected by it; if you adhere to our common values, you should be treated no different than anyone else.<p>We must continually renew this promise. My administration has a Division that is once again prosecuting violations and employment discrimination. We finally strengthened our laws to protect against crimes driven by hate. This year, I will work with Congress and our military to finally repeal the law that denies gay Americans the right to serve the country they love because of who they are. It's the right thing to do.<p>We're going to crack down on violations of equal pay laws so that women get equal pay for an equal day's work. And we should continue the work of fixing our broken immigration system, to secure our borders and enforce our laws and ensure that everyone who plays by the rules can contribute to our economy and enrich our Nation.<p>In the end, it's our ideals, our values that built America, values that allowed us to forge a nation made up of immigrants from every corner of the globe, values that drive our citizens still. Every day, Americans meet their responsibilities to their families and their employers. Time and again, they lend a hand to their neighbors and give back to their country. They take pride in their labor and are generous in spirit. These aren't Republican values or Democratic values that they're living by, business values or labor values, they're American values.<p>Unfortunately, too many of our citizens have lost faith that our biggest institutions--our corporations, our media, and, yes, our Government--still reflect these same values. Each of these institutions are full of honorable men and women doing important work that helps our country prosper. But each time a CEO rewards himself for failure or a banker puts the rest of us at risk for his own selfish gain, people's doubts grow. Each time lobbyists game the system or politicians tear each other down instead of lifting this country up, we lose faith. The more that TV pundits reduce serious debates to silly arguments, big issues into sound bites, our citizens turn away. No wonder there's so much cynicism out there. No wonder there's so much disappointment.<p>I campaigned on the promise of change. Change we can believe in, the slogan went. And right now I know there are many Americans who aren't sure if they still believe we can change or that I can deliver it.<p>But remember this: I never suggested that change would be easy or that I could do it alone. Democracy in a nation of 300 million people can be noisy and messy and complicated. And when you try to do big things and make big changes, it stirs passions and controversy. That's just how it is.<p>Those of us in public office can respond to this reality by playing it safe and avoid telling hard truths and pointing fingers. We can do what's necessary to keep our poll numbers high and get through the next election, instead of doing what's best for the next generation.<p>But I also know this: If people had made that decision 50 years ago or 100 years ago or 200 years ago, we wouldn't be here tonight. The only reason we are here is because generations of Americans were unafraid to do what was hard, to do what was needed even when success was uncertain, to do what it took to keep the dream of this Nation alive for their children and their grandchildren.<p>Now, our administration has had some political setbacks this year, and some of them were deserved. But I wake up every day knowing that they are nothing compared to the setbacks that families all across this country have faced this year. And what keeps me going, what keeps me fighting, is that despite all these setbacks, that spirit of determination and optimism, that fundamental decency that has always been at the core of the American people, that lives on.<p>It lives on in the struggling small-business owner who wrote to me of his company, \\"None of us,\\" he said, \\". . . are willing to consider, even slightly, that we might fail.\\" It lives on in the woman who said that even though she and her neighbors have felt the pain of recession, \\"We are strong. We are resilient. We are American.\\" It lives on in the 8-year-old boy in Louisiana who just sent me his allowance and asked if I would give it to the people of Haiti. And it lives on in all the Americans who've dropped everything to go someplace they've never been and pull people they've never known from the rubble, prompting chants of \\"U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.!\\" when another life was saved.<p>The spirit that has sustained this Nation for more than two centuries lives on in you, its people. We have finished a difficult year. We have come through a difficult decade. But a new year has come. A new decade stretches before us. We don't quit. I don't quit. Let's seize this moment to start anew, to carry the dream forward, and to strengthen our Union once more. <p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"27" "\"Good morning, and thank you to everyone who worked to bring us to this day, especially the International Auschwitz Council and the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum.<p>To President Kacynski, Prime Minister Tusk, and to the people of Poland: Thank you for preserving a place of such great pain for the Polish people, but a place of remembrance and learning for the world.<p>Although I can't be with you in person, I am proud that the United States is represented there today by a delegation of distinguished Americans, including Ambassador Feinstein, my wife Michelle's chief of staff, Susan Sher, and my good friend and the son of Holocaust survivors, Julius Genachowski.<p>And let me commend you for recognizing a woman who has devoted her life to preserving the lessons of the Shoah for future generations, Sara Bloomfield of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington.<p>But most of all, I want to thank those of you who found the strength to come back again so many years later, despite the horror you saw here, the suffering you endured here, and the loved ones you lost here. Those of us who did not live through those dark days will never truly understand what it means to have hate literally etched into your arms. But we understand the message that you carry in your hearts. <p>For you know the truth that Elie Wiesel spoke when I stood with him at Buchenwald last spring. There, where his father and so many innocent souls left this Earth, Elie said, \\"Memory has become the sacred duty of all people of good will.\\"<p>We have a sacred duty to remember the twisted thinking that led here, how a great society of culture and science succumbed to the worst instincts of man and rationalized mass murder and one of the most barbaric acts in history.<p>We have a sacred duty to remember the cruelty that occurred here, as told in the simple objects that speak to us even now: the suitcases that still bear their names; the wooden clogs they wore; the round bowls from which they ate; those brick buildings from which there was no escape, where so many Jews died with \\"Sh'ma Israel\\" on their lips; and the very earth at Auschwitz, which is still hallowed by their ashes, Jews and those who tried to save them, Polish and Hungarian, French and Dutch, Roma and Russian, straight and gay, and so many others.<p>But even as we recall man's capacity for evil, Auschwitz also tells another story, of man's capacity for good: the small acts of compassion, the sharing of some bread that kept a child alive, the great acts of resistance that blew up the crematorium and tried to stop the slaughter, the Polish rescuers and those who earned their place forever in the Righteous Among the Nations.<p>And you, the survivors: The perpetrators of that crime tried to annihilate the entire Jewish people, but they failed. Because 65 years ago today, when the gates flew open, you were still standing. And every day that you have lived, every child and grandchild that your families have brought into the world with love, every day the Sun rises on the Jewish State of Israel, that is the ultimate rebuke to the ignorance and hatred of this place.<p>So to those of you who have come back today, I say, no, you are not former prisoners. You are living memorials, living memorials to the loved ones you left here and to the spirit we must strive to uphold in our time, not simply to bear witness, but to bear a burden: the burden of seeing our common humanity; of resisting anti-Semitism and ignorance in all its forms; of refusing to become bystanders to evil, whenever and wherever it rears its ugly face. <p>Let that be the true meaning of Auschwitz. Let that be the liberation we celebrate today, a liberation of the spirit that, if embraced, can lead us all, individuals and as nations, to be among the righteous. <p>May God bless you all, and may God bless the memory of all those who rest here.\" "
"28" "\"Thank you, everybody. Thank you so much. I've got a couple of introductions that I want to make very quickly.<p>First, I want to thank Terry and his family for greeting me here today. And I want to thank Terry and Joe for giving us a tour of Chesapeake Machine Company. In addition we've got Secretary Ray LaHood, Secretary of Transportation--where is he? Ray, way in the back--he's waving. We've got your Governor, Martin O'Malley, in the house. We've got, I believe, your outstanding Senator, Barbara Mikulski; a couple of great Members of Congress, Congressman John Sarbanes and Congressman Elijah Cummings. And we've got Council President Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, your next mayor of Baltimore.<p>Now, I was thrilled to get the tour. First of all, I just like getting out of the White House, and then I like tooling around companies that are actually making stuff. And I want to tell you all I'm very impressed with the work that you do. And you know, I have to say that when you get out of Washington and you come here it's nice to see a functioning, well-oiled machine. Now, that's a nice change of pace from what we see sometimes up in Washington.<p>As we stand here today, our country is still reeling from a recession that's as tough, as deep, and as dire as anything that we've known for generations. And I don't need to tell you a lot of families are hurting out there, businesses are struggling, 1 in 10 Americans can't find work. And so I know that during these tough times, folks at this company feel relatively lucky to be working, even when the work is hard and the days are long, because everybody knows that there's somebody out there who's not as fortunate, a friend or a neighbor, maybe even a husband or a wife.<p>But even in the face of these challenges, we have reason to remain hopeful. As I was listening to Terry and Joe talk about some of the business opportunities that are out there for solar panel construction and high-speed rail construction, the great work that they're doing on behalf of our troops as part of a contract, all those things are going to be making a difference. And it points to the possibilities of sustainable growth.<p>And the fact is, we're standing in a very different place than we were just a year ago. Just last year, businesses were cutting 700,000 jobs per month. The markets were plummeting. Many people feared another great depression. Today, we've stopped the flood of job losses, we've stabilized the financial system, and we can safely say that we've avoided that looming depression.<p>This morning we received a report that affirms our progress and the swift and aggressive actions that made it possible. We learned that the economy grew over the past 3 months at a rate of 5.7 percent. Now, just to give you a sense of perspective there, that's the fastest economic growth in 6 years, and it's a stark improvement over the rapid and terrible decline that we were experiencing 1 year ago.<p>Earlier this week, I spoke to Congress and the American people about the steps that we took to pull us out of this nosedive. Through the Recovery Act, we cut taxes for 95 percent of working families. You guys may not have noticed it in your paychecks, but they're--each month it's a little bit bigger because of those tax cuts that we put in. Two million families just in this State of Maryland have benefited.<p>We cut taxes for college students and first-time home buyers and small businesses. We made health insurance cheaper through COBRA. So some of you know friends or family members who've lost their jobs but they kept their health insurance because COBRA was 65 cheaper--percent cheaper than it would have otherwise been. And we extended unemployment insurance for folks who have lost their jobs, including more than 200,000 people here in Maryland. We've created and saved 2 million jobs. That's 2 million teachers and firefighters, police officers, builders, manufacturing workers, and others who are on the job today because of some of the steps that we took.<p>Now, I've got to admit, not all the steps we took were great politics. You know, I talked about this a little bit at my State of the Union. If you were going to list the hundred most popular things that I have done as President, being married to Michelle Obama is number one. Bailing out banks and rescuing failing auto companies doesn't make the list. Those things weren't popular. But I didn't run for President just to do what was popular. I ran for President to do what was right for the country.<p>In the midst of a really bad recession and the possibility of financial meltdown, preventing the collapse of our banks, and with it the access to lending and credit, and preventing hundreds of thousands of job losses that would have followed the collapse of two of our major automakers, that was the right thing to do. It was the right thing to do; it was the necessary thing to do. It might have not been popular, and I sure didn't like doing it, but it was the right thing to do. And as bad as the damage has been in this recession, without those actions the damage could have been far more extensive.<p>Now, even though the storms of the past 2 years are starting to lessen, the wreckage that's been left behind remains. While the Recovery Act has created and saved 2 million jobs, this recession has cost us 7 million jobs. So there's still a big gap, still a big hole that we have to fill. And it represents a terrible human tragedy, as families are thrown into hardship and uncertainty. But the good news is, today's report means that we're increasing GDP, we're increasing economic growth. That means businesses are going to start to see more customers, and hopefully even here at Chesapeake you might start seeing enough orders that you start needing to hire that extra shift. That could make a big difference.<p>Now, in the meantime, though, there are a lot of folks who are still out of work and what they're saying is, when am I going to get some help, when am I going to get some relief? For these folks, a good job is the only good news that matters.<p>And that's why, when I spoke to the Nation earlier this week, I called on Congress to pass a jobs bill without delay. And this jobs bill should start where most new jobs do, in America's small businesses, companies like this one.<p>Today I'm proposing what I believe is the best way to cut taxes while promoting hiring by small businesses, through a tax credit for companies that add workers or increase salaries this year. Now is the perfect time for this kind of incentive because the economy is growing, but businesses are still hesitant to start hiring again. The economy is growing, but job growth is lagging. Companies are recovering, but not yet taking that next step and taking on somebody full time. And while businesses will always be the engines of job creation in this country, Government can create the conditions for those businesses to expand and hire more workers.<p>So here's how the tax credit would work. Employers, like Terry, would get a tax credit of up to $5,000 for each and every employee that they add in 2010, and you would get a tax break for increases in salaries as well. So if you raise wages for employees making under $100,000, we'd refund your payroll taxes for every dollar that you increase those wages faster than inflation.<p>So this is a simple, easy to understand mechanism that will cut taxes for more than 1 million small businesses. It'll give them an incentive to hire more people and a little bit of extra money to pay higher wages, to expand work hours, or invest in their company. And in order to get this incentive working quickly, employers would actually be able to receive this money every quarter, as opposed to waiting a whole year to see it benefit their taxes. So the Chesapeake Machine Company is a perfect example. I understand, Terry, that you may be thinking about hiring a couple of new workers this year. Well, this tax credit could help you do it, and it would mean $5,000 per worker that you hire.<p>Now, it's true that in some instances this tax credit will go to businesses that were going to hire folks anyway. But then, it simply becomes a tax cut for small businesses that will spur investment and expansion. And that's a good thing too. And that's why this type of tax cut is considered by economists--who rarely agree on anything--to be one of the most cost-effective ways of accelerating job growth, especially because we will include provisions to prevent people from gaming the system. So, for example, you won't get a tax credit for doubling your workforce while cutting the hours of each worker in half. We're not going to let you game the system to take advantage of the tax credit, unless you're doing right by your workers.<p>Now, finally, this is only one part of the jobs package that I've proposed. I'm also calling for additional investments in infrastructure. We were just talking, Terry and I were--and Joe--we were just talking about the fact that part of their business right now has to do with rail lines and doing some work for Amtrak. We were just talking about the fact that part of it has to do with solar companies. Well, we want to increase our investment in clean energy.<p>All of this is going to create jobs in the short term, while helping our economy in the long run. And I've proposed taking some of the money that went to the big banks on Wall Street to help bolster the financial system and give it to smaller community banks that lend to small businesses like Chesapeake, because too many companies that I'm seeing out there still can't find affordable credit.<p>The House of Representatives has passed a jobs bill that includes some of these proposals. I expect the Senate to do the same. I'm open to any good ideas from Democrats or Republicans. In fact, several Members of Congress have proposed tax breaks for businesses similar to what I've proposed, and I'm looking forward to working with them. The key thing is it's time to put America back to work.<p>We've had two very tough years. And while these proposals will create jobs all across America, we've got a long way to go to make up for the millions of jobs that we lost in this recession. And I don't have to tell folks in Baltimore that even before this recession hit, the middle class was facing real hardships: stagnant incomes, rising costs, growing economic security. So rebuilding this economy and rebuilding it stronger than before will take time, and it's going to take hard work and vigilance.<p>But I know we can do it. You don't need to look any further than the folks here at this company. In one form or another, people have been working and building right here for nearly a century, starting back when Terry's grandfather was calling the shots.<p>In good times and bad, through storms and still waters, men like you have gotten up and women like you have gotten up and gone to work and put in long days and headed home. You're a little tired, but you're glad for the opportunity to make a living, while helping this country become the most productive, innovative economy in the world. Small businesses have powered our economy in the past. They are fostering our recovery today. I have no doubt if we support you that small businesses like this one will lead us to more prosperous days ahead.<p>So thanks for all the great work you do. Thanks for hosting me. I know you guys probably had to fuss a little bit to get ready for us. But I can tell you, from my perspective at least, it was a great visit. I appreciate everything you do. Good luck. All right.\" "
"29" "\"At this time last year, amidst headlines about banks on the verge of collapse and job losses of 700,000 a month, we received another troubling piece of news about our economy. Our economy was shrinking at an alarming rate, the largest 6-month decline in 50 years. Our factories and farms were producing less, our businesses were selling less, and more job losses were on the horizon.<p>One year later, according to numbers released this past week, this trend has reversed itself. For the past 6 months, our economy has been growing again. And last quarter, it grew more quickly than at any time in the past 6 years.<p>This is a sign of progress. And it's an affirmation of the difficult decisions we made last year to pull our financial system back from the brink and get our economy moving again.<p>But when so many people are still struggling, when 1 in 10 Americans still can't find work and millions more are working harder and longer for less, our mission isn't just to grow the economy. It's to grow jobs for folks who want them and ensure wages that are rising for those who have them. It's not just about improvements we see in quarterly statistics, but ones people feel in their daily lives: a bigger paycheck, more security, the ability to give your kids a decent shot in life and still have enough to retire one day.<p>That's why job creation will be our number-one focus in 2010. We'll put more Americans back to work rebuilding our infrastructure all across the country. And since the true engines of job creation are America's businesses, I've proposed tax credits to help them hire new workers, raise wages, and invest in new plants and equipment. I also want to eliminate all capital gains taxes on small-business investment and help small businesses to get the loans they need to open their doors and expand their operations.<p>But as we work to create jobs, it is critical that we rein in the budget deficits we've been accumulating for far too long, deficits that won't just burden our children and grandchildren, but could damage our markets, drive up our interest rates, and jeopardize our recovery right now.<p>There are certain core principles our families and businesses follow when they sit down to do their own budgets. They accept that they can't get everything they want, and they focus on what they really need. They make tough decisions and sacrifice for their kids. They don't spend what they don't have, and they make do with what they've got.<p>It's time their Government did the same. That's why I'm pleased that the Senate has just restored the pay-as-you-go law that was in place back in the 1990s. It's no coincidence that we ended that decade with a $236 billion surplus. But then we did away with PAYGO, and we ended the next decade with a $1.3 trillion deficit. Reinstating this law will help us get back on track, ensuring that every time we spend, we find somewhere else to cut.<p>I've also proposed a spending freeze so that as we increase investments in things we need, like job creation and middle class tax cuts, we cut spending on those we don't, like tax cuts for oil companies and investment fund managers and programs that are redundant, obsolete, or simply ineffective. Spending related to Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security will not be affected, and neither will national security, but all other discretionary Government programs will.<p>Finally, I've called for a bipartisan fiscal commission, a panel of Democrats and Republicans who would sit down and hammer out concrete deficit reduction proposals by a certain deadline. Because we've heard plenty of talk and a lot of yelling on TV about deficits, and it's now time to come together and make the painful choices we need to eliminate those deficits.<p>This past week, 53 Democrats and Republicans voted for this commission in the Senate. But it failed when seven Republicans who had cosponsored this idea in the first place suddenly decided to vote against it.<p>Now, it's one thing to have an honest difference of opinion about something. I will always respect those who take a principled stand for what they believe, even if I disagree with them. But what I won't accept is changing positions because it's good politics. What I won't accept is opposition for opposition's sake.<p>We can't have a serious discussion and take meaningful action to create jobs and control our deficit if politicians just do what's necessary to win the next election instead of what's best for the next generation. I'm eager and ready to work with anyone who's serious about solving the real problems facing our people and our country. I welcome anyone who comes to the table in good faith to help get our economy moving again and fulfill this country's promise. That's why we were elected in the first place. That's what the American people expect and deserve. And that's what we must deliver.<p>Thanks so much.\" "
"30" "\"Good morning, everybody. This morning I sent a budget to Congress for the coming year. It's a budget that reflects the serious challenges facing the country: We're at war, our economy's lost 7 million jobs over the last 2 years, and our Government is deeply in debt after what can only be described as a decade of profligacy.<p>Now, the fact is, 10 years ago, we had a budget surplus of more than $200 billion, with projected surpluses stretching out toward the horizon. Yet over the course of the past 10 years, the previous administration and previous Congresses created an expensive new drug program, passed massive tax cuts for the wealthy, and funded two wars without paying for any of it, all of which was compounded by recession and by rising health care costs. As a result, when I first walked through the door, the deficit stood at $1.3 trillion, with projected deficits of 8 trillion over the next decade.<p>Now, if we had taken office during ordinary times, we would have started bringing down these deficits immediately. But 1 year ago, our country was in crisis: We were losing nearly 700,000 jobs each month, the economy was in a free fall, and the financial system was near collapse. Many feared another great depression. So we initiated a rescue, and that rescue was not without significant costs; it added to the deficit as well.<p>One year later, because of the steps we've taken, we're in a very different place. But we can't simply move beyond this crisis; we have to address the irresponsibility that led to it. And that includes the failure to rein in spending, as well as a reliance on borrowing--from Wall Street to Washington to Main Street--to fuel our growth. That's what we have to change. We have to do what families across America are doing: save where we can so that we can afford what we need.<p>Now, I think it's very important to understand we won't be able to bring down this deficit overnight, given that the recovery is still taking hold and families across the country still need help. We will continue, for example, to do what it takes to create jobs. That's reflected in my budget; it's essential. The budget includes new tax cuts for people who invest in small businesses, tax credits for small businesses that hire new workers, investments that will create jobs repairing roads and bridges, and tax breaks for retrofitting homes to save energy.<p>We also continue to lay a new foundation for lasting growth, which is essential as well. Just as it would be a terrible mistake to borrow against our children's future to pay our way today, it would be equally wrong to neglect their future by failing to invest in areas that will determine our economic success in this new century.<p>That's why we build on the largest investment in clean energy in history, as well as increase investment in scientific research, so that we are fostering the industries and jobs of the future right here in America.<p>That's why I've proposed a more than 6-percent increase in funding for the Education Department. And this funding is tied to reforms that raise student achievement, inspire students to excel in math and science, and turn around failing schools which consign too many young people to a lesser future, because in the 21st century, there is no better antipoverty program than a world-class education.<p>And that's why we eliminate a wasteful subsidy to banks that lend to college students, and use that money to revitalize community colleges and make college more affordable. This will help us reach the goal I've set for America: By 2020, we will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world.<p>These are the investments we must make to create jobs and opportunity now and in the future. And in a departure from the way business has been done in Washington, we actually show how we pay for these investments while putting our country on a more fiscally sustainable path.<p>I've proposed a freeze in Government spending for 3 years. This won't apply to the benefits folks get through Social Security, Medicaid, or Medicare. And it won't apply to our national security, including benefits for veterans. But it will apply to all other discretionary Government programs. And we're not simply photocopying last year's budget; freezing spending does not mean we won't cut what doesn't work to pay for what does.<p>We have gone through every department's spending, line by line, item by item, looking for inefficiency, duplication, and programs that have outlived their usefulness. That's how we freeze discretionary spending. Last year, we found $17 billion in cuts. This year, we've already found 20 billion.<p>Now, some of these cuts are just common sense. For example, we cut $115 million from a program that pays States to clean up mines that have already been cleaned up. We're also cutting a Forest Service economic development program that strayed so far from any mission that it funded a music festival. And we're saving $20 million by stopping the refurbishment of a Department of Energy science center that the Department of Energy does not want to refurbish.<p>Other cuts, though, are more painful because the goals of the underlying programs are worthy. We eliminate one program that provides grants to do environmental cleanup of abandoned buildings. That's a mission I support, but there are other sources of private and public funds to achieve it. We also eliminated a $120 million program that allows folks to get their earned-income tax credit in advance. I am a big supporter of the earned-income tax credit. The problem is, 80 percent of people who got this advance didn't comply with one or more of the program's requirements.<p>So I'm willing to reduce waste in programs I care about, and I'm asking Members of Congress to do the same. I'm asking Republicans and Democrats alike to take a fresh look at programs they've supported in the past to see what's working and what's not and trim back accordingly.<p>Like any business, we're also looking for ways to get more bang for our buck by promoting innovation and cutting redtape. For example, we consolidate 38 separate education programs into 11. And last fall, we launched the SAVE Awards to solicit ideas from Federal employees about how to make Government more efficient and more effective. And I'm proud to say that a number of these ideas, like allowing Social Security appointments to be made online, made it into our budget.<p>I also want to note even though the Department of Defense is exempt from the budget freeze, it's not exempt from budget common sense. It's not exempt from looking for savings. We save money by eliminating unnecessary defense programs that do nothing to keep us safe. One example is the $2.5 billion that we're spending to build C-17 transport aircraft. Four years ago, the Defense Department decided to cease production because it had acquired the number requested, 180. Yet every year since, Congress has provided unrequested money for more C-17s that the Pentagon doesn't want or need. It's waste, pure and simple.<p>And there are other steps we're taking to rein in deficits. I've proposed a fee on big banks to pay back taxpayers for the bailout. We're reforming the way contracts are awarded to save taxpayers billions of dollars. And while we extend middle class tax cuts in this budget, we will not continue costly tax cuts for oil companies, investment fund managers, and those making over $250,000 a year. We just can't afford it.<p>Finally, changing spending as usual depends on changing politics as usual. And that's why I've proposed a bipartisan fiscal commission, a panel of Democrats and Republicans who would hammer out concrete deficit reduction proposals over the medium and long term, but would come up with those answers by a certain deadline. I should point out, by the way, that is an idea that had strong bipartisan support, was originally introduced by Senators Gregg on the Republican side and Conrad on the Democratic side, had a lot of Republican cosponsors to the idea. I hope that, despite the fact that it got voted down in the Senate, that both the Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, and the Republican leader in the House, John Boehner, go ahead and fully embrace what has been a bipartisan idea to get our arms around this budget.<p>That's also why we're restoring pay as yo go, a simple rule that says Congress can't spend a dime without cutting a dime elsewhere. This rule helped lead to the budget surpluses of the 1990s, and it's one of the most important steps we can take to restore fiscal discipline in Washington.<p>Now, you can read more about the budget at budget.gov--very easy to remember--budget.gov. But the bottom line is this: We simply cannot continue to spend as if deficits don't have consequences, as if waste doesn't matter, as if the hard-earned tax dollars of the American people can be treated like Monopoly money, as if we can ignore this challenge for another generation. We can't.<p>In order to meet this challenge, I welcome any idea, from Democrats and Republicans. What I will not welcome--what I reject--is the same old grandstanding when the cameras are on and the same irresponsible budget policies when the cameras are off. It's time to hold Washington to the same standards families and businesses hold themselves. It's time to save what we can, spend what we must, and live within our means once again.<p>Thanks very much.\" "
"31" "\"<i>The President.</i> Well, listen, I just want to personally welcome all the Governors who are here today. As I said at the State of the Union last week, I am convinced that whoever builds a clean energy economy, whoever is at the forefront of that, is going to own the 21st-century global economy. Last year, we made the largest investment in clean energy in our history. It's an investment that's already leading to new jobs and new businesses across the country. You've got solar panel production in California. You got advanced batteries in North Carolina. Every State is starting to take advantage of a lot of what's already been done.<p>But if anybody read the story in the New York Times last Sunday, countries like China are moving even faster. And they're very aggressive about wanting to make sure that these clean energy jobs are in their countries. And as I said at the State of the Union, I'm not going to settle for a situation where the United States comes in second place or third place or fourth place in what will be the most important economic engine in the future. <p>Now, there's no reason that we shouldn't be able to work together in a bipartisan way to get this done. I know that there is some concern about how energy fits together with climate change. I happen to believe that climate change is one of the reasons why we've got to pursue a clean energy agenda, but it's not the only reason. So even if you don't believe in the severity of climate change, as I do, you still should want to pursue this agenda. It's good for our national security and reducing our dependence on foreign oil. It's good for our economy because it will produce jobs. <p>We can't afford to spin our wheels while the rest of the world speeds ahead. And that's why I've asked these Governors, leaders in their own right and their States around energy issues, Democrats and Republicans, to meet here today so that we can work through some of these challenges and opportunities that are presented by the transition to a clean energy economy.<p>I want to be clear that my administration is following a nonideological approach to this issue. We believe in a strategy of more production, more efficiency, and more incentives for clean energy. We're willing to make some tough decisions on issues like offshore drilling, so long as we protect coastlines and communities. We are moving forward on a new generation of nuclear power plants, although we want to make sure that they are safe and secure.<p>One of the things that we're going to be talking about today is investing in the kind of technology that will allow us to use coal, our most bountiful natural resource here in the United States, without polluting our planet.<p>It's been said that the United States is the Saudi Arabia of coal, and that's because, as I said, it's one of our most abundant energy resources. If we can develop the technology to capture the carbon pollution released by coal, it can create jobs and provide energy well into the future. So today I'm announcing a Carbon Capture and Storage Task Force that will be charged with the goal of figuring out how we can deploy affordable clean coal technology on a widespread scale within 10 years. And we want to get up 10 commercial demonstration projects, get those up and running by 2016. <p>We're also going to be talking about some developments we're making on biofuels, so that more folks can start filling up their cars and trucks with cleaner, American-grown fuels. By 2022, we will more than double the amount of biofuels we produce to 36 billion gallons, which will decrease our dependence on foreign oil by hundreds of millions of barrels per year. We're also working to make sure that we can start turning things like plants and wood chips into heat, power, and biofuels, and that'll create new economic opportunities for rural communities. And our biofuels working group is releasing its first report that details the Government's strategy for supporting the biofuels industry.<p>The bottom line is this: I am convinced that America can win the race to build a clean energy economy, but we're going to have to overcome the weight of our own politics. We have to focus not so much on those narrow areas where we disagree, but on the broad areas where we agree. <p>And I also think it's important for us to understand that in order for us to move forward with a robust energy policy, we've got to have not an either-or philosophy, but a both-and philosophy, a philosophy that says traditional sources of energy are going to continue to be important for a while so we've got to just use technologies to make them cleaner and more efficient, that we're going to have to pursue an energy efficiency agenda across our economy. <p>We're going to also have to develop new sources of energy that allow us to take advantage of sun, wind, our coastlines, and in ways that, over time, can actually enhance our standards of living, create jobs, and also protect our environment. <p>That's the agenda I want to pursue. I am confident that's the agenda that these Governors want to pursue as well. And so I'm grateful to have them here, and I'm looking forward to hearing their ideas. <p>I should point out, obviously, that we also have our key Cabinet members here--Steven Chu, Tom Vilsack, Ken Salazar, Lisa Jackson--who are here, as well as Nancy Sutley at our Council of Environmental Quality and Carol Browner, who's doing a lot of our coordination in the White House, so that we've got our top people on energy and the environment in the room to have this discussion. <p>Now, with that, I want to give Joe just a brief chance to speak, and then we'll open it up. <p><i>[At this point, Vice President Joe Biden made brief remarks.]</i><p><i>The President.</i> And let's get it done. Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"32" "\"<i>The President.</i> Good afternoon, and I appreciate the warm welcome from Rick Cummings and Dennis Bean and all the folks at Oasis. Thank you so much. These guys are experts in heating and cooling systems, though, having spent some time in Washington, I actually am already very familiar with hot air I have to say. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>That, by the way, does not apply to the head of the Small Business Administration, Karen Mills, who's here today. And Karen has focused like a laser on helping small businesses not only survive but to thrive amidst the economic storm of the past 2 years.<p>We're also joined here by Ruth Gresser, who's the owner and chef at Pizzeria Paradiso. And I'm a little upset with Ruth because she did not bring samples, but Reggie Love has testified that the pizza is outstanding. She's got restaurants in Washington. And also, Will Polak, who's the owner and operator of the Potomac Riverboat Company in Alexandria, Virginia; there's Will.<p>These folks know, as every living soul in America does, that these have been a rough couple of years for our economy and for our country. The deepest downturn since the Great Depression ripped through our economy, costing more than 8 million jobs and rocking businesses, large and small.<p>And that's why we took some very tough steps, in some cases some unpopular steps, when I took office to break the back of this recession. And today we received additional news suggesting that we are climbing out of the huge hole that we found ourselves in. Last January, the month I took office, almost 800,000 Americans lost their jobs. Today we learned the job losses for this January were 20,000. The unemployment rate dropped below 10 percent for the first time since the summer. Manufacturing employment grew last month for the first time in 3 years, led by increased activity in the production of cars and trucks and auto parts.<p>Now, these numbers, while positive, are a cause for hope but not celebration, because far too many of our neighbors and friends and family are still out of work. We can't be satisfied when another 20,000 have joined their ranks and millions more Americans are underemployed, picking up what work they can.<p>It is encouraging the job loss in January was a small fraction of what it was a year ago and that the unemployment rate last month went down and not up. Understanding that these numbers will continue to fluctuate for months to come, these are welcome, if modest, signs of progress along the road to recovery.<p>Now, even as we take additional steps to hasten that recovery, we know that there are limits to what government can do to create jobs. The true engine of job creation will always be businesses. What government can do is fuel that engine by giving entrepreneurs and companies the support to open their doors and to expand and to hire more workers. And that's exactly what this administration intends to do and what we've been doing, working with the SBA and Karen Mills.<p>We're starting with small businesses because that's where most of the new jobs do. Over the past 15 years, small businesses have created roughly 65 percent of new jobs in America. These are companies formed around kitchen tables and family meetings, formed when an entrepreneur takes a chance on a dream, formed when a worker decides it's time she became her own boss. And it's worth remembering, every once in a while a small business becomes a big business and then changes the world.<p>And that's why last week I proposed a new small-business tax credit, $5,000 for every new employee you hire this year. And a couple of these folks here, small-business owners that I talked to, said they'd be interested in using that tax credit. <p>This week, I proposed a new small-business lending fund that would take $30 billion of the fund originally used to rescue big banks on Wall Street and use it to provide lending capital to community banks on Main Street. And I know that we've got Capital One Bank here that's been a lender to Oasis and----<p><i>Audience member.</i> Capital Bank, sir.<p><i>The President.</i> Capital Bank--excuse me--and we appreciate the good work that you've done supporting this company.<p>Under Karen Mills, SBA has increased loan guarantees and reduced fees, steps that have increased SBA lending by 86 percent. And we've called for legislation to increase SBA loan limits to allow us to guarantee loans of up to 5 million compared with 2 million now.<p>And today I'm taking yet another step to assist small-business owners get the capital that they need to grow and to hire. I'm proposing legislation that allows firms to refinance their commercial real estate loans, their mortgages, under the SBA.<p>Right now even companies with great credit histories are facing challenges refinancing at what are historically low rates. Property values have fallen and lending has dropped. As a result, many businesses that would otherwise survive this downturn are at risk of defaulting, which in turn will lead to even lower property values and less lending, not to mention lost jobs.<p>In addition, I'm also proposing that we increase the limits for SBA loans used for lines of credit and working capital, something that I know could benefit Ruth's business and countless others.<p>And the truth is, the economy can be growing like gangbusters for years on end, and it's still not easy to run a small business. It's not easy to stay ahead of your competitors; it's not easy to keep your costs down, to do right by your employees, to constantly innovate and adapt in a changing world. Talking to Ruth, she reminds me it's not easy keeping up with health care costs, and so Ruth is very anxious to see health reform passed so that small businesses can pick up the cost for their employees.<p>And in this deep and lasting recession, a hard job has been that much harder because for much of the last year, people weren't buying and customers weren't calling and banks were not lending. But even in the face of these obstacles, even in these tough times, all across the country, there are people like Rick and Dennis and Ruth and Will who haven't given up. You guys wake up every day and seek a way to safely navigate these troubled waters to fulfill your obligations to your families and to your employees and your customers. And in that determination, that resolve, you embody what's best in America, and you keep making America stronger.<p>Next week, Congress will start debating many of the jobs proposals I've outlined today and in recent days--many of the proposals to benefit small business, many of the proposals to spur hiring. If there are additional ideas from either party, I'm happy to consider them as well. But what I hope--what I strongly urge--is that we work quickly and we work together to get this done. America's small businesses are counting on us.<p>So thank you very much, everybody. And thank you, guys.\" "
"33" "\"America's intelligence agencies are a community, and the CIA is a family. That is how we gather here today. I speak as a grateful Commander in Chief who relies on you. There are Members of Congress here who support you, leaders--Leon Panetta, Steve Kappes--who guide you, and most of all, family, friends, and colleagues who love you and grieve with you.<p>For more than 60 years, the security of our Nation has demanded that the work of this Agency remain largely unknown. But today our gratitude as citizens demands that we speak of seven American patriots who loved their country and gave their lives to defend it.<p><i>[At this point, the President read the names of the officers.]</i><p>They came from different corners of our country, men and women, and each walked their own path to that rugged base in the mountains. Some had come to this work after a lifetime of protecting others in law enforcement, in the military; one was just a few years out of college.<p>Some had devoted years, decades even, to unraveling the dark web of terrorists that threatened us; others, like so many of you, joined these ranks when 9/11 called a new generation to service. Some had spent years on dangerous tours around the globe; others had just arrived in harm's way.<p>But there, at the remote outpost, they were bound by a common spirit. They heard their country's call and answered it. They served in the shadows and took pride in it. They were doing their job, and they loved it. They saw the danger and accepted it. They knew that the price of freedom is high, and in an awful instant, they paid that price.<p>There are no words that can ease the ache in your hearts. But to their colleagues and all who served with them--those here today, those still recovering, those watching around the world--I say: Let their sacrifice be a summons to carry on their work, to complete this mission, to win this war, and to keep our country safe.<p>To their parents: It is against the natural order of life for parents to lay their children to rest. Yet these weeks of solemn tribute have revealed for all to see that you raised remarkable sons and daughters. Everything you instilled in them--the virtues of service and decency and duty--were on display that December day. That is what you gave them. That is what you gave to America. And our Nation will be forever in your debt.<p>To the spouses: Your husbands and wives raised their hand and took an oath to protect and defend the country that they loved. They fulfilled that oath with their life. But they also took your hand and made a vow to you. And that bond of love endures from this world to the next. Amidst grief that is sometimes unbearable, may you find some comfort in our vow to you that this Agency and this country will stand with you and support you always.<p>And to the beautiful children: I know that this must be so hard and confusing, but please always remember this. It wasn't always easy for your mom or dad to leave home. But they went to another country to defend our country, and they gave their lives to protect yours. And as you grow, the best way to keep their memory alive and the highest tribute you can pay to them is to live as they lived, with honor and dignity and integrity.<p>They served in secrecy, but today every American can see their legacy. For the record of their service--and of this generation of intelligence professionals--is written all around us. It's written in the extremists who no longer threaten our country because you eliminated them. It's written in the attacks that never occurred because you thwarted them. And it's written in the Americans across this country and around the world who are alive today because you saved them.<p>And should anyone here ever wonder whether your fellow citizens truly appreciate that service, you need only remember the extraordinary tributes of recent weeks: the thousands of Americans who have sat down at their computers and posted messages to seven heroes they never knew; in the outpouring of generosity to the memorial foundation that will help support these proud families; and along a funeral procession in Massachusetts, in the freezing cold, mile after mile, friends and total strangers paying their respects, small children holding signs saying \\"thank you,\\" and a woman holding up a large American flag because, she said simply, \\"He died for me and my family.\\"<p>As a nation, we pledge to be there for you and your families. We need you more than ever. In an ever-changing world where new dangers emerge suddenly, we need you to be one step ahead of nimble adversaries. In this information age, we need you to sift through vast universes of data to find intelligence that can be acted upon swiftly. And in an era of technology and unmanned systems, we still need men and women like these seven, professionals of skill and talent and courage who are willing to make the ultimate sacrifice to protect our Nation.<p>Because of them, because of you, a child born in America today is welcomed into a country that is proud and confident, strong and hopeful, just as Molly Roberson welcomed her daughter Piper this week, both of whom join us today. Piper will never know her dad Scott. But thanks to Molly, she will know what her father stood for--a man who served his country, who did his duty, and who gave his life to keep her safe.<p>And on some distant day, years from now, when she is grown, if Piper--or any of these children--seeks to understand for themselves, they'll need only come here, to Langley, through these doors, and stand before that proud Memorial Wall that honors the fallen.<p>And perhaps they'll run their fingers over the stars that recall their parents' service. Perhaps they'll walk over to that Book of Honor, turn the pages, and see their parents' names. And at that moment of quiet reflection, they will see what we all know today: that our Nation is blessed to have men and women such as these; that we are humbled by their service; that we give thanks for every day that you keep us safe.<p>May God bless these seven patriots, may He watch over their families, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"34" "\"Even though our economy is growing again, these are still tough times for America. Too many businesses are still shuttered. Too many families can't make ends meet. And while yesterday we learned that the unemployment rate has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since summer, it's still unacceptably high, and too many Americans still can't find work.<p>But what we have to remember at a time like this is that we are not helpless in the face of our difficulties. As Americans, we make our own destiny. We forge our own path. And I am confident that if we come together and put aside the politics that keeps holding us back, we can do that again. We can rebuild this economy on a new, stronger foundation that leads to more jobs and greater prosperity.<p>I believe a key part of that foundation is America's small businesses, the places where most new jobs begin. These companies represent the essence of the American spirit, the promise that anyone can succeed in this country if you have a good idea and the determination to see it through. And every once in a while, these ideas don't just lead to a new business and new jobs, but a new American product that forever changes the world. After all, Hewlett-Packard began in a garage. Google began as a simple research project.<p>Government can't create these businesses, but it can give entrepreneurs the support they need to open their doors, expand, or hire more workers. And that's what we've always done in this country. The folks at Southwest Windpower in Flagstaff, Arizona, started their company in a small home. Since getting a loan from the Small Business Administration, they've sold 160,000 wind turbines to about 90 different countries and are hiring even more workers today. When Sam Ko walked into one of the SBA's small-business development centers in Illinois, he didn't have any business experience at all, just a patent for a new metal manufacturing technology. He was given a loan and a business plan, and today, his company is still growing, with offices all over the Midwest.<p>Last year, the steps we took supported over 47,000 loans to small businesses and delivered billions in tax relief to small-business owners, which helped companies keep their doors open, make payroll, and hire workers. But we can and must do more. That's why I've proposed a series of steps this week to support small-business owners and the jobs they create, to provide more access to credit, more incentives to hire, and more opportunities to grow and sell products all over the world.<p>Because financing remains difficult for good, creditworthy small businesses across the country, I've proposed that we take $30 billion from the TARP fund originally used for Wall Street and create a new small-business lending fund that will provide capital for community banks on Main Street. These are the small, local banks that will be able to give our small-business owners more of the credit they need to stay afloat. And we should also continue to waive fees, increase guarantees, and expand the size of SBA-backed loans for small businesses. And yesterday I proposed making it easier for small-business owners to refinance their mortgages during these tough times.<p>To give these companies greater incentives to grow and create jobs, I've proposed a new tax credit for more than 1 million small businesses that hire new workers or raise wages, as well as the elimination of all capital gains taxes on small-business investment.<p>Finally, we should provide targeted support to the most innovative small businesses, the ones with the greatest potential to export new goods and products all over the world. A lot of these companies, like the wind turbine manufacturer I mentioned, are the foundation on which we can rebuild our economy to compete in the 21st century. They just need a little help securing the financing they need to get off the ground. We have every incentive to help them do that.<p>Next week, Congress will start debating many of these proposals. And if anyone has additional ideas to support small businesses and create jobs, I'm happy to consider them. My door is always open. But I urge members of both parties: Do not oppose good ideas just because it's good politics to do so. The proposals I've outlined are not Democratic or Republican, liberal or conservative. They are probusiness, they are progrowth, and they are projob. Leaders in both parties have supported similar ideas in the past. So let's come together and pass these measures without delay. Let's put more Americans back to work, and let's give our small-business owners the support to do what they've always done, the freedom to pursue their dreams and build our country's future. <p>Thanks for listening.\" "
"35" "\"Thank you, DNC. Everybody have a seat, have a seat. Thank you. Oh, it is good to see you, good to be among friends so committed to the future of this party and this country that they're willing to brave a blizzard. [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"Snowmageddon\\" here in DC. [<i>Laughter</i>] I noticed somebody had \\"Californians for Obama,\\" and I was thinking, you guys are not used to this. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I've got some special thanks to the folks here. First of all I want to thank Eleanor Holmes Norton for fighting the good fight here in the District of Columbia; Ray Buckley, our DNC vice chair from New Hampshire; Alice Germond, DNC secretary; Andy Tobias, DNC treasurer. Thanks for the great work that you guys do.<p>I want to thank Tim Kaine, who's not only an outstanding former Governor, but an outstanding leader of this party--busy building the best online and infield grassroots organization we've ever had. Give Tim Kaine a big round of applause.<p>And if I'm not mistaken, we've got a couple of terrific Members of Congress here, Mike Honda, Congressman and DNC vice chair--Mike, are you here? He's on his way; he's still shoveling. [<i>Laughter</i>] And how about Barbara Lee, is Barbara here? Well, we love her anyway. So give Barbara and Mike a big round of applause.<p>I want to thank the Governors, the legislators, the mayors from across this country for working to move their States and local communities forward in extraordinarily challenging times. They've done heroic work. I want to thank the DNC members, State party leaders, and most of all, I want to thank the millions of Americans who've taken up the cause of change at the grassroots level in all 50 States.<p>Now, Tim alluded to this, but I just want to remind everybody, we knew from the beginning that this would not be easy. Change never is. But that's especially true in these times, when we face an array of challenges as tough as any we have seen in generations. President Kennedy once said: \\"When we got into office, the thing that surprised me most was to find that things were just as bad as we'd been saying they were.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Truth was things were worse.<p>We took office facing a financial crisis that was something we hadn't seen since the Great Depression, an economy that we now know was bleeding 750,000 jobs a month, a $1.3 trillion deficit, and two wars that were costly in every sense of the word. From the specter of terrorism to the impacts of globalization, we face tremendous new challenges in this young century. And all of this comes on top of one of the toughest decades our middle class had ever faced, a decade where jobs grew more slowly than during any prior expansion, where the income of the average American household actually declined, where the costs of everything seemed to keep going up.<p>Everything we've done over the past year has been not only to right our economy, to break the back of this recession, but also to restore some of the security middle class families have felt slipping away for over a decade now. Some of the steps we took were done without the help of the other party, which made a political decision all too often to jump in the backseat, let us do the driving and then critique whether we were taking the right turns. That's okay. That's part of what it means to govern.<p>And all the steps we took were necessary. None of us wanted to throw a lifeline to the banks. But the outrage shouldn't be that we did, because it had to happen in order to prevent millions more from losing their jobs, millions of businesses and homes foreclosed. The real outrage is that we had to do it in the first place in order to fend off the collapse of the financial system. That's the outrage.<p>Then we passed almost $300 billion in tax relief: tax cuts for small businesses, tax cuts for 95 percent of working Americans. We put Americans to work building the infrastructure of tomorrow, doing the work America needs done. We passed a credit card bill of rights to protect consumers from getting ripped off by credit card companies. We put the law behind the principle of equal pay for equal work. We extended the promise of health care to 4 million more children of working families. We protected every child from being targeted by tobacco companies.<p>We passed a service bill named for Ted Kennedy that gives young folks and old folks new ways to give back to their communities. We appointed Sonia Sotomayor to the Supreme Court. And we've begun working with Congress and our military to finally repeal the law that denies gay Americans the right to serve the country that they love because of who they are.<p>Overseas, we've begun a new era of engagement. We're working with our partners to stop the spread of nuclear weapons, and to seek a world free of nuclear weapons. We banned torture. We have begun to leave Iraq to its own people. We've charted a new way forward in Afghanistan and Pakistan and made good progress in taking the fight to Al Qaida across the globe. I went to Cairo on behalf of America to begin a new dialogue with the Muslim world. And we are living up to a moment that demands American leadership by standing side by side with the people of Haiti.<p>So if you look at a tally of the things we said we would do, even in the midst of this extraordinarily challenging economy, we've kept our promises. We've kept our commitments. We have moved forward on behalf of a more prosperous and more secure future for the American people.<p>But for all our efforts, we have to acknowledge change can't come fast enough for many Americans. In recent weeks, I've visited Allentown, Pennsylvania; Elyria, Ohio; Tampa, Florida; Nashua, New Hampshire, talking with workers in factories and families in diners. And they want to know, how are they going to find a job when they only know one trade in their life? Or how are they going to afford to send their kids to college? How are they going to pay their medical bills when they get sick? How can they retire with their 401(k) so banged up? And most of all, they're wondering if anyone can or will do anything about it, especially here in Washington.<p>Now, I understand their frustration; you understand it as well. I was talking to Michelle the other day--Michelle is always a good barometer--and you know, the front page was, oh, what's Obama going to do to get his poll numbers up? And are the Democrats all in a tizzy and this and that? And she said, \\"You know, listen, if you're the average family, if I'm a mom out there and I'm working and my husband is working, but we're worried about losing our jobs, our hours have been cut back, the cost of our health care premiums just went up 30 percent, the credit card company just jacked up our interest rates 39 percent, and our home values have gone down by $100,000, our 401(k) is all banged up, and suddenly, somebody calls up and says, 'So how do you think President Obama is doing right now?' [<i>Laughter</i>] What are they going to say? What are they going to say?\\"<p>Of course people are frustrated. And they have every right to be. And I know that during the course of this gathering, you know, some of the press have been running around, well, what do you think we should be doing, and this and that and the other, and what's the strategy?<p>Look, when unemployment is 9.7 percent, when we are still digging ourselves out of an extraordinary recession, people are going to be frustrated. And they're going to be looking to the party in power to try to fix it. And when you've got another party that says, we don't want to do anything about it, of course people are going to be frustrated.<p>Folks are out there working hard every day, trying to meet their responsibilities. But all around them during this last \\"lost decade,\\" what they've seen is a wave of irresponsibility from Wall Street to Washington. They see a capital city where every day is treated like election day and every act, every comment, every gesture passes through a political filter. They've seen the outsized influence of lobbyists and special interests, who too often hijack the agenda by leveraging campaign money and connections. Of course, they wonder if their leaders can muster the will to overcome all of that and confront the real problems that touch their lives.<p>But here's what everybody here has to remember: That's why I ran for President. That's why you worked so hard to elect a Democratic Congress. We knew this stuff was tough. But we stepped up because we decided we were going to take the responsibility of changing it. And it may not be easy, but change is coming.<p>I believe so strongly, if we're going to deal with the great challenges of our time, if we're going to secure a better future just as past generations did for us, then we're going to have to change the prevailing politics in this town, and it's not going to be easy. We're going to have to care less about scoring points and more about solving problems that are holding us back. At this defining moment, that's never been more important.<p>We can continue, for example, to be consumed by the politics of energy. But we know that the nation that leads the clean energy revolution will lead the 21st-century global economy. We know that a failure to act will put our planet in deeper peril. We know that China isn't waiting and India isn't waiting and Germany isn't waiting to seize that future, and America can't afford to wait either. And I don't intend to spend all my time taking polls to figure out whether we're going to seize that future or not.<p>We can continue to spin our wheels with the old education debates, pitting teachers unions against reformers, and meanwhile, our kids keep trailing their counterparts from South Korea to Singapore. But we know that the countries that outeducate us today will outcompete us tomorrow. We know that kids who are consigned to failing schools today will be condemned to lifetimes of lower wages and unfulfilled dreams. America can't afford to wait. And I'm not going to take a poll to figure out whether or not we're going to tackle education.<p>We can continue to allow the same special interests who stacked the deck in favor of financial speculators in the last decade to block reform again in this decade. But if we've learned anything from the devastating recession, it's that we know that wise regulation actually can enhance the market and make it more stable and make our economy work better. We can't return to the dereliction of duty that helped deliver this recession. We know that to do so would be to put at risk our jobs, our families, our businesses, and our future. America can't afford to wait, and we can't look backwards.<p>And yes, we could continue to ignore the growing burden of runaway costs of health care. The easiest thing to do right now would be to just say this is too hard; let's just regroup and lick our wounds and try to hang on. We've had a long and difficult debate on health care, and there are some, maybe even the majority in this town, who say perhaps it's time to walk away.<p>But here's the thing, Democrats, if we walk away, we know what will happen. We know that premiums and out-of-pocket expenses will skyrocket this decade, and the decade after that, and the decade after that, just as they did in the past decade. More small businesses will be priced out of coverage, more big businesses will be unable to compete internationally, more workers will take home less pay and fewer raises. We know that millions more Americans will lose their coverage. We know that our deficits will inexorably continue to grow because health care costs are the single biggest driver.<p>So just in case there's any confusion out there, let me be clear: I am not going to walk away from health insurance reform. I'm not going to walk away from the American people. I'm not going to walk away on this challenge. I'm not going to walk away on any challenge. We're moving forward. We are moving forward. Sometimes we may be moving forward against the prevailing winds. Sometimes it may be against a blizzard. [<i>Laughter</i>] But we're going to live up to our responsibility to lead.<p>And I'm confident that if we stay steady, if we stay focused on all the people that we meet each and every day who are out there struggling, if we've got them in mind and we are working to deliver on their behalf, that in the end that'll be good politics as well as good policy. It'll be good for America, not just good for Democrats.<p>But in order to get any of these battles done, we're going to have to change the way that Washington works. Now, we may not get a lot of attention for it, but we've actually already begun to do that. We've reined in the power of the special interests with the toughest ethics and transparency rules of any administration in the modern era. We're the first White House ever to post our visitors online. We've excluded lobbyists from policymaking jobs or seats on Federal boards and commissions. I've called on Congress to make all earmark requests public on one central web site before they come up for a vote, so that you know how the money is spent. We have--we're going to have to confront the gaping loophole that the Supreme Court recently opened in our campaign finance laws that allows special interests to spend without limit to influence American elections.<p>We also said that as we worked to change the ways of Washington, we'd also change the way we do things as a party. This committee is the first to ban contributions from political action committees and lobbyists. And I'm pleased to see the recommendations submitted by the Change Commission aimed at improving our nominating process, because I believe that the more Americans that get involved in this party, the stronger this party will be.<p>And yes, we need to change the way we work with the other party as well. Now, I'm proud to be a Democrat. I'm proud to be a leader of this great party. But I also know that we can't solve all of our problems alone. So we need to extend our hands to the other side. We've been working on it--[<i>Laughter</i>]--because if we're going to change the ways of Washington, we're going to have to change its tone.<p>Now, as a step in that direction, I went and visited with the House Republican caucus last Friday. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we had a good discussion about the challenges facing the American people and our ideas to solve them. It was good for the country to see a robust debate. I had fun. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And we have to acknowledge there are going to be some issues that Democrats and Republicans just don't see eye to eye on, and that's how it should be. That's how our democracy works. But there have to be some issues on which we can find some common ground. It's one thing to disagree out of principle; it's another to simply stand in the way because of politics.<p>Now is not the time for sitting on the sidelines or blocking progress or pointing figures or assigning blame. Now is not the time to do just what's right for your party or your poll numbers. Now is the time to do what's right for the country. Now is the time to do what's necessary to see us through these difficult times. Now is the time to do everything in our power to keep the American Dream alive for the next generation. And that's our mission, Democrats.<p>I know we've gone through a tough year, but we've gone through tougher years. We're the party of Thomas Jefferson, who declared that all men are created equal. And we had to work long and hard to ensure that those words meant something.<p>We're the party of Franklin Roosevelt, who, in the midst of depression, said all we had to fear was fear itself, who saved freedom and democracy from being extinguished here on Earth. And that was hard because the natural impulse was to fear. But we as a party helped to lead the country out of that fear.<p>We're the party of John F. Kennedy, who summoned us to serve, who called us to pay any price and bear any burden.<p>And we're the party of Edward M. Kennedy, whose cause endures; who said that here, in the United States of America, the promise of health care should not be a privilege, but a fundamental right.<p>That is who we are, Democrats. That's who we've got to be today. For all the stories we've heard, after all the campaigns we've waged, after all the promises we've made, this is our best chance to deliver change that the American people need.<p>And if we do that, if we speak to the hopes of the American people instead of their fears, if we inspire them instead of divide them, if we respond to their challenges with the same sense of urgency they feel in their own lives, we're not just going to win elections--elections will take care of themselves--we will once again be the party that turns around the economy and moves this country forward and secures the American Dream for another generation.<p>Thanks very much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"36" "\"<i>The President.</i> Good morning, everybody. I am so proud of the work that the First Lady, along with the Cabinet Secretaries behind me, have done in trying to tackle one of the most urgent health issues that we face in this country, and that is the increase in childhood obesity.<p>And because of the outstanding planning that they've done, they are going to be rolling out a terrific plan of action that involves the private sector as well as Government agencies coordinating much more effectively a lot of public information out there to help parents make good decisions about allowing their children to be active and eating healthier.<p>And what the Executive order I'm going to be signing today does is to create a 90-day plan that allows optimal coordination as we move forward, in addition to the coordination that we're doing with private sector companies and not-for-profits and other organizations out there that are interested in this issue.<p>So we think that this has enormous promise in improving the health of our children, in giving support to parents to make the kinds of healthy choices that oftentimes are very difficult in this kind of environment. And so I just want to say how proud I am of the First Lady for her outstanding work, and I will now sign this order.<p><i>[At this point, the President signed the memorandum.]</i><p><i>The President.</i> There you go.<p><i>The First Lady.</i> Good job.<p><i>The President.</i> It's done, honey. Thanks.<p><i>The First Lady.</i> Now we work.<p><i>The President.</i> Now they get to work. Thank you, guys.\" "
"37" "\"Well, I want to thank both Democratic and Senate leaders--Democratic Senate leaders and Democratic House leaders as well as Republican leaders from the House and Senate for joining us.<p>As I said in my State of the Union, part of what we'd like to see is the ability of Congress to move forward in a more bipartisan fashion on some of the key challenges that the country is facing right now. I think it's fair to say that the American people are frustrated with the lack of progress on some key issues. And although the parties are not going to agree on every single item, there should be some areas where we can agree and we can get some things done, even as we have vigorous debates on some of those issues that we don't agree on.<p>A good place to start, and what I hope to spend a lot of time on in these discussions today, is how we can move forward on a jobs package that encourages small business to hire, that is helping to create the kind of environment where, now that we have economic growth, people actually are starting to add to their payroll. I think there are some ideas on both the Republican and Democrat side that allow us to potentially, for example, lower rates for small businesses on their taxes to help spur on some growth. And my hope is, is that both in the House and the Senate, we'll see some packages moving over the next several weeks that can provide a jumpstart to hiring and start lowering the unemployment rate.<p>Another area where I hope we can find some agreement is on the issue of getting our deficits and debt under control. Both parties have stated their concerns about it; I think both parties recognize that it's going to take a lot of work. I have put forward the idea of a fiscal commission, and I'm going to be discussing both with my Democratic and Republican colleagues how we can get that moving as quickly as possible so that we can start taking some concrete action. I think the American people want to see that concrete action.<p>I'm also going to just be talking about some more mundane matters, things like making sure that we have our Government personnel in place on critical positions--in critical positions that involve our basic Government functioning and seeing if we can accelerate that and try to find some agreement in those areas. And then I'm going to spend some time listening, because there may be some priorities that both the Republican and Democratic leaders have that they want to raise at this meeting.<p>My hope is this is not going to be a rare situation; we're going to be doing these on a regular basis. And I'm very thankful that everybody here has taken the time to come. I'm confident that if we move forward in a spirit of keeping in mind what's best for the American people that we should be able to accomplish a lot.<p>All right? Thank you very much everybody.\" "
"38" "\"Welcome to the White House, everybody, and thank you for braving the storm. I am thrilled to see all of you here today--friends, guests, members of my Cabinet, Members of Congress, our Vice President and Dr. Jill Biden, and everyone watching at home--for the fifth in a series of evenings celebrating the music that tells the story of America.<p>Tonight we celebrate the music of the movement. To help us do that, Michelle and I are thrilled to welcome a tremendous group of artists who influenced that music and artists who were influenced by it: Yolanda Adams, Joan Baez, Natalie Cole, Morgan Freeman, Jennifer Hudson, John Mellencamp, Dr. Bernice Johnson Reagon, Smokey Robinson, the Blind Boys of Alabama, the Howard University Choir, and a man who was good enough to take a night off from his never-ending tour, Mr. Bob Dylan.<p>I want to thank some of them for spending some time earlier here today leading a workshop of high school students, perhaps even inspiring the next generation of civil rights leaders.<p>Let me also just acknowledge a good friend to us all, Dr. Joseph Lowery, who was here--or who couldn't be here with us today, but he is recuperating after an illness, and we want to keep him in our thoughts and prayers tonight.<p>Now, the civil rights movement was a movement sustained by music. It was lifted by spirituals inspired by the Bible. It was sharpened by protest songs about wrongs that needed righting. It was broadened by folk artists like a New York-born daughter of immigrants and a young storyteller from Minnesota who captured the hardships and hopes of people who were worlds different from them, in ways that only song can do.<p>It was a movement with a soundtrack, diverse strains of music that coalesced when the movement was right. But that soundtrack wasn't just inspired by the movement; it gave strength in return, a fact not lost on the movement's leaders.<p>It's been said that when Dr. King and his associates were looking for communities to organize and mobilize, they'd know which were disciplined enough and serious enough when they saw folks singing freedom songs. Dr. King himself once acknowledged that he didn't see \\"the real meaning of the movement\\" until he saw young people singing in the face of hostility.<p>You see, it's easy to sing when you're happy. It's easy to sing when you're among friends. It's easy to sing when times are good. But it is hard to sing when times are rough. It's hard to sing in the face of taunts and fear and the constant threat of violence. It's hard to sing when folks are being beaten, when leaders are being jailed, when churches are being bombed.<p>It's hard to sing in times like that. But times like that are precisely when the power of song is most potent. Above the din of hatred, amidst the deafening silence of inaction, the hymns of the civil rights movement helped carry the cause of a people and advance the ideals of a nation.<p>Bernice Johnson Reagon knew this. One day when she was young, she was sitting in church when a local sheriff and his deputies showed up to intimidate the congregation. \\"They stood at the door,\\" Bernice wrote, \\"making sure everyone knew they were there.\\" \\"And then,\\" she said, \\"a song began. And the song made sure that the sheriff and his deputies knew that we were there.\\"<p>Joan Baez and Bob Dylan knew this. One day in 1963, they joined hundreds of thousands on the National Mall and sang of a day when the time would come, when the winds would stop, when a ship would come in. They sang of a day when a righteous journey would reach its destination.<p>And Congressman John Lewis--a man of that Moses generation, a man who couldn't be here tonight, but whose sacrifices helped make it possible for me to be here tonight--he knew this too. For in the darkest hour, he said, \\"The songs fed our spirits and gave us hope.\\"<p>So to everyone here or watching at home, let us enjoy the music we hear tonight. Let the music feed our spirits, give us hope, and carry us forward as one people and as one Nation. Enjoy.\" "
"39" "\"All across America, people work hard to meet their responsibilities. You do your job, take care of your family, pay your bills. Sometimes, particularly in tough times like these, you have to make hard choices about where to spend and where to save. That's what being responsible means. It's a bedrock value of our country. And that ought to be a value that our Government lives up to as well.<p>Yet over the past decade, this hasn't always been the case. Ten years ago, we had a big budget surplus with projected surpluses far into the future. Ten years later, those surpluses are gone. In fact, when I first walked through the door, the Government's budget deficit stood at $1.3 trillion, with the budget gap over the next decade projected to be 8 trillion.<p>Now, partly, the recession is to blame. With millions of people out of work and millions of families facing hardship, folks are paying less in taxes while seeking more services, like unemployment benefits. Rising health care costs are also to blame. Each year, more and more tax dollars are devoted to Medicare and Medicaid.<p>But what also has made these large deficits possible was the end of a commonsense rule called pay as you go. It's pretty simple. It says to Congress, you have to pay as you go. You can't spend a dollar unless you cut a dollar elsewhere. This is how a responsible family or business manages a budget. This is how a responsible government manages a budget as well.<p>It was this rule that helped lead to balanced budgets in the 1990s by making clear that we could not increase entitlement spending or cut taxes simply by borrowing more money. And it was the abandonment of this rule that allowed the previous administration and previous Congresses to pass massive tax cuts for the wealthy and create an expensive new drug program without paying for any of it. Now, in a perfect world, Congress would not have needed a law to act responsibly, to remember that every dollar spent would come from taxpayers today or our children tomorrow.<p>But this isn't a perfect world. This is Washington. And while in theory, there is bipartisan agreement on moving forward on balanced budgets, in practice, this responsibility for the future is often overwhelmed by the politics of the moment. It falls prey to the pressures of special interest groups, to the pull of local concerns, and to a reality familiar to every single American: the fact that it's a lot easier to spend a dollar than save one.<p>That's why this rule is necessary. And that's why I'm pleased that Congress fulfilled my request to restore it. Last night I signed the pay-as-you-go rule into law. Now Congress will have to pay for what it spends, just like everybody else.<p>But that's not all we must do. Even as we make critical investments to create jobs today and lay a foundation for growth tomorrow--by cutting taxes for small businesses or investing in education or promoting clean energy and modernizing our roads and railways--we have to continue to go through the budget line by line, looking for ways to save. We have to cut where we can to afford what we need.<p>This year, I've proposed another $20 billion in budget cuts. And I've also called for a freeze in Government spending for 3 years. It won't affect benefits through Medicare, Medicaid, or Social Security. And it will not affect national security, including benefits for veterans. But it will affect the rest of the budget.<p>Finally, I've proposed a bipartisan fiscal commission to provide recommendations for long-term deficit reduction. Because in the end, solving our fiscal challenge, so many years in the making, will take both parties coming together, putting politics aside, and making some hard choices about what we need to spend and what we don't. It will not happen any other way. Unfortunately, this proposal, which received the support of a bipartisan majority in the Senate, was recently blocked. So I will be creating this commission by Executive order.<p>After a decade of profligacy, the American people are tired of politicians who talk the talk but don't walk the walk when it comes to fiscal responsibility. It's easy to get up in front of the cameras and rant against exploding deficits. What's hard is actually getting deficits under control. But that's what we must do. Like families across the country, we have to take responsibility for every dollar we spend. And with the return of pay as you go, as well as other steps we've begun to take, that is exactly what we are doing.<p>Thanks.\" "
"40" "\"Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Please have a seat. Have a seat. Good morning, everybody. Before I begin, let me just acknowledge some of the people who are standing behind me here. First of all, two people who have been working really hard to make this day happen: Secretary Steven Chu--my Energy Secretary, Steven Chu, and my White House adviser on everything having to do with energy, Carol Browner.<p>I want to acknowledge the outstanding Governor of Maryland, Martin O'Malley, as well as his Lieutenant Governor, Anthony Brown. We've got Mark Ayers from the building trades and Billy Hite from the UA Plumbers and Pipefitters--give them a big round of applause. Gregory Jaczko, who's--the nuclear energy commission--is here. Where is he? Ed Hill, president of the IBEW International; and I want to thank Chuck Graham and everybody here at Local 26 for their great hospitality.<p>Thank you for the warm welcome. Thanks for showing me around. I was just mentioning that I got a chance to pull the first fire alarm since I was in junior high. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I didn't get in trouble for it.<p>This is an extraordinarily impressive facility, where workers are instructed on everything from the installation of sophisticated energy hardware and software to the basics of current and resistance. And we need to look no further than the workers and apprentices who are standing behind me to see the future that's possible when it comes to clean energy.<p>It's a future in which skilled laborers are helping us lead in burgeoning industries. It's a future in which renewable electricity is fueling plug-in hybrid cars and energy-efficient homes and businesses. It's a future in which we're exporting homegrown energy technology instead of importing foreign oil. And it's a future in which our economy is powered not by what we borrow and spend, but what we invent and what we build.<p>That's the bright future that lies ahead for America. And it's one of--it's a future that my administration is striving to achieve each and every day. We've already made the largest investment in clean energy in history as part of the Recovery Act, an investment that is expected to create more than 700,000 jobs across America, manufacturing advanced batteries for more fuel-efficient vehicles, upgrading the power grid so that it's smarter and it's stronger, doubling our Nation's capacity to generate renewable energy. And after decades in which we have done little to increase the efficiency of cars and trucks, we've raised fuel economy standards to reduce our dependence on foreign oil while helping folks save money at the pump.<p>But in order to truly harness our potential in clean energy, we're going to have to do more, and that's why we're here. In the near term, as we transition to cleaner energy sources, we're going to have to make some tough decisions about opening up new offshore areas for oil and gas development. We'll need to make continued investments in advanced biofuels and clean coal technologies, even as we build greater capacity in renewables like wind and solar. And we're going to have to build a new generation of safe, clean nuclear power plants in America.<p>That's what brings us here. Through the Department of Energy, under the leadership of Nobel Prize-winning physicist Steven Chu--although, just a quick side note. When he was talking to some of the instructors here, and they were talking about currents and this and that and the other, I indicated to him that he could have saved a lot of money; instead of getting a Ph.D., he could have come here and learned some of the same stuff, but-- [<i>Laughter</i>] . You know, the instructors here were just keeping up--they were right there with him.<p>But through the Department of Energy and Secretary Chu's leadership, we are announcing roughly $8 billion in loan guarantees to break ground on the first new nuclear plant in our country in three decades--the first new nuclear power plant in nearly three decades. <p>It's a plant that will create thousands of construction jobs in the next few years and some 800 permanent jobs--well-paying permanent jobs--in the years to come. And this is only the beginning. My budget proposes tripling the loan guarantees we provide to help finance safe, clean nuclear facilities, and we'll continue to provide financing for clean energy projects here in Maryland and across America.<p>Now, there will be those that welcome this announcement, those who think it's been long overdue. But there are also going to be those who strongly disagree with this announcement. The same has been true in other areas of our energy debate, from offshore drilling to putting a price on carbon pollution. But what I want to emphasize is this: Even when we have differences, we cannot allow those differences to prevent us from making progress. On an issue that affects our economy, our security, and the future of our planet, we can't keep on being mired in the same old stale debates between the left and the right, between environmentalists and entrepreneurs.<p>See, our competitors are racing to create jobs and command growing energy industries. And nuclear energy is no exception. Japan and France have long invested heavily in this industry. Meanwhile, there are 56 nuclear reactors under construction around the world: 21 in China alone, 6 in South Korea, 5 in India. And the commitment of these countries is not just generating the jobs in those plants; it's generating demand for expertise and new technologies.<p>So make no mistake: Whether it's nuclear energy, or solar or wind energy, if we fail to invest in the technologies of tomorrow, then we're going to be importing those technologies instead of exporting them. We will fall behind. Jobs will be produced overseas instead of here in the United States of America. And that's not a future that I accept.<p>Now, I know it's been long assumed that those who champion the environment are opposed to nuclear power. But the fact is, even though we've not broken ground on a new power plant--new nuclear power plant in 30 years, nuclear energy remains our largest source of fuel that produces no carbon emissions. To meet our growing energy needs and prevent the worst consequences of climate change, we'll need to increase our supply of nuclear power. It's that simple. This one plant, for example, will cut carbon pollution by 16 million tons each year when compared to a similar coal plant. That's like taking 3.5 million cars off the road.<p>On the other side, there are those who have long advocated for nuclear power, including many Republicans, who have to recognize that we're not going to achieve a big boost in nuclear capacity unless we also create a system of incentives to make clean energy profitable. That's not just my personal conclusion, it's the conclusion of many in the energy industry itself, including CEOs of the Nation's largest utility companies. Energy leaders and experts recognize that as long as producing carbon pollution carries no cost, traditional plants that use fossil fuels will be more cost effective than plants that use nuclear fuel.<p>That's why we need comprehensive energy and climate legislation and why this legislation has drawn support from across the ideological spectrum. I raised this just last week with congressional Republican leaders. I believe there's real common ground here. And my administration will be working to build on areas of agreement so that we can pass a bipartisan energy and climate bill through the Senate.<p>Now, none of this is to say that there aren't some serious drawbacks with respect to nuclear energy that have to be addressed. As the CEOs standing behind me will tell you, nuclear power generates waste, and we need to accelerate our efforts to find ways of storing this waste safely and disposing of it. That's why we've asked a bipartisan group of leaders and nuclear experts to examine this challenge. And these plants also have to be held to the highest and strictest safety standards to answer the legitimate concerns of Americans who live near and far from these facilities. That's going to be an imperative.<p>But investing in nuclear energy remains a necessary step. What I hope is that with this announcement, we're underscoring both our seriousness in meeting the energy challenge and our willingness to look at this challenge not as a partisan issue but as a matter that's far more important than politics, because the choices we make will affect not just the next generation but many generations to come.<p>The fact is, changing the ways we produce and use energy requires us to think anew, it requires us to act anew, and it demands of us a willingness to extend our hand across some of the old divides, to act in good faith, and to move beyond the broken politics of the past. That's what we must do; that's what we will do.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. Appreciate it.\" "
"41" "\"Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Please, have a seat. Thank you very much. Thank you to Blake and Chuck, and thank you to my outstanding Vice President and his extraordinary team that have done just a great job managing this program.<p>I want to begin by recalling where we were 1 year ago. Millions of jobs had already been lost to the recession before I was sworn into office. Another 800,000 would be lost in the month of January. We'd later learn that our economy had shrunk by an astounding 6.4 percent in the first quarter of 2009. And economists from across the political spectrum warned that if dramatic action was not taken to break the back of the recession, the United States could spiral into another depression.<p>That was the backdrop against which I signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in Denver, with Blake alongside. It certainly wasn't a politically easy decision to make for me or for the Members of Congress who supported it, because let's face it, no large expenditure is ever that popular, particularly at a time when we're also facing a massive deficit. But we acted because failure to do so would have led to catastrophe. We acted because we had a larger responsibility than simply winning the next election. We had a responsibility to do what was right for the U.S. economy and for the American people.<p>And 1 year later, it is largely thanks to the Recovery Act that a second depression is no longer a possibility. It's one of the main reasons the economy has gone from shrinking by 6 percent to growing at about 6 percent. And this morning we learned that manufacturing production posted a strong gain. So far, the Recovery Act is responsible for the jobs of about 2 million Americans who would otherwise be unemployed. These aren't just our numbers, these are the estimates of independent, nonpartisan economists across the spectrum.<p>Now, despite all this, the bill still generates some controversy. And part of that is because there are those, let's face it, across the aisle who have tried to score political points by attacking what we did, even as many of them show up at ribbon-cutting ceremonies for projects in their districts. [<i>Laughter</i>] But if we're honest, part of the controversy also is, is that despite the extraordinary work that has been done through the Recovery Act, millions of Americans are still without jobs. Millions more are struggling to make ends meet. So it doesn't yet feel like much of a recovery. And I understand that. It's why we're going to continue to do everything in our power to turn this economy around.<p>Now, the truth is, the Recovery Act was never intended to save every job or restore our economy to full strength. No bill or Government program can do that. Businesses are the true engines of growth; businesses are the engines of job creation in this country. They always will be. But during a recession, when businesses pull back and people stop spending, what Government can do is provide a temporary boost that puts money in people's pockets and keeps workers on the job, cuts taxes for small businesses, generates more demand, gives confidence to entrepreneurs that maybe they don't have to cut back right now, maybe they can hold steady in their plans and in their dreams. That's exactly what we've been able to do with the Recovery Act. <p>And I just want to point this out: There has never been a program of this scale, moved at this speed, that has been enacted as effectively and as transparently as the Recovery Act. I'm grateful that Congress agreed to my request that the bill include no earmarks, that all projects receive funding based solely on their merits. And despite that, I was still concerned--Joe and I were just talking in the back--when this thing passed, we said $787 billion--somewhere there's going to be some story of some money that ended up being misspent; $787 billion spent out over 18 months, that's a lot of money. And it is a testimony to Vice President Biden and his team that, as Joe puts it, the dog, so far at least, hasn't barked. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>This team has done an outstanding job overseeing the Recovery Act. It doesn't mean that everything's been perfect, but when you think about the scope, the magnitude of this thing, this program has run cleanly, smoothly, transparently. We brought in one of the toughest Inspector Generals in Washington as well as professionals from private industry to help run the implementation. And every American can see how and where this money has been spent just by going on www.recovery.gov.<p>Now, just to review: One-third of the money in this bill--one-third was made up of tax cuts--I talked about this at the State of the Union--tax cuts for 95 percent of working Americans. I just want to say to the American people--because we see some polling where about twice as many people think we've raised taxes as lowered taxes--95 percent of you got a tax cut. Tax cuts for 95 percent of working Americans: tax cuts for small businesses, tax cuts for first-time home buyers, tax cuts for parents trying to care for their kids, tax cuts for 8 million Americans paying for college. So far, we've provided $120 billion in tax relief to families and small businesses. <p>Now, up until this point, I've never met a Republican who didn't like a good tax cut--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but you remember when I mentioned this at the State of the Union, Joe, they were all kind of squirming in their seats. They weren't sure whether to clap or--[<i>Laughter</i>]--or not, because most of them had voted against all these tax cuts, which I thought was--it was interesting to watch. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>The second third of this bill was made up of relief for those who have been most affected by this recession. We've extended or increased unemployment benefits for more than 19 million Americans. We made health insurance 65 percent cheaper for families who lost their jobs and had to get temporary coverage through COBRA. And we gave relief to States that were struggling to balance their budgets, relief that has allowed 300,000 teachers and education workers to keep their jobs, as well as tens of thousands of cops and firefighters and first-responders and correctional officers. And Joe Biden will tell you that not one of the 50 Governors we've spoken to, Democrat or Republican, has failed to show appreciation for this relief. <p>And I also have to tell you that I am concerned because State budgets have not yet recovered, and you're now seeing a whole bunch of State and local governments who were able to put off layoffs last year, as the recovery money is running out, having to make some very tough decisions. And we could potentially see layoffs taking place this year because we haven't reupped in terms of providing some help to those States and local governments. That's something that we're watching and we're concerned about.<p>Now, the last third of the Recovery Act is what I want to talk a little bit about more today. It's the reason Blake and Doug [Chuck]* are here. That third is about rebuilding our economy on a new and stronger foundation for growth over the long term. See, we knew when we came into office that it wasn't enough simply to solve the immediate crisis before us. We knew that even before the crisis hit, we had come through what some people are calling the \\"lost decade,\\" a period where there was barely any job growth and where the income of the average American household declined. This is before the recession. Over the course of the decade, the average American household, they saw their incomes decline even as the cost of health care and college tuition were skyrocketing, had reached record highs. The prosperity was built on little more than a housing bubble and on financial speculation, people maxing out on their credit cards, taking out home equity loans.<p>We can't go back to that kind of economy. That's not where the jobs are. The jobs of the 21st century are in areas like clean energy and technology, advanced manufacturing, new infrastructure. That kind of economy requires us to consume less and produce more, to import less and export more. Instead of sending jobs overseas, we need to send more products overseas that are made by American workers and American businesses. And we need to train our workers for those jobs with new skills and a world-class education. <p>Other countries already realize this. They're putting more emphasis on math and science. They're building high-speed railroads and expanding broadband. They're making serious investments in clean energy because they want those jobs. <p>And America cannot stand still in the face of this challenge. We can't afford to put our future on hold. So that's why a big part of the Recovery Act has been about investing in that future. Yes, it created jobs now. Yes, it created business opportunities now. But more importantly, it's laying the foundation for where we need to go.<p>So instead of just pouring more money into America's schools, regardless of their performance, we launched a national competition between States that only rewards success and reform, reform that raises student achievement and inspires students to excel in math and science and turns around failing schools, failing schools that steal the future of too many young Americans.<p>We're also making sure that our Nation has an infrastructure that's built to compete in the 21st century. So we now have projects in 31 States that are laying the ground for the first high-speed rail network in the United States of America. I mean, for years, Japan, Europe have had high-speed rail. China's got about 40 times as many projects that have been going on, on this front. We're playing catch up; we shouldn't be. <p>The Recovery Act has made possible over 12,500 transportation construction projects, from rebuilding highways to improving our airports. And today we announced funding for over 50 innovative transportation projects across America, everything from railroads in Appalachia to a new passenger terminal in New Orleans. <p>These projects will put hundreds of thousands of Americans to work. And in many cases, they already have. That's part of the reason that Chuck's here today. He's the president of a construction company in Pennsylvania, and the Recovery Act will fund about a third of the work his paving company will do this year. That's allowed him to hire two engineers and about a hundred employees. So in case people are wondering whether or not the Recovery Act's created jobs and opportunity for businesses, talk to Chuck. [<i>Laughter</i>] The new equipment he's ordered to help pave these roads will save an additional 40 jobs on an assembly line out in California. These are well-paying, long-lasting, private sector jobs that wouldn't be possible without the Recovery Act. They'll be doing the work that America needs done to stay competitive in a global economy.<p>In no area is this more important than in energy. Because of the Recovery Act, we have finally jump-started the clean energy industry in America and made possible 200,000 jobs in the clean energy and construction sectors. <p>Just take one example: Consider the investment that we've made in the kind of batteries used in hybrid and electric cars. You've heard about these, right? Before the Recovery Act was signed, 98 percent of the world's advanced battery production was done in Asian countries. The United States did less than 2 percent of this advanced battery manufacturing that's going to be the key to these high-mileage, low-emission cars. <p>Then we invested in new research and battery technologies and supported the construction of 20 battery factories that will employ tens of thousands of Americans--batteries that can make enough--factories that can make enough batteries each year to power half a million plug-in hybrid vehicles. So as a result, next year--next year, 2 years after the Recovery Act--the United States will have the capacity to produce nearly 20 percent of the world's advanced batteries, from less than 2 percent to 20 percent. And we'll be able to make 40 percent of these advanced batteries by 2015, an entire new industry because of the Recovery Act. <p>Now, this kind of progress is happening throughout our clean energy sector. Yesterday I announced loan guarantees to break ground on America's first new nuclear power plant in nearly three decades, a plant that will create thousands of construction jobs and 800 permanent jobs in years to come. There's the manufacturer in Philadelphia who makes energy-efficient windows. He used to be skeptical about the Recovery Act until he had to add two more shifts just to keep up with the new business it's created. <p>And Blake at Namaste Solar--it's based in Boulder, Colorado. One year ago, Blake gave us a tour of one of his company's solar installations on top of a museum in Denver, right before I signed the Recovery Act into law. And at the time, Blake was pretty sure that the recession would force him to lay off about half of his staff. One year later, because of the clean energy investments in the Recovery Act, he has instead added about a dozen new workers and expects to hire about a dozen more by year's end. His company continues to install solar panels all over Colorado, from the Governor's Mansion to the Denver Museum of Natural--Nature and Science. <p>So that's our future. That's what's possible in America. And you can argue, rightly, that we haven't made as much progress as we need to make when it comes to spurring job creation. That's part of the reason why the Recovery Act is on track to save or create another 1.5 million jobs in 2010. That's part of the reason why I expect Congress to pass additional measures as quickly as possible that will help our small-business owners create new jobs, give them more of an incentive to hire.<p>But for those skeptics who refuse to believe the Recovery Act has done any good, who continue to insist that the bill didn't work, I'd ask you to take that argument up with Blake and his employees. Take that argument up with Chuck and his construction workers. Take it up with the Americans who are working in those battery plants or building those new highways or teaching our children new skills, all because the Recovery Act made it possible.<p>So our work is far from over, but we have rescued this economy from the worst of this crisis. And slowly, in new factories and research facilities and small businesses, the American people are rebuilding a better future. And we will continue to support their efforts. We will leave our children an economy that is stronger and more prosperous than it was before.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"42" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hey, guys.<p><i>[At this point, several seconds went by without a response. The President then placed his hand over the receiver of the telephone and addressed the event participants.]</i><p><i>The President.</i> There's a little bit of a delay, guys. They told you that, that there's a little bit of a delay?<p><i>Commander George D. Zamka.</i> Good morning from the International Space Station and from the Space Shuttle <i>Endeavour</i>, Mr. President.<p><i>The President.</i> Well, it's great to talk to you guys. I wanted to, first of all, just say that we've got a bunch of very excited young people here with us, along with a bunch of somewhat excited teachers. [<i>Laughter</i>] We have one engineer and one Member of Congress, so you've got a--and a whole bunch of press here, so it's a pretty motley crew--and one President.<p>But I just wanted to let you guys know how proud we are of all of you and what you guys have been accomplishing. I've had a chance to take a look at what the Tranquility module is doing. Everybody here back home is excited about this bay on the world that you guys are opening up, and Stephen Colbert, at least, is excited about his treadmill. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And so we just wanted to let you know that the amazing work that's being done on the International Space Station, the--not only by our American astronauts, but also our colleagues from Japan and Russia, is just a testimony to human ingenuity, a testimony to extraordinary skill and courage that you guys bring to bear, and is also a testimony to why continued space exploration is so important, and is part of the reason why my commitment to NASA is unwavering.<p>But instead of me doing all the talking, I wanted you guys to maybe let us know what this new Tranquility module will help you accomplish. One of the things that we've done with our NASA vision for the future is to extend the life of the--our participation in the space station. And so we just want to get a sense of the kind of research that you guys are doing, and then maybe I'll turn it over to some young people to see if they've got any questions.<p><i>Commander Zamka.</i> Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. It is a large team effort. In front of you, you have the joint crew of <i>Endeavour</i> and the space station, and we are the ones that are fortunate enough to be able to accomplish this great mission together in space. But there are many thousands of people around the world that gave the best of themselves over many years in order to have the days that we've been having up here.<p>For your question, I'm going to turn it over to ISS Commander Jeff Williams.<p><i>International Space Station's Tranquility Module</i><p><i>Commander Jeffrey N. Williams.</i> Well, Mr. President, as you know, the ISS has been under assembly for many years, over a decade now. And as George said, it's because of the efforts of thousands of people around the world among the international partnerships.<p>And we're--this--the arrival of this module means several things. It means, of course, that we--everybody's aware of this new grand view that we have of the world below us, and that brings a special significance. But the Tranquility module also is going to serve as a gym, as a hygiene area, as a place a crew can maintain themselves for a long duration. And a long duration living and working in space is what the space station is all about, to do the research and the science necessary to take us beyond Earth orbit.<p>That was the ultimate purpose of the space station, and the arrival of this module will enable us to do that. And it really marks the end of the major assembly of at least the U.S. orbiting segment to--as we transition into full utilization of this magnificent orbiting laboratory.<p><i>Experiments in Space</i><p><i>The President.</i> Do you guys want to just mention some of the research and experiments that you can conduct in--on the space station that you could not be doing back here at home?<p><i>Flight Engineer Timothy J. Creamer.</i> That's a great question, Mr. President. Let me start off by saying, one of the nice things about where we physically are right now is that we remove the effects of gravity, so we're able to do experiments that involve the effect of gravity, basically, on Earth as we look at what happens with the absence of it.<p>For instance, when you do combustion studies, flames on Earth burn in a teardrop fashion because the air comes in from underneath it and feeds the flame, but we can't do that here since the air doesn't know where up is, there's no convection. So the flames burn very purely in a ball.<p>In a similar sense, when we do cellular research for even, like for cancer research, for instance, on Earth, the cells actually collapse under their own weight, and so it--their growth on Earth are a little bit distorted. Here, without the gravity effect, we can grow cells very purely and understand the mechanisms by which that--they are replicating.<p>We're also doing metallic research and materials research to help us understand how to make materials on Earth better, but also to find out what materials are better for long-duration missions and traveling beyond Earth's orbit.<p>Some of the other experiments involve biological, where we actually have, for instance, butterflies up here, and we watch the life process of the butterflies. Many, many experiments up and down the stack are quite exciting when we are able to remove the variable of gravity.<p><i>The President.</i> Well, the--some of the things that you talked about are in line with where we want to see NASA going increasingly: What are those transformational technologies that would allow us to potentially see space travel of longer durations? If we want to get to Mars, if we want to get beyond that, what kinds of technologies are going to be necessary in order for us to make sure that folks can get there in one piece and get back in one piece and that the kinds of fuels that we use and the technologies we use are going to facilitate something that is actually feasible? And we're very excited about the possibilities of putting more research dollars into the--some of these transformational technologies.<p>So we're excited about what you're doing and what folks back on Earth as part of NASA's engineering teams and scientific teams are doing.<p>What I want to do is give some of these young people a chance to ask a couple of questions. I'm--but I'm not sure I've got any volunteers, so I'm going to have to turn around--oh, look, I--[<i>Laughter</i>]--this is a serious bunch here, I can tell. So I'm going to hand the phone over to the first one--hold on--what's your name?<p><i>Q.</i> Ruth.<p><i>The President.</i> This is Ruth, coming from North Carolina.<p><i>Importance of Space Exploration</i><p><i>Q.</i> What are some of the benefits of exploring space as opposed to exploring other places on Earth?<p><i>The President.</i> Okay. That's a pretty serious question, guys. You better have a good answer. The NASA folks are sitting here listening. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Mission Specialist Stephen K. Robinson.</i> Ruth, I can tell you your curiosity reaches far, and so does ours. And that's sort of the human spirit, to find out what can humans really do.<p>And one thing that's always been, I think, amazing to every person who travels in space is that the human body is adaptable to this environment. But adaptable in what way, and how does the human body and even the human brain adapt to this very, very different environment? Learning about how we, ourselves, work and how we can handle changes if we go somewhere very different than what we're used to is something that's valuable also on Earth, because our environment changes on Earth too; and in terms of health and medicine, we understand better how our own bodies work. So there's a lot to be learned.<p><i>The President.</i> All right, who's next?<p><i>Q.</i> Mary.<p><i>The President.</i> All right, this is Mary coming at you.<p><i>Inspiration to Become an Astronaut</i><p><i>Q.</i> What inspired you to become an astronaut?<p><i>The President.</i> Got any takers on that one?<p><i>Mission Specialist Nicholas J.M. Patrick.</i> Mary, hello, this is Nick Patrick. The thing that inspired me to become an astronaut was watching the Apollo moon landings many, many years ago with my parents. I thought I wanted to be a space explorer then, and I stuck to my dream. I stayed in school and I studied hard, and through schoolwork and also an interest in things like sailing and flying I was able to realize my dream.<p>So I would have some advice to all of you there, which is, study really hard in school, listen to your teachers. They're full of knowledge and experience that you really can use in whatever path your future life takes you along, whether it be engineering, science, a job in business, or even space exploration.<p><i>The President.</i> All right, let's get--we've one of our young people from----<p><i>Q.</i> From Nebraska.<p><i>The President.</i> From Nebraska. And what's your name?<p><i>Q.</i> Jordan.<p><i>The President.</i> This is Jordan from Nebraska.<p><i>Artificial Gravity</i><p><i>Q.</i> Do you think it would ever be possible to create artificial gravity in space?<p><i>The President.</i> That's a big physics question there, guys. Anybody want to tackle that one?<p><i>Pilot Terry W. Virts, Jr.</i> Hi, Jordan, this is Terry Virts here. And that's a great question, because one of the hard things about long-duration space flight is the human body dealing with weightlessness and a lack of gravity.<p>And one way you can create gravity is to spin things. If you take a bucket of water or paint you can spin it around, and you'll notice that the water stays pressed up against the bucket because you're accelerating it. And so you can artificially create that acceleration that makes you feel like you're in gravity just by rotating something like a centrifuge.<p>So it is possible, but to do that it requires a really large structure. And so that's something that we haven't done here on the space station, but that's one way you could do it.<p><i>The President.</i> That was a great question. All right, we've got--we need a Michigan; we got to make sure every State is represented here. What's your name?<p><i>Q.</i> Shanae.<p><i>The President.</i> Okay, go ahead and introduce yourself, Shanae.<p><i>Training to Become an Astronaut</i><p><i>Q.</i> I was just wondering, what kind of training did you have to go through before you were able to get into space?<p><i>The President.</i> That was Shanae from Michigan.<p><i>Mission Specialist Kathryn P. Hire.</i> Well, that's a great question. You know, it takes a lot of experience to be an astronaut, and it's not just in one field. We've all been through many, many years of school, but also experience in our own fields. So we have engineers, scientists, mathematicians, medical doctors, and physicists. We have quite a range of experience that become astronauts.<p>And the important thing is that you have a good, solid background in the technical fields--the science, the technology, the engineering, and the math--to build on that, because once everyone comes and is selected as an astronaut, we all train generically for space flight, and then we train specifically for our mission.<p>For the International Space Station, it's a very complicated and very large spacecraft, so the training is over multiple years just for a specific flight. For the space shuttle, being a shorter duration flight of just a couple of weeks, we still train for over 1 year just specifically on the tasks that we'll accomplish on our mission.<p>So it's quite a bit of time, but it certainly is worth it. It's quite rewarding to us to be able to execute the mission that we've been training for for so long.<p><i>The President.</i> And I think we need to have at least one Floridian; is that right?<p><i>Q</i>. [<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> We already had a Floridian? Do we have every State covered so far here?<p>All right, we've got time for a couple more questions. We were going to get a little gender balance here. [<i>Laughter</i>] This young man back here, what's your name?<p><i>Q.</i> Joseph.<p><i>The President.</i> Joseph. Hold on one second. You've got a question from Joseph from Nebraska.<p><i>Viewing Earth's Landmarks From Space</i><p><i>Q.</i> Are there any recognizable landmarks that you can see from space?<p><i>The President.</i> Yes, the rumor was, is that you can see the Great Wall from space, but I'm not sure that's true. So are there at least--if there aren't manmade landmarks, are there some natural landmarks other than continents that you can see?<p><i>Flight Engineer Soichi Noguchi.</i> Yes, Mr. President and Joseph, that's a great question. Actually, the--one of the great achievement in this mission, we have a great window, big window, that we are really fascinated by the great view of the Earth. And, yes, we can see a lot of great landmarks. We can see the Golden Gate Bridge, the great skyscrapers in New York, and the Grand Canyon is just breathtaking. And also while in the night pass we can see all the lights. That means that the humans are active even in the night. And this is a great benefits that we all benefit from, being in space.<p><i>The President.</i> Well, there you go.<p>All right, we've got--looks like I've got a couple more questions. Hold on. What's your name?<p><i>Q.</i> Barbara.<p><i>The President.</i> This is Barbara. From?<p><i>Q.</i> Florida.<p><i>The President.</i> From Florida. Hold on.<p><i>Living in Space</i><p><i>Q.</i> Hi, I'm curious about the thoughts and emotions that you guys feel when you're in space.<p><i>The President.</i> There you go. Do you start getting lonely? Do you feel a little claustrophobic? Vertigo?<p><i>Mission Specialist Robert L. Behnken.</i> Well, that's an excellent question, and I think that probably it ranges quite a bit over the period of a space shuttle mission, and I expect it probably varies quite a bit over the range of a long-duration mission.<p>Kind of starting off, for the shuttle mission, at least for me--I've done that twice now--you kind of get into orbit, and you're just kind of finding the equivalent of your sea legs, if you will. And so you're--you've arrived on orbit, and you kind of have a feeling of joy, having accomplished it. Your body has just gone through kind of a little bit of a violent experience through the launch, and you have a little bit of adrenaline probably getting out of your system. So it's a little bit of a joyous, giddy moment at the same time that you're disoriented as you deal with the first couple of hours of actually being on orbit.<p>After that passes, after a couple of days, it--for me it was kind of a sense of wonder as you explore what you can do in zero gravity and the things that you can see out the window and just how the entire complex works together to make it happen. So it's just a sense of wonder.<p>After--a little while after that, I think you start to think a little bit about the people who are back on Earth that are most precious to you, and then that little bit of loneliness can kick in. And one of the really nice things that we have and the long-duration crews have is the opportunity to use a telephone or to perform a videoconference, similar to like we're doing with you guys, with our families. And I think that's really important for folks to maintain that contact when you're up here on orbit.<p>Of course, you have your crewmembers, but you do really want to maintain those precious relationships with all your family members and friends that are on the ground. And they do a remarkable job actually supporting us while we're in space to make sure that we can still speak with our families and that our families are informed and able to stay in contact with us.<p>But all those emotions kind of wrap up together. Kind of the final one is kind of when you do return to Earth and kick off all those relationships that, whether they were 2 weeks or 6 months later, have--time has passed, and you have to kind of rebuild them a little bit. But it's a very joyous experience and a--something that you can share with both the people on the ground and the people who are part of your crew throughout the entire mission.<p>Great question.<p><i>The President.</i> All right. All right, so I think we're going to make this the last question. Have we been keeping you guys overtime? So what's your name?<p><i>Q.</i> Alex.<p><i>The President.</i> This is Alex. Hold on one sec.<p><i>View of Earth's Weather From Space</i><p><i>Q.</i> Does being up in space allow you to see things such as the weather? Like, could you see the storm over Washington?<p><i>The President.</i> That's a good point. Obviously, we're using a lot of satellite imagery these days, and this is going to be a major focus of some of the work NASA's doing here at home, thinking about how we can get better information about our own climate. Is that something that you guys are tracking from the space station?<p><i>Commander Williams.</i> Well, we view a lot of the weather phenomena. We've seen many hurricanes and typhoons and whatnot around the world. We can see fronts crossing continents. We see the whole variety of cloud formations. We sometimes can see the aftermath of a storm or other major impact on the Earth after the sky clears.<p>So there's a whole lot of details that we can see here from the space station and observe every day. We can see things--we pass over the same portion of the Earth every day, so it's a regular observation that we can make over a period--a long period of time as well.<p><i>The President.</i> Well, listen, you guys have been extraordinarily generous with your time. I just want to repeat--and I think I speak for all the young people here and everybody back home--how proud we are of you, how excited we are about the work that's being done on the space station, and how committed we are to continuing human space exploration in the future.<p>So you guys continue to be great pioneers and great role models for all of us, and we thank you for your courage. And tell your families we appreciate them letting you float up into space like this. [<i>Laughter</i>] All right?<p>Bye-bye, guys.\" "
"43" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Denver. Well, it is good to be back in Denver, good to be in Colorado, and good to be campaigning for one of the finest young Senators we have in the United States Senate, Michael Bennet.<p>I have to confess the reason I was delayed. I was grabbing one of those little canapes. [<i>Laughter</i>] Quite tasty. <p><i>Audience member</i>. [<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President</i>. You had one too.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Thanks for the snow.<p><i>The President.</i> You're welcome. Well, look, it is wonderful to be here. We just came from the Fillmore Auditorium, where we had--what did we have, a couple thousand people?<p><i>Senator Bennet</i>. We had more, twenty-four hundred.<p><i>The President</i>. Twenty-four hundred people, not that he's counting. Because they understand that at this defining moment in our history, we've got to have people who are willing to fight on behalf of families all across America. And they know that Michael got into this business because he believes in that fight.<p>Now, before I go on, I think there are a couple people who are still around. I'm not sure if they're out here. But the senior Senator from Colorado, Brother Udall, is right here. Give him a big round of applause. And a great friend and a terrific Governor of California is here. Where's Governor Ritter? Where did he go?<p><i>Audience members</i>. Colorado.<p><i>The President</i>. Colorado, sorry; what did I say? [<i>Laughter</i>] California. Listen, East Coast time, it's past my dinner. That's why I made--give Bill Ritter a big round of applause.<p>All right, now, back to what I was saying. [<i>Laughter</i>] You know, obviously, we know that the country is going through a tough time. But when I was here a year ago at Mile High, and some of you were probably here--some of you were there with me--I made a promise to you, not that I was going to tell you what you wanted to hear, not that I was always going to do what was popular. What--I promised you that I would wake up each and every day thinking about how we can make sure that the American Dream is working for everybody, and more importantly, how we can make sure that it's working for the next generation.<p>And one of the things throughout my campaign for the Presidency was reminding America that this isn't about a candidate, this is about the people. That change comes from the bottom up, not from the top down; and that the kind of transformation that we needed was not going to happen because you elected me as President, because--but rather because all of us together were willing to join and all of us were willing to take responsibility.<p>Now, one of the things--the great things that you did was to send two outstanding United States Senators with me on this difficult journey. And we've got to make sure that Michael continues on that journey with me. Because the same things that we fought for in 2008, the same things that I campaigned on, that same spirit, that's what's driven Michael all his life. He knows what it's like to come from humble beginnings. He knows what it's like to make sure that everybody is going to have a chance in life.<p>And that's why, even though he was successful in business and the private sector, he decided that he could make his biggest contribution by going into public service, and I'm sure taking a really big pay cut. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So working with the outstanding mayor and soon-to-be Governor, John Hickenlooper, he helped to balance budgets, he helped to make sure that this city was running as well as it's ever run, a model for cities across the Nation. And then he decided, well, that's not a big enough challenge; let me try to fix the school system. And he took that on. And he did it with the same energy and the same determination and the same capacity to bring discordant voices together and get them to work and think in new ways. And as a consequence, you saw the performance of this school district go up as fast as any school district anywhere in the country.<p>So he's been a business executive, he's somebody who's run a school system and made it work for children, and then he decided, well, let me try this U.S. Senate thing.<p>Now, I'm not sure he knew entirely what he was bargaining for. Udall might have warned him a little bit, because Udall had been in Congress for a while. But the truth is, Michael is a pretty bright guy, and he understood this was not going to be an easy year or two to get started in electoral politics.<p>I mean, think about where we were last year. Michael took his spot about 2 days after I was inaugurated, and at that point, we already understood that we had the worst recession since the Great Depression; we're losing 800,000 jobs per month. We knew that the financial system was on the verge of meltdown. We knew that we were involved in two wars, that we were inheriting a $1.3 trillion deficit. We knew that this was going to be a tough time.<p>So nobody would have blamed Michael if he had said, \\"You know, maybe I'll make my maiden race 4 years from now, when things are looking a little bit better.\\" But that's not what he did. He stepped up. And not only did he step up, but since he has been in Washington, there has not been a better champion on behalf of middle class folks and on behalf of the dreams and aspirations that each of you carry for your children and your grandchildren than Michael Bennet. There has not been anybody who's been fighting harder for you and taking the tough votes.<p>He was with me when we signed the Recovery Act that has provided a tax cut for 95 percent of working families, created an entire new sector of clean energy. Did you know that when we started last year--the Recovery Act--we had about 2 percent of the advanced battery production here in the United States? Almost all of it was coming from Asia. We now have 20 percent capacity, and we're going to go up to 40 percent capacity. That's because of the kind of work that Michael Bennet, working with his partner, Senator Udall, did.<p>We provided the biggest boost in education from the Federal Government in our history, and not just any kind of money, but rewarding success, rewarding reform, investing in research and development and math and science education, because we understand that whatever country outeducates us today is going to outcompete us tomorrow, and we will not tolerate America being number two or number three in the number of scientists and mathematicians.<p>We made investments not just in roads and bridges, as important those are, but we made investments in smart grid and high-speed rail and broadband, the infrastructure of the 21st century that's going to make sure that we can compete. All these things were because Michael pushed and Michael supported an agenda that was not only going to deal with the immediate crisis, but looking beyond, trying to figure out what our future was going to be.<p>And that's just one of the fights he's fought. Alongside me and the rest of the Democrats in the Senate, we've been able to make sure that credit cards were no longer the source of abuse for ordinary consumers. We passed housing fraud legislation to make sure that people weren't taken advantage with predatory loans. We passed the largest expansion of national service that our young people can get involved at an early age in giving back to America. We provided children--4 million children in this country, without passing health care--comprehensive health care yet--we've already provided 4 million children with health care that didn't have it before Michael joined the United States Senate.<p>So this guy's been fighting for you. Now you need to fight for him. Because the fact of the matter is, is that this is a tough political environment. I'm not telling anything--anybody anything they don't know. As successful as the Recovery Act and our other steps have been in breaking the back of the recession, there are still millions of people out there who are struggling, who are trying to figure out how to pay the mortgage. They're seeing their homes underwater. They're worried about whether they can find a job if they've already lost the one that they had.<p>And so understandably, people are scared. And sometimes when people are scared, politics can get rough. That's not unique to this period of time; that's been true throughout our history. And it doesn't help when you've got an opposition that is more interested in tearing the other party down than they are in building America up.<p>But what Michael understands is that as many barriers as there may be in front of us, we've got to keep on going, because just walking away is not an option. Look, he hasn't been in politics long enough to understand that the easiest way to get reelected is just to wave and smile and don't say anything offensive. [<i>Laughter</i>] Keep your head down, don't do anything, that's the best way to keep your poll numbers high.<p>But he understands that we can't afford that. We can't afford to walk away from a clean energy future. We can't afford to walk away from making sure that our education system is producing the kinds of scientists and engineers and entrepreneurs that are going to build our economy in the future. We can't afford to walk away from a health care system that is broken for everybody, for small businesses and large businesses, for families who are seeing their premiums go up 25 percent, 30 percent, 35 percent, for the millions who don't have health insurance at all, and for future generations who are going to have to carry the bill if we don't get control of health care costs like Medicare and Medicaid. He understands we cannot walk away from it and we will not walk away from it. If I've got Michael Bennet's help, we are going to get health care reform passed in this country.<p>So yes, it's tough. [<i>Laughter</i>] But we're tougher. We've been through tougher times. Our parents, our grandparents, many of you in your own lives, you know what it's like when you hit a barrier. There are times where you feel doubtful. There are times where you get weary. But what has defined America throughout our history is that in fits and starts, we just keep on going forward. And we're driven not just by self-interest; we're driven not just by greed or not just by acquisitiveness. We're driven by a sense of responsibility and obligation to others, to this country, to our community, to our children, to the next generation.<p>That's what drove Michael into public service. That's what is keeping him going, even when he's away from that gorgeous family of his. And that's why he needs you.<p>Look, there will continue to be special interests and lobbyists and those in Washington who are going to try to go after a guy like this who plays it straight. They're going to try to take him out. They've got all their pollsters and their--and we got to--this is a rookie here. The guy has never cut a TV ad. [<i>Laughter</i>] He doesn't know how to speak in 7-minute--7-second sound bites. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So they've got a target on him. And this becomes a test of what kind of government do we want. Do we want the kind of government where an outstanding individual who's in it for all the right reasons and has a track record of success in making systems work for ordinary people--are we going to make sure that this guy has a long and outstanding career in Washington? And are we going to channel that anger and that frustration we feel sometimes, understanding that Michael is not part of the problem, he's part of the solution, and that he's somebody who is going to change Washington if you send him back there and give him the kind of mandate that he deserves?<p>So my bottom line is this: As hard as you worked in 2008, you've got to work harder in 2010. If you raised money for me, I want you to raise more money for Michael Bennet. If you made more--if you made phone calls for me, I want you to make more phones calls, and I want you to Twitter, too, for Michael Bennet. If you knocked on doors on your block, I want you to go in your whole neighborhood for Michael Bennet.<p>I want you to work hard, because if you do, then I am absolutely confident that not only is Michael Bennet going to continue to be the United States Senator from Colorado, I am confident that this is going to be one of the most outstanding Senators that we've ever had and a great leader for all of America.<p>Thank you very much, Denver. Let's get to work. Let's get busy. God bless you.\" "
"44" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Denver! I'm fired up. What a great crowd.<p><i>Audience members. </i>Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can!<p><i>The President.</i> Yes we can.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can!<p><i>The President.</i> Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Listen, let me first of all say I am thrilled to be back in Denver. I've got some good friends here who I want to make sure I acknowledge, in addition to the guy standing beside me here.<p>First of all, your outstanding Governor is in the house, Bill Ritter. Where is Bill? There he is. Lieutenant Governor Barbara O'Brien is here. A great partner for this guy, Senator Mark Udall is in the house. Congressman Jared Polis is here. And an outstanding mayor, who I think actually might make a pretty good Governor, John Hickenlooper in the house.<p>It is great to be back in Colorado.<p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you!<p><i>The President.</i> I love you back. [<i>Laughter</i>] I know this State is the training ground for a few Winter Olympians who are doing us so proud. I know Shaun White's secret training facility up on Silverton Mountain paid off. I don't know how those guys do that, though. [<i>Laughter</i>] How do you start doing that? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Audience member.</i> Practice!<p><i>The President.</i> But how do you get up the guts the first time to start practicing doing that? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Gold medal for snowboarding--Colorado is the home of several Olympians, including Lindsey Vonn, who brought home the gold yesterday, Johnny Spillane, who won the silver medal in Nordic combined, the first American medal in that event. So I just want all of our Olympians to know that the United States of America is proud of you; we are cheering for you every day. I am checking my BlackBerry--[<i>Laughter</i>]--every half hour to see how things turned out.<p>I've got some good memories of Denver, including one just down the road at Mile High Stadium. Some of you may have been there. You know, that night I talked about the promise of America. And I want you to know that not a single day goes by that I don't think about the obligation that I have to keep that promise alive for every single American and every single Coloradan.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Thank you!<p><i>The President.</i> You're welcome. [<i>Laughter</i>] Thank you for giving me the privilege of every single day thinking about how can we make that American Dream live for everybody, not just for some. And I'm thrilled to be here in support of a leader who shares our commitment to that priority, Senator Michael Bennet.<p>Now, some of you may support him just because he's got an adorable family. [<i>Laughter</i>] They are adorable. But for those of you who need additional reasons--[<i>Laughter</i>]--let me testify about this guy. He's been an agent of change in these parts for a very long time. As a businessman, he turned struggling companies around and got them to work better. He knows how to make the private sector work. Then he put his talents to use making Denver work better. And Mayor Hickenlooper, one of America's finest mayors, soon to be one of America's best Governors, knows how valuable Michael can be.<p>Michael closed a budget deficit and balanced two budgets in a row by finding innovative ways to get the job of city government done. Then he took over the public school system, where progress was stalled and budgets were shrinking, and he turned that around too. He invested in your schools and your classrooms; he expanded early childhood education for your kids, finished with graduation rates up and student achievement climbing faster than in any other district in the State. In just a few short years, Michael proved himself to be one of America's great education reformers.<p><i>Audience member.</i> That's right!<p><i>The President.</i> That's right. [<i>Laughter</i>] I got an \\"Amen\\" over here. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So when I heard that he'd be joining your other extraordinary Senator, Mark Udall, I was thrilled because I knew that Michael is a different kind of leader, one who's unafraid to bring a fresh approach to tough challenges because he knows the old ways of doing business just won't do, not anymore. And Colorado, that is precisely the kind of leader that he has been in Washington. That's precisely the kind of leader he's going to continue to be when you reelect him as Senator from the great State of Colorado.<p>Now, keep in mind, Michael answered the call to service at an extraordinarily challenging time for Colorado and for America. He took office just over a year ago, 2 days after I did, and thinking about what we were facing then: a financial crisis unlike any that we had seen in generations; an economy that was bleeding 700,000 jobs a month; a $1.3 trillion deficit; two wars; challenges that ranged from the specter of terrorism to the impacts of globalization; and on top of that, one of the toughest decades America's middle class has ever faced, with stagnant job growth and declining incomes and rising costs.<p>So when he was asked to serve, he could have said, \\"I don't think so.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"I--you know, let me put this off for a while.\\" And especially when you think about the sacrifice he has to make with respect to a young family. Nobody would have blamed Michael if he had declined the challenge. He could have blinked in the face of these difficulties and shied away from an economy in turmoil. And he could have scanned the political landscape and seen the pain and anger that Americans were feelings and said: \\"You know what? Let me just point fingers at somebody else and wait till things got better.\\"<p>But that's not what Michael did because that's not his style. He has always thrived in taking on the tough job. And he knew it would be a tough time to serve, but he knew that's when you can make the greatest difference. He knew that he might take a few licks as a politician, but he also knew it would be nothing compared to the licks that working families all across this State and all across this country have been taking every day. And so he stepped up. And he has been a tremendous ally for middle class families, not just here in this State but all across the country.<p>He was here by my side in Denver a year ago when we signed the Recovery Act into law. It wasn't a politically easy decision to make for any of us because we knew that we were already facing big deficits that had been run up over the last decade. But we had a responsibility to do what was right for the American people and break the back of this recession that was slipping into a depression.<p>One year later, thanks largely to the Recovery Act, we can stand here again and say that a second depression is no longer a possibility. An economy that was shrinking by 6 percent a year ago is now growing by nearly 6 percent. According to independent, nonpartisan economists, there are about 2 million Americans who are at work today who would otherwise be unemployed.<p>We cut taxes for 95 percent of working families, for small businesses, for first-time home buyers, for parents trying to care for their kids. For 8 million Americans paying for college, we made it less expensive. We extended and increased unemployment insurance for more than 19 million Americans. We made COBRA 65 percent cheaper for families who had suffered a job lost. We gave relief to States to help them through these tough times. And every Governor, Republican and Democrat, will acknowledge that if it hadn't been for that Recovery Act, we would have seen police officers and firefighters and teachers laid off.<p>And we began building the infrastructure, investing not just in roads and bridges, in airports and railways, but in the infrastructure of the future--something that John Hickenlooper knows a lot about--making sure that we've got high-speed rail in this country, making sure that we've got broadband lines in this country, making sure that we're investing in science and technology and education and clean energy in America that is going to assure long-term growth and prosperity.<p>Now, you wouldn't know any of this if you just listened to those who are trying to score political points by attacking me or attacking Michael or what we did, despite the fact that a lot of these guys, when it comes to the ribbon cuttings for the projects, they show up. [<i>Laughter</i>] They were holding up those big checks--[laughter]--\\"Look what I did for you.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] You know, I'm not going to give them hell. I'm going to tell the truth, and they'll think it's hell. That's what Harry Truman said.<p>But that's politics as usual. We've become accustomed to it. We've become numb to it. We're just accustomed to falsehoods and exaggerations and slash-and-burn politics.<p>But Michael and I, we don't have time for that nonsense. We're going to keep doing everything in our power to turn this economy around. We won't rest as long as millions are still without work or millions are still working harder and harder for less. Until they begin to feel recovery in their own lives, we're going to keep on working, because for years, Americans just doing their best to live up to their responsibilities have seen their leaders fail to live up to their responsibilities.<p>We've got a Washington where every day is election day. On Wall Street, they've seen failure rewarded. In the hallways of both cities, you see lobbyists and special interests using money and connections to stack the deck and pundits who all they're interested in is the political game--is the red team winning, is the blue team winning--instead of, are the American people winning.<p>And so people are fed up because it's not a game. It's not a game. And when I get out and I talk with workers in factories and families in diners, nobody is asking, who's up, who's down, what's the latest poll number look like? No one is asking me, hey, you know, who won the media cycle today? [<i>Laughter</i>] They're interested in how are we going to help them find a job when they've only known one trade in their whole life; how are they going to send their kids to college; how are they going to pay the bills if they get sick; how are they going to retire when their savings are so beat up; and who, if anybody, is going to confront the real problems that touch their lives?<p>That's why I ran for President. That's why I was in Mile High Stadium. That's why Michael Bennet signed up to be your Senator. That's why we are not going to quit. We do not quit, because we believe if we're going to secure a better future for the people of this State and the American people, as Michael so eloquently spoke about, we're going to have to change the ways of Washington. We're going to have to solve problems that keep holding us back, and we've got no time to waste.<p>Now, look, this is a problem that transcends party, what's happening in Washington right now. A couple weeks ago, I went to the Capitol to speak with Democratic Senators. And Michael stood up--and he's new, so he's still kind of puzzled--[<i>Laughter</i>]--as to why are--why is nothing getting done. [<i>Laughter</i>] So Michael stood up, he challenged everybody in the room, including me. He said, \\"This place looks broken to the American people. What can we do differently? What do we need to do differently, Democrats and Republicans, so that democracy can meet the test that we're facing right now?\\" That's what Michael asked me, and that's what the American people are asking.<p>Now, the first thing I'll say is, you've got to have more leaders like Michael Bennet, because he's determined to break through partisan gridlock to get the tough stuff done. He's fearless when it comes to challenging the old assumptions and the tired debates and the entrenched special interests that have stymied progress for too long.<p>He told me about a woman he met from Glenwood Springs. She asked him where could she get her lobbyist in Washington. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, I don't know what he told her, but I--if she were here, I would tell her, you don't need a lobbyist because you've got Michael Bennet as Senator and you've got Mark Udall as Senator, and they are going to be looking out for your interests.<p>The only agenda Michael has is yours. He understands that there's something more important than pursuing power or clinging on to your seat or scoring points, and that's breaking free from the politics of the past and moving America forward at this defining moment in our history.<p>I mean, look, we can keep on being consumed by the politics of energy, but we know that there are factories to reopen and assembly lines to restart and workers ready to build wind turbines and solar panels and advanced batteries right here in the United States of America. We know that whoever leads the clean energy revolution is going to lead the 21st-century economy. The people of Colorado understand that. Michael Bennet understands that.<p>And we can't wait. We can't wait, because China is not waiting, India is not waiting, Germany is not waiting. We can't afford to wait.<p><i>Audience member.</i> [<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Exactly. [<i>Laughter</i>] We can't continue to spin our wheels in the old education debates. The stale debates, they pit teachers against reformers, meanwhile kids are trailing their counterparts all around the world.<p>So we need to do what Michael did here in Denver, which is to bring people together, get them talking, build consensus around reform. Because we know that the country that outeducates us today is going to outcompete us tomorrow, and we don't want that future for our young people. We're not going to sentence them to a lifetime of lower wages and unfulfilled dreams.<p>We can continue to ignore the growing burden of runaway health care costs. And we all know what will happen if we do; it's already happening. Just the other week, one of California's largest insurers sent a letter to a million customers saying, your premiums are going to go up by as much as 39 percent.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> It's not just happening there. It's happening in Kansas. It's happening in Missouri. It's happening in Maine. You name it, across the country, it's happening; it's going to be happening here.<p><i>Audience member.</i> It already is!<p><i>The President.</i> Already happened. Now, after folks found out about this rate hike, they caused a ruckus, and the insurance company said, \\"Well, we'll put it off for couple months.\\" I'm sure they're going to work on their PR a little more. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>The reform before Congress that people like Michael and myself have been working on would help prevent such hikes from happening. And if we walk away from it, we know that premiums and out-of-pocket expenses will keep rising this decade, just as they did in the last decade. More small businesses are going to be priced out of the insurance market. More business--more big businesses are going to be unable to compete internationally. More of you will see health care taking a bigger and bigger bite out of your paychecks. Millions will lose their coverage. Our deficits will keep on growing because health care costs, by far, is the biggest driver of deficits.<p>And that's why we're not going to walk away from it. That's why I've asked leaders of both parties to come meet with me next week. I want to see what their ideas are, because we know we've got ideas that will work for America, and we can't afford to wait.<p>We can keep on playing games with the deficit. But Michael Bennet refuses to. He was a strong supporter of the PAYGO law that says, surprisingly enough, to Congress, you have to pay as you go, a novel concept--[<i>Laughter</i>]--that helped produce the budget surpluses of the 1990s. If you want to spend on something new, you've got to cut back somewhere else. Michael was part of a majority in the Senate that supported the creation of an independent, bipartisan fiscal commission to help us find long-term solutions to some of the problems that we're facing.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Medicare for all!<p><i>The President.</i> There you go.<p>Now, unfortunately, partisanship blocked that step. Some of you read about this, how there were seven people who were cosponsors of this bill that would create this fiscal commission who, when I decided I was for it, suddenly were against it. [<i>Laughter</i>] They were sponsors of the bill. So we said, okay, that's all right, I'll establish one on my own--National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility. We signed it today--Alan Simpson, a Republican; Erskine Bowles, a Democrat--to find real solutions.<p>Michael held an event out here recently where he was talking about fiscal discipline, and his 10-year-old daughter Caroline came to watch. There she is, wave. Yes, there she is. [<i>Laughter</i>] When she was born, America had a surplus. But after two tax cuts, two wars, a prescription drug program, none of which were paid for, we faced a deficit of over $1 trillion and projected deficits of $8 trillion over the next decade. That's all before my administration spent a single dollar. Then you had the recession. That's another $3 billion. And then we did have to make sure that we were stimulating the economy, and that cost about a trillion [dollars]*, a fraction of the overall debt.<p>So that's what we inherited. And as Michael and his daughter walked out of the event--she was listening to all this--I don't know if you were adding all this up in your head, Caroline, but she said, \\"Dad, just so you know, I'm not paying for all that.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] I--that's a smart kid. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Her message was crystal clear. The American people did not send us to Washington to argue; they didn't send us to Washington to obstruct; they sent us there to do what it takes not to win the next election but to help the next generation. You sent us there to work together, to do what's right, to solve our problems once and for all.<p>Now, you've got a Senator right now who goes to work every single day with that mission in mind. And even though Michael Bennet has been serving you for years, believe it or not, this is his first election. He's a heck of a public servant, but he's new to politics, so he hasn't learned the best way to keep your poll numbers up is just to smile and wave and pretend like you're doing something and not really doing anything that might offend anybody. He hasn't perfected the 7-second sound bite. He's never even made a TV ad. Heaven forbid. [<i>Laughter</i>] And he's facing reelection in a tough political climate.<p>Look, something you got to understand: For those who don't believe in government, those who don't believe that we have obligations to each other, it's a lot easier task. If you can gum up the works, if you make things broken, if the Senate doesn't get anything done, well, that's consistent with their philosophy. It's a whole lot easier to say no to everything. It's a whole lot easier to blame somebody else. That politics that feeds on peoples' insecurities, especially during tough political times, that's the easiest kind of politics. There's a long, storied history of that kind of politics.<p>And so Michael is running in a very tough environment, but he's got one very powerful advantage: He's got you. He's been fighting for each and every one of you in Washington. He needs you to fight for him now. And if you do that, if you're willing to organize and make phone calls and talk to your friends and your neighbors and explain to them what's at stake, if you come out and caucus for Michael on March 16 and then fight for him all the way to November, if you help him finish what we've started, we're not just going to move Colorado forward, we're going to move America forward, and we're going to guarantee that this century is the American century just like the last one is.<p>Let's get to work, Colorado. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"45" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. All right. Good morning, everybody. When I took office, America faced three closely linked challenges. One was a financial crisis brought on by reckless speculation that threatened to choke off all lending. And this helped to spark the deepest recession since the Great Depression, from which we're still recovering. That recession, in turn, helped to aggravate an already severe fiscal crisis brought on by years of bad habits in Washington.<p>Now, the economic crisis required the Government to make immediate emergency investments that added to our accumulated debt, critical investments that have helped to break the back of the recession and lay the groundwork for growth and job creation. But now, with so many Americans still out of work, the task of recovery is far from complete. So in the short term, we're going to be taking steps to encourage business to create jobs. That will continue to be my top priority. Still there's no doubt that we're going to have to also address the long-term quandary of a Government that routinely and extravagantly spends more than it takes in. When I walked into the door of the White House, our Government was spending about 25 percent of GDP, but taking in only about 16 percent of GDP. Without action, the accumulated weight of that structural deficit, of ever-increasing debt, will hobble our economy, it will cloud our future, and it will saddle every child in America with an intolerable burden.<p>Now, this isn't news. Since the budget surpluses at the end of the 1990s, Federal debt has exploded. The trajectory is clear, and it is disturbing. But the politics of dealing with chronic deficits is fraught with hard choices, and therefore, it's treacherous to officeholders here in Washington. As a consequence, nobody's been too eager to deal with it.<p>That's where these two gentlemen come in. Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles are taking on the impossible: They're going to try to restore reason to the fiscal debate and come up with answers as Cochairs of the new National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. I'm asking them to produce clear recommendations on how to cover the costs of all Federal programs by 2015 and to meaningfully improve our long-term fiscal picture. I've every confidence that they'll do that because nobody's better qualified than these two.<p>Now, Alan Simpson is a flinty, Wyoming truthteller. [L<i>aughter</i>] If you look in the dictionary, it says \\"flinty,\\" and then it's got Simpson's picture. [<i>Laughter</i>] Through nearly two decades in the United States Senate, he earned a reputation for putting common sense and the people's welfare ahead of petty politics. As the number-two Republican in the Senate, he made the tough choices necessary to close deficits and he played an important role in bipartisan deficit reduction agreements.<p>Erskine Bowles understands the importance of managing money responsibly in the public sector, where he ran the Small Business Administration and served as President Clinton's Chief of Staff. In that capacity, he brokered the 1997 budget agreement with Republicans that helped produce the first balanced budget in nearly 30 years. <p>One's a good Republican, the other a good Democrat, but above all, both are patriotic Americans who are answering their country's call to free our future from the stranglehold of debt.<p>The Commission they'll lead was structured in such a way as to rise above partisanship. There's going to be 18 members. In addition to the two Cochairs, four others will be appointed by me; six will be appointed by Republican leaders, six by Democratic leaders. Their recommendations will require the approval of 14 of the Commission's 18 members, and that ensures that any recommendation coming out of this effort and sent forward to Congress has to be bipartisan in nature.<p>This Commission is patterned on a bill that I supported for a binding commission that was proposed by Democratic Senator Kent Conrad and Republican Senator Judd Gregg. Their proposal failed recently in the Senate. But I hope congressional leaders in both parties can step away from the partisan bickering and join this effort to serve the national interest.<p>Now, as important as this Commission is, our fiscal challenge is too great to be solved with any one step alone, and we can't wait to act. And that's why last week, I signed into law the PAYGO bill--says very simply that the United States of America should pay as we go and live within our means again, just like responsible families and businesses do. This law is what helped get deficits under control in the 1990s and produced surpluses by the end of the decade. It was suspended in the last decade, and during that period, we saw deficits explode again. By reinstituting it, we're taking an important step towards addressing the deficit problem in this decade and in decades to come.<p>That's also why, after taking steps to cut taxes and increase access to credit for small businesses to jump-start job creation this year, I've called for a 3-year freeze on discretionary spending starting next year. This freeze won't affect Medicare, Medicaid, or Social Security spending, and it won't affect national security spending, including veterans' benefits, but all other discretionary spending will be subject to this freeze.<p>These are tough times, and we can't keep spending like they're not. And that's why we're seeking to reform our health insurance system, because if we don't, soaring health care costs will eventually become the single largest driver of our Federal deficits. Reform legislation in the House and the Senate would bring down deficits, and I'm looking forward to meeting with members of both parties and both Chambers next week to try to get this done.<p>And that's also why this year, we're proposing a responsible budget that cuts what we don't need to pay for what we do. We've proposed budget reductions and terminations that would yield about $20 billion in savings. We're ending loopholes and tax giveaways for oil and gas companies and for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans. So taken together, these and other steps would provide more than $1 trillion in deficit reduction over the coming decade. That's more savings than any administration's budget in the past 10 years.<p>I know the issue of deficits has stirred debate. And there's some on the left who believe that this issue can be deferred. There are some on the right who won't enter into serious discussions about deficits without preconditions. But those who preach fiscal discipline have to be willing to take the hard steps necessary to achieve it. And those who believe Government has a responsibility to meet these urgent challenges have a great stake in bringing our deficits under control, because if we don't, we won't be able to meet our most basic obligations to one another.<p>So America's fiscal problems won't be solved overnight. They've been growing for years. They're going to take time to wind down. But with the Commission that I'm establishing today and the other steps we're pursuing, I believe we are finally putting America on the path towards fiscal reform and fiscal responsibility.<p>And I want to again thank Alan and Erskine for taking on what is a difficult and, perhaps, thankless task. I'm grateful to them for their willingness to sacrifice their time and their energy in this cause. I know that they're going to take up their work with a sense of integrity and a sense of commitment that America's people deserve and America's future demands.<p>And I think part of the reason they're going to be effective is, although one's a strong Democrat and one's a strong Republican, these are examples of people who put country first. And they know how to disagree without being disagreeable, and there's a sense of civility and a sense that there are moments where you set politics aside to do what's right.<p>That's the kind of spirit that we need. And I am confident that the product that they put forward is going to be honest, it's going to be clear, it's going to give a path to both parties in terms of how we have to address these challenges.<p>All right. Thank you very much. Come on, let's sign this thing.<p><i>[At this point, the President signed the Executive order.]</i><p><i>The President.</i> There you go.<p><i>Fiscal Commission's Scope</i><p><i>Q.</i> Sir, is everything on the table for this?<p><i>The President.</i> Everything's on the table. That's how this thing's going to work.<p><i>Q.</i> Where's \\"Erskine\\" in the dictionary? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> He's under \\"smart.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \" "
"46" "\"Hello, everybody. Thank you. Thank you so much. Everybody, please have a seat. Thank you very much.<p>Well, what a extraordinary introduction from an extraordinary leader. I just want to reiterate something I said at the town hall meeting earlier. You could not have a better fighter on behalf of the people of Nevada than Senator Harry Reid. And I am just proud--I'm proud to call him a friend. <p>Now, a lot of people in Washington forget where they come from; Harry Reid has not. And that's something that I've always admired about Harry, ever since I first got to the Senate. He retains that honesty and decency and homespun good sense and, yes, sometimes some bluntness that he's carried with him since his boyhood in Searchlight.<p>We've got a number of other special guests that I just want to acknowledge. First of all, I want to thank Jim for helping to organize this. Thank you so much to Jim Murren. I want to acknowledge Congresswoman Shelley Berkley and Congresswoman Dina Titus, who are here. Assemblyman Joe Hogan is here and State Senator David Parks. I want to thank the Las Vegas Asian, Henderson, Latin, North Las Vegas, and Urban Chambers. Thank you, guys, for helping to organize this--and the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority.<p>You know, I was mentioning the fact that Harry has retained that sense of who he is, despite the extraordinary journey that he's traveled. Over the past year, under very trying circumstances for the country, I've seen something else in Harry. Harry comes across as soft-spoken, but he's made of very strong stuff. He's never been afraid to make tough decisions--even if they weren't politically popular--if they were the right decisions for his State and the right decisions for America.<p>And so I just want to reiterate, his leadership has made a tremendous difference, and through these economic storms, he's never lost sight of the struggles and the hardships of the people who sent him to Washington. And every Nevadan should know the strength and the character of a man that I hope and expect to serve in Washington for many years to come. <p>So thank you, Harry, for the great work you do. Harry also gets embarrassed when you compliment him too much. You know, he kind of--[<i>Laughter</i>]--see, he looks away. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, before I go any further, let me set the record straight: I love Vegas! [<i>applause</i>] There you go. Always have. Love Vegas. [<i>Laughter</i>] Enjoy myself every time I've gotten an opportunity to visit. In fact, just last night, I drew a flush on the river and cut the budget deficit in half. [<i>Laughter</i>] Some of you know I can play some poker. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, I did receive a little bit of heat, I know, from maybe some in this room, when I said that folks shouldn't blow their college savings in Vegas. That doesn't mean I doesn't love Vegas. It wasn't meant to be a shot. I think everybody here would agree that the only place where people should spend their college savings is in college. There's no contradiction there. <p>But look, I understand how hard things have been here. In the worst economic turmoil that we've faced in generations, Las Vegas has been at the eye of the storm. When the economy suffers, the tourism industry is deeply affected. In fact, you've seen perhaps the steepest drop in tourism in the State's history. And I know things are starting to bounce back, but it's been a tough go. When folks are hurting and don't have the money to spend on a night out or a weekend getaway, that hurts the broader economy as well. So what happens in Vegas reflects what's happening across America. <p>And this area has also been hit by the home mortgage crisis as hard as just about anywhere in America. And this doesn't just affect the families at risk of losing their homes, as devastating as that can be. It also affects the many more families who've lost value in their homes and the equity that makes it possible to finance a business or secure a retirement. From their peak, home prices in Las Vegas have fallen in half. This is something all of you are aware of.<p>And finally, Nevada has not escaped the wider devastation that's ripped through the financial markets and the economic fabric of our country as a whole, as credit became scarce and consumer spending dropped and businesses were forced to close their doors. <p>Today, more than one in eight people in Las Vegas can't find work. So no one needs to explain to the members of the Las Vegas Chamber of Commerce that we've been through a punishing recession, as bad as anything since 1930. The recession in 1980, '81 doesn't come close to what we've gone through over the last 2 years. <p>And no one needs to tell you how important it is that we remain absolutely focused on bringing about a strong recovery. Our great challenge as a country is to create the environment in which businesses can expand and hire workers, in which middle class families can find good jobs and save for the future, in which our economy is growing, and that growth is sustained and broadly shared. That's my focus, that's Harry Reid's focus: to not only rebuild this economy, but to rebuild it stronger than it was before the crisis.<p>At the same time, standing before this group of business leaders, it's important to emphasize that there's only so much that Government can do and only so much that Government should do. Sometime in Washington it sounds a little contradictory when I hear folks say, \\"Obama wants to--the Government to take over the economy.\\" Then they'll turn around and say, \\"Why isn't the Government doing more to create jobs?\\" <p>Now, Harry and I understand that's politics. But putting politics aside, what I believe--and what I know you believe--is that the true engine of job creation and economic expansion in this country has never been found in the Halls of Congress or in the corridors of the White House. America's economic success begins elsewhere, in more humble settings: in garages and basements and rented storefronts.<p>It begins when a worker decides to leave her job to be her own boss, when an inventor makes his first sale on the way to his first million, when an innovator sees a product that could be better or a service that could be provided more smartly, when an entrepreneur takes a chance on an idea that just might fail, but might also change the world. <p>That's the story of America, the land of opportunity, a nation where--at our best--we welcomed all those from around the world who are willing to work hard, all who are willing to take themselves as far as their talents would allow. And what has made it possible to harness the incredible productive capacity of the American people, the greatest economic force in the history of the world, has been a free market where people can pursue their dreams, their goals, and their happiness, and where you can take charge of your own destiny. <p>So I don't believe my role as President, the role of the Federal Government or the State government or city governments, is to stifle the free market. I think my role is to strengthen its ability to unleash that creativity and ingenuity which still makes this Nation the envy of the world. <p>Now, there are those who suggest that the only way Government can promote strong markets is to allow them to operate wholly outside even the most modest rules of the road, even the most sensible reforms. Many of these same folks also suggest--whether in regard to proposed consumer protections in the health insurance industry or proposed rules to prevent another financial crisis--that these kinds of policies run counter to our economic interests. And while I respect those who sincerely hold this view, the facts--and our history--do not favor this argument. <p>Throughout our past, there have been times when markets have fallen out of balance. And there have been periods of economic transformation and upheaval when prosperity and even basic financial security have eluded far too many citizens. And at those moments, Government has stepped in, not to supplant private enterprise, but to catalyze it, to the--create the conditions for entrepreneurs and new businesses to adapt and ultimately to thrive. <p>Sometimes it requires Government investment. That's why we laid railroads and highways to spur commerce and industry and stitch this Nation together. Sometimes it means making sure that there's a safety net. That's why we created Social Security while putting in place financial safeguards like the FDIC in the wake of the economic dislocations of the 1930s. <p>A lot of times it involves investing in our people. That's why we passed a GI bill to nurture the skills and talents of an entire generation. That's why President Kennedy pointed us to the Moon, knowing that the exploration of the skies above would lead to unimagined discoveries here on Earth.<p>That's how Las Vegas became Las Vegas, a balance of private enterprise, but also a regulatory structure that made sure that people could come here and enjoy themselves and thrive and bring their families in an environment that was safe for them and secure. <p>At these moments of transformation, such efforts by Government, they don't stifle our economy; just the opposite. They've helped our economy achieve the growth that was not only more robust but more widely shared by our citizens, citizens who were in turn better able to contribute to our economy. And when we've gone without sound rules of the road and sound investments in our future, then we've risked stagnation, or worse, we've risked full-blown economic crises.<p>And that's where we found ourselves 1 year ago when my administration came through the door. I know sometimes we've got a short-term memory. It's one of the things that makes America great, is we don't brood about the past. But it's worth us just remembering where we were. <p>Five trillion dollars of Americans' household wealth evaporated in just 12 weeks as the financial markets plummeted--5 trillion. Several of the world's largest financial institutions were on the brink of collapse; some of them disappeared. Home values were in freefall; nobody knew what the floor was. Businesses could not get credit, no matter how creditworthy. Seven hundred and fifty thousand jobs were vanishing each month; more than the entire population of Vermont was losing its job every single month when I was sworn in. And the fear among economists across the political spectrum was that we were rapidly sinking into a second great depression.<p>So we undertook a series of difficult steps--and frankly, some of them were unpopular, deeply unpopular--to prevent that outcome. And I was at the town hall earlier today, and I pointed out, it's not as if Harry and I don't have pollsters; we got very good pollsters, and they tell us when things are unpopular. [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"Don't do that!\\" But we thought it was important to do what was right, not what was popular.<p>So we acted to get lending flowing again so companies like yours could get loans to buy equipment and restock, keep your doors open, make payroll. We thought it was important for ordinary Americans to be able to finance their homes or buying a new car or going to college or starting or running a business. <p>We passed tax relief for small businesses and 95 percent of working families, for college students, for first-time home buyers. We extended or increased unemployment benefits, not just to help those families, but also to make sure that there was some demand in the economy at a time when so much demand had been lost. We made health insurance 65 percent cheaper for families relying on COBRA. We acted to close State budget gaps to prevent hundreds of thousands of teachers and public school workers and firefighters and police officers from being laid off all across the country, including right here in Nevada.<p>And at the same time, we initiated investments to spur hiring while laying a foundation for long-term lasting growth. We doubled our capacity in renewable energy, like wind and solar. We computerized medical records to save money and lives. We provided the largest boost to medical research in history. All across the country, classrooms and school laboratories are being renovated. Roads and railways are being upgraded as part of the largest investment in infrastructure since President Eisenhower half a century ago initiated the Interstate Highway System.<p>Right here in Nevada, hundreds of entrepreneurs have received small-business loans. One million Nevadans have seen a tax cut. Hundreds of thousands of seniors and veterans have received emergency assistance. A quarter million people in this State have received additional unemployment insurance. And across Nevada, there are dozens of transportation projects and energy projects and construction projects putting people to work doing the work that America needs done.<p>And you know what? What made all this possible was the Recovery Act, also known as the stimulus bill. Now, there are a bunch of folks out there who would tell you otherwise and would say that the Recovery Act hasn't made a difference and created a job. But, you know, facts are stubborn things. There's a famous story about a former Senator, Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who was having an argument with a fellow Senator. And the other guy wasn't doing too well in the argument, so finally, he said, \\"Well, I'm entitled to my own opinion.\\" And Moynihan said, \\"Yes, you're entitled to your own opinion; you're not entitled to your own facts.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Economists tell us that the Recovery Act has helped stop the freefall in our economy and created or saved as many as 2 million jobs so far. And by the way, the actions of these critics speak louder than words, because many of the Members of Congress who voted against the Recovery Act, called it a boondoggle--funny how they end up making appearances at ribbon cuttings for Recovery Act projects. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's a sight to see. They're up there cheesing and grinning. [<i>Laughter</i>] They're trying to vote against their cake and eat it too. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, this is not to say that all of our troubles are over--far from it. We may have kept 2 million people from the unemployment line in this recession, but more than 8 million people have lost their jobs. We may have broken the back of the recession. When I came in, this economy was contracting 6 percent; this past quarter it was growing 6 percent, a huge reversal. So the economy may be growing again, but that growth has not nearly made up for the terrible pain and dislocations that rocked businesses and families over the course of a very difficult 2 years. <p>So we've got a lot of work to do. And I'm here to tell you, I will not rest--I know Harry will not rest--until we're not just recovering, but we're prospering. I don't want Vegas just to be getting by; I want Vegas to be thriving. And I know that's what you want as well.<p>So that's why Harry and I are working to provide tax breaks for small businesses to spur hiring. That's why we're fighting for health insurance reforms to address the crushing costs of health insurance for small businesses and families. And that's why we've continued to seek ways to address the home mortgage crisis, which has touched all parts of this country, but has hit Las Vegas particularly hard. <p>In large part, the broader economic crisis we've experienced began as a home mortgage crisis. And the story is familiar to all of you. A lot of people got in over their heads, from homeowners on Main Street to large firms on Wall Street. And many more Americans found themselves in a terrible situation by no fault of their own, unable to pay a mortgage because of a lost job, but they're unable to sell or refinance because their mortgage debt is now higher than the value of their house; their home is underwater.<p>Now, Government has a responsibility to help deal with this problem. I've got to again repeat: Government can't stop every foreclosure. There's not enough money in the Treasury to stop every foreclosure. And we shouldn't be using tax dollars to reward the same irresponsible lenders or borrowers who helped precipitate the crisis. But what Government can do is to help responsible homeowners to stay in their homes. Government can stop preventable foreclosures. What we can do is stabilize the housing market so home values can begin to rise again. <p>So over the course of the past year, we've taken a number of steps to do just that. We've provided a tax credit for 1.4 million taxpayers to help them buy their first homes. We've made it possible for more than 1 million struggling homeowners to reduce monthly payments. And combined with our broader efforts to spur growth, stem job losses, and stabilize the financial system, we've helped promote recovery in the housing markets. In fact, in many markets, home values have begun to rebound.<p>But we've got a ways to go, especially in the hardest hit regions like Las Vegas, where there are just too many blocks littered with brown lawns and \\"for sale\\" signs, too many mortgage holders here are underwater, and where job losses continue to exact a terrible toll. So for these communities, recovery depends on continued responsible efforts to stop the downward spiral of defaults, foreclosures, and declining home values. <p>That's why earlier today I announced a $1.5 billion investment in housing finance agencies in the States hardest hit by this housing crisis. And one of those States is Nevada. So that means that here in Nevada, we're going to be able to help prevent some foreclosures that otherwise would have happened. It's going to allow lenders to help homeowners who are underwater. And it will help folks who've taken out a second mortgage modify their loans. <p>So the goal is to target communities at the center of the crisis and to empower local agencies who know these communities best to structure and tailor their programs in ways that are most responsive.<p>Now, these are very difficult times for our country, times that demand we put aside the stale debates and the tired arguments, times that demand of us something more. The fact is, the economic crisis of the past 2 years--indeed the growing economic insecurity of the middle class that's been going on for a decade--was born not just of failures in our economic system. These challenges were also born of failures in our political system. <p>And while Harry has been fighting for us, too many folks in Washington have been putting off hard decisions. So for decades, we've watched as efforts to solve tough problems fall prey to gamesmanship and partisanship, to the prosaic concerns of politics, the ever-quickening news cycle, to endless campaigns focused on scoring points instead of meeting our common challenges. <p>Imagine if you had to run a business like this, where the people who are in your office are constantly yelling at you, running ads against you, more interested in you failing than the company succeeding. That's what we've been seeing in Washington. <p>And it's got to stop, because the challenges have been mounting all around us: a health care system that saddles businesses and families with skyrocketing costs; an economy powered by fuels that are fuels of the 20th century instead of the 21st and endanger our planet and our security. We've got an education system unsuited for a global era and a financial system that has been rewarding reckless risks. And we've got a structural deficit that threatens to leave our children a mountain of debt.<p>So we've seen the consequences of this failure of responsibility, and the American people have paid a heavy price. The question we'll have to answer now is if we're going to learn from the past or if in the--even in the aftermath of disaster, we're going to repeat it. Because as the alarm bells fade and the din of Washington rises, the danger is, we just forget what happened and we start thinking we should go back to business as usual. That won't work. It will not work in this global economy, not in this environment. <p>I said this during the State of the Union; I repeated it today in Henderson in my town hall: Other countries are not playing for second, they're playing for first. One of the things that I know is of great interest to Nevada is tourism and what are we doing for tourism promotion. I can tell you, Harry is going to be championing a tourism promotion bill because, as he points out, why is it that every other country is promoting their tourist industry and America is not doing enough for ours? <p>But that's just--[<i>applause</i>]--he's going to have strong support for that effort. But that's just one example of the competition that we're facing on everything. If China is producing 40 high-speed rail lines and we're producing 1, we're not going to have the infrastructure of the future. If India or South Korea are producing more scientists and engineers than we are, we will not succeed.<p>So I hope that all of us--Democrats, Republicans, public servants, and leaders in the business community--can keep alive a sense of seriousness, a sense of common purpose. That's how we can rise to this moment and transcend the failures of the past, tackle the challenges before us, and leave behind a nation that is more prosperous than ever before.<p>But it is going to take work, and I am going to need all of you to be partners with Harry and partners with myself in moving it forward. The days are over where we can keep on organizing ourselves along the lines of, business is here and labor is here and Government's over here. We are all in this together. <p>If businesses--[<i>applause</i>]--and nobody understands that more than Las Vegas. If the MGM's doing well, that means its workers are doing well. And if its workers are doing well, that means that the housing market is doing well. And if the housing market's doing well, then that means that small businesses all across the region are doing well, who in turn are hiring more workers.<p>That's the model that we've got to achieve. But it also means--in order for us to succeed, it also means that business, labor, Government, Democrats, Republicans, we can't be looking for every single edge or advantage on every single issue. At some points, we've got to be thinking about the larger good.<p>So if we're serious about reforming the health care system, we've got to be thinking, even if I've got health insurance--and by the way, I've got really good health insurance--[<i>Laughter</i>]--I've got a doctor who follows me around everywhere--[<i>Laughter</i>]--I've got to spend some time thinking about the people who don't have health insurance. <p>And I've also got to be thinking about the next generation that's picking up the bill for the health insurance that's currently being provided to me if I'm getting a benefit from the Government. <p>If I'm a business leader, I've got to be thinking about my shareholders and my bottom line, but I've also got to be thinking about the people who work for me, and I've got to be thinking about the larger community, and I've got to be thinking about the country. <p>That kind of leadership can't just come from the White House; it can't just come from the United States Senate; it's got to come from you. In fact, that's where it always comes from in America. The most profound changes, the most dynamic innovations, they don't happen from the top down, they happen from the bottom up. <p>But they always happen, not just because of some single individual with some great idea--although, a lot of times that's what drives innovation in our economy--it also comes from a culture of trust and mutual regard. America has always been a combination of fierce individualism, but also a sense of community, the sense that we're looking out for one another. <p>And every single successful business leader here understands that's the kind of culture you've tried to build in your businesses. That's the kind of culture we have to reinvigorate all across America. I'm confident we can do so. <p>I am looking forward to coming back to Vegas. I think my mother-in-law's going to get here first. [<i>Laughter</i>] She comes quite frequently. I maybe shouldn't say that in front of the press. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But I want everybody here to have confidence that if we keep on working hard, we don't shy away from these tough challenges, and we're not looking backwards, we're looking forwards, then not only is Las Vegas going to thrive in the 21st century, not only is Nevada going to thrive in the 21st century, but all the United States of America is going to thrive.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you, and God bless America.\" "
"47" "\"The other week, men and women across California opened up their mailboxes to find a letter from Anthem BlueCross. The news inside was jaw-dropping. Anthem was alerting almost a million of its customers that it would be raising premiums by an average of 25 percent, with about a quarter of folks likely to see their rates go up by anywhere from 35 to 39 percent. <p>Now, after their announcement stirred public outcry, Anthem agreed to delay their rate hike until May 1 while the situation is reviewed by the State of California. But it's not just Californians who are being hit by rate hikes. In Kansas, one insurance company raised premiums by 10 to 20 percent only after asking to raise them by 20 to 30 percent. Last year, Michigan BlueCross BlueShield raised rates by 22 percent after asking to raise them by up to 56 percent. And in Maine, Anthem is asking to raise rates for some folks by about 23 percent. <p>The bottom line is that the status quo is good for the insurance industry and bad for America. Over the past year, as families and small-business owners have struggled to pay soaring health care costs and as millions of Americans lost their coverage, the five largest insurers made record profits of over $12 billion. <p>And as bad as things are today, they'll only get worse if we fail to act. We'll see more and more Americans go without the coverage they need. We'll see exploding premiums and out-of-pocket costs burn through more and more family budgets. We'll see more and more small businesses scale back benefits, drop coverage, or close down because they can't keep up with rising rates. And in time, we'll see these skyrocketing health care costs become the single largest driver of our Federal deficits. <p>That's what the future is on track to look like, but it's not what the future has to look like. The question, then, is whether we will do what it takes, all of us--Democrats and Republicans--to build a better future for ourselves, our children, and our country. <p>That's why next week, I'm inviting members of both parties to take part in a bipartisan health care meeting, and I hope they come in a spirit of good faith. I don't want to see this meeting turn into political theater, with each side simply reciting talking points and trying to score political points. Instead, I ask members of both parties to seek common ground in an effort to solve a problem that's been with us for generations. <p>It's in that spirit that I've sought out and supported Republican ideas on reform from the very beginning. Some Republicans want to allow Americans to purchase insurance from a company in another State to give people more choices and bring down costs. Some Republicans have also suggested giving small businesses the power to pool together and offer health care at lower prices, just as big companies and labor unions do. I think both of these are good ideas, so long as we pursue them in a way that protects benefits, protects patients, and protects the American people. I hope Democrats and Republicans can come together next week around these and other ideas. <p>To Members of Congress, I would simply say this: We know the American people want us to reform our health insurance system, we know where the broad areas of agreement are, and we know where the sources of disagreement lie. After debating this issue exhaustively for a year, let's move forward together. Next week is our chance to finally reform our health insurance system so it works for families and small businesses. It's our chance to finally give Americans the peace of mind of knowing that they'll be able to have affordable coverage when they need it most. <p>What's being tested here is not just our ability to solve this one problem, but our ability to solve any problem. Right now Americans are understandably despairing about whether partisanship and the undue influence of special interests in Washington will make it impossible for us to deal with the big challenges that face our country. They want to see us focus not on scoring points, but on solving problems; not on the next election, but on the next generation. That's what we can do, and that is what we must do when we come together for this bipartisan health care meeting next week. <p>Thank you, and have a great weekend.\" "
"48" "\"Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Please, everybody have a seat. Have a seat. <p>Good evening, and welcome back to the White House. For some of you, this is the first time; welcome. I want to begin by acknowledging your outstanding chairs of this extraordinary organization: Jim Douglas of Vermont and Joe Manchin of West Virginia. Thank you so much for the great work that you guys do each and every day.<p>I also want to let everybody know that this is not too stiff of an affair--[<i>Laughter</i>]--because last year Ed Rendell led a conga line. [<i>Laughter</i>] We still have photographs of some of you that we may use at any point. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But it's interesting to think about where we were last year. Last year, we were in the midst of what was the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Each of you in your own respective States, I think, saw how brutal it was on so many families: hundreds of thousands of people losing their jobs every month; home foreclosures; small businesses having to shut down, unable to make payroll; and people not sure about the future and unclear about whether or not we were going to be able to pull ourselves out.<p>And I think that it is worth reminding ourselves of how urgent the situation was, and it's worth this organization taking some extraordinary credit for helping to right the ship, working, I know, with my Vice President, Joe Biden, who's done outstanding work. We took some swift and decisive action, and because of that swift and decisive action, not only were folks in your States able to get unemployment insurance and get COBRA at a much cheaper rate, not only were you able to fill some of those budget holes that I know are still tough and I suspect we'll be talking about tomorrow, but we also started to begin entire new industries and start moving towards a extraordinary future through some of the infrastructure projects and research and development, clean energy projects that are--so many of you have been leaders of.<p>If you think about it--I was in Newton, Iowa, seeing a plant that had been closed, now reopened building wind turbines. In Michigan--I was just talking to Governor Granholm about the fact that last year, we accounted for 2 percent of the advanced battery technology in the entire world, and by 2015, we are going to account for 40 percent. By the end of this year, we're going to account for 20 percent of that advanced battery technology. <p>The truth is, the reason it worked is because of some very tough choices that many of you made, but the ability to work across State lines and party lines to try to get people focused not just on the past, but also on the future. And one of the things that I've always said about Governors that Washington could learn from is that it's hard to be overly ideological as a Governor, because the fact of the matter is, the rubber hits the road with you. You guys can have all kinds of abstract thoughts, but when families come to you looking for help, when communities have been devastated, you're the ones they turn to. And so these arguments become a lot less abstract. And I think it's a reflection of that experience as chief executives in each of your State that makes you able to work together so effectively in this organization.<p>So I want to congratulate you for having worked through a very difficult year. I want you to know that this White House wants to continue to partner with you, and not just in terms of us telling you what we think we can do to help, but more importantly, us listening and finding out from you the kinds of extraordinary ideas that all these States represent. You guys are--continue to be the laboratory for our democracy.<p>And so we welcome your ideas. We welcome your input. The main thing tonight, though, is we expect you to have a good time. [<i>Laughter</i>] So with that, what I'd like to do is to offer a toast. I'd like to offer this toast not only to our constituents, who put up with us and have gone through some extraordinarily difficult times, but I also want to offer a toast to our spouses and families, who make extraordinary sacrifices. Some of them oftentimes don't always--Michelle, she's starting to clank already--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but our families, our children, all those people who are so supportive of these extraordinary efforts that we're making.<p>So cheers, everybody. <p><i>[At this point, a toast was offered.]</i><p>Dinner is served.<p><i>[The President began to leave the podium, but then returned.] </i><p>Oh, I'm--wait, wait, wait. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is not the waiter--[<i>Laughter</i>]--although he can read the menu. Jim Douglas has been an extraordinary partner with this White House, always constructive, always thoughtful, and we are so pleased to have him here tonight. And so he's going to offer his own toast. Please.\" "
"49" "\"Thank you. Please, everybody, have a seat. Thank you.<p>I hope nobody stayed up too late last night, because I'm looking forward to a productive challenge and challenging conversation this morning. Joe, thank you very much for your remarks. And I want to again thank Governor Douglas and Governor Manchin for their outstanding leadership with this organization.<p>I want to spend most of my time exchanging ideas with you and answering questions, but let me just preface this with a few remarks. I want us to begin by remembering where we were just 1 year ago. As I mentioned last night, our economy was in a full-blown crisis, 750,000 Americans were losing their jobs each month, and millions more were hurting at the end of one of the toughest decades for the middle class on record. And just as they turned to you like never before, budget shortfalls threatened your capacity to help.<p>And that was just a few days before I signed the Recovery Act into law, a plan that many of you were instrumental in devising. That plan cut taxes for small businesses and for 95 percent of working Americans. It gave direct relief to those hardest hit by the recession, including workers who lost their jobs and families who lost their health care because of it. It helped most of you close some of those budget gaps that had developed, which kept 300,000 teachers and education workers in your schools and tens of thousands of first-responders on your streets.<p>And it began rebuilding our economy on a new and stronger foundation for growth. We helped to jump-start a clean energy industry in places where there were none, as Governor Granholm can attest in Michigan. We followed the gospel of Governors Rendell and Schwarzenegger and invested in our infrastructure, creating private sector jobs rebuilding today's crumbling roads and bridges, but also constructing the smart grids and the high-speed rails that are so critical to our future. And that's helping many of you prepare your States for future growth, like Governor Baldacci, who's accelerating his vision to connect broadband to every corner of Maine, or Governor Barbour, who's boosting plans to bring more commerce into Mississippi ports and out by rail to the rest of America.<p>Independent economists credit the Recovery Act with growing the economy and for 2 million jobs that otherwise wouldn't exist. Now, I understand that some of you still claim it's not working or wasn't worth it, but I also know that you've used it to close your budget gaps or break ground on new projects. I've seen the photos, and I've read the press releases. [<i>Laughter</i>] So it must be doing something right.<p>Overall, the economy is in a better place than it was a year ago. We were contracting by 6 percent, and we're now growing by 6 percent. But I know that your States are still in a very tough situation, and too many Americans still haven't felt the recovery in their own lives. So we're working to create jobs by all means necessary, be it by cutting taxes for small businesses that create them, to investing more in infrastructure and in energy efficiency, or giving you more help to close budget shortfalls. And I am not going to rest until we see more progress in each and every one of your States.<p>As Governors, I know you feel the same responsibility to see the people we serve through difficult times. And I know you share my feelings that we've also got a responsibility to think beyond the crisis and build an economy that works for our future, to tackle some of the problems and barriers that have held us back, and to secure our rightful place as the preeminent economy in the 21st century.<p>And that's why we've taken up the cause of better health care that works for our people, our businesses, and our governments alike. That's why we will continue to fight for the cause of clean energy, an economy that will free ourselves from the grips of foreign oil and generate millions of good jobs and good wages in the process. That's why we've taken up the cause of guaranteeing that Americans have the knowledge and the skills and education they need in this new and changing world.<p>America's prosperity has always rested on how well we educate our children, but never has that been more true than it is today. And it's true for our workers as well when a college graduate earns over 60 percent more in a lifetime than a high school graduate. This is true for our businesses when, according to one study, 6 in 10 simply cannot find the qualified workers that they need, are ready and willing to hire.<p>Unfortunately, we continue to lag in several critical areas. Our 8th grade students are 9th in the world in math and 11th in science. In response to assessments like these, some States have upped their game. I want to point to Massachusetts as an example, where eighth graders now tie for first in science around the world. Some--unfortunately, some States have actually done the opposite, and between 2005 and 2007, under No Child Left Behind, 11 States actually lowered their standards in math.<p>That may make those States look better relative to other States, but it's not going to help our students keep up with their global competitors. When I visited South Korea last year--and I've told this story before--I had lunch with President Lee, and I asked him, \\"What's your biggest education challenge?\\" And he said, \\"My biggest issue, my toughest fight is that Korean parents are too demanding. They want their kids to learn English in first grade, and so I've had to ship in a whole bunch of foreign-speaking teachers to meet the demand.\\" They want their students learning everything--math, science, foreign languages--all as soon as possible. They want their kids to excel because they understand that whichever country outeducates the other is going to outcompete us in the future. So that's what we're up against. That's what's at stake, nothing less than our primacy in the world.<p>As I said at the State of the Union Address, I do not accept a United States of America that's second place. And that means that all of us are going to have to work together to make sure that we are taking seriously the investments we make in our children's future. That's the reason that we launched the Race to the Top, a national competition to spur reform and improvements in our schools.<p>We put $4 billion on the table and challenged States to compete for it, saying that if you embrace reforms that raise achievement, if you track and respond to student needs, if you evaluate and reward great teachers and principals and turn around failing schools, then we're going to help you make those reforms a reality. Now, many of you and your States already have, and that's why we're going to expand the Race to the Top program.<p>And I want to commend all of you for acting collectively through the National Governors Association to develop common academic standards that will better position our students for success. Many States have already positioned themselves to adopt higher standards, and today I'm announcing steps to encourage and support all States to transition to college- and career-ready standards on behalf of America's students.<p>And I know that many of you have had a chance to interact with our Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan, who's doing a terrific job, and I think you understand when you talk to him that this administration is serious about breaking down some of the barriers to reform that have existed in the past. We are tired of arguments between the left and the right, between reformers and teachers unions. We want to figure out what works, and we want to make sure that we are giving you the support and the resources that you need to implement what works.<p>Now, of course, lifting achievement and transforming our schools is going to require more than new standards. It's going to require better teaching, better curricula; it's going to require better assessments. So we are calling for a redesigned Elementary and Secondary Education Act that better aligns the Federal approach to your State-led efforts while offering you the support that you need. Now, let me just be specific on some things that we're looking to do this year.<p>First, as a condition of receiving access to title I funds, we will ask all States to put in place a plan to adopt and certify standards that are college- and career-ready in reading and math. Once you've got those standards in place, you'll be able to better compete for funds to improve teaching and upgrade curricula. If a university, State, or school district begins preparing educators to teach to higher standards, we'll give them the support that they need. And to make sure that we're delivering for our kids, we're launching a competition to reward States that join together to develop the highest quality, cutting-edge assessments required to measure progress, and we'll help support their implementation.<p>Now, this all goes hand in hand with our efforts to give every American a complete and competitive education. We are making college more affordable by increasing Pell grants. We're continuing a new $2,500 tax credit for 4 years of college tuition. We are working to ease graduates' debt burdens, because I believe--and I think you do too--that nobody should go broke because they decided to go to college. We're--we've provided the resources to effectively implement the post-9/11 GI bill, because every returning soldier should have the chance to begin a new life prepared for the new economy. We're strengthening our community colleges, because all of you know that they are outstanding career pathways for the children of so many working families. And we're working to reform the student loan program and save tens of billions of dollars that currently go to subsidizing financial intermediaries, because instead of having that money go to middlemen, we think it makes sense to spend that money educating the next generation.<p>Now, if we can come together and do all this--in Washington, in statehouses, and across party and ideology--we're going to raise the quality of American education, we'll give our students, our workers, and our businesses every chance to succeed, and we are going to secure this next century as another American century.<p>Let me just close by saying this. We've been trusted with the responsibility to lead at a defining moment in our history. We've been tasked not only to see this country through difficult times but to keep the dream of our founding alive for the next generation. That's not something to shy away from; it's something to live up to. And I intend to work closely with all of you, Democrats and Republicans, to do just that.<p>So with that, what I'd like to do is start the discussion. I think that what we're going to do is I'm going to call on Jim and Joe first. And then after they've made their opening statements and remarks, then we'll kick the press out, and everybody will roll up their sleeves and we'll get to work. Jim.\" "
"50" "\"Thank you. Thank you, Ivan, for the terrific introduction, which was short, and that's how I like it. [<i>Laughter</i>] I want to thank John for the great work that he's been doing with our team. And thank you all. Welcome to Washington. It is wonderful to be back here with the men and women of the Business Roundtable. <p>Now, over the last year, we've worked together on a number of issues, from economic recovery and tax policy to education and to health care. And more often than not, we've found common ground. And this is important, because we meet at a time, as all of you are aware, a time of great economic anxiety and sharp political divisions. We're still emerging from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Eight million Americans have lost their jobs over the last 2 years. Home values in too many parts of the country have plummeted. And too many businesses are still reluctant to invest and expand. <p>And what's more, this recession follows what some have called the \\"lost decade,\\" a decade in which the average family income fell while the costs of health care and tuition skyrocketed, a decade in which a continued erosion of America's manufacturing base hollowed out many communities around the country and put too many good jobs out of reach.<p>It's no wonder, then, that people are frustrated. They're frustrated with Government, and they're frustrated with business. They're angry at a financial sector that took exorbitant risks by some in pursuit of short-term profits, and they're angry at a Government that failed to catch the problem on time. They're angry at the price they've paid to prevent a financial meltdown that they didn't cause, and they're angry that recovery in their own lives seems to be lagging the recovery of bank profitability. They're angry at the lobbyists who use their influence to put their clients' special interests ahead of the public interest. And although both parties are predictably scrambling to align themselves with people's frustrations, neither the usual answers from the left or the right seem to be inspiring much confidence.<p>So we've got some big challenges ahead. And I think all of us know that we can't meet them by returning to the precrisis status quo: an economy that was too dependent on a housing bubble, on consumer debt, on financial speculation, and on growing deficits. That's not sustainable for American workers, and it's not sustainable for American businesses. <p>Instead, we need an economy where we borrow less and produce more. We need an economy where we generate more jobs here at home and send more products overseas. We need to invest and nurture the industries of the future, and we need to train our workers to compete for those jobs.<p>And nations around the world, from Asia to Europe, have already realized this. They're putting more emphasis on math and science. They're building high-speed railroads and expanding broadband access. They're making serious investments in clean energy because they want those jobs. And these countries know what's required to compete in the 21st century. And so do we. As I said in the State of the Union, I do not accept second place for the United States of America. <p>We did not achieve global leadership in the last century by luck or by happenstance. We earned it by working together to define our own destiny and seize the future. And to maintain our leadership in this new century, we must summon that same resolve.<p>A thriving, competitive America is within our reach, but only if we move forward as one Nation, only if we move past the old debates and the crippling divides between left and right, between business and labor, between private enterprise and the public sector. Whatever differences we have in this country, all of us have a stake in meeting the same goal, which is an America in which a growing prosperity is shared widely by its people.<p>So today I want to spend most of my time talking about the specific steps we need to take to build this more competitive America. But before I do, I want to talk a little bit about the relationship between business and Government in promoting economic growth.<p>Now, contrary to the claims of some of my critics and some of the editorial pages, I am an ardent believer in the free market. I believe businesses like yours are the engines of economic growth in this country. You create jobs, you develop new products and cutting-edge technologies, and you create the supply chains that make it possible for small businesses to open their doors. So I want everyone in this room to succeed. I want your shareholders to do well, I want your workers to do well, I want you to do well, because I firmly believe that America's success in large part depends on your success internationally.<p>Now, I also believe this: Government has a vital, if limited, role to play in fostering sustained economic growth and creating the foundations for you to succeed. Throughout our history, Government's done so in three ways.<p>First, Government has set up basic rules of the marketplace, from the enforcement of contracts and managing the money supply to maintaining airline safety standards and creating Federal deposit insurance. And on balance, these rules have been good for business, not bad, for they ensure honest competition and fair dealing and a level playing field. <p>Second, only Government can make those investments in common goods that serve the general welfare but are too expensive for any individual or firm to purchase on their own. Our Armed Forces is the most obvious example. But Government has also built infrastructure, from roads and ports to railways and highways that enabled commerce and spurred entire industries. Government's invested in basic research that led to new crop yields for farmers and the Internet. Government's invested in our people through land-grant colleges and the GI bill. <p>And finally, Government has also provided a social safety net to guarantee a basic level of security for all our citizens. Now, this last role's been obviously a source of great controversy over the last several decades. But I think most Americans and most business leaders would agree that programs like Social Security and Medicare and Medicaid and unemployment insurance haven't just saved millions from poverty, they've helped secure broad-based consensus that is so critical to a functioning market economy.<p>Now, the Business Roundtable has always understood that in each of these instances, Government hasn't stepped in to supplant private enterprise, but to catalyze it, to create the conditions for entrepreneurs and new businesses to adapt and to thrive. <p>But I take the time to make these points because we've arrived at a juncture in our politics where reasonable efforts to update our regulations or make basic investments in our future are too often greeted with cries of \\"Government takeover\\" or even \\"socialism.\\"<p>Now, not only does that kind of rhetoric deny our history, but it prevents us from asking hard questions about the right balance between the private and public sectors. Let me give you some examples. Too little investment in a competitive infrastructure or an education system that works for our children, and we risk falling behind countries that are making these investments right now. On the other hand, if we just throw money at poorly planned projects or failing schools, then we'll remain in debt to those same countries for decades to come. If we don't pass financial reform, we can expect more crises in the future of the sort that we just saw. On the other hand, if we design the new rules carelessly, they could choke off the supply of capital to businesses and families. If we allow our safety net to be weakened or lose a sense of fairness in our Tax Code, then we can expect more anger and frustration from citizens across the political spectrum. And at the same time, if an exploding entitlement state is gobbling up more and more of our tax dollars, there's no way we'll retain our competitive edge. <p>So rather than hurling accusations about big-Government liberals or mean-spirited conservatives, we're going to have to answer those tough questions. And getting that balance right has less to do with big Government or small government than it has to do with smart Government. It's not about being antibusiness or pro-Government, it's about being progrowth and projobs. And while there are no simple formulas or bumper stickers that can encapsulate all the work that has to be done here, I do want to discuss a few specific areas where we have to get things right. <p>Now, our first and most immediate task is to complete the economic recovery by taking additional steps to bolster demand and keep credit flowing. Along with our efforts to unfreeze credit and stabilize the housing market, the Recovery Act helped to do this, and it's one of the main reasons our economy has gone from shrinking by 6 percent to growing by nearly 6 percent. <p>But we need to do more. We should make it easier for small businesses to get loans and give them a tax credit for hiring new workers or raising wages. We should invest in infrastructure projects that lead to new jobs in the construction industry and other hard-hit businesses. And we should provide a tax incentive for large businesses like yours to invest in new plants and equipment. That would make a difference now. <p>And we need businesses to support these efforts. The Business Roundtable supported the Recovery Act, and for that I'm grateful. But I think one of the reasons businesses haven't been as vocal about their support is a belief that extraordinary measures like the Recovery Act or our financial stability plan somehow represent a lasting increase in Government intervention. So let me assure you, let me be clear: They do not. <p>One year ago, we were looking at the possible end of General Motors. Today, GM has increased production, is paying us back ahead of schedule. Yesterday we learned they're hiring 1,200 more workers in their Lordstown, Ohio, plant. One year ago, there was a chance we would lose most of the $700 billion we were given to rescue the financial system. Today, most of that money has been repaid. And the financial fee we've proposed would recover the rest and close the books on Government's involvement. <p>And let me say a word about compensation here. Most Americans, including myself, do not begrudge reasonable rewards for a job well done. What's outraged people are outsized bonuses at firms that so recently required massive public assistance. Once that money is fully repaid, I don't believe it's appropriate for the Government to be in the business of setting compensation levels. I do believe that shareholders should have a say in compensation packages given to top executives and that those packages should be based on long-term performance instead of short-term profits. And I think that's particularly important in the financial industry, where reckless risks in pursuit of short-term gain helped create a crisis that engulfed the world economy. <p>But here's the larger point that I'm trying to make: The steps we took last year were about saving the economy from collapse, not about expanding Government's reach into the economy. The jobs bill working through Congress right now are similarly designed to be targeted and temporary. And I'm pleased that a few hours ago the Senate just passed a series of tax cuts for small businesses that hire more workers. This is an important step forward in putting more Americans back to work as soon as possible. <p>Now, the larger question is this: Beyond the immediate requirements of recovery, how do we lay the foundation for a more competitive America? How do we help you succeed? Now, I believe it starts with investments in innovation, in education, and a 21st-century infrastructure. To build the infrastructure of tomorrow, we're investing in expanded broadband access and health information technology, clean energy facilities, and the first high-speed rail network in America. <p>To spur the discovery of services and products and industries we have yet to imagine, we're devoting more than 3 percent of our GDP to research and development, an amount that exceeds the level achieved at the height of the space race. We've also proposed making the research and experimentation tax credit permanent, a tax credit that helps companies like yours afford the high costs of developing new technologies and new products. <p>To train our workers for the jobs of tomorrow, we've made education reform a top priority in this administration. We are not interested in just putting more money into our schools; we want that money moving towards reform. And last year, we launched a national competition to improve our schools based on a simple idea: Instead of funding the status quo, we will only invest in reform, reform that raises student achievement and inspires students to excel in math and science and turns around failing schools that steal the future of too many young Americans. I just met this week with the Nation's Governors, and education reform is one of those rare issues where both Democrats and Republicans are enthusiastic.<p>And to achieve my goal of ensuring America again has the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020, I'm urging the Senate to pass a bill that will make college more affordable by ending the unnecessary taxpayer subsidies that go to financial intermediaries for student loans. It's a bill that will also revitalize our community colleges, which this organization has recognized are a career pathway to the children of so many working families. <p>And just as Government needs to support young people eager to learn, I'm very pleased to see that the business community has already begun to bet on the next generation of American talent. Just yesterday 17 high-tech companies announced plans to hire over 10,000 college graduates this year. That's good news. That's the kind of partnership that we need.<p>Now, finally, we're investing in innovation that will lead to a more efficient, affordable, and consumer-friendly Federal Government. Almost all of you have harnessed new technologies to build thriving businesses and provide better services to your customers. There's no reason Government shouldn't do the same and give taxpayers a better bang for their buck.<p>And with new technology, we're creating a single electronic medical record for our men and women in uniform that will follow them from the day they enlist until the day that they're laid to rest. We're cutting down the time it takes to get a patent approved by cutting out unnecessary paperwork and modernizing the process. And my Secretary of Commerce, Gary Locke, is here today and is doing an outstanding job leading that effort. We're working to give people the chance to go online and book an appointment at the Social Security office or check the status of their citizenship application, services countless businesses already provide. Government should be doing the same.<p>So in all of these areas--in infrastructure, in research, in education, and in Government reform--we're making investments that will lead to new products and services that will help America compete on the world stage. It means increases in productivity and increases in efficiency, and that's what we're going to need to be competitive.<p>Now, winning that competition also means we need to export more of our goods and services to other nations, something that supports more jobs here in the United States of America. Unfortunately, the Federal Government has not done a great job advocating for companies' exports abroad. <p>And that's why in the State of the Union, I set a goal of doubling our exports over the next 5 years, an increase that will support 2 million jobs. And to help me meet this goal, Gary Locke recently announced that we're launching a National Export Initiative where the Federal Government will significantly ramp up its advocacy on behalf of U.S. exporters. We're substantially expanding the trade financing available to exporters, including small and medium-sized companies. And while always keeping our security needs in mind, we're going to reform our export controls to eliminate unnecessary barriers. So some of the sectors where we have a huge competitive advantage in high-tech areas, we're going to be able to send more of those products to markets overseas. And we're going to pursue a more strategic and aggressive effort to open up new markets for our goods. <p>Now, I know that trade policy has been one of those longstanding divides between business and labor, between Democrats and Republicans. To those who would reflexively support every and any trade deal, I would say that our competitors have to play fair, and our agreements have to be enforced. We can't simply cede more jobs or markets to unfair trade practices. At the same time, to those who would reflexively oppose every trade agreement, they need to know that if America sits on the sidelines while other nations sign trade deals, we will lose the chance to create jobs on our shores. In other countries, whether China or Germany or Brazil, they've been able to align the interests of business, workers, and government around trade agreements that open up new markets for them and create new jobs for them. We must do the same. And I'm committed to making that happen. <p>That's why we launched the Trans-Pacific Partnership to strengthen our trade relations with Asia, the fastest growing market in the world. That's why we will work to resolve outstanding issues so that we can move forward on trade agreements with key partners like South Korea and Panama and Colombia. And that's why we will try to conclude a Doha trade agreement, not just any agreement, but one that creates real access to key global markets. <p>A competitive America is also America that finally has a smart energy policy. And we know there's no silver bullet here. We understand that to reduce our dependence on oil and the damage caused by climate change, we're going to need more production in the short term, we're going to need more efficiency, and we need more incentives for clean energy. <p>And already, the Recovery Act has allowed us to jump-start the clean energy industry in America, an investment that will lead to 720,000 clean energy jobs by the year 2012. To take just one example, the United States used to make less than 2 percent of the world's advanced batteries for hybrid cars. By 2015, we'll have enough capacity to make up to 40 percent of these batteries. <p>We've also launched an unprecedented effort to make our homes and businesses more energy efficient. We've announced loan guarantees to break ground on America's first new nuclear plant in nearly three decades. We're supporting three of the largest solar plants in the world. And I've said that we're willing to make tough decisions about opening up new offshore areas for oil and gas development. So what we're looking at is a comprehensive strategy, not an either-or strategy, but a both-and strategy when it comes to energy. <p>But to truly transition to a clean energy economy, I've also said that we need to put a price on carbon pollution. Many businesses have embraced this approach, including some who are represented here today. Now, still, I am sympathetic to those companies that face significant potential transition costs, and I want to work with this organization and others like this to help with those costs and to get our policies right. <p>What we can't do is stand still. The only certainty of the status quo is that the price and supply of oil will become increasingly volatile, that the use of fossil fuels will wreak havoc on weather patterns and air quality. But if we decide now that we're putting a price on this pollution in a few years, it will give businesses the certainty of knowing they have the time to plan for the transition. This country has to move towards a clean energy economy. That's where the world is going, and that's how America will remain competitive and strong in the 21st century. <p>We will also be more competitive if we address those costs and risks that are preventing our economy from reaching its full potential. I'll list three critical areas: outdated financial regulations, crushing health care costs, and a growing deficit. <p>Right now we have a financial system with the same vulnerabilities that it had before this crisis began. And as I said in the State of the Union, my goal is not to punish Wall Street. I believe that most individuals in the financial sector are looking to make money in an honest and transparent way. But if there aren't rules in place to guard against the recklessness of a few and they're allowed to exploit consumers and take on excessive risk, it starts a race to the bottom that results in all of us losing. <p>And that's what we need to change. We can't repeat the mistakes of the past. We can't allow another AIG or another Lehman to happen again. We can't allow financial institutions, including those that take your deposits, to make gambles that threaten the whole economy. And what does that mean? It means we've got to ensure consolidated supervision of all institutions that could pose a risk to the system. It means we have to close loopholes that allow financial firms to evade oversight and circumvent rules of the road. It means that we need more robust consumer and investor protections.<p>And I ask the Business Roundtable to support these efforts. There are lobbyists on the Hill right now trying to kill reform by claiming that it would undermine businesses outside of the financial sector. That is not true. This is about putting in place rules that encourage drive and innovation instead of shortcuts and abuse. And those are rules that will benefit everybody. <p>Now, another undeniable drag on our economy is the cost of health care. And I appreciate the willingness of the Business Roundtable to work with us on health care reform. When you've had concerns about specific measures or policies, we've listened, and in many cases, we've made changes. But I know that there are many who've been skeptical of our reform efforts, because in the wake of extraordinary measures that we took to rescue our economy, it's been an easy political tactic to characterize any effort at health reform as a big Government takeover.<p>But let's look at the truth, because the truth is just the opposite. We have not called for the elimination of private insurance. We have not--we've been extraordinarily careful not to in any way undermine the employer-based system. What we've called for is an insurance exchange where individuals and small businesses can pool together in order to get a better deal from their insurance companies. In return for getting more customers, we would require insurance companies not to discriminate on the basis of preexisting conditions or arbitrarily jack up premiums. <p>We've also incorporated almost every serious idea from across the political spectrum about how to contain the rising costs of health care. As a result, our proposal would reduce the deficit by as much as a trillion dollars over the next decade and would directly affect your bottom lines--each and every one of you who are already providing insurance to your employees--by a significant amount.<p>All these steps would provide more certainty for your businesses, not less, because there's no certainty in a future where premiums rise without limit. There's certainly no certainty where companies are forced to drop coverage or cut back elsewhere. That can't be good for business. Our proposal contains good ideas from Democrats and Republicans and health care experts across the spectrum. <p>And tomorrow I look forward to a good exchange of ideas at the Blair House with some of the legislative leaders. And I hope everyone comes with a shared desire to solve this challenge, not just score political points. And I hope the roundtable supports our efforts to finally pass reform that works for the American people and for American businesses.<p>Now, one of the benefits of health care reform is that by bringing down the cost of Medicare and Medicaid, it would significantly reduce our deficit. And I know this is an issue of great concern to many of you. My OMB Director, Peter Orszag, will be here soon to give you the scary numbers. I promise you, this is on my mind each and every day. <p>I walked into office facing a massive deficit, most of which was the result of not paying for two wars, two tax cuts, and an expensive prescription drug program. Keep in mind, the budget was balanced--in fact, we were running a surplus--in 2000. When we walked in, we had a deficit of $1.3 trillion and projected debt over the course of a decade of $8 trillion. The lost revenue from this recession put us in an even deeper hole. And the steps we took to save the economy from depression last year have necessarily added to that deficit--about $1 trillion, compared to the 8 trillion that we inherited. <p>Now, I've said we intend to pay for what we added. So my administration is doing what families and businesses all across the country are doing during these difficult times: We're tightening our belts and making tough decisions. We're investing only in what we need and sacrificing what we can do without. We've gone line by line through the Federal budget and identified more than 120 programs for elimination, a total of $20 billion in savings just for next year. Starting in 2011, I've proposed a freeze on nonsecurity discretionary Government spending for 3 years, something that was never enacted in the last administration. <p>I'm also grateful that Congress responded to my request and restored a simple budgeting rule that every family and business understands called pay as you go. And I've established a bipartisan fiscal commission that will provide a specific set of solutions by the fall to deal with our medium- and long-term deficit.<p>Of course, as many of you have reminded us, budget cuts aren't the only step we've proposed this year to help bring down the deficit, which brings me to everybody's favorite topic: taxes. You'll notice I've saved the best for last. Now, I want to set the record straight on this issue, because it's been one of the largest sources of tension between our administration and the business community. <p>During the campaign, I promised a tax cut for 95 percent of working Americans. I kept that promise. We've provided over $150 billion in tax cuts to small businesses and to families. We haven't raised anybody's income taxes by a single dime. This year, I expect to sign into law another $70 billion worth of business tax cuts for 2010 and 2011, a more than 10-percent cut in corporate taxes. Now, that may not jibe with what you're hearing or what you're reading, but those are the facts. They're indisputable.<p>Now, I've also made two other promises during the campaign. I promised that folks making over $250,000 a year--meaning everybody in this room plus me--would go back to paying the marginal tax rates they did in the 1990s, a time when businesses did pretty well; a lot of millionaires were made. I'm not doing this to be punitive or because I love paying taxes. I'm doing it because at a time of two wars and massive deficits, I can't justify continuing to give millionaires or billionaires big tax cuts. <p>The other promise I made during the campaign was to ensure that our Tax Code doesn't provide relief and a competitive advantage to companies that move jobs and investment outside of the United States relative to companies that are investing here in the United States. <p>Now, a number of you have made the point that we shouldn't discourage anyone from keeping headquarters and operations in America and that we have to balance your needs to compete overseas. I'm sympathetic to that. And after listening to you, we've made some modifications to our proposal. But as President of the United States, my interest is to reward--or at least not disadvantage--companies who are creating more jobs and doing more business within the borders of this country. That's not antibusiness; it's pro-America. And I don't apologize for it. <p>Now, on all these issues, from education to health care to taxes, my first question can't be, \\"Is this good for business?\\" or \\"Is this good for labor?\\" It can't be, \\"Is this good politics? Are folks going to tag me as a liberal or a conservative?\\" The only question I have to ask myself is, \\"Is this good for America? Does it help us compete? Does it grow our economy? Does it create jobs for middle class people and those trying to join the middle class? Is it fostering innovation and creating new business opportunities?\\" That's my job as President.<p>Having said that, I also know that Government can't meet all of these challenges on its own. Ultimately, the success of this economy is going to depend on you and people like you all across the country. And it's going to depend on our workforce and our families. <p>You know, when it comes to education, we need parents who are willing to read to their children and help with their homework, regardless of how much Government's doing to reform the school system, if we're going to compete. When it comes to energy, we need consumers who are willing to buy more efficient appliances and automobiles and conserve where they can. And when it comes to an economy that works for every American, we need business leaders like you who understand that private enterprise also entails some public responsibility.<p>Andy Grove, who most of you know was the CEO of Intel, once gave an interview where he said, \\"Those of us in business have two obligations, in my opinion. The one that's undebatable is that we have a fiduciary responsibility to . . . the shareholders who put us in our place. There's another obligation that I feel personally,\\" is what Mr. Grove said, \\"given that everything I've achieved in my career and a lot of what Intel has achieved in its career were made possible by a climate of democracy, an economic climate and investment climate provided by our domicile, the United States.\\"<p>Now, it's undoubtedly in the short-term interests of individual corporations at any given moment to pay less in taxes, to deal with fewer regulations. I understand that. But it's in the long-term interests of all companies to do business in a nation that maintains the world's best research facilities and universities, a nation with public schools that graduate highly skilled, highly educated young people, a nation with functioning railways and airports, a nation that's not dragged down by crushing debt, a nation in which families are getting good jobs, and when they work hard, they can support those families.<p>Now, if you pay your workers a salary they can raise a family on, they're going to feel more loyalty to your company. And if we have rules of the road that guard against recklessness in our financial system, it will protect the interests of everyone, from the wealthiest CEOs to the lowest paid workers. If we give that kid in the Bronx a world-class education, it doesn't just benefit that child; it benefits the company that might hire him down the road, and it benefits the country that child lives in. Now, to put it simply, we are all in this together. <p>I am a big booster of each and every one of you. And I will go to bat for you every time as you compete in a tough international environment. But we're going to have to do this together. And we face some very big challenges right now. The only way we're going to get through them--and the only way we ever have--is if we align the interests of workers and businesses and Government around a common purpose, if we all pick up an oar and start rowing in the same direction. <p>At a time of such economic anxiety, it's tempting, and maybe it's easier, to turn against one another and to find scapegoats to blame. So politicians can rail against Wall Street or against each other, and businesses can fault Capitol Hill, and all of it makes for easy talking points and good political theater. But it doesn't solve our problems. It doesn't move us forward. It just traps us in the same debates and divides that have held us back for a very long time and forced us to keep on punting down the road the same problems we've been facing for decades. <p>And I believe we can't afford that kind of politics anymore, not now. But we know the way forward, and we know what the future can be. And I am confident we can get there. And I'm confident because we have the hardest working, most productive citizens in the world. I'm confident because our universities and research facilities are second to none. And I'm confident because of the caliber of the leaders and businesses represented in this room. <p>Now, we're not going to agree on every single issue; we're not going to support the same policies every time. But I promise I will never stop listening to your concerns and your ideas, and I will never stop rooting for your success, because we are in this together. And whether we rise or fall as a nation doesn't depend on some economic forces that are beyond our control; it depends on us, on the ingenuity of our entrepreneurs, the determination of our workers, and the strength of our people. <p>I've always believed in that strength, and I remain extraordinarily hopeful about our future. So thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"51" "\"Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. I'm sorry I'm a little late. [<i>Laughter</i>] I had this thing I had to do. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I understand that people have been drinking and--[<i>Laughter</i>]--eating the big shrimp around here. And I have to say that the wait will have been worth it because we are honoring an extraordinary group of individuals.<p>Before I begin, I just want to make a few acknowledgements. First of all, somebody who was busy with me today and is busy every day on behalf of the American people, we have Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who is here. <p>We have somebody who has been a great entrepreneur of the arts, who we're glad accepted the position of chairman of the NEA, Mr. Rocco Landesman, who is here. Please give him a big round of applause. Another individual who had an extraordinarily distinguished career in Congress and has been a consistent supporter of the arts and the humanities and is somebody who doesn't just talk bipartisanship, but has always walked the bipartisan walk, we're grateful to have him here, Mr. Jim Leach, chairman of the NEH. Where's Jim? There he is.<p>Two great friends of mine and the Cochairs of the President's commission on the arts and humanities, Mrs.--Ms. Margo Lion and Mr. George Stevens, and all the commission members who are here, will you please stand and let us give you a round of applause.<p>And two recipients who were not able to be here today, but I want to make mention of them because, obviously, their careers have helped to mark the landscape of American culture for decades, Mr. Bob Dylan and Clint Eastwood, who are both recipients, but could not make it today. So I wanted to make sure that we acknowledge them.<p>Now, all of us are here to share a recognition of the importance of the arts and the humanities, pursuits and professions that enrich the mind and nourish the soul and strengthen the character of this country. They bring us joy. They bring us understanding and insight. They bring us comfort in good times and, perhaps especially, in difficult times in our own lives and in the life of our Nation.<p>This recognition is what led to the founding of the Committee on the Arts and Humanities, the National Endowment for the Arts, and the National Endowment for the Humanities. Each of these institutions plays a vital role in preserving and enhancing America's cultural legacy. They promote works of the past. They cultivate the talent of the future. They deserve our thanks.<p>And it is one of the special privileges of this office that I have an opportunity, from time to time, to take part in award ceremonies like this, to honor individuals and institutions that are important to me, personally, and important to all of our citizens, to celebrate triumphs of the arts and the humanities that bring us closer to an understanding of what makes us American, but also what makes us human.<p>And one of the most extraordinary features of America's cultural inheritance is its dynamism and its diversity. It's a culture that produced Mark Twain and Toni Morrison, John Philip Sousa and Louis Armstrong, Marian Anderson and Alvin Ailey. It's a culture in which all of us can find a place, in which all of us can take great pride.<p>Now, the men and women that we honor today are a part of this unique American tradition. In a cultural moment that too often prizes the sensational over the enduring, the trivial over the profound, it's worth recalling the contributions of the honorees in this room, contributions that at once reflect and rise above the particular moments in which they're made.<p>With us are actors and authors, singers and sculptors, conductors, curators, collectors, civic leaders, champions of the arts and the humanities. Each has taken a different path to get here. Each has made the most of different gifts. But all of them have reached the peaks of cultural achievement and all of them are a testament to the breadth and depth of the human spirit.<p>It's through contributions like theirs, as much as anything else, that a nation's legacy is forged. Ancient Greece and Rome are remembered for the rulers who conquered the known world, but also for \\"The Odyssey\\" and \\"The Iliad,\\" for a Forum and a Colosseum. Europe, from the Renaissance through the Enlightenment, is remembered for wars of religion and the stirrings of revolution, but also for the Sistine Chapel and the \\"Encyclopedia.\\" The China that invented gunpowder and paper is also known for its poetry.<p>That is the legacy of these civilizations; that's how they are remembered. And we will be remembered, I hope, for what we do in our time to deliver progress for our people and to advance the dreams of all people. But I hope we will be remembered for something else as well. I hope we will be remembered for the Metropolitan Museum of Art, for the School of American Ballet, for all that you, the honorees here today, have done to enrich and enhance America's legacy.<p>And that legacy will be forged by all of us doing our part: by those of us here in Washington doing what needs to be done to improve the lives of people who are--we were elected to serve, by brave men and women fighting under our flag, by citizens and neighborhood organizations and places of worship that are giving back to their communities, and by scientists that are advancing what we know about the workings of the world and the universe. But also by Americans like you, creators, imaginers, entertainers, helping each of us understand the human experience and helping all of us recognize that common humanity.<p>That task is especially important, I think, right now. It's easy in times like these, with all the talk about what makes us different and what divides us, what keeps us apart, to lose sight of what holds us together, to forget that no matter what our differences, some things speak to all of us.<p>It doesn't matter whether we're Democrats or Republicans, all of us are profoundly moved by our reflection in black granite. No matter what the color of our skin or what beliefs we hold, all of us can draw lessons from the works of history. No matter what community we call our own, all of us can be moved by a symphony or an aria, all of us can be moved by a soprano's voice, all of us can be moved by a film's score. The arts, the humanities, they appeal to a certain yearning that's shared by all of us, a yearning for truth and for beauty, for connection and the simple pleasure of a good story.<p>More than 200 years and 25--225 years ago, on February 18, 1784, George Washington sat down at his home in Mount Vernon to write a letter. It was just a month after Congress officially put an end to the war with the British Empire. And it was still years before the Constitutional Convention met in Philadelphia, years before this general ended up becoming President, years before 13 newly independent Colonies became one Nation, indivisible under God.<p>But the letter Washington sat down to write that day was not about the recent triumph over the British. It was not about what shape a young America might take. Instead, it was a letter to a bookseller. And before requesting a few volumes, Washington expressed a belief, and I quote, \\"To encourage literature and the arts is a duty which every good citizen owes to his country.\\"<p>A duty of every good citizen. So speaks the Father of our Country. Even then, amid all the concerns of those heady and dangerous days, Washington took time to reflect on the infinite value of what were then called the elegant arts. Even then, he foresaw the essential role that the arts and the humanities would play in the formation of our country's character. And if Washington were with us today, I think he would agree that all of you have fulfilled your duties, that all of you are good citizens, that all of you have enriched the legacy of the United States of America.<p>So with that, I now ask the honorees to come up, one by one, as their citations are read.<p><i>[At this point, Lt. Cmdr. Ryan T. Siewert, USCG, Coast Guard Aide to the President, read the citations, and the President presented the medals.]</i><p>Ladies and gentlemen, please give a big round of applause to all the honorees. Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the formal program, but there are some drinks and big shrimp left. [<i>Laughter</i>] So we expect you to enjoy the hospitality of the White House. And Michelle and I just want to personally again say what an honor it has been for us to be here at this ceremony. Each and every one of these individuals in some way has touched my life.<p>I think about Robert Caro and reading \\"The Power Broker\\" back when I was 22 years old--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and just being mesmerized, and I'm sure it helped to shape how I think about politics. I think about Maya Lin and the first time I had a chance to see that extraordinary monument to the courage of our young men and women in uniform. I think about the first time I heard Jessye Norman's voice or saw Rita in \\"West Side Story\\"--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and my great friend Joe Riley, the extraordinary work that he's done in Charleston, and Ted Sorensen, who used up all the good lines--[<i>Laughter</i>]--for every President remaining, and Frank Stella, who obviously is a legend.<p>I don't want to mention everybody because each and every one of you in some way have touched our lives. So a personal thanks from Michelle and myself, and I hope all of you have a wonderful evening and continue to enrich the lives of our citizens. It is extraordinarily important. And we will continue to be as big a booster as possible from this office.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"52" "\"Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. Thank you very much. Well, it is wonderful to be here. And thank you for the outstanding introduction by Mr. Smart. And I was complimenting him on his bow tie--[<i>Laughter</i>]--as well as the excellent scholarship that he's showing. I want to thank all the student leaders from HBCUs and some of the fantastic men and women that I've named to serve on my HBCU Advisory Board. So thank you, all of you, for what you are contributing to this important cause.<p>I have a few Members of Congress that are in the audience that I want to acknowledge. At least I think they're here. I haven't spotted everybody. First of all, one of our outstanding leaders in the House of Representatives, and the whip in the House of Representatives, James Clyburn--James Clyburn is right here. One of the deans of the Congress and the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, John Conyers is in the house; a great friend from the great State of Maryland, Elijah Cummings; the chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, Barbara Lee; a champion on behalf of DC statehood, or at least voting rights, Representative Eleanor Holmes Norton; Congressman Bobby Scott from the great State of Virginia; and one of our foremost exports--experts on foreign policy, Congressman Donald Payne from New Jersey.<p>I also want to acknowledge Dr. Earl Richardson, who is finishing tenure as president of Morgan State University. Please, sir. And a great friend, president of Hampton University for more than 30 years, Dr. William Harvey; I promised him I'd come back to Hampton, so I'm going to be speaking at his commencement this year.<p>And then the Trojan Explosion Drumline from Virginia State University. I'm told this is the first time there's been a drumline in the White House. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is what I've been told. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Before the Civil War and the creation of what we now call the Historically Black Colleges and Universities, an education, much less a higher education, just wasn't possible for most African Americans. Where it was happening, reading and writing were often taught in secret. But as the Civil War ended and the 13th and 14th and 15th Amendments were signed, a freed people demanded a freed mind, and the war on illiteracy and ignorance began.<p>There were some, like Booker T. Washington, a freed slave who walked 500 miles from the mines of West Virginia to study at Hampton, who argued that these colleges should focus on teaching Blacks skilled trades and vocations. There were others, like W.E.B. DuBois, who studied at Fisk and became the first African American to earn a doctorate from Harvard, who advocated for education in the arts and the sciences to cultivate the leaders and teachers of the next generation.<p>Today, at America's 105 Historically Black Colleges and Universities, our young men and women prepare to do both. They're the campuses where a people were educated, where a middle class was built, where a dream took hold. They're places where generations of African Americans have gained a sense of their heritage, their history, and their place in the American story.<p>But like all colleges and universities, HBCUs face tough challenges today. Endowments and State budgets are shrinking, too many facilities are deteriorating, enrollment is falling, and the cost of education keeps going up. And these schools feel the pain more acutely. They do more with less, and they enroll higher proportions of low- and middle-income students. And that's why the Recovery Act that was passed last year invested in their infrastructure and technology and nearly doubled the Pell grant award. And that's why the budget I've proposed this year increases HBCU funding by nearly $100 million at the Department of Education alone.<p>But helping HBCUs chart a new path in this new century will require much more on all of our parts. And that's why today I'm signing an Executive order strengthening the White House Initiative on Historically Black Colleges and Universities.<p>This initiative originated in President Carter's administration, it expanded under President Reagan's, and it's been renewed by each President since to help these schools give their students every chance to live up to their full potential. And I've asked Dr. John S. Wilson, a Morehouse man, to lead it under my administration, and Dr. Harvey to serve as Chairman of its advisory board.<p>And I want to be clear: Strengthening America's Historically Black Colleges and Universities isn't a task that falls to these men or to the Department of Education alone; I expect agencies across the Federal Government to help support this mission.<p>We're not doing this because these schools--well, we're not only doing this because these schools are a gateway to a better future for African Americans; we're doing it because their success is vital to a better future for all Americans. We know that Americans with college degrees far outearn those without. We know that our businesses too often can't find qualified candidates for open positions. We know that other countries are outeducating their kids to outcompete ours. And yet year after year, a stubborn gap persists between how well African Americans are doing compared to their white classmates. Year after year, American students trail their foreign peers in too many areas. And year after year, those students who do make it to college often find themselves unprepared for its rigors.<p>That's why education reform has been a top priority of my administration. We launched a national competition to improve our schools by investing only in reform that closes the achievement gap and inspires students to excel in math and science and turns around failing schools that steal the future from too many young Americans. We're working with States and Governors to develop and implement standards that better position all our students to graduate high school prepared for college and careers.<p>I've urged the Senate to pass a bill that will make college more affordable by ending unnecessary taxpayer subsidies that go to financial intermediaries for student loans, revitalize our community colleges that serve as career pathways for the children of so many working families, and invest more than $2 billion in minority-serving institutions, including HBCUs. All of this will help achieve our goal of ensuring that America once again has the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020, and keeping our HBCUs strong is vital to achieving that goal.<p>Still, there are some who question the continued relevance of HBCUs, who say that they've fulfilled their purpose, who say that after all the progress that we've made, their reason for being is now somehow obsolete. But it was because of these schools that a young prankster discovered the sense of purpose that led him ultimately to sit on the Supreme Court. It was because of these schools that a young broadcaster with a funny name--Oprah--[laughter]--could make that name into an empire. It was because of HBCUs that a young preacher grew into a king that shared his dream with all of America.<p>It was because of these schools that America's middle class was filled with Black doctors and educators and judges and lawyers and engineers and entrepreneurs. And today, it's because of these schools that one out of every two wide-eyed freshmen who arrives on their campuses with big backpacks and bigger dreams is the first in his or her family to go to college.<p>And that's why we're here today to ensure that these schools remain the beacons that they've been for more than a century and a half: crucibles of learning where students discover their full potential and forge the character required to realize it; catalysts of change where young people put their hands on the arc of history and move this Nation closer to the ideals of its founding; and the cradles of opportunity where each generation inherits the American Dream and keeps it alive for the next.<p>That's what HBCUs are about, and that's why I'm proud to now sign this Executive order.<p><i>[At this point, the President signed the Executive order.]</i><p>There we go.\" "
"53" "\"As the Winter Olympics draw to a close this weekend, I just want to take a minute to congratulate all the athletes who competed in these games. And I especially want to say how proud I am of all that the American men and women have achieved over the last few weeks.<p>Whether it was the men's hockey team's stunning upset of the Canadians on their way to the gold-medal game, or Lindsey Vonn's heroic gold-medal comeback from a shin injury, or Apolo Ohno becoming the most decorated American winter Olympian of all time, you can't help but be inspired by the sheer grit and athletic prowess on display in Vancouver.<p>And it's not just the medal count that's inspiring, though we've certainly done great on that score. What's truly inspiring is the character of the men and women who have won those medals, the sacrifices they've made, the integrity they've shown, the indomitable Olympic spirit that says no matter who you are or where you come from or what difficulties you may face, you can work hard and train hard and still triumph in the end. That's why we watch. That's why we cheer. That's why in the middle of an extremely challenging time for America, we've been able to come together as one Nation for a few weeks in February and swell with pride at what our citizens have achieved.<p>Now, when it comes to meeting the larger challenges we face as a nation, I realize that finding this unity is easier said than done, especially in Washington. But if we want to compete on the world stage as well as we've competed in the world's games, we need to find common ground. We need to move past the bickering and the game-playing that holds us back and blocks progress for the American people.<p>I know it's possible to do this. And we were reminded of that last week when Democrats and Republicans in the Senate came together to pass a jobs bill that will give small businesses tax credits to hire more workers. We also saw it when Democrats and Republicans in the House came together to pass a bill that would force insurance companies to abide by commonsense rules that prevent price-fixing and the other practices that drive up health care costs.<p>We need that same spirit of cooperation and bipartisanship when it comes to finally passing reform that will bring down the cost of health care and give Americans more control over their insurance. On Thursday, we brought both parties together for a frank and productive discussion about this issue. In that discussion, we heard many areas of agreement. Both sides agreed that the rising cost of health care is a serious problem that plagues families, small businesses, and our Federal budget. Many on both sides agreed that we should give small businesses and individuals the ability to participate in a new insurance marketplace, which Members of Congress would also use, that would allow them to pool their purchasing power and get a better deal from insurance companies. And I heard some ideas from our Republican friends that I believe are very worthy of consideration.<p>But still, there were differences. We disagreed over whether insurance companies should be held accountable when they deny people care or arbitrarily raise premiums. I believe they should. We disagreed over giving tax credits to small businesses and individuals that would make health care affordable for those who don't have it. This would be the largest middle class tax cut for health care in history, and I believe we should do it. And while we agreed that Americans with preexisting conditions should be able to get coverage, we disagreed on how to do that.<p>Some of these disagreements we may be able to resolve. Some we may not. And no final bill will include everything that everyone wants. That's what compromise is. I said at the end of Thursday's summit that I am eager and willing to move forward with members of both parties on health care if the other side is serious about coming together to resolve our differences and get this done. But I also believe that we can't lose the opportunity to meet this challenge. The tens of millions of men and women who can't afford their health insurance, they can't wait another generation for us to act. Small businesses can't wait. Americans with preexisting conditions can't wait. State and Federal budgets can't sustain these rising costs.<p>It's time for us to come together. It's time for us to act. It's time for those of us in Washington to live up to our responsibilities to the American people and to future generations. So let's get this done. <p>And thanks for listening.\" "
"54" "\"Good morning, everybody. Earlier today a devastating earthquake struck the nation of Chile, affecting millions of people. This catastrophic event was followed by multiple aftershocks and has prompted tsunami warnings across the Pacific Ocean. Earlier today I was briefed by my national security team on the steps that we're taking to protect our own people and to stand with our Chilean friends.<p>Early indications are that hundreds of lives have been lost in Chile, and the damage is severe. On behalf of the American people, Michelle and I send our deepest condolences to the Chilean people. The United States stands ready to assist in the rescue and recovery efforts, and we have resources that are positioned to deploy should the Chilean Government ask for our help. Chile is a close friend and partner of the United States, and I've reached out to President Bachelet to let her know that we will be there for her should the Chilean people need assistance and our hearts go out to the families who may have lost loved ones.<p>We're also preparing for a tsunami that could reach American shores later today, particularly in Hawaii, American Samoa, and Guam. A tsunami warning is in place, and people have been alerted to evacuate coastal areas. I urge citizens to listen closely to the instructions of local officials, who will have the full support of the Federal Government as they prepare for a potential tsunami and recover from any damage that may be caused.<p>I also urge our citizens along the West Coast to be prepared as well, as there may be dangerous waves and currents throughout the day. Again, the most important thing that you can do is to carefully heed the instructions of your State and local officials.<p>Once again, we've been reminded of the awful devastation that can come at a moment's notice. We can't control nature, but we can and must be prepared for disaster when it strikes. In the hours ahead, we'll continue to take every step possible to prepare our shores and protect our citizens. And we will stand with the people of Chile as they recover from this terrible tragedy.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"55" "\"Thank you. Everybody please have a seat. Let me begin by acknowledging some of the extraordinary people who are working on this extraordinary project. First of all, I want everybody to know, in case you haven't already met him, somebody who is working tirelessly on behalf of the young people of America, my Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan.<p>I want to acknowledge Marguerite Kondracke, the CEO of America's Promise, who is going to be implementing so much of the terrific work that's been discussed today. Marguerite--there she is, right there.<p>I want to thank Tom Donohue for your hospitality in this extraordinary venue; thank you very much, and thanks for the chamber's support for this terrific effort. I want to acknowledge Margaret Spellings, Arne's predecessor, who helped to lead a lot of the improvement that's been taking place and we're building on.<p>And obviously, I want to thank the Powells, and I will start with the more important Powell, Alma. [<i>Laughter</i>] I want to say a word about the remarkable woman who introduced me, a champion of children, a dedicated public servant, and the recipient of numerous awards. And Alma has poured herself into America's Promise Alliance, helping make it the largest partnership of its kind to improve education and help children in this country.<p>And perhaps that's not surprising, because being an educator seems to run in the family, as I understand. Even though one of her mother's parents was born into slavery and the other just after abolition, both went to college, became teachers, four of their children followed them into the education profession. So her family has educated and enriched generations of Americans, and our Nation is better off for it. And so we are very grateful to you for your extraordinary leadership. Thank you.<p>There's not much more we can say about the man that Alma succeeds as chair of the Alliance that most people don't already know anyway. I will say that I'm grateful for his friendship, for his counsel, and like so many Americans, I continue to be inspired by his leadership and by his life's story.<p>It's a story of a son of Jamaican garment workers, a student from the South Bronx; like me, wasn't always at his best in high school, but who went on to City College of New York, thanks to the support of his family and his friends and his community. It's a story of a ROTC cadet who went on to distinguish himself first in Vietnam, then in the Pentagon, in the White House, and in the State Department, and who, after spending a lifetime fighting on behalf of America, has now taken up the fight for America's children.<p>So the leadership of Colin and Alma are--that they are showing by spearheading the Grad Nation campaign to end America's dropout crisis is just the latest chapter in their service to this Nation. And so I want to publicly commend them and thank them for their extraordinary service. Thank you very much.<p>One last person I want to make mention of, because I think it bears on the extraordinary public-private partnership that's taking place here, we have the CEO of the Corporation for National and Community Service, Patrick Corvington, who is here. Where's Patrick? There he is back there. And so we are hoping to make sure we get a whole bunch of volunteers engaged in this effort.<p>Now, it's fitting that we're talking about education here at the Chamber of Commerce. After all, for America to compete and to win in the 21st century, we know that we will need a highly educated workforce that is second to none. And we know that the success of every American will be tied more closely than ever before to the level of education that they achieve. The jobs will go to the people with the knowledge and the skills to do them. It's that simple. In this kind of knowledge economy, giving up on your education and dropping out of school means not only giving up on your future, but it's also giving up on your family's future and giving up on your country's future.<p>And yet that's what too many of America's children are doing today. Over 1 million students don't finish high school each year, nearly one in three. Over half are African American and Latino. The graduation gap in some places between white students and classmates of color is 40 or 50 percent. And in cities like Detroit and Indianapolis and Baltimore, graduation rates hover around 30, 40 percent, roughly half the national average.<p>Now, it's true that not long ago, you could drop out of high school and reasonably expect to find a blue-collar job that would pay the bills and help support your family. That's just not the case anymore. In recent years, a high school dropout has made, on average, about $10,000 less per year than a high school graduate. In fact, during this recession, a high school dropout has been more than three times as likely to be out of work as someone with at least a college degree.<p>Graduating from high school is an economic imperative. That might be the best reason to get a diploma, but it's not the only reason to get a high school diploma. As Alma mentioned, high school dropouts are more likely to be teen parents, more likely to commit crime, more likely to rely on public assistance, more likely to lead shattered lives. What's more, they cost our economy hundreds of billions of dollars over the course of a lifetime in lower wages and higher public expenses.<p>So this is a problem we cannot afford to accept and we cannot afford to ignore. The stakes are too high, for our children, for our economy, and for our country. It's time for all of us to come together, parents, students, principals and teachers, business leaders and elected officials from across the political spectrum, to end America's dropout crisis.<p>This is a problem that I've actually been fighting for years. Way back when, when I was a community organizer in Chicago, I saw what happened to a family or to a school or to a community when a student dropped out. So I helped work with local churches in the region to--and public school officials to get State funding for dropout prevention programs and brought together African American and Latino leaders to help set up after-school programs, because when we help keep kids off the street, when we give them a productive way to spend their time, then graduation rates go up.<p>So that's a commitment that I've carried with me to the Oval Office. And today I want to announce steps my administration will take to help end the dropout crisis in the African American community, in the Latino community, and in the larger American community. Because we know that about 12 percent of America's schools produce 50 percent of America's dropouts, we're going to focus on helping States and school districts turn around their 5,000 lowest performing schools in the next 5 years, and Arne will be amplifying and providing details on how we can do this.<p>We'll not only challenge States to identify high schools with graduation rates below 60 percent, we're going to invest another $900 million in strategies to get those graduation rates up. Strategies like transforming schools from top to bottom, by bringing in a new principal and training teachers to use more effective techniques in the classroom. Strategies like closing a school for a time and reopening it under new management or even shutting it down entirely and sending its students to a better school. And strategies like replacing a school's principal and at least half of its staff.<p>Now, replacing school staff should only be done as a last resort. The public servants who work in America's schools, whether they're principals or teachers or counselors or coaches, work long and hard on behalf of our children, and they deserve our gratitude. Keep in mind, I've got a sister who's a teacher; my mother spent time teaching. It's one of the most important jobs that we have in this country. We've got an obligation as a country to give them the support they need, because when principals and teachers succeed, then our children succeed.<p>So if a school is struggling, we have to work with the principal and the teachers to find a solution. We've got to give them a chance to make meaningful improvements. But if a school continues to fail its students year after year after year, if it doesn't show signs of improvement, then there's got to be a sense of accountability.<p>And that's what happened in Rhode Island last week at a chronically troubled school, when just 7 percent of 11th graders passed State math tests--7 percent. When a school board wasn't able to deliver change by other means, they voted to lay off the faculty and the staff. As my Education Secretary, Arne Duncan, says, our kids get only one chance at an education, and we need to get it right.<p>Of course, getting it right requires more than just transforming our lowest performing schools. It requires giving students who are behind in school a chance to catch up and a path to a diploma. It requires focusing on students, from middle school through high school, who face factors at home, in the neighborhood, or in school that put them at risk of dropping out. And it requires replicating innovative ideas that make class feel engaging and relevant, because most high school dropouts in a recent study said the reason they dropped out was that they weren't interested in class and they weren't motivated to do their work.<p>So that's why we'll build on the efforts of places like Communities In Schools that make sure kids who are at risk of dropping out have one-on-one support. That's why we'll follow the example of places like the Met Center in Rhode Island that give students that individual attention, while also preparing them through real-world, hands-on training--the possibility of succeeding in a career.<p>And that's why we'll invest in accelerated instruction in reading and math to help students who've fallen behind make up credits and ultimately graduate on time. It's also why we'll foster better alternative high schools and transfer schools, where students who have dropped out and who are at risk of dropping out can return to the classroom and earn their diploma.<p>That's how we can curb dropout rates and boost graduating rates. I have to point out, in the 21st century, high schools shouldn't just make sure students graduate; they should make sure students graduate ready for college, ready for a career, and ready for life. And that's why we'll foster what are called early college high schools that allow students to earn a high school diploma and an associate's degree or college credit at the same time. We want to learn from successful charter schools, where students can take advanced and college-level courses.<p>So government has a responsibility. Government can help educate students to succeed in college and a career. Government can help provide the resources to engage dropouts and those at risk of dropping out. And when necessary, government has to be critically involved in turning around lowest performing schools. And nobody has been more passionate about this than Arne Duncan.<p>But as I've said before, education is not and cannot be the task of government alone. It's going to take nonprofits and businesses doing their part through alliances like America's Promise. It will take parents getting involved in their children's education, consistently, going to parent-teachers conferences, helping their children with their homework. I have to point out I just went to my daughter's parent-teachers conference last week. She's doing very well, by the way. [<i>Laughter</i>] It will take students as well, showing up to school on time and paying attention to classes and staying out of trouble. They're not let off the hook. Education isn't a passive activity, it's an active one.<p>So educating America's sons and daughters is a task for all Americans. And that's what this alliance, that's what this effort is all about, making sure that none of us think that it's somebody else's job, but rather we all accept our role to play in making sure that we have the best educated citizenry in the world. That's what has made the 20th century the American century; that's what will make the 21st century the American century.<p>Now, there's an old story that Colin has told about a man named George Ellis, who lived about a hundred years ago. And George Ellis was a janitor. His job was to clean up after the artist Daniel Chester French. Some of you may have heard of French; he's the one who carved the figure of Abraham Lincoln for the Lincoln Memorial.<p>So day after day, week after week, month after month, Ellis went about his job, barely uttering a word to Mr. French, other than saying the occasional hello or goodbye. And then one day, just when French had nearly completed his masterpiece, Ellis spoke up. He said, \\"Mr. French, I have a question for you.\\" So the artist said, \\"What is it?\\" \\"Well, what I want to ask is how you knew all along that Mr. Lincoln was sitting inside that block of marble.\\"<p>And as Colin pointed out, that wasn't a silly question. Because sometimes in this country and in our lives, we see blocks of marble, and some people can see what's inside and some people can't. It was a question profound--it was a profound question about how we recognize the potential within each of us and chisel away at what's keeping it locked inside.<p>I'm absolutely confident that because of the work of Colin and Alma Powell, because of the work that Grad Nation campaign is going to be doing and America's Promise Alliance is going to be doing, because of the work that we're doing across this Nation to give our children the best education the world has to offer, from cradle to classroom, from college through career, that we are chiseling away at the obstacles that lie in our path, that block our children's potential. We want to unlock that potential, carve it out so that our economy succeeds, so that this country succeeds, and so that our children and grandchildren succeed.<p>So thank you very much for the extraordinary work you're doing. Thank you all for your participation. May God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"56" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. Well, thank you so much. Everybody, please have a seat, have a seat. Thank you. It is good to be back in Georgia. It is good to be back in Georgia, although where's the Sun, guys? [<i>Laughter</i>] I was looking forward to----<p><i>Audience member.</i> Fired up!<p><i>The President.</i> I'm still fired up, but we've been getting a lot of snow in Washington, DC, so I was looking forward to maybe 60, 70 degrees. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I guess I'll take 50.<p>I want to first of all just make some acknowledgments of some wonderful leaders who are here. First of all, I want to thank President Kathy Love and the entire Savannah Tech community for their hospitality. I want to thank your Governor, who I just had a chance to see recently, host him in the White House with the other Governors, Mr. Sonny Perdue. Your mayor, Otis Johnson, is in the house. Congressman John Barrow--you're in his district. [<i>applause</i>] That's right. Congressman Jack Kingston, Congressman Sanford Bishop, and Congressman Hank Johnson are all in the house.<p>Well, thank you so much for taking the time to be here today. I really appreciate the opportunity to visit here at Savannah Tech. And I just took a brief tour of some of the classrooms where students are learning about clean energy. They're learning about solar cells; they're learning about efficient heating and cooling systems. You've got young people here who, through the YouthBuild program, are gaining job skills that will help them the rest of their lives. And by the way, they're building a house right now while they're at it.<p>And so from the instructors to the students, you saw just an incredible enthusiasm for America's future. And I was just talking to President Love about the focus of Savannah Tech on clean energy, the idea that this can be a real model for green energy as a way of linking students to the enormous job opportunities and business opportunities that exist in the future. These are the skills that will help our country transform the way we produce and use energy.<p>And that's so important, especially as families in Georgia and across America continue to experience the painful consequences of the worst economic crisis that we've had in generations.<p>Now, I had also had a chance to meet with some business owners who told me what I've heard time and again, that it's tough out there. Unemployment in Georgia is still above 10 percent. That doesn't include folks who have had to accept part-time jobs or in some cases have given up finding a job altogether. And when it comes to domestic policy, I have no more important a job as President than seeing to it that every American who wants to work and is able to work can find a job and a job that pays a living wage. That was my focus last year, and that is my focus this year: to lay a foundation for economic growth that will create jobs, that raises incomes, that will foster a secure economic future for middle class families.<p>Now, this depends on not just spurring hiring, but doing so in the areas that will create lasting opportunities and prosperity. That's why we've invested in roads and railways so that our economy has room to grow and we're laying the infrastructure for the future. In fact, because of the Recovery Act, there are more than 300 transportation projects underway in Georgia right now.<p>That's why we invested in schools and prevented layoffs of hundreds of thousands of teachers and public school workers, including thousands of educators in this State, because we know we will not be able to compete in new industries unless we've got workers ready to fill jobs in those industries. And I'd also point out that I've proposed the largest ever investment in community colleges and technical schools like this one, to produce millions more graduates who are ready to meet the demands of a 21st-century economy.<p>And to spur hiring and sustain growth, we've placed a big emphasis on energy. Now, just a few weeks ago, I announced a loan guarantee to break ground on the first new nuclear power plant in our country in nearly three decades, a project right here in Georgia--right here in Georgia--a project that's going to create more than 3,000 construction jobs in the next few years and, ultimately, 800 permanent jobs operating the plant. We're on track to create 700,000 jobs across America building advanced batteries for hybrid cars and modernizing our electric grid and doubling our capacity to generate clean energy.<p>And in fact, here at Savannah Tech, the Recovery Act provided a grant to YouthBuild to help provide training in these very fields. Because I'm convinced that the country that leads in clean energy is also going to be the country that leads in the global economy. And I want America to be that nation. I don't want us to be second place or third place or fourth place when it comes to the new energy technologies; I want us to be in first.<p>So we have the potential to create millions of jobs in this sector. These are jobs building more fuel-efficient cars and trucks to make us energy independent. These are jobs producing solar panels and erecting wind turbines. These are jobs designing and manufacturing and selling and installing more efficient building materials, because 40 percent of the energy we use is used by our homes and buildings. Think about that. All of us know that we use a lot of gas in our cars. But in terms of energy usage, 40 percent of it goes to our homes and our buildings.<p>So as we're looking for additional initiatives to spur hiring, I think we ought to embrace what's happening on this campus. I think we ought to continue to embrace the incredible potential that awaits us across America in clean energy. So in my State of the Union Address, I called on Congress to pass a set of initiatives for homeowners who make their homes more energy efficient, to continue the energy transformation that's already begun. So today I want to explain the details of this program. And I also want to thank the Members of the House and the Senate who are helping to usher this proposal through Congress.<p>Now, many of you have heard of ENERGY STAR. How many people have heard of ENERGY STAR? You've seen that ENERGY STAR sticker on a computer or on a microwave? The ENERGY STAR program was created to promote energy efficiency by letting consumers know which appliances, which electronics, would save electricity and therefore would save them money over time. The program I'm describing today applies this concept not to the appliances, but to the home itself, and it takes it further. So we're going to call it Home Star just to make it easy to remember.<p>All right, here's how it would work. We'd identify the kinds of building supplies and systems that would save folks energy over time. And here's one of the best things about energy efficiency, it turns out that energy-efficient windows or insulation, those things are products that are almost exclusively manufactured right here in the United States of America. It's very hard to ship windows from China. [<i>Laughter</i>] And so a lot of these materials are made right here in America.<p>So we take these materials, and if a homeowner decides to do work on his or her house--to put in new windows, to replace a heating unit, to insulate an attic, to redo a roof--the homeowner would be eligible for a rebate from the store or the contractor for 50 percent of the cost of each upgrade up to $1,500. Now, if you decided to retrofit your whole house to greatly reduce your energy use, you'd be eligible for a rebate of up to $3,000.<p>Now, these are big incentives. And you'd get these rebates instantly from the hardware store or the contractor. So if you went to Lowe's or Home Depot's or wherever you went, right there when you paid at the cash register you'd get that money. You wouldn't have to mail in a long form, wait for a check to arrive months later.<p>Now, we know this will save families as much as several hundred dollars on their utilities. We know it will make our economy less dependent on fossil fuels, helping to protect the planet for future generations. But I want to emphasize that Home Star will also create business and spur hiring up and down the economy.<p>I was just meeting with a number of business leaders in different segments of this industry. We've got some manufacturers making insulation and windows and other products; we've got folks who are contractors. So--stand up, guys--the guys I just met with. See, they're already--they're ready to work. They're ready to go. So we were just talking about how they are geared up, and they've got the capacity to guarantee a homeowner that if they're willing to do this work on their house, they will get their money back, not just through the rebate, but in the energy savings that you're seeing each year.<p>So let's say you decide to use this rebate to seal up and insulate your attic, because you want to save electricity, but also because you're tired of a drafty house. Think about all the ways in which that will stimulate jobs and growth. Now, if you really knew what you were doing, you might do it yourself, but you're probably going to have somebody come to the house to carry out the installation work, because you did the smart thing, and you refused to let your husband do it himself. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's the smart thing. He'll be stubborn. He'll tell you he can do it, but don't listen to him. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So that creates work for small businesses and contractors like some of the folks who are here today. And obviously, construction work is--that's been as hard hit as anything during this recession, so you've got a lot of skilled contractors ready to go. And that in turn means that the contractors start hiring some of these folks who may have been laid off. Some of them may have been trained right here at Savannah Tech. Now, you also have to buy the insulation and the other materials, and that means you're producing business for your local retailer. And that retailer has to purchase those supplies from manufacturers, as I said, most of them located right here in the United States of America. And I mentioned these domestic manufacturers who are in the crowd, they would benefit from this program. And then there's this huge amount of capacity--excess capacity--in construction and related industries to meet any surge in demand that was out there.<p>So the fact is that there's nearly 25 percent unemployment in the construction industry so far, so construction companies, hardware stores, contractors, manufacturers, they faced a rapid decline in demand in the wake of the mortgage crisis. And to make matters worse, these businesses have seen the same decline in credit that has hurt every sector of our economy.<p>So these are companies ready to take on new customers, their workers eager to do new installations and renovations, factories ready to produce new building supplies. All we've got to do is create the incentives to make it happen. And this is not a Democratic idea or a Republican idea, this is a commonsense approach that will help jump-start job creation while making our economy stronger.<p>So ultimately, that's what we're called to do. Just like a responsible homeowner will invest in their homes in the near term to fortify their economic security in the long term, we've got to do the same as a country. It will have some costs on the front end. You know, you buy a new boiler or you get some insulation or you get some new windows, that's going to have an initial cost, and the same is true from a government perspective. And it's going to be politically difficult to do some of this, but it's what's right to plan for our future.<p>The same is true when it comes to reforming our education system. The same is true when it comes to trying to make our health care system more affordable. The same is true when it comes to energy. Each of these things are hard. Some of them have some costs on the front end, and working stuff through Congress is more than a notion. [<i>Laughter</i>] But by taking these steps we'll help foster the kind of broadly shared growth that will serve us in the years and the decades to come.<p>That's how we'll create the conditions for businesses to expand and hire. That's how we'll truly grow our middle class again. That's how we'll not only rebuild our economy, but we'll rebuild it stronger than it was before this crisis.<p>I am confident that we can do it. Savannah Tech is leading the way, a whole bunch of folks in this room are leading the way, and I just hope that Washington stands alongside you in making sure that we've got the kind of energy future that we need.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"57" "\"Thank you. Please, everybody, have a seat. Thank you so much, all of you, for joining us today. And I want to thank Julie, Barbara, Roland, Stephen, Renee, and Christopher, standing behind me--physicians, physician assistants, and nurses who understand how important it is for us to make much needed changes in our health care system.<p>I want to thank all of you who are here today. I want to specially recognize two people who have been working tirelessly on that--on this effort, my Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius, as well as our quarterback--[<i>Laughter</i>]--for health reform out of the White House, Nancy-Ann DeParle.<p>We began our push to reform health insurance last March in this room, with doctors and nurses who know the system best. And so it's fitting to be joined by all of you as we bring this journey to a close. <p>Last Thursday, I spent 7 hours at a summit where Democrats and Republicans engaged in a public and very substantive discussion about health care. This meeting capped off a debate that began with a similar summit nearly 1 year ago. And since then, every idea has been put on the table. Every argument has been made. Everything there is to say about health care has been said--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and just about everybody has said it. [<i>Laughter</i>] So now is the time to make a decision about how to finally reform health care so that it works, not just for the insurance companies, but for America's families and America's businesses. <p>Now, where both sides say they agree is that the status quo is not working for the American people. Health insurance is becoming more expensive by the day. Families can't afford it; businesses can't afford it; the Federal Government can't afford it. Smaller businesses and individuals who don't get coverage at work are squeezed especially hard. And insurance companies freely ration health care based on who's sick and who's healthy, who can pay and who can't. That's the status quo. That's the system we have right now. <p>Democrats and Republicans agree that this is a serious problem for America. And we agree that if we do nothing, if we throw up our hands and walk away, it's a problem that will only grow worse. Nobody disputes that. More Americans will lose their family's health insurance if they switch jobs or lose their job. More small businesses will be forced to choose between health care and hiring. More insurance companies will deny people coverage who have preexisting conditions, or they'll drop people's coverage when they get sick and need it most. And the rising cost of Medicare and Medicaid will sink our Government deeper and deeper and deeper into debt. On all of this, we agree. So the question is, what do we do about it? <p>On one end of the spectrum, there are some who've suggested scrapping our system of private insurance and replacing it with a Government-run health care system. And though many other countries have such a system, in America, it would be neither practical nor realistic.<p>On the other end of the spectrum, there are those--and this includes most Republicans in Congress--who believe the answer is to loosen regulations on the insurance industry, whether it's State consumer protections or minimum standards for the kind of insurance they can sell. The argument is, is that that will somehow lower costs. I disagree with that approach. I'm concerned that this would only give the insurance industry even freer rein to raise premiums and deny care. <p>So I don't believe we should give government bureaucrats or insurance company bureaucrats more control over health care in America. I believe it's time to give the American people more control over their health care and their health insurance. I don't believe we can afford to leave life-and-death decisions about health care to the discretion of insurance company executives alone. I believe that doctors and nurses and physician's assistants like the ones in this room should be free to decide what's best for their patients.<p>Now, the proposal I've put forward gives Americans more control over their health insurance and their health care by holding insurance companies more accountable. It builds on the current system, where most Americans get their health insurance from their employer. If you like your plan, you can keep your plan. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. I can tell you, as the father of two young girls, I would not want any plan that interferes with the relationship between a family and their doctor. <p>Essentially, my proposal would change three things about the current health care system. First, it would end the worst practices of insurance companies. No longer would they be able to deny your coverage because of a preexisting condition. No longer would they be able to drop your coverage because you got sick. No longer would they be able to force you to pay unlimited amounts of money out of your own pocket. No longer would they be able to arbitrarily and massively raise premiums like Anthem BlueCross recently tried to do in California, up to 39-percent increases in 1 year in the individual market. Those practices would end. <p>Second, my proposal would give uninsured individuals and small-business owners the same kind of choice of private health insurance that Members of Congress get for themselves, because if it's good enough for Members of Congress, it's good enough for the people who pay their salaries. <p>The reason Federal employees get a good deal on health insurance is that we all participate in an insurance market where insurance companies give better coverage and better rates because they get more customers. It's an idea that many Republicans have embraced in the past, before politics intruded. <p>And my proposal says that if you still can't afford the insurance in this new marketplace, even though it's going to provide better deals for people than they can get right now in the individual marketplace, then we'll offer you tax credits to do so, tax credits that add up to the largest middle class tax cut for health care in history. After all, the wealthiest among us can already buy the best insurance there is, and the least well off are able to get coverage through Medicaid. So it's the middle class that gets squeezed, and that's who we have to help.<p>Now, it is absolutely true that all of this will cost some money, about $100 billion per year. But most of this comes from the nearly $2 trillion a year that America already spends on health care, but a lot of it is not spent wisely; a lot of that money is being wasted or spent badly. So within this plan, we're going to make sure the dollars we spend go towards making insurance more affordable and more secure. We're going to eliminate wasteful taxpayer subsidies that currently go to insurance and pharmaceutical companies, set a new fee on insurance companies that stand to gain a lot of money and a lot of profits as millions of Americans are able to buy insurance, and we're going to make sure that the wealthiest Americans pay their fair share on Medicare. <p>The bottom line is, our proposal is paid for. And all the new money generated in this plan goes back to small businesses and middle class families who can't afford health insurance. It would also lower prescription drug prices for seniors, and it would help train new doctors and nurses and physician's assistants to provide care for American families.<p>Finally, my proposal would bring down the cost of health care for millions: families, businesses, and the Federal Government. We have now incorporated most of the serious ideas from across the political spectrum about how to contain the rising cost of health care, ideas that go after the waste and abuse in our system, especially in programs like Medicare. But we do this while protecting Medicare benefits and extending the financial stability of the program by nearly a decade. <p>Our cost-cutting measures mirror most of the proposals in the current Senate bill, which reduces most people's premiums and brings down our deficit by up to a trillion dollars over the next two decades--brings down our deficit. Those aren't my numbers; those are the savings determined by the Congressional Budget Office, which is the Washington acronym for the nonpartisan, independent referee of Congress in terms of how much stuff costs. <p>So that's our proposal. This is where we've ended up. It's an approach that has been debated and changed and, I believe, improved over the last year. It incorporates the best ideas from Democrats and Republicans, including some of the ideas that Republicans offered during the health care summit, like funding State grants on medical malpractice reform and curbing waste and fraud and abuse in the health care system. My proposal also gets rid of many of the provisions that had no place in health care reform, provisions that were more about winning individual votes in Congress than improving health care for all Americans. <p>Now, despite all that we agree on and all the Republican ideas we've incorporated, many--probably most--Republicans in Congress just have a fundamental disagreement over whether we should have more or less oversight of insurance companies. And if they truly believe that less regulation would lead to higher quality, more affordable health insurance, then they should vote against the proposal I've put forward. <p>Now, some also believe that we should, instead of doing what I'm proposing, pursue a piecemeal approach to health insurance reform, where we tinker around the edges of this challenge for the next few years. Even those who acknowledge the problem of the uninsured say we just can't afford to help them right now, which is why the Republican proposal only covers 3 million uninsured Americans, while we cover over 31 million. <p>The problem with that approach is that unless everyone has access to affordable coverage, you can't prevent insurance companies from denying coverage based on preexisting conditions, you can't limit the amount families are forced to pay out of their own pockets. The insurance reforms rest on everybody having access to coverage. And you also don't do anything about the fact that taxpayers currently end up subsidizing the uninsured when they're forced to go to the emergency room for care, to the tune of about a thousand bucks per family. You can't get those savings if those people are still going to the emergency room. So the fact is, health reform only works if you take care of all of these problems at once. <p>Now, both during and after last week's summit, Republicans in Congress insisted that the only acceptable course on health care reform is to start over. But given these honest and substantial differences between the parties about the need to regulate the insurance industry and the need to help millions of middle class families get insurance, I don't see how another year of negotiations would help. <p>Moreover, the insurance companies aren't starting over; they're continuing to raise premiums and deny coverage as we speak. For us to start over now could simply lead to delay that could last for another decade or even more. The American people and the U.S. economy just can't wait that long. So no matter which approach you favor, I believe the United States Congress owes the American people a final vote on health care reform.<p>We have debated this issue thoroughly, not just for the past year, but for decades. Reform has already passed the House with a majority. It has already passed the Senate with a supermajority of 60 votes. And now it deserves the same kind of up-or-down vote that was cast on welfare reform, that was cast on the Children's Health Insurance Program, that was used for COBRA health coverage for the unemployed, and by the way, for both Bush tax cuts, all of which had to pass Congress with nothing more than a simple majority. <p>I therefore ask leaders in both Houses of Congress to finish their work and schedule a vote in the next few weeks. From now until then, I will do everything in my power to make the case for reform. And I urge every American who wants this reform to make their voice heard as well. Every family, every business, every patient, every doctor, every nurse, every physician's assistant, make your voice heard.<p>This has been a long and wrenching debate. It has stoked great passions among the American people and their representatives. And that's because health care is a difficult issue. It is a complicated issue. If it was easy, it would have been solved long ago. As all of you know from experience, health care can literally be an issue of life or death. And as a result, it easily lends itself to demagoguery and political gamesmanship and misrepresentation and misunderstanding. <p>But that's not an excuse for those of us who were sent here to lead. That's not an excuse for us to walk away. We can't just give up because the politics are hard. I know there's been a fascination, bordering on obsession, in this media town about what passing health insurance reform would mean for the next election and the one after that. How will this play? What will happen with the polls? I will leave it to others to sift through the politics, because that's not what this is about. That's not why we're here. <p>This is about what reform would mean for the mother with breast cancer whose insurance company will finally have to pay for her chemotherapy. This is about what reform would mean for the small-business owner who will no longer have to choose between hiring more workers or offering coverage to the employees she has. This is about what reform would mean for middle class families who will be able to afford health insurance for the very first time in their lives and get a regular checkup once in a while and have some security about their children if they get sick. <p>This is about what reform would mean for all those men and women I've met over the last few years who've been brave enough to share their stories. And when we started our push for reform last year, I talked to a young mother in Wisconsin named Laura Klitzka. She has two young children. She thought she had beaten her breast cancer, but then later discovered it had spread to her bones. She and her husband were working and had insurance, but their medical bills still landed them in debt. And now she spends time worrying about that debt when all she wants to do is spend time with her children and focus on getting well. This should not happen in the United States of America. And it doesn't have to.<p>In the end, that's what this debate is about. It's about what kind of country we want to be. It's about the millions of lives that would be touched and, in some cases, saved by making private health insurance more secure and more affordable. <p>So at stake right now is not just our ability to solve this problem, but our ability to solve any problem. The American people want to know if it's still possible for Washington to look out for their interests and their future. They are waiting for us to act; they are waiting for us to lead. And as long as I hold this office, I intend to provide that leadership. I do not know how this plays politically, but I know it's right. And so I ask Congress to finish its work, and I look forward to signing this reform into law. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. Let's get it done.\" "
"58" "\"Okay, good morning, everybody. It is great to be here at Opower, and just looking around, this looks like a fun place to work. [<i>Laughter</i>] The work you do here, as we just heard, is making homes more energy efficient, it's saving people money, it's generating jobs, and it's putting America on the path to a clean energy future. And I understand, last year, that you doubled your workforce thanks to Donnie--[<i>applause</i>]--you're hoping to hire another 100 workers this year. And so this is a model of what we want to be seeing all across the country. Our goal for the economy is to show similar job growth in the months ahead.<p>This morning we learned that in February, our economy lost an additional 36,000 jobs. Now, this is actually better than expected, considering the severe storms all along the East Coast are estimated to have had a depressing effect on the numbers. And it shows that the measures that we're taking to turn our economy around are having some impact. But even though it's better than expected, it's more than we should tolerate.<p>Far too many Americans remain out of work. Far too many families are still struggling in these difficult economic times. And that's why I'm not going to rest and my administration's not going to rest in our efforts to help people who are looking to find a job, to help business owners who want to expand feel comfortable hiring again. And we're not going to rest until our economy is working again for the middle class and for all Americans.<p>And that's why my immediate priority is not only providing relief to people who are out of work, but also to help the private sector create jobs and put America back to work. Earlier this week, after breaking through a political logjam that some of you probably saw if you were watching TV, Congress passed and I signed into law a bill that extends unemployment insurance to help people who've been laid off get through these hard times. It also extended COBRA so that folks who've lost their jobs don't lose their health insurance, and it extended financing for small businesses, and makes it possible for 2,000 furloughed transportation workers to go back to work.<p>So signing this bill and getting relief out the door swiftly is absolutely essential. But it's only a temporary step. The relief I signed into law will last about a month. And that's why I'm calling Congress to extend this relief through the end of the year. And because the best form of economic relief is a quality job, I'm also calling on Congress to pass jobs measures that cut taxes, increase lending, incentivize expansion for businesses, both large and small.<p>Now, both the House and the Senate have passed a bill that would give businesses a payroll tax refund for every person hired this year. And for companies that are considering expanding, this credit could help them decide to bring an extra employee or two this year. So for companies like Opower that are doing pretty well and already expanding, the tax credit may help them decide to hire even more workers more quickly. So instead of a hundred, maybe we get 110, 115. [<i>applause</i>] Yes, we'll see.<p>Now, this bill would also encourage small companies to expand by permitting them to write off expenses for new equipment. And while it's by no means enough, this legislation's an important step on the road to recovery, and I look forward to signing it into law.<p>Now, even as we fight to help the private sector create more jobs, and even as we fight to bring about a full economic recovery, we know that there have been success stories all across America. Opower is one of those success stories. This is a company that works with utilities to help folks understand their energy costs and how they can save money on their energy bills. And for the press, if you weren't able to hear, this board testifies to the number of kilowatt-hours that have been saved, the amount of money that's gone back into consumers' pockets, and the amount of carbon that has been taken out of the atmosphere as a consequence of the great work that these people here at Opower are doing.<p>Now, part of the reason I suspect you're growing is that you're doing your jobs well. But I also know that a big part of the reason is that you're seizing the opportunities of the future. The jobs of tomorrow will be jobs in the clean energy sector, and this company is a great emblem for that. That's why my administration's taking steps to support a thriving clean energy industry across this country, an industry that's making solar panels and building wind turbines, producing cutting-edge batteries for fuel-efficient cars and trucks, and helping consumers get more control over their energy bills.<p>And that's also why, earlier this week, I urged Congress to enact a new initiative we're calling Home Star that would offer homeowners rebates for making their homes more energy efficient--rebates worth up to $1,500 for individual home upgrades and up to $3,000 for retrofitting their entire home. So if they're getting this good information from Opower and they see that, boy, that drafty window is costing me a couple of hundred bucks a year, they're now going to have an incentive to go to Home Depot or go to Lowes, to hire a certified contractor and make the changes that will ultimately pay for themselves, improve our environment, and improve our economy.<p>I want to thank, by the way, your homestate Senator, Mark Warner, for his great work on Home Star in the Senate.<p>Think about the way that the rebates we're talking about could help spur private sector job growth. It could not only help businesses like Opower to help consumers make their homes more energy efficient, it's also going to create business for the local contractors and the companies hired to upgrade homes. These companies then, in turn, have to purchase supplies, and that creates business for retailers. And these retailers would need to restock their shelves, and that creates business for manufacturers. And almost all the goods that are required to make homes more energy efficient are actually produced right here in the United States of America. It's very hard to ship an energy-efficient window across an ocean.<p>So yes, people who are out of work right now need some immediate relief. Yes, we need to extend unemployment insurance and COBRA to help Americans weather these tough times. And yes, we've got to do everything we can to help the private sector create jobs right now.<p>But even as we do, we also need to replicate the success of clean energy companies like Opower. We need to invest in the jobs of the future and in the industries of the future, because the country that leads in clean energy and energy efficiency today, I'm absolutely convinced, is going to lead the global economy tomorrow. I want that country to be the United States of America. I want companies like Opower to be expanding and thriving all across America. It's good for consumers; it's good for our economy; it's good for our environment.<p>It's wonderfully exciting to be here. And I think when you look at this group that's gathered here, you can see the future in this company. So thanks for the great work you guys are doing. Let's see if we can replicate your success all across the country.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"59" "\"This week, I asked Congress to schedule a final vote on reform that will give families and businesses more control over their health care by holding insurance companies more accountable. This comes after nearly a year of debate, as well as a 7 hour summit with Democrats and Republicans, where we had a public and substantive discussion on health care. Since then, I've said that I'm willing to incorporate some ideas offered by Republicans, and we're eliminating special provisions that had no place in health care reform. <p>Now, despite all the progress and improvements we've made, Republicans in Congress insist that the only acceptable course on health care is to start over. But you know what, the insurance companies aren't starting over. I just met with some of them on Thursday, and they couldn't give me a straight answer as to why they keep arbitrarily and massively raising premiums--by as much as 60 percent in States like Illinois. If we don't act, they will continue to do this. They'll continue to drop people's coverage when they need it. They'll continue to refuse coverage based on preexisting conditions. These practices will continue. And that's why we have to act now. That's why the United States Congress owes the American people an up-or-down vote on health insurance reform. <p>The proposal we've put forward would end the worst practices of the insurance industry, lower costs for millions of Americans, and give uninsured individuals and small businesses the same kind of choice of private health insurance that Members of Congress get for themselves. And while it will take a few years to fully implement these reforms, there are numerous protections and benefits that would start to take effect this year. <p>This year, small-business owners will receive tax credits to purchase health insurance. This year, thousands of uninsured Americans with preexisting conditions will finally be able to purchase coverage. Insurance companies will no longer be allowed to deny coverage to children with preexisting conditions. And they'll no longer be allowed to drop your coverage when you get sick. <p>This year, all new insurance plans will be required to offer free preventive care to their customers so that we can start catching preventable illnesses and diseases on the front end. There will no longer be lifetime limits or restrictive annual limits on the amount of care you receive. Young adults will be able to stay on their parent's insurance policy until they're 26 years old. And there will be a new, independent appeals process for anyone who feels they were unfairly denied a claim by their insurance company. Finally, seniors who fall into the gap in coverage known as the doughnut hole will receive $250 to help them pay for their prescriptions.<p>What won't change when this bill is signed is this: If you like the insurance plan you have now, you can keep it. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor, because nothing should get in the way of the relationship between a family and their doctor. <p>If we act now, all this will happen this year. Millions of lives will improve; some will be saved. Many families and small-business owners will have health insurance for the very first time in their lives. Doctors and patients will have more control over their health care decisions, and insurance company bureaucrats will have less. This future is within our grasp. <p>But we also know what the future will look like if we don't act, if we let this opportunity pass for another year or another decade or another generation. More Americans will lose their family's health insurance if they switch jobs or lose their job. More small businesses will be forced to choose between health care and hiring. More insurance companies will raise premiums and deny coverage. And the rising cost of Medicare and Medicaid will sink our Government deeper and deeper into debt.<p>I don't accept that future for the United States of America. I know it's been a long and hard road to this point, and we're not finished with our journey just yet. But we are close, very close. So I ask Congress to finish its work. I ask them to give the American people an up-or-down vote. Let's show our citizens that it's still possible for Washington to look out for the people's interests and the people's future.<p>Thanks for listening.\" "
"60" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. Today the people of Iraq went to the polls to choose their leaders in Iraq's second national election. By any measure, this was an important milestone in Iraqi history. Dozens of parties and coalitions fielded thousands of parliamentary candidates, men and women. Ballots were cast at some 50,000 voting booths. And in a strong turnout, millions of Iraqis exercised their right to vote with enthusiasm and optimism.<p>Today's voting makes it clear that the future of Iraq belongs to the people of Iraq. The election was organized and administered by Iraq's Independent High Electoral Commission, with critical support from the United Nations. Hundreds of thousands of Iraqis served as poll station workers and as observers.<p>As expected, there were some incidents of violence as Al Qaida in Iraq and other extremists tried to disrupt Iraq's progress by murdering innocent Iraqis who were exercising their democratic rights. But overall, the level of security and the prevention of destabilizing attacks speaks to the growing capability and professionalism of Iraqi security forces, which took the lead in providing protection at the polls.<p>I also want to express my admiration for the thousands of Americans on the ground in Iraq, for our civilians and our men and women in uniform who continue to support our Iraqi partners. This election's also a tribute to all who have served and sacrificed in Iraq over the last 7 years, including many who have given their lives.<p>We are mindful, however, that today's voting is the beginning and not the end of a long electoral and constitutional process. The ballots must be counted. Complaints must be heard, and Iraq, with the support of the United Nations, has a process in place to investigate and adjudicate any allegations of fraud. A parliament must be seated, leaders must be chosen, and a new Government must be formed. All of these important steps will take time, not weeks, but months.<p>In this process, the United States does not support particular candidates or coalitions. We support the right of the Iraqi people to choose their own leaders. And I commend the Iraqi Government for putting plans into place to ensure security and basic services for the Iraqi people during this time of transition.<p>We know that there will be very difficult days ahead in Iraq; there will probably be more violence. But like any sovereign, independent nation, Iraq must be free to chart its own course. No one should seek to influence, exploit, or disrupt this period of transition. Now's the time for every neighbor and nation to respect Iraq's sovereignty and territorial integrity.<p>A new Iraqi Government will face important decisions about Iraq's future. But as today's voting demonstrates, the Iraq people want disagreements to be debated and decided through a political process that provides security and prosperity for all Iraqis.<p>And as they go forward, the Iraqi people must know that the United States will fulfill its obligations. We will continue with the responsible removal of United States forces from Iraq. Indeed, for the first time in years, there are no--now fewer than 100,000 American troops serving in Iraq. By the end of August, our combat mission will end. As I said last year when I announced our new strategy in Iraq, we will continue to advise and assist Iraqi security forces, carry out targeted counterterrorism operations with our Iraqi partners, and protect our forces and civilians. And by the end of next year, all U.S. troops will be out of Iraq.<p>In the weeks and months ahead, the United States will continue to work closely with the Iraqi people as we expand our broad-based partnership based on mutual interest and mutual respect. And in that effort, I'm pleased that Vice President Biden will continue to play a leading role.<p>On behalf of the American people, I congratulate the Iraqi people on their courage throughout this historic election. Today, in the face of violence from those who would only destroy, Iraqis took a step forward in the hard work of building up their country. And the United States will continue to help them in that effort as we responsibly end this war and support the Iraqi people as they take control of their future.<p>Thanks very much.\" "
"61" "\"<i>The President. </i>Hello, everybody. Please have a seat. Have a seat, Crimson Tide.<p><i>Audience member. </i>Go Tide!<p><i>The President. </i>Go Tide. [<i>Laughter</i>] Well, welcome to the White House, and congratulations on your 13th--let me check that--13th national championship, the first in 17 years. I think it's safe to say that the Tide is back.<p>I've got to tell you, everyone was really excited about this team coming today, except for my Press Secretary, Robert Gibbs--[<i>Laughter</i>]--because he was born and raised in Auburn. He's hiding in his office right now. [<i>Laughter</i>] But we do have some Tide fans here that are worth a little bit of acknowledgment.<p>I want to start by thanking Robert Witt, the president of the University of Alabama. I also want to acknowledge the mayor of Tuscaloosa, Walter Maddox. You can give them a round of applause. I want to recognize Senator Shelby and Senator Sessions, who are here. Stand up, please. And our terrific Surgeon General, who's an Alabama native, Regina Benjamin, is in the house. Where's Regina? There she is over there.<p>And to all those who make this program what it is--the students and the trainers and the staff and the ticket takers, fans in Tuscaloosa and all across the country--you should all be very proud, and I want to congratulate you.<p>Obviously, I want to congratulate Coach Saban and thank him and his wife Terry for being with us today. There is no question that this team is here in large part because of what Coach Saban has done. There aren't too many coaches in the country who have the knowledge, the motivational skills, the program discipline to win two national championships in 6 years, let alone at two different schools. And I think it's a testimony to his incredible skills as a coach.<p>I've got to congratulate Mark Ingram for becoming the first Heisman Trophy winner in Alabama history. [<i>applause</i>] That's it. Mark rushed for over 1,500 yards last season, the most ever by a Crimson Tide running back. And I know his selflessness and dedication has made his team and his family very, very proud.<p>I also want to recognize your captains, Rolando McClain, Mike Johnson, and Javier Arenas, and all the upperclassmen for their leadership on this team. Congratulations to all of you. I especially want to congratulate Rolando for winning the Butkus Award as the Nation's top linebacker. And I know that part of Rolando's talent comes from his intelligence and his judgment. In fact, one of his teammates was asked to describe him. He said, \\"Just picture Coach Saban being huge and being able to play football.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, one of the trademarks of this team has always been its unwavering focus on what's important. And I know shortly after the 2008 season ended, Coach hung a picture of the Florida Gators winning the national championship in the locker room--not too subtle what he was saying. He asked his players if they wanted to work hard enough to beat their teammates in a drill or if they wanted to work hard enough to be the best team in the country. And it's pretty clear what choice they made.<p>And that's the kind of tone this team sets, both on and off the field. It's why these young men--and this is something I'm very proud of--had the second highest graduation rate of any team ranked in the top 25. It shows that these guys have their priorities straight. Together, they contributed more than 3,500 hours of community service that Alabama students--student athletes performed last year.<p>And that spirit continued earlier today when the team met with a group of kids from one of DC's roughest neighborhoods and helped teach them about the importance of staying in school and making healthy choices. That's how champions act, in football and in life. As Coach Bryant once said, \\"I think the most important thing of all for any team is a winning attitude.\\" I think this team would make him proud, because they've got that winning attitude.<p>So congratulations to all of you. The best of luck next season. I know spring practice starts on Friday--woo, man. [<i>Laughter</i>] Next Friday, huh? So enjoy these last few days off. [<i>Laughter</i>] And congratulations to all of you for just an extraordinary season. Roll Tide.\" "
"62" "\"<i>The President</i>. Thank you. Hello, Pennsylvania! Thank you very much. This is a nice crowd. Thank you. Well, what a wonderful crowd.<p><i>Audience member</i>. We love you!<p><i>The President</i>. Love you back. I am--I'm kind of fired up. I'm kind of fired up. So listen, we--this is just an extraordinary crowd, and I--but----<p><i>Audience member</i>. We love you!<p><i>The President</i>. I love you back. I want--there's some people I want to point out who are here who've just been doing great work. First of all, give Leslie a great round of applause for her wonderful introduction.<p>Somebody who's been working tirelessly on your behalf, doing a great job, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius, is in the house. One of the finest Governors in the country, Ed Rendell is in the house. Everybody notice how good Ed's looking, by the way? Huh? He's been on that training program, eating egg whites and keeping his cholesterol down. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Your senior Senator, who's just been doing outstanding work in the Senate, Arlen Specter's in the house. One of my great friends, somebody who supported me when nobody could pronounce my name, Bob Casey--in the house. Your Congressman, the person who gave me confidence that I could win even though nobody could pronounce my name, Chaka Fattah is in the house. I figured if they could elect a \\"Chaka\\"--[<i>Laughter</i>]--then they could elect a \\"Barack.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>A couple of other outstanding Members of Congress--first of all, from Pennsylvania, Allyson Schwartz is in the house. Somebody who rendered outstanding service to our Nation before he was in Congress, Joe Sestak is in the house. One of the sharpest Members of Congress--technically not his State, but he--it's just from right next door, New Jersey, so he's practically--[<i>applause</i>]. See, we got some Jersey folks here--Rob Andrews in the house; and the great mayor of Philadelphia, Michael Nutter.<p>I'm a little warm here, so--all right. It's a little hot up here.<p><i>Audience member.</i> To Arcadia.<p><i>The President.</i> And to Arcadia University--[<i>applause</i>]--thank you, thank you guys for hosting us. I was asking about that castle on the way in, by the way. That's a--I thought the White House was pretty nice, but that castle, that's-- [<i>Laughter</i>] .<p>Well, it is great to be back here in the Keystone State. It's even better to be out of Washington, DC. [<i>Laughter</i>] First of all, the people of DC are wonderful. They're nice people; they're good people; love the city, the monuments, everything. But when you're in Washington, folks respond to every issue, every decision, every debate, no matter how important it is, with the same question: Well, what does this mean for the next election? [<i>Laughter</i>] What does it mean for your poll numbers? Is this good for the Democrats or good for the Republicans? Who won the news cycle? <p>That's just how Washington is. They can't help it. They are obsessed with the sport of politics. And so that's the environment in which elected officials are operating. And you've seen all the pundits pontificating and talking over each other on the cable shows, and they're yelling and shouting. They can't help themselves. That's what they do. <p>But out here and all across America, folks are worried about bigger things. They're worried about how to make payroll. They're worried about how to make ends meet. They're worried about what the future will hold for their families and for our country. They're not worrying about the next election. We just had an election. They're worried about the next paycheck or the next tuition payment that's due. They're thinking about retirement. You want people in Washington to spend a little less time worrying about our jobs, a little more time worrying about your jobs. <p>Despite all the challenges we face--two wars, the aftermath of a terrible recession--I want to tell everybody here today, I am absolutely confident that America will prevail, that we will shape our destiny as past generations have done. That's who we are. We don't give up. We don't quit. Sometimes we take our lumps, but we just keep on going. That's who we are. But that only happens when we're meeting our challenges squarely and honestly. And I have to tell you, that's why we are fighting so hard to deal with the health care crisis in this country, health care costs that are growing every single day. <p>I want to spend some time talking about this. The price of health care is one of the most punishing costs for families and for businesses and for our Government. It's forcing people to cut back or go without health insurance. It forces small businesses to choose between hiring or health care. It's plunging the Federal Government deeper and deeper and deeper into debt. <p>The young people who are here, you've heard stories--some of you guys still have health care while you're in school, some of you may still be on your parents' plans, but some of the highest uninsurance rates are among young people. And it's getting harder and harder to find a job that's going to provide you with health care. And a lot of you right now feel like you're invincible, so you don't worry about it. [<i>Laughter</i>] But let me tell you, when you hit 48--[<i>Laughter</i>]--you start realizing, things start breaking down a little bit. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And the insurance companies continue to ration health care based on who's sick and who's healthy, on who can pay and who can't pay. That's the status quo in America, and it is a status quo that is unsustainable for this country. We can't have a system that works better for the insurance companies than it does for the American people. We need to give families and businesses more control over their own health insurance. And that's why we need to pass health care reform: not next year, not 5 years from now, not 10 years from now, but now.<p>Now, since we took this issue on a year ago, there have been plenty of folks in Washington who've said that the politics is just too hard. They've warned us we may not win. They've argued now is not the time for reform. It's going to hurt your poll numbers. How's it going to affect Democrats in November? Don't do it now. My question to them is, when's the right time? If not now, when? If not us, who? <p>Think about it. We've been talking about health care for nearly a century. I'm reading a biography of Teddy Roosevelt right now. He was talking about it--Teddy Roosevelt. We have failed to meet this challenge during periods of prosperity and also during periods of decline. Some people say, \\"Well, don't do it right now because the economy's weak.\\" When the economy was strong, we didn't do it. We've talked about it during Democratic administrations and Republican administrations. I got all my Republican colleagues out there saying, \\"Well, no, no, no, we want to focus on things like cost.\\" You had 10 years. What happened? What were you doing?<p>Every year, the problem gets worse. Every year, insurance companies deny more people coverage because they've got preexisting conditions. Every year, they drop more people's coverage when they get sick, right when they need it most. Every year, they raise premiums higher and higher and higher. <p>Just last month, Anthem BlueCross in California tried to jack up rates by nearly 40 percent--40 percent. Anybody's paycheck gone up 40 percent?<p><i>Audience members</i>. No!<p><i>The President</i>. I mean, why is it that we think this is normal? In my home State of Illinois, rates are going up by as much as 60 percent. You just heard Leslie, who was hit with more than 100-percent increase--100 percent. One letter from her insurance company and her premiums doubled, just like that. And because so many of these markets are so concentrated, it's not like you can go shopping. You're stuck. So you've got a choice: Either no health insurance, in which case you're taking a chance if somebody in your family gets sick that you will go bankrupt and lose your home and lose everything you've had, or you keep on ponying up money that you can't afford.<p>See, these insurance companies have made a calculation. Listen to this. The other day, there was a conference call that was organized by Goldman Sachs. You know Goldman Sachs. You've been hearing about them. [<i>Laughter</i>] All right. So they organized a conference call in which an insurance broker was telling Wall Street investors how he expected things to be playing out over the next several years. And this broker said that insurance companies know they will lose customers if they keep on raising premiums, but because there's so little competition in the insurance industry, they're okay with people being priced out of the insurance market because, first of all, a lot of folks are going to be stuck, and even if some people drop out, they'll still make more money by raising premiums on the customers that they keep. <p>And they will keep on doing this for as long as they can get away with it. I mean, this is no secret; they're telling their investors this: \\"We are in the money. We are going to keep on making big profits even though a lot of folks are going to be put under hardship.\\"<p>So how much higher do premiums have to rise until we do something about it? How many more Americans have to lose their health insurance? How many more businesses have to drop coverage? All those young people out here, after you graduate, you're going to be looking for a job. Think about the environment that's going to be out there when a whole bunch of potential employers just tell you, \\"You know what, we just can't afford it,\\" or, \\"You know what, we're going to have to take thousands of dollars out of your paycheck because the insurance company's just jacked up our rates.\\"<p>How many years--how many more years can the Federal budget handle the crushing costs of Medicare and Medicaid? That's the debt you're going to have to pay, young people. When's the right time for health insurance reform?<p><i>Audience members</i>. Now!<p><i>The President</i>. Is it a year from now or 2 years from now or 5 years from now or 10 years from now?<p><i>Audience members</i>. No!<p><i>The President</i>. I think it's right now. And that's why you're here today. <p>Now, Leslie is a single mom--just like my mom was a single mom--trying to put her daughter through college. She knows that the time for reform is now. <p>Natoma Canfield, self-employed cancer survivor from Ohio, she wrote us a letter. Last year, her insurance company charged her over $6,000 in premiums; paid about $900 worth of care. Now they've decided to jack up her rates 40 percent next year. So she's had to drop her insurance, even though it may cost her the house that her parents built. Natoma knows it's time for reform. <p>Laura Klitzka--this is a friend of mine, somebody I met when I was campaigning in Wisconsin--Green Bay, Wisconsin. She's a young mother; she's got two kids. She thought she had beaten her breast cancer, but later discovered it had spread to her bones. She and her husband had insurance, but their medical bills still landed them with tens of thousands of dollars' worth of debt, and now she spends her time worrying about that debt when all she wants to do is spend time with her children. I just talked to Laura this past weekend, and let me tell you, she knows that the time for reform is right now. <p>So what should I tell these Americans? That Washington's not sure how it will play in November? That we should walk away from this fight? Or do something like some on the other side of the aisle have suggested--well, we'll do it incrementally; we'll take baby steps; we'll do----<p><i>Audience members</i>. No!<p><i>The President</i>. Well--so they want me to pretend to do something that doesn't really help these folks. <p>We have debated health care in Washington for more than a year. Every proposal has been put on the table. Every argument has been made. I know a lot of people view this as a partisan issue, but both parties have found areas where we agree. What we've ended up with is a proposal that's somewhere in the middle, one that incorporates the best from Democrats and Republicans--best ideas. <p>Think about it along the spectrum of how we could approach health care. On one side of the spectrum, there were those at the beginning of this process who wanted to scrap our system of private insurance and replace it with a Government-run health care system, like they have in some other countries. Look, it works in places like Canada, but I didn't think it was going to be practical, realistic to do it here. <p>On the other side of the spectrum, there are those who believe that the answer is just to loosen regulations on insurance companies. This is what we heard at the health care summit. They said, \\"Well, you know what, if we had fewer regulations on the insurance companies\\"----<p><i>Audience members</i>. Boo!<p><i>The President</i>. ----\\"whether it's consumer protections or basic standards on what kind of insurance they sell, somehow market forces will make things better.\\" Well, we've tried that. I'm concerned that would only give insurance companies more leeway to raise premiums and deny care. <p>So the bottom line is, I don't believe we should give Government or insurance companies more control over health care in America. I believe it's time to give you, the American people, more control over your own health insurance. <p>And that's why my proposal builds on the current system, where most Americans get their health insurance from their employer. If you like your plan, you can keep your plan. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. But I can tell you, as the father of two young girls, I don't want a plan that interferes with the relationship between a family and their doctor. So we're going to preserve that.<p>Essentially, my proposal would change three things about the current health care system. Listen up. First, it would end the worst practices of insurance companies. Within the first year of signing health care reform, thousands of uninsured Americans with preexisting conditions would suddenly be able to purchase health insurance for the very first time in their lives, or the first time in a long time. <p>This year, insurance companies will be banned forever from denying coverage to children with preexisting conditions. This year, they will be banned from dropping your coverage when you get sick. And they will no longer be able to arbitrarily and massively hike your premiums, just like they did to Leslie or Natoma or millions of others Americans. Those practices will end.<p>If this reform becomes law, all new insurance plans will be required to offer free preventive care to their customers starting this year, free checkups so that we can catch preventable illnesses on the front end. Starting this year, there will be no more lifetime or restrictive annual limits on the amount of care that you can receive from your insurance companies. There's a lot of fine print in there that can end up costing people hundreds of thousands of dollars because they hit a limit. <p>If you're a young adult, which many of you are, you'll be able to stay on your parent's insurance policy until you're 26 years old. And there will be a new, independent appeals process for anybody who feels they were unfairly denied a claim by their insurance company. So you'll have recourse if you're being taken advantage of. So that's the first thing that would change, and it would change fast. Insurance companies would finally be held accountable to the American people. That's number one.<p>Number two, second thing that would change about the current system is this: For the first time in their lives--or oftentimes, in a very long time--uninsured individuals and small-business owners will have the same kind of choice of private health insurance that Members of Congress get for themselves. If it's good enough for Congress, it should be good enough for the people paying Congress's salaries--that's you.<p>Now, the idea is very simple here, and it's one----<p><i>[At this point, there was a disruption in the audience.]</i><p>----I'm sorry, go ahead. Let me explain how this would work, because it's an idea that a lot of Republicans have embraced in the past. What my proposal says is that if you aren't part of a big group, if you don't work for a big company, you can be part of a pool, which gives you bargaining power over insurance companies. It's very straightforward. Suddenly, just like the Federal employees--there are millions of them, so they can drive a harder bargain with insurance companies--you, as an individual or a small-business owner, could be part of this pool, which would give you more negotiating power with the insurance companies for lower rates and a better deal. Right?<p>Now, if you still can't afford the insurance that's offered--even though it's a better deal than you can get on your own, but you still just can't get it--then what we're going to do is give you a tax credit to do so. And these tax credits add up to the largest middle class tax cut for health care in history. Because the wealthiest among us, they can already afford to buy the best insurance there is; the least well off are already covered through Medicaid. It's the middle class that gets squeezed. That's who we need to help with these tax credits. That's what we intend to do. <p>Now, I want to be honest. Let's be clear: This will cost some money. It's going to cost about $100 billion per year. Most of this comes from the nearly $2.5 trillion a year that America already spends on health care. It's just that right now a lot of that money is being wasted, or it's being spent badly. So with this plan, we're going to make sure that the dollars we spend go to making insurance more affordable and more secure. <p>So I'll give you an example. We're going to eliminate wasteful taxpayer subsidies that currently go to insurance and pharmaceutical companies. They are getting billions of dollars a year from the Government, from taxpayers, when they're making a big profit. I'd rather see that money going to people who need it. <p>We'll set a new fee on insurance companies that stand to gain as millions of Americans are able to buy insurance. They're going to have 30 million new customers; there's nothing wrong with them paying a little bit of the freight. And we'll make sure that the wealthiest Americans pay their fair share of Medicare, just like everybody else does.<p>So the bottom line is this: Our proposal is paid for. All the new money generated in this plan goes back to small-business owners and individuals in the middle class who right now are having trouble getting insurance. It would lower prescription drug prices for seniors. It would help train new doctors and nurses to provide care for American families and physician's assistants and therapists. I know there are--got great programs here at Arcadia. I was hearing about the terrific programs you have at Arcadia in the health care field. Well, you know what, we're going to need more health care professionals of the sorts that are being trained here, and we want to help you get that training. And that's in this bill.<p>Now--so I've mentioned two things now: insurance reform and making sure the people who don't have health insurance are able to get it.<p>Finally, my proposal would bring down the cost of health care for millions: families, businesses, and the Federal Government. As I said, you keep on hearing from critics, and some of the Republicans on these Sunday shows say, \\"Well, we want to do more about cost.\\" We have now incorporated almost every single serious idea from across the political spectrum about how to contain the rising cost of health care, ideas that go after waste and abuse in our system, including in programs like Medicare. But we do this while protecting Medicare benefits, and we extend the financial stability of the program by nearly a decade.<p>Our cost-cutting measures mirror most of the proposals in the current Senate bill, which reduces most people's premiums and brings down our deficit by up to $1 trillion over the next decade because we're spending our health care dollars more wisely. Those aren't my numbers, they are the savings determined by the Congressional Budget Office, which is the nonpartisan, independent referee of Congress for what things cost.<p>So that's our proposal: insurance reform, making sure that you can have choices in the marketplace for health insurance and making it affordable for people, and reducing costs.<p>Now, think about--I think--how many people would like a proposal that holds insurance companies more accountable? How many people would like to give Americans the same insurance choices that Members of Congress get? And how many would like a proposal that brings down costs for everyone? That's our proposal, and it is paid for, and it's a proposal whose time has come. <p>So the United States Congress owes the American people a final, up-or-down vote on health care. It's time to make a decision. The time for talk is over. We need to see where people stand. And we need all of you to help us win that vote. So I need you to knock on doors, talk to your neighbors, pick up the phone. When you hear an argument by the water cooler and somebody is saying this or that about it, say, \\"No, no, no, hold on a second.\\" You--we--and we need you to make your voices heard all the way in Washington, DC. <p>They need to hear your voices, because right now the Washington echo chamber is in full throttle. It is as deafening as it's ever been. And as we come to that final vote, that echo chamber's telling Members of Congress, wait, think about the politics, instead of thinking about doing the right thing. <p>That's what Mitch McConnell said this weekend. His main argument was, \\"Well, this is going to be really bad for Democrats politically.\\" Now, first of all, I generally wouldn't take advice about what's good for Democrats. [<i>Laughter</i>] But setting aside that, that's not the issue here. The issue here is not the politics of it.<p>But that's what people--that's what Members of Congress are hearing right now on the cable shows and in the--sort of the gossip columns in Washington. It's telling Congress, comprehensive reform's failed before. Remember what happened to Clinton. It may just be too politically hard.<p>Yes, it's hard. It is hard. That's because health care is complicated. Health care is a hard issue. It's easily misrepresented; it's easily misunderstood. So it's hard for some Members of Congress to make this vote. There's no doubt about that. But you know what else is hard? What Leslie and her family are going through, that's hard. The possibility that Natoma Canfield might lose her house because she's about to lose her health insurance, that's hard. Laura Klitzka in Green Bay having to worry about her cancer and her debt at the same time, trying to explain that to her kids, that's hard. What's hard is what millions of families and small businesses are going through because we allow the insurance industry to run wild in this country. <p>So let me remind everybody: Those of us in public office were not sent to Washington to do what's easy. We weren't sent there because of the big fancy title. We weren't sent there to--because of a big fancy office. We weren't sent there just so everybody can say how wonderful we are. We were sent there to do what was hard. We were sent there to take on the tough issues. We were sent there to solve the big challenges. And that's why we're there. And at this moment, we are being called upon to fulfill our duty to the citizens of this Nation and to future generations. <p>So I'll be honest with you. I don't know how passing health care will play politically, but I do know that it's the right thing to do. It's right for our families. It's right for our businesses. It's right for the United States of America. And if you share that belief, I want you to stand with me and fight with me. And I ask you to help us get us over the finish line these next 2 weeks. The need is great. The opportunity's here. Let's seize reform. It's within our grasp.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless.\" "
"63" "\"Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. Let me begin by just thanking some of the people who are participating here today. Michelle mentioned my outstanding Cabinet members, the extraordinary Members of Congress, and people who are in our senior White House team.<p>I also want to thank Ms. Kerry Washington for emceeing today. Give Kerry a big round of applause. Where is she? There she is. Ms. Katharine McPhee, who's going to be performing a song in the program--where's Katharine? She's around. She's practicing, getting her--she's here; I just saw her. Secretary Madeleine Albright is here today. And Ms. Mozhdah Jamalzadah is also going to be here performing a song in the program, so we want to thank her. Give her a big round of applause. <p>And there--then there's this lady here. [<i>Laughter</i>] FLOTUS, that's what we call her--FLOTUS. [<i>Laughter</i>] She is--I'm biased, I acknowledge, but I think she's a pretty good First Lady. Don't you think? She's pretty good. And I'm very sincere when I look at you adoringly. [<i>Laughter</i>] Yes.<p>Now, the story of America over the past 200 years--past 233 years is one of laws becoming more just, of a people becoming more equal, of a Union being perfected. It's a story of captives being set free and a movement to fulfill the promise of that freedom. It's a story of waves of weary travelers reconsecrating America as a nation of immigrants. It's a story of our gay and lesbian brothers and sisters making the most of that most American of demands, to be treated the same as everybody else. And it's a story of women, from those on the <i>Mayflower</i> to the one I'm blessed to call my wife, who looked across the dinner table and thought, I'm smarter than that guy. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>The story of America's women, like the story of America itself, has had its peaks and valleys. But as one of our great American educators once said, if you drew a line through all the valleys and all the peaks, that line would be drawn with an upward curve. That upward curve--what we call progress--didn't happen by accident.<p>It came about because of daring, indomitable women. Women like Abigail Adams, who brought on the ridicule of her husband John by advising him to \\"remember the ladies\\" in our founding documents. Women like the pioneers and settlers who, in the words of one, said, \\"I thought, where he could go, I could go.\\" Women like Dorothy Height and Sylvia Mendez and Betty Friedan and Gloria Steinem and Sandra Day O'Connor and Madeleine Albright, upending assumptions and changing laws and tearing down barriers. Women like Hillary Rodham Clinton, who, throughout her career, has put millions of cracks in America's glass ceiling. And it's because of them and so many others--many who aren't recorded in the history books--that the story of America is ultimately one of hope and one of progress, of a upward journey.<p>But even as we reflect on the hope of our history, we must also face squarely the reality of the present, a reality marked by unfairness, marked by hardship for too many women in America. The statistics of inequality are all too familiar to us: how women just earn 77 cents for every dollar men make; how one in four women is the victim of domestic violence at some point in her life; how women are more than half the population, but make up only 17 percent of the seats in Congress and less than 3 percent of Fortune 500 CEOs.<p>These and any number of other facts and figures reflect the fundamental truth that in 2010, full gender equality has not yet been achieved, that the task of perfecting America goes on, and that all of us, men and women, have a part to play in bending the arc in America's story upward in the 21st century.<p>Now, I'm proud of the extraordinary women--and the extraordinary Americans--I've appointed to help take up this task. In addition to our outstanding Secretary of State, we've got Hilda Solis serving where the first female Cabinet Secretary, Frances Perkins, once served, at the Labor Department. We've got Kathleen Sebelius leading our Health and Human Services Department; Janet Napolitano running the Department of Homeland Security. Susan Rice is our Ambassador to the United Nations. The Chair of my Council of Economic Advisers is Christy Romer. We got Lisa Jackson, who's doing great work at the EPA.<p>We have just extraordinary talent all across this administration. And from health insurance reform to climate and energy to matters of domestic policy, I'm seeking the counsel of brilliant women. And that list doesn't include, by the way, the Justice I appointed to the Supreme Court, Ms. Sonia Sotomayor.<p>So yes, I'm very proud to have appointed so many brilliant women to so many essential posts in our Government. But I'm even prouder of what each of them is doing, and what all of us are doing, to make life better in America and around the world, because lifting up the prospects of our daughters will require all of us doing our part. And that's why we've established a new White House Council on Women and Girls, chaired by my friend and senior adviser, Valerie Jarrett, that will help make sure that every part of our Government is working to address the challenges faced by women and girls.<p>At a time when women are on the verge of making up the majority of America's workforce, the very first bill I signed into law--a bill named after Lilly Ledbetter--was designed to help keep America's promise: If you do the same work as a man, you ought to be paid the same wage as a man. To help parents balance work and family, we're offering States more support for quality, affordable childcare and paid family leave.<p>At a time when we are waging two wars and fighting a global network of hatred and violence, we need the service of all those patriotic Americans who are willing to do their part. And that's why Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mullen and top Navy officers decided to end an old barrier against women so our skilled and brave Navy women, as well as men, can serve on submarines.<p>At a time when it's still legal for health insurance companies to discriminate against the victims of domestic violence in eight States plus the District of Columbia, we're seeking health insurance reforms that would finally rein in the worst practices of the insurance industry. And I'm also proud to note that I've appointed the first White House Adviser on Violence Against Women, Lynn Rosenthal.<p>At a time when the jobs of tomorrow will go to workers with the knowledge and skills to do them, we're ramping up efforts to educate our young people in science and technology, engineering and math, and we're making a special effort to recruit women to those fields, because I want to see more teenage astronomers like Caroline Moore. In fact, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood has launched a new partnership with Spelman College to train women engineers and help put them to work rebuilding our highways and our infrastructure.<p>And since today happens to be International Women's Day, it's also worth mentioning what Secretary Clinton and Ambassador Rice and this administration are doing on behalf of women around the globe. We lifted what's called the global gag rule that restricted women's access to family planning services abroad. We're pursuing a global health strategy that makes important investments in child and maternal health. We sponsored a U.N. resolution to increase protection for women and girls in conflict-torn countries to help make it possible for more women like Mozhdah, who traveled from Afghanistan to join us here today, to reach for their dreams. We created the first Office of Global Women's Issues at the State Department and appointed Ambassador Melanne Verveer to run it. We're investing $18 million to combat the unconscionable cruelties being committed against girls and women in the Democratic Republic of Congo. And next month, I'll host an entrepreneurship summit to help fulfill a commitment I made in Cairo, a summit that will focus, in part, on the challenges facing women entrepreneurs in Muslim communities around the world.<p>We're doing all of this not only because promoting women's empowerment is one of the best ways to promote economic development and economic success, we are doing it because it's the right thing to do. I say that not only as a President, but also as the father of two daughters, as a son and a grandson, and as a husband.<p>Growing up, I saw my mother dedicate most of her life to promoting the rights and well-being of women overseas, to empowering them to take more control over their economic lives and be able to empower their families as well. I saw my grandmother work her way up to become vice president at a bank in Hawaii--starting as a secretary, never had more than a high school education. But I also saw how she hit a glass ceiling and had to watch as men no more qualified than she was rise up the corporate ladder.<p>Before we got to the White House--where we are grateful for the extraordinary support that we receive from the White House staff--I'd see the challenges Michelle faced as a working mom. And as usual, she handled it with grace and skill, but she'd be the first one to tell you it wasn't always easy balancing the responsibilities of being a hospital executive with those of being a mother and sometimes worrying about the girls when she was at work and sometimes worrying about work when she was with the girls.<p>And today, as I see Sasha and Malia getting older, I think about the world that they and all of America's daughters will inherit. And I think about all the opportunities that are still beyond the reach for too many young women and too many of our brothers and--too many of our sisters and mothers and aunts, all of the glass ceilings that have yet to be shattered.<p>We have so much more work to do, and that's why we're here today. I think about this because it reminds me of why I'm here. I didn't run for President so that the dreams of our daughters could be deferred or denied. I didn't run for President to see inequality and injustice persist in our time. I ran for President to put the same rights, the same opportunities, the same dreams within the reach of our daughters and our sons alike. I ran for President to put the American Dream within the reach of all of our people, no matter what their gender or race or faith or station.<p>And if we can stay true to that cause, if we can stay true to our founding ideals, then I'm absolutely confident that the line that runs through America's story will, in the future, as it has in the past, be drawn with an upward curve. And I'm especially pleased that these young ladies are here today, because they're the ones who are going to help bend that curve towards justice and equality.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"64" "\"Thank you so much. Well, good evening, everybody, and welcome to the White House. I can't imagine a better way to celebrate the independence of Greece than with the Prime Minister of Greece. [<i>Laughter</i>] So Prime Minister Papandreou, to your lovely wife, Mrs. Papandreou, we are honored by your presence here today. And we are pleased that you were able to bring the--your extraordinary delegation from Athens.<p>Now, like his father and his grandfather before him, the Prime Minister is leading Greece through challenging times. But as I told him during our meeting in the Oval Office today, whether in good times or in bad times, the people of Greece will always have a friend and a partner in the United States of America.<p>Thank you, Your Eminence, for your very kind introduction and for the wisdom and compassion that has always defined your ministry. Archbishop Demetrios marks his second decade guiding the Greek Orthodox Church and community in America, four decades as a bishop, and recently, his 82d birthday. And he is looking really good so--[<i>applause</i>]. I need to find out what he's eating. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Last year, His Eminence tried to compare me with Alexander the Great. [<i>Laughter</i>] I thought this would get me more respect from Michelle and the girls. [<i>Laughter</i>] It did not. [<i>Laughter</i>] They reminded me instead that Greek literature is full of very strong women. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I want to acknowledge the fact that we're joined by leaders who have strengthened the bonds between us, including our Ambassador, Kaskarelis, and from Cyprus, Ambassador Kakouris. Please stand up. Do we have our other Ambassador there? There he is.<p>We have some outstanding Members of Congress who are here, and we've got at least one potential Member of Congress--Alexi, stand up--from the State of Illinois. We've got, in fact--in addition to Alexi, we've got a lot of Greek American friends here who've been great friends and supporters of mine, including folks here from Chicago. I think we've got just about all of Greektown here. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we also have some of the outstanding Greek Americans who are serving in my administration.<p>Now, Greek Independence Day isn't for another few weeks. But I'll be on a trip to Asia, so I appreciate you coming early, not that Greeks have ever needed an excuse to celebrate, let's face it. [<i>Laughter</i>] But on that day, we'll remember how 189 years ago, another bishop stood up, in a monastery in the mountains, raised the Greek flag, declared independence, and began the struggle to restore democracy to its birthplace.<p>But on that day, we'll not only celebrate a singular moment in time, we'll be reminded of the spirit that has defined Greece and its people for all time. There's a concept that captures it, and it doesn't translate easily; it doesn't really have an equivalent in English. But it's a virtue that all of you know well, because it's the very essence of being Greek--and you will forgive me if my pronunciation is just so-so--<i>philotimo</i>, all right? Literally--<i>philotimo</i>--literally, it translate as \\"love of honor.\\" I love that concept, love of honor. But, of course, it means much more than that.<p>It's a sense of love to family and to community and to country and the notion that what we're here on this Earth to do is to be all in this together. We all have obligations to each other and to work together. And so it was that the democratic example of a small group of city-states more than 2,000 years ago could inspire the founding generation of this country, that led one early American to imagine that \\"the days of Greece may be revived in the woods of America.\\"<p>It's the sense of nobility and morality written in the pages of those timeless Greek texts, which have instructed students--and tormented them--[<i>Laughter</i>]--down the ages, in every corner of the world. Indeed, when I was living in Indonesia as a child, when my mother would wake me up early in the morning to teach me, among the books that she used to pull off the shelf were the legends of Greek mythology.<p><i>Philotimo</i>, it's a sense of right and wrong and a duty to do what's right. And so 189 years ago, Americans of Greek origin crossed the oceans and fought for Greek independence. Greek Americans, in turn, served and fought to preserve our Union. And through two World Wars and a long cold war, America stood with our Greek allies and friends.<p>And since the Prime Minister is here, let me acknowledge Greece's efforts to extend this security and stability in our time, toward a just and final settlement in Cyprus, fully integrating the Balkans into Europe, and the Prime Minister's personal work to improve relations with Turkey. We thank you for your leadership.<p>And let me commend Greece, our close NATO ally, for standing up for the security and opportunity of people around the world, from the Balkans to Afghanistan, where Greek servicemembers are helping to give people who have known too much war the chance to live in peace and security.<p>This solidarity continues today, whether it's the close counterterrorism efforts between our Governments or the deep partnerships between our people. Indeed, as the Prime Minister and I discussed this afternoon, Greece's participation in the Visa Waiver Program will strengthen security in both our countries, and whether it's to do business or visit family and friends, it will now be easier for our Greek friends to visit the United States.<p>And <i>philotimo</i> is a sense of dignity and respect as well. It's the determination that has driven generations of Greek Americans, like those here tonight, to struggle and sacrifice for the same things that all Americans want: to pursue our dreams, to realize our God-given potential, and to give our children an even better life.<p>That's the simple hope that caused a bishop to raise that flag on a mountaintop so many years ago. That's the profound sense of friendship that will guide our work in the years ahead, because what one patriot of Greek independence wrote to John Quincy Adams nearly 200 years ago remains true today: We are \\"friends, copatriots, and brothers.\\"<p>So thank you all for coming. God bless you. God bless America. And <i>zito i Ellas</i>.\" "
"65" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Missouri. Well, it is good to see you. I know you guys been waiting a little bit here. It's a little bit warm in here; you're all fanning yourself off, woo! It is good to see everybody here today. How's everybody doing?<p>I've got a couple of acknowledgments I want to make. First of all, mayor of St. Charles, Patti York--where's Patti? Thank you, Madam Mayor. Thanks for the great weather. The--we also have the St. Charles School District superintendent, Randy Charles is here. Where's--where did Randy go? He--I just saw him. There he is, back there.<p>It is great to be here, great to be back in the \\"Show Me\\" State, great to be back in St. Charles. Some of you may remember, it was--that it was from this town that Lewis and Clark began their journey into a harsh and unforgiving landscape. And I can relate--[<i>Laughter</i>]--because the first time I came here, I was trying to get to Washington, DC, a harsh and unforgiving landscape. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, a big part of our campaign was about changing the way Washington works. It was about transforming a politics that's driven by cynicism and a 24-hour news cycle and the cable chatter and always focused on the next election instead of the next generation. Our campaign was about meeting the looming challenges--in education and in energy, in our health care system, in our financial system--that helped bring about the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. And it still threatens our prosperity. It was about making our Government actually work for you, the people, a Government that lives up to its responsibilities, including the responsibility to live within its means.<p>Now, there's been a lot of discussion about Government over the last several months. And let's face it, people have lost faith in Government. They had lost faith in Government before I ran, and it's been getting worse. You know, President Lincoln said that \\"the legitimate object of government is to do for the people what needs to be done, but which they cannot . . . do at all, or do so well, by themselves.\\" That pretty much sums up my attitude. You let people do for themselves what they can do for themselves, and then, if there are some things that we do better together, we should do them together. And I believe that in everything Government does, we've got a special responsibility to be wise stewards about how Americans' hard-earned tax dollars are spent. And I know you agree with that too. Doesn't matter whether you're a Democrat or a Republican, you don't like seeing your money wasted--or an Independent--don't like seeing your money wasted.<p>That's a responsibility that my administration is seeking to fulfill every single day. Over the last year, we've gone through the budget line by line looking for places to trim the fat out of Government. And we've found a lot of fat to trim, I got to admit. Last year, we pushed Congress to cut nearly $20 billion by streamlining or eliminating more than a hundred and twenty Government programs. This year, we put another $20 billion in cuts on the table, targeting dozens of additional programs that were wasteful or duplicative or in some cases just plain ridiculous.<p>For example, we decided not to fund an office maintained by the Department of Education in Paris, France. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, I'm sure that was nice work if you could get it. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I didn't think that was a real good use of our money. We eliminated a decades-old radio navigation system which cost $35 million a year. And some people might say, well, why did you do that? We need that navigation system. Well, the thing is, we got this thing called GPS now, and satellites. [<i>Laughter</i>] So the whole radio navigation thing wasn't working so well.<p>So we've been pushing for cuts on things that we don't need, that Government doesn't do so well. And we're also reforming the way Government contracts are awarded. Think about this: Between 2002 and 2008, the amount spent annually on Government contracts more than doubled to half a trillion dollars. Those are contracts with private contractors. And the amount spent on no-bid contracts jumped by 129 percent--no-bid contracts. That's an inexcusable waste of your money. So last March, I ordered Federal departments to come up with plans to save as much as $40 billion a year in contracting.<p>Now, this brings me to the person standing right over here, the lady in pink. You know before Claire was your Senator, she was your State auditor. She's--she just pinches pennies. I mean, she's just--[<i>Laughter</i>]--she--you think I'm--I don't like waste, but Claire, she just--every dime, she's-- [<i>Laughter</i>] .<p>So thanks to Claire, we're going to have a new tool to help us meet this goal of eliminating some of these wasteful contracts and no-bid contracts. In the coming weeks, we're going to be rolling out a new online database, which Claire McCaskill proposed and helped pass into law. And we'll be able to see, before any new contract is awarded, whether a company plays by the rules, how well they've performed in the past: Did they finish the job on time? Did the company provide good value? Did the company blow their budget? It's your money, so you deserve to know how it's spent and who these contracts are going to.<p>And that's an example of the kind of service that Claire McCaskill is providing, not just to the people of Missouri, but people all across the country. In every way but one, Claire McCaskill's the new Harry Truman--[<i>Laughter</i>]--in the United States Senate. One difference is that she's a she. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But just as the Truman commission prevented billions of dollars of wasteful spending during the war--and saved lives in the process--through tough and fair-minded oversight of contracting during World War II, Claire's been a relentless force for rooting out scams and making Government more efficient. Harry Truman also said in the commission's final report that in completing the mission, \\"where necessary, heads must be knocked together.\\" And let me tell you, Claire loves knocking some heads together. [<i>Laughter</i>] She's never been afraid to do that.<p>As we were driving in, I was saying, boy, it's just good to be back in the Midwest. This is about as close as I've been to home in a while. And part of the reason it's just good to be back is because Washington's a place where tax dollars are often treated like Monopoly money--they're bartered and traded, and they're divvied up among the lobbyists and special interests--and where waste, even billions of dollars of waste, is accepted as the price of doing business. When we proposed, by the way, those $20 billion in cuts last year, we were ridiculed by the press, said, \\"Ah, that's just a spit in the bucket.\\" Now, I don't know about--here in St. Charles, $20 billion, that's real money, isn't it?<p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes.<p><i>The President.</i> That's real money. But Claire doesn't accept business as usual. I don't accept business as usual. You don't accept business as usual. The American people don't accept business as usual, especially when we're facing these enormous long-term deficits that threaten to leave our children with a mountain of debt.<p>Now, this brings me to the primary topic I want to talk about today. Nowhere is reform more needed than when it comes to our health care system--nowhere. Nowhere. The health care system has billions of dollars that should go to patient care, and they're lost each and every year to fraud, to abuse, to massive subsidies that line the pockets of the insurance industry.<p>Let me just give you one example. This is a long-recognized but long-tolerated problem called improper payments. That's what they call them. Washington always has a name for these things; this is \\"improper payments.\\" And as is often the case in Washington, the more innocuous the name, the more worried you should be. So these are payments mostly made through Medicare and Medicaid that are sent to the wrong person, sent for the wrong reason, sent in the wrong amount. Sometimes they're innocent errors. Sometimes they're because nobody is bothering to check to see where the money's going, and they're abused by scam artists and fly-by-night operations.<p><i>[At this point, the President coughed.]</i><p>I--look, health care--[<i>Laughter</i>]--this health care debate's been hard on my health, I got to tell you. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It's estimated that improper payments cost taxpayers almost a hundred billion dollars last year alone. Think about that. That, by the way--just that abuse in improper payments is more than we spend on the Department of Education and the Small Business Administration combined. If we created a department of improper payments, it would be one of the largest agencies in our Government.<p>Now, for the past few years, there's actually been a pilot program that uses a system of tough audits to recover some of this lost money. And even though these audits, they were just operating in--mainly in three States, they already found a billion dollars in improper payments. So these results were both disturbing and encouraging. They're disturbing because it shows you how much waste there is out there in the health care system. But it's encouraging because we can do something about it.<p>So earlier today, with Claire looking over my shoulder--one of our auditors in chief--I signed an order calling on all Federal agencies to launch these kinds of audits all across the country--all across the country. So agencies would hire auditors to scour the books, go through things line by line. Auditors are paid based on how many abuses or errors they uncover. So it's a win-win. The auditor, if they do a good job they get a small percentage as a reward. And the taxpayer wins by getting huge sums of money that would otherwise be lost that we can then spend to provide care to people who really need it or we can use to reduce the deficit.<p>Now, through this effort, we expect to more than double the amounts we would've otherwise recovered--couple billion dollars over the next few years. And I'm announcing my support for the \\"Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act\\"--that's a mouthful--but this is a bipartisan bill to expand our ability to do these audits, so that we can prevent even more fraud and abuse and waste.<p>Now, the reason I'm bringing all this stuff up is because there's been a lot of talk about health care lately. And look, I'll be honest, a lot of people are--they're confused, they're saying, \\"Well, how can you help people get insurance who don't have it without it adding to our deficit?\\" It's a legitimate question.<p>Well, the reason is, is because so much of the money currently in our health care system is being misspent. Look, if you've got a house and the roof is leaking and the windows are all letting through a bunch of draft and you get that cold winter and all the heat seeping out, and if you decide to spend on some new windows and to fix your roof, that's going to spend a little money. But you'd save money in the long run because you don't have heating expenses, and those leaks aren't ruining your furniture.<p>The same thing is true with our health care system. We've got leaks everywhere that you pay for, directly or indirectly. And if we can have a smarter health care system, then yes, we can provide help to middle class folks who need it and, at the same time, actually reduce the burden on taxpayers.<p>Now, I know that during the health care debate, opponents have tried to scare people, especially our seniors, into thinking that we are going after seniors' Medicare benefits; that's how Obama's going to pay for his plan.<p>When you look at the facts, that's just plain wrong. In fact, by saving billions of dollars of the sort we just talked about--waste and abuse--in Medicare, reining in waste and inefficiencies, we're going to be able to help ensure Medicare's solvency for an additional decade. This is just one example that speaks to how we're going to stop wasting money through the health care system on things that don't make people healthy--in fact, often take away from the care we receive--and take that money and make it work for the American people. So Medicare will work better, provide better care because of these reforms. Senior citizens who are dealing with the doughnut hole in the prescription drug plan, that plan will be filled, in part because we're not wasting money on stuff that doesn't work. That's common sense.<p>You know, I get a lot of letters from constituents. I get about 40,000 every day, and I don't read all 40,000--somebody does--but what I've done is I've asked my staff to collect a sampling of 10 letters that I read every night. And I will tell you that my staff is very evenhanded, because about half of these letters call me an idiot. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And at least half of them talk about health care. And when the health care reform debate was really heating up, one of the things that I heard from a lot of seniors was, \\"Keep your Government hands out of my Medicare.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] No, I heard this from a bunch of seniors. They say, \\"I don't want your Government-run health care plan, and don't touch my Medicare.\\"<p>And so I'd have to write back, and I'd say, \\"Ma'am,\\" or \\"Sir, Medicare is a Government program.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"But we're not going go weaken it. We're going to make it stronger.\\"<p>But I think those letters tell you something about what sometimes happened in this health care debate, because people have been hit with a lot of bad information. And health care's really important. And so people get worried, and they get nervous. But when you get past the divisive and the deceptive rhetoric, it turns out that most Americans are happy that two generations ago, we made the decision that seniors and the poor should not be saddled with unaffordable health care costs or forced to go without needed care. That was a decision that we made decades ago. And it was the right decision to make.<p>And by the way, when we made those decisions, folks were saying the exact same thing about Medicare: \\"That's socialized medicine. This is Government-run care,\\" and blah, blah, blah.<p><i>Audience member</i>. Medicare rules!<p><i>The President.</i> Now, today we face a different choice, but it's a similar choice to the one that previous generations faced, and that is whether we should help middle class families and business owners that are being pummeled by the rising costs of health care. See, back when the Medicare debate was taking place, seniors were having problems because they were no longer working, and people were getting their health care through their jobs. And so it made sense to help them. It made sense to help the poor who might not be employed. But back then, middle class folks, they were pretty secure. If you were working, you had health care that was affordable.<p>But you know what's happened over the last several decades. What's happened is, is that more and more businesses are saying, \\"We can't afford to provide health care to our workers because the costs are skyrocketing.\\" So they just drop health care altogether if--a lot of small businesses, they don't provide health care to their employees anymore. And large businesses, what are they doing? They're saying to you, \\"We're going to jack up your premiums. We got to increase your deductibles.\\" If you're self-employed, you are completely out of luck. If you've got a preexisting condition, you are completely out of luck. And by the way, those of us who are lucky enough to have health care today, we don't know if we're the ones who are going to lose our job tomorrow or suddenly it turns out that our child has a preexisting condition. And we'll be stuck in the exact same situation, even if we've got good health insurance.<p>Now, everything I just said, if you talk to my opponents, they'll agree. They'll say, you're right, the health care system's broken. For too many people it's getting worse. They will acknowledge that the status quo is unsustainable. But you know what they tell me? We had that big health care summit. I know you guys watched all 7 hours of it. [<i>Laughter</i>] Yes, absolutely. It was scintillating. [<i>Laughter</i>] But you heard what they said. They said, \\"Well, we agree with you that the current system's unsustainable, but this is just not the right time to do it.\\" They said, \\"Let's start over.\\" That's what they said. \\"We just got to start from scratch.\\"<p><i>Audience members.</i> No!<p><i>The President.</i> Well, let me tell you something. The insurance industry's not starting over. They just announced a 39-percent rate increase in California and a rate increase of up to 60 percent right across the border in my home State of Illinois--60 percent in 1 year. That's the future. That's the future if we fail to act.<p>And by the way, I don't recall any of these Republicans trying to do anything about insurance companies' abuses during all the years they were in charge. Do you, Claire? I don't remember. I don't remember them doing anything about folks who needed some help when the Government was running surpluses.<p>So I get a sense with some of these folks, it's just never going to be the right time. But the truth is, we have debated health care in Washington not just this past year, we've been debating it for 70 years. You know who was pushing health care reform? Harry Truman. Harry Truman was pushing health care reform. And by the way, you know what they said? They said, \\"He's pushing socialized medicine.\\" Harry Truman.<p>And over this past year, we've been talking about it, every proposal has been put on the table. Every argument has been made, and everybody has made it. And I know that people view this as a partisan issue, but the truth is, is that if you'd set aside the politics of it and what was good for election day, it turns out that parties have plenty of areas where they agree. And the plan that I've put forward is a proposal that's basically somewhere in the middle, one that incorporates the best ideas of Democrats and Republicans, even though the Republicans have a hard time acknowledging it.<p>Now, there are some folks who wanted to scrap the system of private insurance and replace it with a Government-run health care program, like they have in some other countries. We've got a couple--[<i>applause</i>]--some applause here. And look, it works well for those countries. But I'll just be honest with you: It was not practical or realistic to do here, to completely uproot and change a system where the vast majority of people still get their health care from employer-based plans.<p>And on the other side of the spectrum, there are those who believe that the answer is to simply unleash the insurance industry and provide less oversight and fewer rules----<p><i>Audience member.</i> No!<p><i>The President.</i> ----and that somehow that's going to drive down prices for everybody. This is called the \\"putting the foxes in charge of the henhouse\\" approach to health care reform. So whatever State regulations were in place, we'd get rid of those, and so insurance companies could basically find a State that had the worst regulations and then, from there, sell insurance everywhere, and that somehow that was going to be helpful to you. All this would do would give insurance companies more leeway to raise premiums and deny care.<p>So I don't believe we should give either the Government or the insurance companies more control over health care in America. I want to give you more control over health care in America.<p>So my proposal builds on the current system, where most Americans get their health care from their employers. If you like your plan, you can keep your plan. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. But my proposal would change three important things about the current health care system. And I want everybody to pay attention. I know it's a little warm in here, but I want you to pay attention, so that when you are talking to your friends and your neighbors and folks at work, and they're wondering what's going on, I want you to be able to just say, here are the three things Obama's trying to do.<p>First, it would end the worst practices of insurance companies, and it would begin to do so this year. This year, thousands of uninsured Americans with preexisting conditions will be able to purchase health insurance for the very first time in their lives or since they got sick. This year, insurance companies would be banned from denying coverage to children with preexisting conditions--this year. Insurance companies would be banned from dropping your coverage when you get sick. Insurance companies would no longer be able to arbitrarily and massively raise premiums. They would be subject to review. Those practices will end as a consequence of health care reform.<p>All new insurance plans would be required to offer free preventive care to their customers. And if you buy a new plan, there will be no more lifetime limits on the amount of care you receive from your insurance company, all that fine print that ends up getting folks into trouble. If you're a uninsured young adult, you'll be able to stay on your parent's insurance policy until you're 26 years old. So a lot of folks, as they're transitioning into the workplace, will have insurance. All right? So that's part one of the plan: insurance reform.<p>Part two: For the first time, uninsured individuals and small businesses will have the same kind of choice of private health insurance that Members of Congress get. If it's good enough for Members of Congress, it's good enough for the people who pay their salaries. <p>Now, this should not be a controversial idea. The reason that Federal employees usually have pretty good insurance is because they're part of a pool of millions of people. So what happens is, they can negotiate for really good rates because the insurance companies really want those millions of customers. So what we're talking about is setting up a pool for people who don't work for the Federal Government; you, individuals, small businesses, they can be part of this pool. And this is an idea that a lot of Republicans embraced in the past until I said it was a good idea. Suddenly-- [<i>Laughter</i>] .<p>So all this would drive down rates for those individuals and small businesses who aren't part of a big company that get good rates. And my proposal says, if you still can't afford it, even though now the premiums are lower than you can buy on your own, then we'll offer you some tax credits to make it affordable. And those tax credits would add up to the largest middle class tax cut for health care in history.<p>So--now, it's estimated that this would drive down the costs for folks who don't work for big companies--so they don't get as good of a deal--by 14, 20 percent. This is before the subsidies, before the tax credits.<p>Now, it's true that this will cost some money. It's going to cost about a hundred billion dollars per year. That's real money, that's a lot of money. But most of that money comes from the nearly $2.5 trillion a year that America already spends on health care that we're not spending well, that we're spending badly right now.<p>So we pay for this proposal by getting at the abuse that we just talked about. We eliminate wasteful taxpayer subsidies that go to the insurance companies. Do you know that through the Medicare program, we are giving insurance companies close to $20 billion a year, about $18 billion every year of taxpayer money through the Medicare system? And we're saying, well, why do we do that? They're making a profit on their own. And while some of what we save goes to helping the uninsured, most of it goes back to small businesses and the middle class, who right now just aren't getting a good deal. It doesn't make sense to me that people who are really poor are able to get Medicaid, but people who are working really hard and just not quite as poor, they don't get a decent deal. That doesn't make sense to me.<p>All right, that's the second part. First part: insurance reform. Second part: creating this marketplace where small businesses and individuals can get a good deal.<p>Third part, bringing down the cost of health care for families and businesses and for the Federal Government: cost control. Now, when you listen to the other side, they'll tell you, we want to do more about cost, we want to do more about cost. Well, let me tell you, we've incorporated almost every serious idea from across the political spectrum about how to contain rising health care costs. There's not an idea out there that we have not worked on, that we have not included in this proposal.<p>And according to the Congressional Budget Office--this is the office that is supposed to be the independent referee for how things cost; it's not supposed to be Democrat or Republican--according to the Congressional Budget Office, people buying health plans in the individual market right now, they'd see their premiums go down 14 to 20 percent. I already mentioned that.<p>Now, here's another thing: A recent study by the Business Roundtable--that's made up of all these big companies out there; they don't--they're nonpartisan, but it's not like they're just dyed-in-the-wool liberal Democrats, let's put it that way; these are company CEOs. They commissioned a study and said the reforms could reduce premiums by as much as $3,000 per employee. That's their study, not mine.<p>Then the Congressional Budget Office said that the Government would save a trillion dollars, reduce the deficit by a trillion dollars. So think about it: You're saving money, employers are saving money, the Federal Government is saving money, not according to me, but according to these studies that were done by independent analysts.<p>So here's the bottom line, St. Charles. There's no Government takeover, unless you consider reining in insurance companies a Government takeover. And I think that's the right thing to do. There's no cutting of Medicare benefits. There's just cutting out fraud and waste in Medicare to make it stronger.<p>What we're proposing is a commonsense approach to protecting you from insurance company abuses and saving you money. That's the proposal, and it is paid for. And I believe that Congress owes the American people a final up-or-down vote on health care reform. The time for talk is over; it's time to vote. It's time to vote. Tired of talking about it.<p>Now, of course, folks in Washington, they like to talk. And so Washington's doing right now what Washington does. They're speculating breathlessly, day or night, every columnist, every pundit, every talking head: \\"Is this proposal going to help the Republicans or is this proposal going to help the Democrats?\\" \\"What's going to happen to the President's polls numbers if the vote doesn't go forward? If it does go forward?\\" \\"What will it mean for November?\\" \\"What will it mean for 2012?\\" \\"How's the politics going to play?\\"<p>I heard the Republican leader of the Senate the other day, he's warning Democrats, you better be careful about voting for this, it could hurt you. I don't know how sincere the Republican leader is about the best interests of Democrats. [<i>Laughter</i>] He's been very generous with advice. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>You know what, here's the bottom line, St. Charles. I don't know how the politics play. I don't know. This is a hard issue. It's a complicated issue. There's a lot of information floating around out there. A lot of it's inaccurate. The opponents have spent billion--millions of dollars fighting it. And people, during recessionary times, they're anxious and sort of thinking, gosh, can we really afford to change things right now? Maybe we should just kind of stick with the status quo, even though we know it's not working for us.<p>So I don't know how the politics plays. But here's what I do know: The American people will be more secure with this reform. Our country will be stronger because of this reform. I don't know about the politics, but I know it is the right thing to do, and that's why I'm fighting so hard to get it done.<p>We've seen years--decades--where Washington just puts off dealing with our toughest challenges because it's too hard, because we don't know how the politics works. And the will and the capacity to act, to do serious things in this country, starts just getting sucked away, just gets sacked by partisanship and political gamesmanship and debates about who's up and who's down, and how does this play politically, instead of asking what's right and what's wrong. And we've seen terrible consequences, not just these last 2 years of turmoil, but a decade of struggle for middle class families.<p>We can't accept the status quo. We can't accept the same old, same old. I won't accept it. Claire McCaskill won't accept it. Not when it comes to how we manage taxpayer dollars. Not when it comes to how our health care system works. Not when it comes to meeting the difficult challenges that we face. And that's why Claire and I are fighting to stop waste and abuse in our Government. That's why Claire and I are fighting to pass these health insurance reforms. Now is the time. Now is the moment. Now's the time for us to leave for the next generation and generations to come a stronger and more prosperous country. We are not backing down. We are not quitting, St. Charles. And we are going to get this done.<p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"66" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, St. Louis. Thank you, everybody. Everybody have a seat. Have a seat. Thank you so much. All right, we've got some--everybody's a special guest, but we got some big names around here. First of all, please give a huge round of applause once again to one of the finest Governors in this country, Jay Nixon--give it up for him; your outstanding attorney general, Chris Koster; your fabulous State treasurer, Clint Zweifel; my great friend and supporter, State Auditor Susan Montee; one of my favorite folks in Missouri, Jean Carnahan; and all the McCaskills out there. I know you take up about half the tables. [<i>Laughter</i>] Golly. There--by the way, your younger sister made a point of saying, \\"I'm the younger sister.\\" I just wanted you to know that. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Sen. McCaskill.</i> Of course she did. Of course she did.<p><i>The President.</i> All right. It is great to be back in the \\"Show Me\\" State. It's nice to get out of Washington for a little bit. Now, there are a lot of nice things in Washington, don't get me wrong. I love the monuments. [<i>Laughter</i>] But let's face it, it's a town where most of the time, folks are more worried about what's good politics than what's right, where folks are just hooked up to the daily polls like they're on some kind of EKG.<p>And this isn't a new phenomenon. In fact, I'm remembered--I'm reminded of somebody from Missouri named Harry Truman, who once said in an interview he gave a long time ago, \\"Washington is a very easy city to forget where you came from and why you got there in the first place.\\" But I want everybody here to understand that there is one person who's never forgotten where she comes from or why she is there, and that's Claire McCaskill. Claire is there to serve. She's there to serve you, she's there to serve Missouri, she's there to serve the United States of America. And I don't have to tell you that, because you've known Claire. You knew her as a prosecutor. You knew her as a State auditor. You now know her as one of the finest Senators that Missouri has ever produced. <p>In fact, she's a lot like a modern-day Harry Truman, except she's a she. [<i>Laughter</i>] But she's a standout in Washington for speaking truth to power, for bringing common sense to every issue, and for having the courage of her convictions. Claire is tough, not just to score cheap political points, but because she understands what her constituents are going through. And in a town marked by just withering partisanship, she's focused on what needs to be done to make sure that ordinary families here in Missouri and all across the country are getting a fair shake. And she'll work with anybody, no matter what party, to get it done. And she'll criticize anybody, no matter what party, in order to get things done.<p>And so in a town marked by gridlock, she's not afraid to challenge old assumptions or wornout ideas. And so she's a good role model for all of us, including the President of the United States. <p>Just as the Truman committee went after waste and abuse in our military during World War II, saving taxpayers billions of dollars, Claire's been a relentless force for bringing more efficiency and more transparency, more accountability to our Government. She understands what everyone in Washington should understand, but don't: The money we spend doesn't belong to us, it belongs to the American people. And we've got to invest it responsibly.<p>And in fact, earlier today, down in St. Charles, I announced a plan that Claire proposed and pushed through Congress that's about to come online. It's a database where Americans can track spending on contracts to see who's getting the job done on time and who's not, to see which companies keep costs low and which come in over budget time and again. Because the way that Claire sees it is the same way that Harry Truman saw it: You don't govern by polls, you govern by principles; you don't put your finger up to the wind, you put your shoulder to the wheel. And when this country is challenged, you do what you think is right, and you figure that the politics will work itself out.<p>No one in his or her right mind would have plotted, at the beginning of my administration, to do what we did--shore up the financial system, shore up the auto industry, pass the Recovery Act--if the goal was just to drive up our poll numbers. I've got really good pollsters--we knew that what we had to do wasn't popular. We knew it wasn't popular to make sure that we didn't have a financial meltdown. We knew that a lot of folks felt like, well, the auto companies got themselves into trouble. So we knew it wouldn't poll well. But we had a different mission, we had a greater responsibility, and that is to save our country from a even greater economic catastrophe than the one that we've seen. And that's a responsibility that we met.<p>And today, our financial system is stabilizing. And General Motors is expanding and hiring again. And millions of people are working in America who would not have been working had it not been for the Recovery Act. And all across Missouri, all across the Nation, roads are being repaved and bridges are being repaired and waterways are being rebuilt, not only putting Americans to work today, but laying a foundation for a better tomorrow. So we didn't know how the politics would work out; we knew it was the right thing to do, the same way Claire understands in each of her legislative initiatives: I'm not sure how this will poll, but I know it's the right thing to do.<p>Now, as we meet tonight, there are still millions of Americans--and too many right here in this State--who are out of work, millions who are stretched to the limits on their mortgage or their credit cards, their student loans. We are on the road to recovery, but we haven't gotten there yet, not until our economy is adding jobs again, not until people feel secure again. And Claire and I together, every day, are fighting for an economy in which Americans can compete and win. We're fighting for an economy in which hard work and entrepreneurship is rewarded again, where small businesses as well as large are thriving again and the great middle class that is the backbone of our country--and where Claire and I come out of--is thriving again, is strong again.<p>That's not easy, because there's been a lot of work that's been undone for the last two decades, three decades, seven decades. We've got a lot of built-up challenges that we--we're going to have to work hard to solve. But even as we fight these fights, I want you to understand, we are taking on some of the other problems facing folks in this State and across the country, and we're going to win these fights.<p>We passed a tough new tobacco law that helps stop cigarette companies from targeting kids and force them to disclose what they put in their products. We passed a credit card bill of rights that protects consumers from surprise charges, like over-the-limit fees and hidden costs for paying a bill by phone. We passed an equal pay law to help a promise to America's women that if you do the same job as a man, you should make the same wage as a man. We expanded health insurance coverage for 4 million more children. And so the bottom line is this: I want everybody to understand, despite all the gridlock, despite all the shenanigans, we've gotten a lot done.<p>The reason I'm here tonight, and the reason Claire is here tonight, is because we've got a lot more work to do. Some of our biggest challenges lie ahead. Because the future belongs to a nation that educates its children best, we've got to reform our education system so that all our kids are ready for college, all our kids are ready for a career, all our kids are ready to succeed in the 21st century. Because the nation that leads in clean energy today will lead the global economy tomorrow, we need to invest in a clean energy industry that frees us from foreign oil and cleans up our air and generates millions of jobs in the process. And yes--and yes--because the current health care system is broken and unsustainable, we have to have health insurance reform this year, right now. <p>We've been talking about health care for nearly a century. One of the Presidents who tried to do something about it? Harry Truman. Sixty years ago, he pushed back against opponents of reform by saying, quote, \\"The American people will not be frightened off from health insurance because some people have misnamed it socialized medicine.\\" He then repeated, \\"What I am recommending is not socialized medicine.\\" Who says history doesn't repeat itself?<p>But you know what else Harry Truman said--you know, the famous saying about \\"Give 'em hell, Harry\\"--what Harry said was, \\"I'm going to tell the truth, they'll think it's hell.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And so let me tell the truth about this health care debate. I know there are strong views about this. I know there are Democrats who would like to scrap our system of private insurance and replace it with a Government-run health care system that works in some countries. I know there are some on the other side who believe that the answer is to loosen regulations on insurance companies, whether it's consumer protections or basic standards of what kind of insurance can be sold. The notion--this is what we call the \\"fox guarding the henhouse\\" approach to health care reform.<p>But I don't believe we should give the Government or insurance companies more control over health care in America. I believe it's time to give you, the American people, more control over your health insurance. And that's why my proposal builds on the current system, where most Americans get their health insurance from their employers. If you like your plan, you can keep your plan. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. I'm the father of two young girls; I don't want anybody interfering between my family and their doctor.<p>But essentially the proposal that we--after all the talk, after the years of debate, let's be clear on what we're doing here. Three things we're going to change about the current health care system.<p>Number one, we're going to end the worst practices of the insurance companies. Within a year of signing health care reform, thousands of uninsured Americans with preexisting conditions will be able to purchase health insurance for the first time since they were diagnosed. This year--this year--insurance companies will be banned forever from denying coverage to children with preexisting conditions. This year, they will be banned from dropping coverage when you get sick. They'll no longer be able to arbitrarily raise premiums. Those practices will end. <p>If this--when this reform passes into law, all new insurance plans will offer free preventive care to their customers, free checkups so that we can start catching preventable illnesses on the front end. Starting this year, if you buy a plan, there won't be lifetime restrictions or annual limits on the amount of care that you can receive from your insurance companies. And if you're an uninsured adult, you'll be able to stay on your parent's policy until you're 26 years old. So that's the first thing we do.<p>Second thing we change, for the first time, we would start allowing people who are currently trying to get health insurance on the individual market--small businesses--and just can't do it to have the same kind of choices of private health insurance that Members of Congress get for themselves, which I don't think's a bad idea and neither does Claire McCaskill. Now, I want everybody--to be clear--Members of Congress will be getting their insurance from this same marketplace, because if it's good enough for the American people, then it's good enough for Congress. <p>My proposal also says that if you still can't afford the insurance in this new marketplace, we will offer you tax credits to do so, tax credits that add up to the largest middle class tax cut for health care in history. Understand, the wealthiest among us can already buy insurance, the best insurance there is. The least well off, they're covered under Medicaid. It's the middle class that's getting squeezed, and that's who we have to help: small businesses, self-employed, individuals who are out there struggling.<p>And this will cost some money. It's going to cost about $100 billion per year. But most of this comes from the nearly $2.5 trillion a year that we're already spending on health care; we're just not spending it very wisely right now. We are wasting it; we're spending it badly. And with some basic reforms, eliminating waste and abuse, we can make sure to provide coverage that's affordable--make it more affordable and more secure. <p>We're going to eliminate wasteful taxpayer subsidies currently going to insurance and pharmaceutical companies. We'll set up a new fee on insurance companies that stand to gain as 30 million new customers come on board. But the point everybody needs to understand is, it's paid for. I said at the beginning of this thing, we would not do anything that adds to our deficit. This plan does not do anything to add to this deficit, and that's how we should be operating. We can't say the same for the prescription drug plan that was passed by the previous Congress.<p>Finally, this proposal would bring down the cost of health care for families and businesses and the Federal Government. Americans buying comparable coverage to what they have today in the individual market, they'd see their premiums drop 14 percent to 20 percent. Americans who get their insurance through the marketplace, premiums could fall by as much as $3,000 per person.<p>And by now, we've incorporated every single serious idea across the political spectrum about how to contain rising costs in health care, ideas that go after waste and abuse in our system, especially in programs like Medicare. But we do this while protecting Medicare benefits, extending stability of the program, and filling this doughnut hole that is such a burden on a lot of seniors who really need their prescription drugs.<p>So our cost-cutting measures would reduce most people's premiums, bring down the deficit by a trillion dollars over the next two decades. Those are not my numbers. Those are savings determined by the Congressional Budget Office, the nonpartisan, independent referee of Congress. <p>So just in case anybody's out there asking you about health care reform, that's our proposal. And it is a proposal whose time has come. We are coming to a final vote in Congress, and that's when folks in Congress, they get nervous. The Washington echo chamber is deafening, and it tells Members of Congress to think about politics instead of what's right. It tells Congress that comprehensive reform, that's failed before, it really hurt Clinton. It may just be too hard. <p>Yes, this is hard. There's no doubt about it. Let me tell you what else is hard. There's a woman I just met, Leslie Banks, in Pennsylvania, single mother. She was hit with 100-percent rate increase; just a letter sent by her insurance company--100-percent increase in her premiums. That's hard. There's a woman named Natoma Canfield--she's got cancer, in Ohio--had to drop her insurance even though it may cost her her house. The other day, she suddenly fell ill; she's in the hospital right now. We're all praying for her, but lying in a hospital bed, worrying about how you're going to pay for your bills, that's hard. I know. My mother went through that. <p>There's a woman named Laura Klitzka, in Wisconsin, Green Bay, young mother battling cancer. She and her husband had insurance, but their medical bills still landed them in the--in debt. So she's in the middle of this unbelievable battle, got little kids she loves dearly. She's spending most of her time worrying about debt, when all she wants to do is spend time with her children. That's hard. Millions of families, small businesses, what they're going through because we don't have a health insurance system that works for them, that's really hard.<p>Those of us in public office were not sent to Washington to do what was easy; we were sent there to do what was hard. We were sent there to do what's right. When I think about the campaign I ran for President, and I think about the campaign Claire McCaskill ran for Senate, all the work we put in--we were joking backstage about, boy, you worked really hard for this job. [<i>Laughter</i>] The reason we did it wasn't to get a title. The reason you--so many of you--were so passionate about this campaign wasn't just so you could have a picture with me. That wasn't what this was about. <p>This was about recognizing that America at its best doesn't shrink from a challenge; we overcome challenges. We don't shrink from responsibilities; we embrace our responsibilities. We don't fear the future; we seize the future. That's what we did in the campaign, at a time when everybody was out there saying we couldn't do it. That's what people were warning Claire about when she took on this race for Senate, saying: \\"I don't know, Claire, you already gone through a couple of losses; this may be tough. Why take the risk?\\" Because it needed to be done; because somewhere down the road, there were a whole bunch of people in our pasts--our parents, our grandparents, our great-grandparents--who decided, we're not taking the easy path, we're taking the right path. We're going to fight to make sure our kids and our grandkids and our great-grandkids have a better life than we do.<p>That's what our campaigns were about. That's what your involvement has been about. That's what this health care debate is about. That is what my Presidency is about. And that is what America's about. And that is why I'm absolutely convinced, if we stay on course, that we are going to win this thing. Not the short-term battle, not the November election, we're going to win out in terms of creating the kind of society for our kids and our grandkids that we can be proud of.<p>Thank you, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"67" "\"<i>The President.</i> What's going on, St. Louis? Thank you. Thank you, St. Louis. It is good to be back in Missouri.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Obama! Obama! Obama!<p><i>The President.</i> Thank you, guys. Thank you. I got the same reception when I went to the Republican caucus. [<i>Laughter</i>] They were chanting and cheering. [<i>Laughter</i>] You don't remember that?<p>Give it up for Governor Jay Nixon, one of the finest Governors in the country. Give it up for Mayor Francis Slay, who's in the house. He's around here somewhere. There he is over there.<p>And give it up for my dear, dear friend Claire McCaskill. I love Claire McCaskill. Love, love Claire McCaskill. Now, Claire and I both agree it's nice to get out of Washington once in a while. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Audience member.</i> Come more often!<p><i>The President.</i> Now, don't--I'm going to-- [<i>Laughter</i>] . Don't get me wrong, there are a lot of nice things about Washington. I like the monuments.<p><i>Audience member.</i> How is the house?<p><i>The President.</i> House is okay. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's got a bowling alley. <p><i>Audience member. </i>Have you bowled yet?<p><i>The President. </i>Huh?<p><i>Audience member.</i> Have you bowled?<p><i>The President.</i> My bowling has not gotten any better. [<i>Laughter</i>] But here's the thing about Washington----<p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you!<p><i>The President.</i> I love you back. I love you back.<p>But here's the thing about Washington. Look, it's a town where everybody is spending all their time worrying about staying reelected, what's good for their poll numbers, instead of thinking about what's right. I mean, they are just--you walk into--you walk in somebody's office, and they got, like, five TVs--CNN, MSNBC, FOX News.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> I'm just saying. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Sen. McCaskill.</i> Smart crowd, smart crowd.<p><i>The President.</i> Yes, they've got all the tabloids, the little gossip, you know, papers in Washington. So it's like a hall of mirrors. But folks don't spend enough time thinking about what's right and what's going on outside of Washington. <p>Now, this is not a new phenomenon. Harry Truman said something to the same effect. He had an interview, he said, \\"Washington is a very easy city to forget where you come from and why you got there in the first place.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Let me tell you something: Claire McCaskill doesn't forget where she came from, and she doesn't forget why she got to Washington. She got to Washington to serve you, to fight for you, to fight for families all across America. That's why you're here today, because you know Claire McCaskill is on your side.<p>You've known that ever since she was a prosecutor. You've seen her as a State auditor, just pinching pennies, just looking through--[<i>Laughter</i>]--making sure folks aren't wasting your money. She's turned into one of the finest Senators Missouri has ever had. She's following in Harry Truman's footsteps.<p>She's a standout because she speaks truth to power. She's not afraid of anybody, speaks her mind. Sometimes she tells me things--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and I'm the President. [<i>Laughter</i>] But that's what you need, is somebody who's got the courage of their convictions. They're not a weathervane, putting their fingers out to the wind, seeing, well, is that thing popular, is that going to win, is that good for me? She's thinking about, is it good for you. She's focused on solving problems.<p>No matter what party, she'll work with anybody if she thinks it's going to solve a problem. She's willing to challenge old assumptions and wornout ideas. And she's a great role model for that.<p>I'll just give you an example. Some of you remember the--Harry Truman made his name with the Truman committee that went after waste and abuse during World War II, saving taxpayer dollars and lives. Well, Claire is doing the same thing, fighting for transparency and accountability in Government. She understands that the money we spend doesn't belong to us, it belongs to you. It belongs to the American people, so it's got to be spent responsibly.<p>So just today--just today--I announced a plan that Claire proposed, pushed through Congress, that's going to be coming on line. It's a database where Americans can track spending on contracts: who's getting it, are they doing it on time, are they doing it on budget. If companies aren't doing it on budget, then they stop getting contracts.<p>But that's an example of the kind of work she's been doing since she got there, the same way Harry Truman saw it. You don't govern by the polls, you govern by principles. You don't put your finger to the wind, you put your shoulder to the wheel. Because Claire assumes that if she's doing what's right, the politics will sort itself out.<p>See, I've got this same philosophy. I have so much faith in the American people that I figure, you know what, if I do the right thing, then the politics will work itself out. Now, that's puzzling to Washington. So they've been writing over the last couple months, \\"Oh, my goodness, look at Obama. His poll numbers have dropped. Oh, the sky is falling!\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] No, I mean, you see articles, you know: \\"Can you imagine what's happened? What a catastrophe!\\" I'm looking around, and I'm thinking, I feel okay. [<i>Laughter</i>] I feel pretty good.<p>And the reason I feel pretty good is because I wake up every day trying to figure out, what's going to help American families have some control over their lives? What's going to help them be able to save a little more for their retirement? What's going to help them be able to find a job? What's going to help them deal with a health care crisis in their lives? What are we going to do to make sure young people can afford to go to college?<p>Now, sometimes the decisions we make in the short term are not going to be popular, and the folks in Washington don't understand that I know they're not going to be popular. They can't believe I'm doing them. See, they just think I'm an idiot--[<i>Laughter</i>]--because I'm doing something that's not immediately popular. But I've got pollsters. I've got very good pollsters. They send me the polls. They say, \\"You know what, shoring up the financial system, not popular.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"Helping out the auto industry, not popular; passing the Recovery Act, not popular.\\"<p>That's okay, because my job is not being popular. My job is solving problems for the American people. I've got a greater responsibility. I've got a deeper mission. I'm looking at 10 years from now, will you look back and say that what he did made sense for the American people, not whether tomorrow people are going to be looking and saying, \\"That made him popular.\\"<p>So today--listen, you remember a year ago, everybody was saying--we had only been there for 2 months. [<i>Laughter</i>] They said, \\"Oh, his financial plan is a disaster.\\" Huh? Stock market had dropped. Remember that? Everybody is like, \\"His Presidency is over; he's been in 3 months.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, suddenly, you look up, financial system's stabilized. People said: \\"Oh, you know what, why is he getting involved in this auto thing? Big mistake.\\" Now, suddenly, General Motors is hiring again. They said, \\"Well, I don't know about this Recovery Act.\\" Except all over Missouri and all across the Nation, roads are being repaved and bridges are being repaired and waterways are being rebuilt. And we're putting Americans back to work. We're laying the foundation for tomorrow. And instead of the economy contracting 6 percent, it's now growing 6 percent. So I think about what's right and then figure out--whether the politics will work out or not, I'm confident in the American people.<p>Now, look, here's the bottom line--Claire and I know this--as much progress as we've made, there are still millions of Americans, and too many all across Missouri, who are out of work, too many people who are still stretched to the limits on their mortgages, their credit cards, their student loans. So we're on the road to recovery, but we're not there. We will not be there until folks who want to find a job can get a job, not until people feel some sense of security again.<p>We are fighting every day, Claire and I, for an America where every single person can compete and win. If they're willing to work hard, if they're willing to apply themselves, then they've got a shot at the American Dream. We're fighting for an economy where entrepreneurship and hard work and some sweat can result in success, and that we can rebuild this middle class that has been the backbone, not just of our economy, but also our democracy.<p>So we're going to have some more fights. We've won some fights. People don't--people tend to forget--we won them so fast those first 6 months, everybody's forgotten about it. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, we've banned tobacco advertising to kids. We passed credit card legislation to make sure that the worst abuses no longer happen. We passed housing fraud laws that will crack down on predatory lending. We passed equal pay laws so that women are getting paid the same for doing the same work as men. We expanded health care to 4 million children. We passed national service legislation. We are bringing our troops home from Iraq. We have delivered on our promises.<p>But we've got work left to do. The country that educates its children the best will compete the best in the 21st century, and that's why we're going to keep on pushing to reform our education system, make sure that college is affordable.<p>Because the nation that leads in clean energy will also lead in the 21st-century economy, we're going to keep on pushing for solar and wind and biodiesel, and create millions of jobs in the process.<p>And yes, because we know that this economy cannot work if we've got a broken health care system, we are going to get health care reform done this year, right now.<p>Everybody remembers that person yelling to Harry, \\"Give 'em hell, Harry!\\" But folks don't remember Harry's response, which was, \\"I'm going to tell the truth, and they'll think it's hell.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] So let me tell you the truth about health care reform. The system is broken. Out in California, one of the biggest insurers there just raised rates up to 39 percent on millions of people. Right across the river, in Illinois, 60 percent hikes in some of the individual markets. It's not sustainable and everybody knows it.<p>So what have we done? There's nothing radical about what we've proposed. We have said, look, some countries have a government-run system; that's not going to work for here in the United States. Some people--most of my Republican colleagues in Washington--seem to think that the best health care plan is just to let 'er rip when it comes to the insurance companies, deregulate further, and that that's somehow going to give you more of a break. This is the \\"foxes guarding the chicken coop\\" theory of health care reform.<p>What I've said is, look, we don't need Government or insurance bureaucrats controlling your health care. We're going to put you in control. And we're going to do that in three simple ways. <p>Number one, we're going to have the toughest insurance reforms in history. A patient's bill of right on steroids, so they can't deny you coverage because of a preexisting condition, so that they've got to cover young people up to the age of 26, so they don't have fine print that will prevent you from getting the care that you need or allow them to drop you when you get sick--insurance reform.<p>Number two, what we're saying is, you know what, Members of Congress have a pretty good deal on health care. You know why? Because they're members of a big pool of Federal employees; they've got millions of people in their pool, so like any big company, they can negotiate for the best rates. <p><i>Audience member. </i>What about us?<p><i>The President. </i>What about you? What about you? Why shouldn't you be able to do the same thing that Members of Congress can do? So we're going to create a pool for you that will drive down your premiums so that you've got leverage, so that you can get a better deal.<p><i>[At this point, the lights went out momentarily.]</i><p>Whoa! All right, who was--was that Mitch McConnell back there trying to-- [<i>Laughter</i>] . Yes, see, they don't like when we start telling the truth. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So that's number two. Number three, we're going to drive down costs. We are going to drive down costs. Now, let me tell you--some of you may have heard of the Congressional Budget Office. This is the office that basically decides--it's the referee on how many--how much things cost. According to the Congressional Budget Office, our plan passes and folks right now who have to buy insurance in the individual market or small markets because they don't have a big employer that's looking out for them, they will save 14 to 20 percent on a comparable plan to what they're purchasing right now. That's money out of your pocket. That's money that right now is going out of your pocket that would go back in if this health care reform passed.<p>Employers, according to the Business Roundtable, would save up to $3,000 per employee in reduced premium costs if health reform passed. That's their numbers, according to the Business Roundtable, not my numbers. The deficit over the next two decades will be reduced by a trillion dollars if health care reform passes, and that's why it can't be \\"if,\\" it's got to be \\"when.\\" We are going to get this done, and we're going to get it done soon. And it's time for an up-or-down vote in Washington on health care reform. Tired of talking about it; let's get it done.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can!<p><i>The President.</i> See, I want every Member of Congress to hear this chant.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can!<p><i>The President.</i> We got to start this chant up in Congress, because what ends up happening in Washington is that right about now, when it's time to actually just go ahead and get this done, this is when folks get the most nervous. Oh, there's just so much noise out there, just the echo chamber. It's getting people all stressed out.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Stay the course!<p><i>The President.</i> Stay the course, is what I tell them. And you know, we were meeting with some supporters back here, and a couple of them said the same thing. They said, \\"Don't let them wear you down.\\" And I tried to explain I don't get worn down; I wear them down. I don't get worn down.<p>You know why I don't get worn down? Because of the woman I met in Pennsylvania this past week who found out that her health insurance premium has just gone up a hundred percent; or the mother up in Green Bay who I met last year who's got two small kids, breast cancer has metastasized, and instead of just worrying about how she can get well, she's having to fight off the incredible debt that's coming because of these limits that are placed on her insurance coverage. She's got insurance and is still worried about her family going broke.<p>Now, if she's not tired, if she's still fighting, then I'm fighting. If they're not getting worn down, then I'm not going to be worn down. And if I've got somebody like Claire McCaskill next to me, if I've got Claire McCaskill in the foxhole with me, if I've got somebody like Claire McCaskill in the Senate bucking people up and telling them, we don't give up, we don't get worn down, then I guarantee you we're not just going to pass health care, we are going to do what is required to make sure that the middle class here in America once again has the ability to control its own destiny.<p>We don't shirk from a challenge, we don't shrink from responsibilities; we embrace them, for our children and the next generation. We don't worry about the next election, we worry about a longer term. And that's why you're here. That's why you supported me in this campaign. That's why you supported Claire McCaskill. Don't give up on me now. We're just getting started.<p>Thank you, St. Louis. God bless you.\" "
"68" "\"Thank you, everybody. And thank you, John, for that generous introduction. Congratulations to you and Fabienne and Luis for the recognition your companies so richly deserve. And thank you to the chairman of the Export-Import Bank, Fred Hochberg, for having me here today and for all the important work the Ex-Im Bank is doing to help American businesses sell their ideas to the world. I also want to recognize the Secretary-General of the OECD, Angel Gurria, for his leadership at that institution.<p>Let me also acknowledge some members of my economic team who are here today: my Commerce Secretary, Gary Locke, who's just returned from a trip to Brazil--where are you, Gary?--there he is, right here; our U.S. Trade Representative, Ambassador Ron Kirk, who's been putting in a lot of miles. They are both doing a great job in the work of moving this country forward in tough times.<p>Now, it has been our most pressing priority over the first year of my administration to deal with an unprecedented economic crisis, one that has been as serious as anything since the Great Depression. To do that required difficult and sometimes unpopular steps to rescue our financial system and to jump-start an economic recovery. But we took those steps. And because we did, we can stand here just over a year later and say that we prevented another depression, we broke the back of the recession, and the economy that was shrinking a year ago is growing today.<p>Now, what's also clear is that we've got a long way to go. More than 8 million Americans have lost their jobs since the start of the recession. Millions more remain underemployed, including those doing part-time work or odd jobs. And the middle class across this country has felt their economic security eroding for longer than they care to remember. That's why we continue to do everything we can to foster private sector job creation and to restore some sense of security.<p>But the fact is, if we want to once again approach full employment, if we want to create broad, shared, and lasting wealth for our workers and our families, if we want an America that is ready to compete on the global playing field in the 21st century, then we can't slide back into an economy where we borrow too much and put off tough challenges. We can't return to an economy where too much of our prosperity is based on fleeting bubbles and rampant speculation. We have to rebuild our economy on a new, stronger, more balanced foundation for the future, a foundation that will advance the American people's prosperity at home and support American leadership in the world.<p>And that's precisely what we've begun to do. We're catalyzing a new clean energy industry that has the potential to employ millions of workers in good jobs. We're investing in the skills and education of our workers and reforming our education system with a goal to once again lead the world in the proportion of college graduates by the end of this decade. We're building a better health care system that works for our people, our businesses, and our Government alike. We're establishing clear, commonsense rules of the road for Wall Street that encourage innovation and creativity instead of recklessness and irresponsibility, rules that prevent firms from taking risks that threaten to bring down the entire economy. And we are rebuilding an economy where we generate more American jobs in more American industries by producing and exporting more goods and services to other nations.<p>Now, in my State of the Union Address, I set a goal of doubling America's exports over the next 5 years, an increase that will support 2 million American jobs. And I've come to the Export-Import Bank Conference today to discuss the initial steps that we're taking to achieve that goal.<p>I know the issue of exports and imports, the issue of trade and globalization have long evoked the passions of a lot of people in this country. I know there are differences of opinion between Democrats and Republicans, between business and labor about the right approach. But I also know we are at a moment where it is absolutely necessary for us to get beyond those old debates.<p>Those who would once support every free trade agreement now see that other countries have to play fair and the agreements have to be enforced; otherwise, we're putting America at a profound disadvantage. Those who once would oppose any trade agreement now understand that there are new markets and new sectors out there that we need to break into if we want our workers to get ahead.<p>And meanwhile, if you ask the average American what trade has offered them, they won't say that their televisions are cheaper or productivity is higher. They'd say they've seen the plant across town shut down, jobs dry up, communities deteriorate. And you can't blame them for feeling that way. The fact is, other countries haven't always played by the same set of rules, America hasn't always enforced our trade rights or made sure that the benefits of trade are broadly shared, and we haven't always done enough to help our workers adapt to a changing world.<p>Now, there's no question that as we compete in the global marketplace, we've got to look out for our workers. But to look out for our workers, we've got to be able to compete in the global marketplace. It's never been as important an opportunity for America as it is right now.<p>In a time when millions of Americans are out of work, boosting our exports is a short-term imperative. Our exports support millions of American jobs; you know this well. In 2008, we exported more than $1 trillion of manufactured goods, supporting more than one in five manufacturing jobs. And those jobs, by the way, pay about 15 percent more than average. We led the world in service exports, which support 2.8 million jobs. We exported nearly $100 billion in agricultural goods. And every $1 billion increase in exports supports more than 6,000 additional jobs.<p>So it's critical in the short term, but it's also critical for our long-term prosperity. Ninety-five percent of the world's customers and the world's fastest growing markets are outside our borders. We need to compete for those customers because other nations are competing for them.<p>They're investing in the skills and education of their people. They're investing in the high-demand industries of the future. They've benefited from American consumers. They've made themselves into export-based economies and positioned themselves for the jobs of the future. They're pursuing trade agreements with growing markets, and those agreements would give their companies access to those markets and put our workers and businesses at a disadvantage.<p>So if we stand on the sidelines while they go after those customers, we'll lose out on the chance to create the good jobs our workers need right here at home. That's why standing on the sidelines is not what we intend to do. We need to remind ourselves we still have the most innovative economy in the world. We still have the most productive workers in the world. We have the finest universities in the world. We have the most dynamic and competitive markets in the world.<p>We remain the number-one exporter of goods and services in the world. So we've got a terrific foundation to build on. But we can't be satisfied with being number one right now. We shouldn't assume that our leadership is guaranteed. When other markets are growing and other nations are competing, we've got to get even better. We need to secure our companies a level playing field. We need to guarantee American workers a fair shake. In other words, we need to up our game.<p>And that's why, for the first time, the United States of America is launching a single, comprehensive strategy to promote American exports. It's called the National Export Initiative, and it's an ambitious effort to marshal the full resources of the United States Government behind American businesses that sell their goods and services abroad.<p>This morning I signed an Executive order instructing the Federal Government to use every available Federal resource in support of that mission. That order has created an Export Promotion Cabinet, made up of the Secretaries of State, Treasury, Agriculture, Commerce, and Labor, along with our USTR, our Small Business Administrator, the Export-Import Bank President, and other senior U.S. officials whose work impacts exports. That cabinet will convene its first meeting next month.<p>I've also relaunched the President's Export Council, the principal national advisory committee on international trade. And I named Jim McNerney, the president and CEO of Boeing, as its Chair, with Ursula Burns, the CEO of Xerox, as Vice Chair, and I look forward to their recommendations.<p>Let me talk a little bit about what the National Export Initiative will do. First, we will substantially increase access to trade financing for businesses that want to export their goods but just need a boost, especially small businesses and medium-sized businesses.<p>Some of the biggest factors limiting a firm's decisions to export are the high upfront costs of establishing a foothold in a new market and the ability of the customers in that market to finance the purchase of their products.<p>So during the financial crisis, as trade finance dried up, the Export-Import Bank lived up to its mission and stepped up to fill the void. In fiscal year 2009, as part of a broader effort of G-20 nations to mobilize trade financing worldwide, this institution authorized $21 billion in loans in support of American exports. That's an increase of nearly 50 percent over the previous year. So I applaud Fred's efforts to increase that pace with the authorization of about $10 billion more in the first quarter of this year alone. And under the National Export Initiative, we'll continue to increase the amount of trade financing Ex-Im offers, including a new $2 billion per year effort to increase support for our small and medium-sized businesses.<p>But another obstacle our exporters face is that the Federal Government, frankly, just hasn't done a good enough job advocating for them abroad, at least compared to the advocacy that other countries are engaging in. And that's why, as the second part of the National Export Initiative, the United States of America will go to bat for our businesses and our workers.<p>As an example, last week, I signed the Travel Promotion Act, a law that will establish active promotion and marketing efforts to encourage foreign visitors to come visit the most dynamic cities, the most entertaining destinations, and the most beautiful natural resources in the world. Well, that same principle applies for all of our businesses. We've got some of the most innovative companies in the world, and we should be advocating on their behalf to boost local economies and create jobs here.<p>This is an effort I will personally lead as President. Next week, I'll take my second trip to the Asia-Pacific, a region that will be fundamental to America's ability to create jobs and to thrive in the 21st century. We can't be on the sidelines. We have to lead, and our engagement has to extend to governments and businesses and peoples across the Pacific. So while I'm there, I'll visit Indonesia and Australia, two vibrant economies and democracies that will be critical partners for the United States. And in both countries, I'll highlight the role that American businesses play there and underscore how strong economic partnerships can create jobs on both sides of the Pacific while advancing both regional and global prosperity. Going forward, I will be a strong and steady advocate for our workers and our companies abroad.<p>And this effort will extend throughout my administration. Secretary Locke is issuing guidance to all senior Government officials who have foreign counterparts on how they can best promote our exports. Secretary Clinton is mobilizing a commercial diplomacy strategy, directing every one of our Embassies to create a senior visitors business liaison who will manage our export advocacy efforts locally. And when our Ambassadors return stateside, we'll ask them to travel the United States to discuss export opportunities in their countries of assignment.<p>We're also announcing more than 40 trade and reverse trade missions that are scheduled for this year. The Department of Commerce, for example, has sent a trade mission to India this week. Secretary Vilsack is off to Japan on April 15. So advocacy is going to be critical.<p>Third, we'll unleash a battery of comprehensive and coordinated efforts to promote new markets and new opportunities for American exporters. Many businesses want to export their products but just don't have the resources required to identify new markets or set up shop overseas. And that's where we can help. We'll bring together the Ex-Im Bank, the SBA, the Departments of Commerce and Agriculture, and the Trade Development Agency to set up one-stop shops across the country and in our 250 Embassies and consulates abroad to help American businesses gain a foothold in the fastest growing markets with the most demand. And we'll provide a comprehensive toolkit of services, from financing to counseling to promotion, to help potential exporters grow and expand.<p>We'll create public-private partnerships to help firms break into new markets with the help of those who have been there, shipping and supply-chain companies for example. And we'll increase funding for existing promotion efforts. We'll increase funding for the International Trade Administration at the Department of Commerce and strengthen the USDA's ability to connect farmers with new overseas markets.<p>So we're going to increase financing, advocacy, and assistance for American businesses to locate, set up shop, and win new markets. Those are the first three aims of the National Export Initiative. The fourth focuses on making sure American companies have free and fair access to those markets. And that begins by enforcing trade agreements we already have on the books.<p>When I ran for President, I promised that when the United States of America puts its name to an agreement, that agreement will be as good for workers as it is for businesses, including strong labor and environmental protections that we'll enforce. My administration is living up to that promise. Ambassador Kirk has been doing an extraordinary job as our United States Trade Representative, and he's been working to knock down barriers that unfairly keep American companies from markets we belong in, hold our trade partners to their labor and environmental obligations, and crack down on practices that blatantly harm our companies.<p>I mean, keep in mind, the United States offers some of the world's lowest barriers to trade. That's why we can often get more out of a trade deal, because our borders are largely already open. And when we give other countries the privilege of that free and fair access, we can expect it in return. That's the spirit in which we'll move forward.<p>So we're going to continue to work towards an ambitious and a balanced Doha agreement, not just for the sake of any agreement, but for one that enhances market access for American agriculture and goods and services. We're going to strengthen relations with key partners, specifically South Korea, Panama, Colombia, with the goal of moving forward with existing agreements in a way that upholds our values. And we will pursue negotiations in the Trans-Pacific Partnership that we launched last year with some of the most dynamic economies in Asia, negotiations that I believe will result in a new standard for 21st-century trade agreements that aren't just good for workers, businesses, and farmers, but also consistent with our most cherished values.<p>What's more, we're going to aggressively protect our intellectual property. Our single greatest asset is the innovation and the ingenuity and creativity of the American people. It is essential to our prosperity, and it will only become more so in this century. But it's only a competitive advantage if our companies know that someone else can't just steal that idea and duplicate it with cheaper inputs and labor. There's nothing wrong with other people using our technologies; we welcome it. We just want to make sure that it's licensed and that American businesses are getting paid appropriately. And that's why USTR is using the full arsenal of tools available to crack down on practices that blatantly harm our businesses, and that includes negotiating proper protections and enforcing our existing agreements and moving forward on new agreements, including the proposed Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement.<p>We'll also work within the G-20 to continue global recovery and growth. Last year, when the G-20 met to coordinate the international response to our global economic crisis, we agreed that in order for that growth to continue, we needed to rebalance our economies. For too long, America served as the consumer engine for the entire world. But we're rebalancing. We are now saving more. And that means that everybody has got to rebalance. Countries with external deficits need to save and export more. Countries with external surpluses need to boost consumption and domestic demand. And as I've said before, China moving to a more market-oriented exchange rate will make an essential contribution to that global rebalancing effort.<p>I want to commend Secretary Tim Geithner for his extraordinary work and his tremendous leadership throughout this past year within the G-20. And I know he'll keep encouraging other nations to rebalance global demand, and those are efforts that will be good for our exports, good for our job growth, good for the world economy as a whole.<p>Finally, we're working to reform our export control system for our strategic, high-tech industries, which will strengthen our national security. What we want to do is concentrate our efforts on enforcing controls on the export of our most critical technologies, making America safer while enhancing the competitiveness of key American industries. Now, we've conducted a broad review of the export control system, and Secretary Gates will outline our reform proposal within the next couple of weeks. But today I'd like to announce two steps that we're prepared to take.<p>First, we're going to streamline the process certain companies need to go through to get their products to market, products with encryption capabilities like cell phone and network storage devices. Right now they endure a technical review that can take between 30 and 60 days, and that puts that company at a distinct disadvantage to foreign competitors who don't face those same delays. So a new, one-time online process will shorten that review time from 30 days to 30 minutes, and that makes it quicker and easier for our businesses to compete while meeting our national security requirements.<p>And second, we're going to eliminate unnecessary obstacles for exporting products to companies with dual national and third-country national employees. Currently, our exporters and foreign consumers of these goods have to comply with two different, conflicting set of standards. They're running on two tracks, when they could be running just on one. So we're moving towards harmonizing those standards and making it easier for American and foreign companies to comply with our requirements without diminishing our security. And I look forward to consulting with Congress on these reforms, as well as broader export control reform efforts.<p>So that's how we're going to double our exports, open up new markets, and level the playing field for American businesses and American workers. I have every confidence that we can succeed in this effort. I have every confidence that we will succeed in this effort.<p>This is a difficult time for our country. And in times like these, questions have always arisen about whether or not America's best days are behind us. That's standard fare. It happens every so often. There have always been naysayers and skeptics. There were always those who've waxed fatalistic, fearing that we lacked the capacity to adapt, to succeed, at times, even to survive in a changing world.<p>But what makes America great, what continues to make America the envy of our competitors, what makes this a place where people come not just to invest, but to start lives and businesses and families, is something that has been inexorable and enduring, especially in times of great challenge and great change. It's that spirit of adventurousness and entrepreneurship that has for generations turned wild-eyed tinkerers into world-changing entrepreneurs, that led us westward and skyward, that led to roads and railways cutting through wilderness, and ships and planes and fiber optic lines carrying American goods and services around the world. It's the spirit that has advanced America's leadership in the world and held aloft the American Dream for generations. And it is ultimately that spirit that's given us the tools and the toughness to overcome every obstacle and adapt to every circumstance, and today is no different.<p>It hasn't always been easy. Our success is by no means guaranteed. But if we summon a sense of national purpose equal to the seriousness of these times, if we combine our creativity, our innovation, and our eternal optimism, if we come together in common cause as we have so many times before, we will succeed, we will define our destiny once again, and we will make this century another American century, with your help.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"69" "\"Lost in the news of last week was a headline that ought to be a source of concern for every American. It said, \\"Many Nations Passing U.S. in Education.\\" Now, debates in Washington tend to be consumed with the politics of the moment: who's up in the daily polls; whose party stands to gain in November. But what matters to you, what matters to our country, is not what happens in the next election, but what we do to lift up the next generation. And the fact is, there are few issues that speak more directly to our long-term success as a nation than issues concerning the education we provide to our children.<p>Our prosperity in the 20th century was fueled by an education system that helped grow the middle class and unleash the talents of our people more fully and widely than at any time in our history. We built schools and focused on the teaching of math and science. We helped a generation of veterans go to college through the GI bill. We led the globe in producing college graduates, and in turn, we led in producing groundbreaking technologies and scientific discoveries that lifted living standards and set us apart as the world's engine of innovation.<p>Of course, other nations recognize this and are looking to gain an edge in the global marketplace by investing in better schools and supporting teachers and committing to clear standards that will produce graduates with more skills. Our competitors understand that the nation that outeducates us today will outcompete us tomorrow. Yet too often we failed to make inroads in reforming and strengthening our public education system, the debate mired in worn arguments hurled across entrenched divides.<p>As a result, over the last few decades, we've lost ground. One assessment shows American 15-year-olds no longer even near the top in math and science when compared to their peers around the world. As referenced in the news report I mentioned, we've now fallen behind most wealthy countries in our high school graduation rates. And while we once led the world in the proportion of college graduates we produced, today we no longer do.<p>Not only does that risk our leadership as a nation, it consigns millions of Americans to a lesser future. For we know that the level of education a person attains is increasingly a prerequisite for success and a predictor of the income that person will earn throughout his or her life. Beyond the economic statistics is a less tangible but no less painful reality: Unless we take action, unless we step up, there are countless children who will never realize their full talent and potential.<p>I don't accept that future for them. And I don't accept that future for the United States of America. That's why we're engaged in a historic effort to redeem and improve our public schools, to raise the expectations for our students and for ourselves, to recognize and reward excellence, to improve performance in troubled schools, and to give our kids and our country the best chance to succeed in a changing world.<p>Under the leadership of an outstanding Education Secretary, Arne Duncan, we launched a Race to the Top, through which States compete for funding by committing to reform and raising standards, by rewarding good teaching, by supporting the development of better assessments to measure results, and by emphasizing math and science to help prepare children for college and careers.<p>And on Monday, my administration will send to Congress our blueprint for an updated Elementary and Secondary Education Act to overhaul No Child Left Behind. What this plan recognizes is that while the Federal Government can play a leading role in encouraging the reforms and high standards we need, the impetus for that change will come from States and from local schools and school districts. So yes, we set a high bar, but we also provide educators the flexibility to reach it.<p>Under these guidelines, schools that achieve excellence or show real progress will be rewarded and local districts will be encouraged to commit to change in schools that are clearly letting their students down. For the majority of schools that fall in between, schools that do well but could do better, we will encourage continuous improvement to help keep our young people on track for a bright future, prepared for the jobs of the 21st century. And because the most important factor in a child's success is the person standing in the front of the classroom, we will better prepare teachers, support teachers, and encourage teachers to stay in the field. In short, we'll treat the people who educate our sons and daughters like the professionals they are.<p>Through this plan, we are setting an ambitious goal: All students should graduate from high school prepared for college and a career, no matter who you are or where you come from. Achieving this goal will be difficult. It'll take time, and it will require the skills, talents, and dedication of many: principals, teachers, parents, and students. But this effort is essential for our children and for our country. And while there will always be those cynics who claim it can't be done, at our best, we know that America has always risen to the challenges that we've faced. This challenge is no different.<p>As a nation, we are engaged in many important endeavors: improving the economy, reforming the health care system, encouraging innovation in energy and other growth industries of the 21st century, all while still in the midst of two wars. But our success in these efforts, and our success in the future as a people, will ultimately depend on what happens long before an entrepreneur opens his doors or a nurse walks the rounds or a scientist steps into her laboratory. Our future is determined each and every day, when our children enter the classroom, ready to learn and brimming with promise.<p>It's that promise we must help them fulfill. Thanks so much.\" "
"70" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Ohio! It is good to be here in the Buckeye State. Congratulations on winning the Big Ten Championship. <p><i>Audience member.</i> O-H!<p><i>The President. </i>I'm filling out my brackets now. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Audience member.</i> O-H!<p><i>Audience members.</i> I-O!<p><i>Audience member.</i> O-H!<p><i>Audience members.</i> I-O!<p><i>Audience member.</i> O-H!<p><i>Audience members.</i> I-O!<p><i>The President.</i> Yes, that kid Turner looks pretty good. [<i>Laughter</i>] You guys are doing all right.<p>It is wonderful to be here.<p><i>Audience member.</i> I love you!<p><i>The President.</i> I love you back. I do.<p>Couple of people I just want to make sure I give special mention to. First of all, you already saw him, Governor Ted Strickland in the house. Ted is fighting every day to bring jobs and economic development to Ohio. So is your terrific United States Senator, Sherrod Brown--love Sherrod Brown; your own Congressman, who is tireless on behalf of working people, Dennis Kucinich.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Vote yes!<p><i>The President.</i> Did you hear that, Dennis? Go--say that again.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Vote yes!<p><i>The President.</i> A couple of other Members of Congress are here: U.S. Representative Betty Sutton; U.S. Representative Marcia Fudge; U.S. Representative Tim Ryan; U.S. Representative Charlie Wilson.<p>I want to thank Mayor Tom Perciak here in Strongsville. Please, Mr. Mayor--you're on. That's a good bunch of folks we got here in Ohio, working hard, which is why I'm glad to be back. And let's face it: It's nice to be out of Washington once in a while. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I want to thank Connie, who introduced me. I want to thank her and her family for being here on behalf of her sister Natoma. I don't know if everybody understood that Natoma's in the hospital right now, so Connie was filling in. It's not easy to share such a personal story, when your sister, who you love so much, is sick. And so I appreciate Connie being willing to do so here today, and I want everybody to understand that Connie and her sister are the reason that I'm here today.<p>See, Connie felt it was important that her sister's story be told. But I want to just repeat what happened here. Last month, I got a letter from Connie's sister Natoma. She's self-employed, she's trying to make ends meet, and for years, she's done the responsible thing, just like most of you have, she bought insurance. She didn't have a big employer who provided her insurance, so she bought her health insurance through the individual market.<p>And it was important for her to have insurance because 16 years ago, she was diagnosed with a treatable form of cancer. And even though she had been cancer-free for more than a decade, the insurance companies kept on jacking up her rates, year after year. So she increased her out-of-pocket expenses. She raised her deductible. She did everything she could to maintain her health insurance that would be there just in case she got sick, because she figured, I didn't want to be--she didn't want to be in a position where, if she did get sick, somebody else would have to pick up the tab, that she'd have to go to the emergency room, that the cost would be shifted onto folks through their higher insurance premiums or hospitals charging higher rates. So she tried to do the right thing.<p>And she upped her deductible last year to the minimum--the highest possible deductible. But despite that, Natoma's insurance company raised her premiums by more than 25 percent. And over the past year, she paid more than $6,000 in monthly premiums.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> She paid more than $4,000 in out-of-pocket medical costs, for copays and medical care and prescriptions. So all together, this woman paid $10,000--1 year. But because she never hit her deductible, her insurance company only spent $900 on her care. All right. So the insurance company is making--getting $10,000; paying out $900. Now, what comes in the mail at the end of last year?<p><i>Audience member.</i> A bill!<p><i>Audience member.</i> A rate hike!<p><i>The President.</i> It's a letter telling Natoma that her premiums would go up again by more than 40 percent.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> So here's what happens. She just couldn't afford it. She didn't have the money. She realized that if she paid those health insurance premiums that had been jacked up by 40 percent, she couldn't make her mortgage. And despite her desire to keep her coverage, despite her fears that she would get sick and lose the home that her parents built, she finally surrendered. She finally gave up her health insurance. She stopped paying it. She couldn't make ends meet.<p>So January was her last month of being insured. Like so many responsible Americans, folks who work hard every day, who try to do the right thing, she was forced to hang her fortunes on chance, just to take a chance; that's all she could do. She hoped against hope that she would stay healthy. She feared terribly that she might not stay healthy.<p>That was the letter that I read to the insurance companies, including the person responsible for raising her rates. Now, I understand Natoma was pretty surprised when she found out that I had read it to these CEOs. But I thought it was important for them to understand the human dimensions of this problem. Her rates have been hiked more than 40 percent.<p>And this was less than 2 weeks ago. Unfortunately, Natoma's worst fears were realized. And just last week, she was working on a nearby farm, walking outside, apparently chasing after a cow--[<i>Laughter</i>]--when she collapsed. And she was rushed to the hospital. She was very sick. She needed two blood transfusions. Doctors performed a battery of tests. And on Saturday, Natoma was diagnosed with leukemia.<p>Now, the reason Natoma's not here today is that she's lying in a hospital bed, suddenly faced with this emergency, suddenly faced with the fight of her life. She expects to face more than a month of aggressive chemotherapy. She is racked with worry not only about her illness, but about the costs of the tests and the treatment that she's surely going to need to beat it.<p>So you want to know why I'm here, Ohio? I'm here because of Natoma. I'm here because of the countless others who have been forced to face the most terrifying challenges in their lives with the added burden of medical bills they can't pay. I don't think that's right. Neither do you. That's why we need health insurance right now--health insurance reform right now.<p>Audience members. Obama! Obama! Obama!<p><i>The President.</i> I'm here because of my own mother's story. She died of cancer, and in the last 6 months of her life, she was on the phone in her hospital room arguing with insurance companies instead of focusing on getting well and spending time with her family.<p>I'm here because of the millions who are denied coverage because of preexisting conditions or dropped from coverage when they get sick. I'm here because of the small businesses who are forced to choose between health care and hiring. I'm here because of the seniors unable to afford the prescriptions that they need. I'm here because of the folks seeing their premiums go up 20 and 30 and 40 and 50 and 60 percent in a year. Ohio, I am here because that is not the America I believe in, and that's not the America that you believe in.<p><i>Audience member.</i> What's your plan?<p><i>The President.</i> So when you hear people say \\"start over\\"----<p><i>Audience members.</i> No!<p><i>The President.</i> ----I want you to think about Natoma. When you hear people saying that this isn't the right time, you think about what she's going through. When you hear people talk about, well, what does this mean for the Democrats? What does this mean for the Republicans? I don't know how the polls are doing. When you hear people more worried about the politics of it than what's right and what's wrong, I want you to think about Natoma and the millions of people all across this country who are looking for some help and looking for some relief. That's why we need health insurance reform right now.<p>Part of what makes this issue difficult is most of us do have health insurance. They--we still do and so we kind of feel like, well, I don't know, it's kind of working for me; I'm not worrying too much. But what we have to understand is that what's happened to Natoma, there but for the grace of God go any one of us. Anybody here, if you lost your job right now, and after the COBRA ran out----<p><i>[At this point, an audience member fainted.]</i><p><i>The President.</i> Looks like we've got somebody who might've fainted down there, so if we've got a medic--no, no, no--hold on, I'm talking about there's somebody who might've fainted right down here, so if we can get a medic just back here. They're probably okay. Just give her or him some space.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Hope you have insurance! [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> So let's just think about if you lost your job right now. How many people here might have had a preexisting condition that would mean it'd be very hard to get health insurance on the individual market? Think about if you wanted to change jobs. Think about if you wanted to start your own business, but you suddenly had to give up your health insurance on your job. Think about what happens if a child of yours, heaven forbid, got diagnosed with something that made it hard for them to insure.<p>For so many people, it may not be a problem right now, but it's going to be a problem later, at any point. And even if you've got good health insurance, what's happening to your premiums? What's happening to your copayments? What's happening to your deductibles? They're all going up. That's money straight out of your pocket.<p>So the bottom line is this: The status quo on health care is simply unsustainable. We can't have a system that works better for the insurance companies than it does for the American people.<p>And we know what will happen if we fail to act. We know that our Government will be plunged deeper into debt. We know that millions more people will lose their coverage. We know that rising costs will saddle millions more families with unaffordable expenses. And a lot of small businesses are just going to drop their coverage altogether. That's already what's been happening.<p>A study came out just yesterday--this is a nonpartisan study--it's found that without reform, premiums could more than double for individuals and families over the next decade. Family policies could go to an average of $25,000 or more. Can you afford that?<p><i>Audience members.</i> No!<p><i>The President.</i> You think your employer can afford that?<p><i>Audience members.</i> No!<p><i>The President.</i> Your employer can't sustain that. So what's going to happen is they're basically--more and more of them are just going to say, you know what, you're on your own on this.<p>We have debated this issue now for more than a year. Every proposal's been put on the table. Every argument has been made. I know a lot of people view this as a partisan issue, but look, the fact is, both parties have a lot of areas where we agree; it's just politics are getting in the way of actually getting it done.<p>Somebody asked, what's our plan. Let me describe exactly what we're doing, because we've ended up with a proposal that incorporates the best ideas from Democrats and Republicans, even though Republicans don't give us any credit. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's all right.<p>You know, if you think about the debate around health care reform, there were some who wanted to scrap the system of private insurance and replace it with Government-run care. And look, that works in a number of places, but I did not see that being practical to get help right away for people who really need it.<p>And on the other end of the spectrum--and this is what a lot of the Republicans are saying right now--there are those who simply believe that the answer is to unleash the insurance industry, to deregulate them further, provide them less oversight and fewer rules.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> This is called the \\"fox guarding the henhouse\\" approach to health insurance reform. [<i>Laughter</i>] So what it would do is it would give insurance companies more leeway to raise premiums, more leeway to deny care. It would segment the market further. It would be good if you were rich and healthy. You'd save money. But if you're an ordinary person, if you get older, if you get a little sicker, you'd be paying more.<p>Now, I don't believe we should give the Government or insurance companies more control over health care in America. I believe it's time to give you, the American people, more control over your own health insurance.<p>And that's what our proposal does. Our proposal builds on the current system, where most Americans get their health insurance from their employer. So if you like your plan, you can keep your plan. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. I don't want to interfere with people's relationships between them and their doctors.<p>Essentially, here's what my proposal would change: three things about the current health care system, but three important things. Number one, it would end the worst practices of the insurance companies. All right? This is like a patient's bill of rights on steroids. [<i>Laughter</i>] Within the first year of signing health care reform, thousands of uninsured Americans with preexisting conditions will be able to purchase health insurance for the first time in their lives or the first time since they got sick. This year, insurance companies will be banned forever from denying coverage to children with preexisting conditions, so parents can have a little bit of security. This year, under this legislation, insurance companies will be banned from dropping your coverage when you get sick. Those practices would end.<p>With this reform package, all new insurance plans would be required to offer free preventive care to their customers starting this year, so free checkups to catch preventable diseases on the front end. That's a smart thing to do. Starting this year, if you buy a new plan, there won't be lifetime or restrictive annual limits on the amount of care you receive from your insurance companies, so you won't be surprised by the fine print that says suddenly they've stopped paying and you now suddenly are 50 or 100 or $200,000 out of pocket. That won't--that will not happen if this becomes law this year. I see some young people in the audience. If you're an uninsured young adult, you will be able to stay on your parent's policy until you're 26 years old under this law.<p>So number one, number one is insurance reform. The second thing that this plan would change about the current system is this: For the first time, uninsured individuals, small businesses, they'd have the same kind of choice of private health insurance that Members of Congress get for themselves. Understand if this reform becomes law, Members of Congress, they'll be getting their insurance from the same place that the uninsured get theirs, because if it's good enough for the American people, it's good enough for the people who send us to Washington.<p>So basically, what would happen is we'd set up a pool of people; millions of people across the country would all buy into these pools that give them more negotiating power. If you work for a big company, you've got a better insurance deal because you've got more bargaining power as a whole. We want you to have all the bargaining power that the Federal employees have, that big companies have, so you'll be able to buy in or a small business will be able to buy into this pool. And that will lower rates, it's estimated, by up to 14 to 20 percent over what you're currently getting. That's money out of pocket.<p>And what my proposal says is if you still can't afford the insurance in this new marketplace, then we're going to offer you tax credits to do so. And that will add up to the largest middle class tax cut for health care in history. That's what we're going to do.<p>Now, when I was talking about this at that health care summit--some of you saw it--I sat there for about 7 hours. I know you guys watched the whole thing. [<i>Laughter</i>] But some of these folks said, \\"Well, we just--that's a nice idea, but we just can't afford to do that.\\" Look, I want everybody to understand, the wealthiest among us can already buy the best insurance there is. The least well among us, the poorest among us, they get their health care through Medicaid. So it's the middle class, it's working people that are getting squeezed, and that's who we have to help, and we can afford to do it.<p>Now, it is true that providing these tax credits to middle class families and small businesses, that's going to cost some money. It's going to cost about $100 billion per year. But most of this comes from the nearly $2.5 trillion a year that Americans already spend on health care. It's just right now a lot of that money's being spent badly.<p>So with this plan, we're going to make sure the dollars we make--the dollars that we spend on health care are going to make insurance more affordable and more secure. And we're going to eliminate wasteful taxpayer subsidies that currently go to insurance company. Insurance companies are making billions of dollars on subsidies from you, the taxpayer. And if we take those subsidies away, we can use them to help folks like Natoma get health insurance so she doesn't lose her house.<p>And yes, we will set a new fee on insurance companies, because they stand to gain millions more customers who are buying insurance. There's nothing wrong with them giving something back. <p>But here's the bottom line: Our proposal's paid for, which, by the way, is more than can be said for our colleagues on the other side of the aisle when they passed that big prescription drug plan that cost about as much as my health care plan and they didn't pay for any of it and it went straight to the deficit. And now they're up there on their high horse talking about, \\"Well, we don't want to expand the deficit.\\" This plan doesn't expand the deficit. Their plan expanded the deficit. That's why we pay for what we do. That's the responsible thing to do.<p>Now--so let me talk about the third thing, which is, my proposal would bring down the cost of health care for families, for businesses, and for the Federal Government. So Americans buying comparable coverage to what they have today--and I already said this--would see premiums fall by 14 to 20 percent. That's not my numbers; that's what the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office says, for Americans who get their insurance through the workplace. How many people are getting insurance through their jobs right now? Raise your hands. All right, well, a lot of those folks--your employer, it's estimated, would see premiums fall by as much as 3,000 percent [$3,000 a person]*, which means they could give you a raise.<p>We have incorporated most of the serious ideas from across the political spectrum about how to contain the rising costs of health care. We go after waste and abuse in the system, especially in Medicare. Our cost-cutting measures would reduce most people's premiums and bring down our deficit by up to a trillion dollars over the next two decades. Those aren't my numbers. Those are the numbers determined by the Congressional Budget Office. They're the referee. That's what they say, not what I say.<p>Now, the opponents of reform, they've tried to make a lot of different arguments to stop these changes. You remember: First, they said, \\"Well, there's a Government takeover of health care.\\" Well, that wasn't true. Then they said, \\"Well, what about death panels?\\" Well, that turned out--that didn't turn out to be true.<p>You know, the most insidious argument they're making is the idea that somehow this would hurt Medicare. I know we've got some seniors here with us today. So I couldn't tell--you guys look great. [<i>Laughter</i>] I wouldn't have guessed. But I want to tell you directly: This proposal adds almost a decade of solvency to Medicare. This proposal would close the gap in prescription drug coverage, called the doughnut hole--you know something about that--that sticks seniors with thousands of dollars in drug costs. This proposal will, over time, help to reduce the costs of Medicare that you pay every month. This proposal would make preventive care free so you don't have to pay out of pocket for tests to keep you healthy.<p>So yes, we're going after the waste, the fraud, the abuse in Medicare. We are eliminating some of the insurance subsidies that should be going to your care. That's because these dollars should be spent on care for seniors, not on the care and feeding of the insurance companies through sweetheart deals. And every senior should know, there is no cutting of your guaranteed Medicare benefits, period, no ifs, ands, or buts. This proposal makes Medicare stronger, it makes the coverage better, and it makes the finances more secure. And anybody who says otherwise is either misinformed or they're trying to misinform you. Don't let them hoodwink you. They're trying to hoodwink them. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now--so look, Ohio, that's the proposal. And I believe Congress owes the American people a final up-or-down vote. We need an up-or-down vote. It's time to vote. And now as we get closer to the vote, there's a lot of hand-wringing going on. We hear a lot of people in Washington talking about politics, talking about what this means in November, talking about the poll numbers for Democrats and Republicans.<p><i>Audience member.</i> We need courage!<p><i>The President.</i> We need courage. Did you hear what somebody just said? That's what we need. That's why I came here today. We need courage.<p>We need courage. You know, in the end, this debate is about far more than politics. It comes down to what kind of country do we want to be. It's about the millions of lives that would be touched and in some cases saved by making health insurance more secure and more affordable. It's about a woman who's lying in a hospital bed who just wants to be able to pay for the care she needs. And the truth is, what's at stake in this debate, it's not just our ability to solve this problem; it's about our ability to solve any problem.<p>I was talking to Dennis Kucinich on the way over here about this. I say: \\"You know what? It's been such a long time since we made Government on the side of ordinary working folks, where we did something for them that relieved some of their struggles, that made folks who work hard every day and are doing the right thing and who are looking out for their families and contributing to their communities, that just gave them a little bit of a better chance to live out their American Dream.\\"<p>The American people want to know if it's still possible for Washington to look out for their interests, for their future. So what they're looking for is some courage. They're waiting for us to act. They're waiting for us to lead. They don't want us putting our finger out to the wind. They don't want us reading polls. They want us to look and see what is the best thing for America and then do what's right. And as long as I hold this office, I intend to provide that leadership. And I know these Members of Congress are going to provide that leadership. I don't know about the politics, but I know what's the right thing to do. And so I'm calling on Congress to pass these reforms, and I'm going to sign them into law. I want some courage. I want us to do the right thing, Ohio. And with your help, we're going to make it happen.<p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"71" "\"Thank you. Please, everybody, be seated. To Speaker Pelosi; distinguished Members of the House and Senate; Republican Leader Boehner; Majority Leader Steny Hoyer; my outstanding Vice President and his newest chief of staff--[<i>Laughter</i>]--to Prime Minister Cowen and the entire Irish delegation, as well as the extraordinary leaders from Ireland and Northern Ireland: It is my privilege to welcome all of you for this wonderful St. Patrick's Day tradition. <p>And, Governor O'Malley, thank you for that outstanding rendition of our two national anthems. I had asked if Martin was going to do a rock 'n' roll version. [<i>Laughter</i>] Some of you know he's got a rock band and is in much demand. <p>This tradition, as most of you know, was begun by Tip O'Neill and Ronald Reagan, two men who agreed on their love of all things Irish, including a good scrum. But they also knew how to set aside time just to enjoy one another's company. President Reagan himself said that the two men could be friends after 6 o'clock. And I imagine they also made a midday exception for this luncheon every year.<p>Today is a day we speak with pride of being Irish American, whether we actually are or not. [<i>Laughter</i>] I am pleased to say that I can actually get away with it, and I've got the Taoiseach here to vouch for me. Prime Minister Cowen was born in County Offaly, and I can trace my ancestry on my mother's side there as well. I believe it was my great-great-great-great-great grandfather. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is true. [<i>Laughter</i>] He was a bootmaker, if I'm not mistaken.<p>Someone actually discovered my Irish lineage when I was running for President, and my first thought was, why didn't anybody discover this when I was running for office in Chicago? [<i>Laughter</i>] I would have gotten here sooner. [<i>Laughter</i>] I used to put the apostrophe after the \\"O\\" but that did not work. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So it is nice to have a little Irish blood today. It is, after all, a day to celebrate and give thanks for the profound and enduring relationship between Ireland and America. And it's also a day to thank the Irish people for all that they've done for America. <p>Few nations so small have had such an enormous impact on another. They came to our shores in waves, by choice as well as by necessity, building new lives even as they were building a new nation, enriching our heritage, enriching our culture in their own way. And in so doing, alongside so many others who sought a better life in America, they forged a better future for all of us.<p>But the truth is, they weren't always welcomed. There were times where the Irish were caricatured and stereotyped and cursed at and blamed for society's ills. So naturally, it was a good fit for them to go into politics--[<i>Laughter</i>]--made sense. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>When the fictional Mayor Skeffington of Edwin O'Connor's \\"The Last Hurrah\\" spoke of his life as an Irish American, he said, \\"When I began, it was long ago, and the situation around here was a bit different. I had no education to speak of, a good many roads were closed to our people, and politics seemed the easiest way out.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Today, of course, we all feel the heavy absence of one of our greatest Irish Americans, a man who loved this day so much, a man who, I believe, is still watching this body closely, particularly this week, and that is our beloved Ted Kennedy. And I'm so grateful that Vicki and Patrick are here. Thank you for your presence.<p>I confess that one of my fondest memories of Teddy has been on my mind lately; it's one that I shared before. Just a few years ago, on St. Patrick's Day, so it would probably be, maybe, 5 years ago, when I had just gotten to the Senate, Teddy cornered me on the Senate floor for my support on a piece of legislation. And I told him, \\"You've got my vote, Teddy, but I got to tell you, this is not looking good. I do not think this thing is going to fly.\\" But it did, with votes to spare. And so I grabbed Teddy, pulled him aside, I said, \\"How did you pull that off?\\" And he just patted me on the back, and he said, \\"Luck of the Irish.\\"<p>And it's nice when the luck of the Irish can bring to the Senate and to Congress such an extraordinary leader as Ted Kennedy. I think it's a little providence, as well as a little luck. It's also nice when the luck of the Irish can bring us all together, Republicans and Democrats. That was one of Teddy's talents. Even as he waged epic and unyielding battles in this building, he too was a believer that we were all friends after 6 o'clock. <p>And more importantly, he was a believer in building consensus, in forging compromise, in the idea that the only way that we can accomplish the work of the American people is to work together. And one of the greatest testaments to his life and his work, I think, was that so many of his colleagues, past and present, Republican and Democrats, came forward to honor him in similar terms.<p>Now, that work--the work of setting aside old differences and softening hardened positions, taking the tough steps to do what's right in the long run over what's easy in the moment--has also paid dividends in terms of the remarkable progress that we've seen in Northern Ireland, particularly in recent months. And so I want to salute First Minister Peter Robinson and Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness for their outstanding leadership, their continuing example. We are grateful for that. Thank you.<p>It is such leadership that keeps me convinced that our best days--for this legislative body, for this Nation, for Ireland, and for Northern Ireland and for the friendship between our peoples--those best days are still ahead. <p>So, Taoiseach, I thank you and your lovely wife for coming. To you and to the people of Ireland, America is grateful for our shared past, hopeful for our common future, and I assure you we will be a faithful partner in the work of progress and prosperity and a just and lasting peace.<p>Happy St. Patrick's Day to all of you. And with that, please welcome the Prime Minister of Ireland, Brian Cowen.\" "
"72" "\"Good morning, everybody. Please have a seat. Well, on this beautiful morning, we are here to mark the passage of a welcome piece of legislation for our fellow Americans who are seeking work in this difficult economy. But first, let me say a few words about the latest development in the debate over health insurance reform. I don't know if you guys have been hearing, but there's been a big debate going on here.<p>This morning a new analysis from the Congressional Budget Office concludes that the reform we seek would bring $1.3 trillion in deficit reduction over the next two decades. That makes this legislation the most significant effort to reduce deficits since the Balanced Budget Act in the 1990s. And this is but one virtue of a reform that will bring new accountability to the insurance industry and greater economic security to all Americans. So I urge every Member of Congress to consider this as they prepare for their important vote this weekend.<p>And I want to welcome all the Members of Congress who are here, those who are on stage--Madam Speaker, Majority Leader Reid--as well as some of my Cabinet members who are here.<p>In a few moments, I'll sign what's called the HIRE Act, a jobs bill that will encourage businesses to hire and help put Americans back to work. And I'd like to say a few words about what this jobs bill will mean for workers, for businesses, and for America's economic recovery.<p>There are a number of ways to look at an economic recovery. Through the eyes of an economist, you look at the different stages of recovery. You look at whether an economy has begun to grow, at whether businesses have begun to hire temporary workers or increase the hours of existing workers. You look at whether businesses, small and large, have begun to hire full-time employees again.<p>That's how economists measure a recovery, and by those measures, we are beginning to move in the right direction. But through the eyes of most Americans, recovery is about something more fundamental: Do I have a decent job? Can I provide for my family? Do I feel a sense of financial security?<p>The great recession that we've just gone through took a terrible toll on the middle class and on our economy as a whole. For every one of the over 8 million people who lost their jobs in recent years, there's a story of struggle, of a family that's forced to choose between paying their electricity bill or the car insurance or the daughter's college tuition, of weddings and vacations and retirements that have been postponed.<p>So here's the good news: A consensus is forming that partly because of the necessary, and often unpopular, measures we took over the past year, our economy is now growing again, and we may soon be adding jobs instead of losing them. The jobs bill I'm signing today is intended to help accelerate that process.<p>I'm signing it mindful that, as I've said before, the solution to our economic problems will not come from Government alone. Government can't create all the jobs we need or can it repair all the damage that's been done by this recession.<p>But what we can do is promote a strong, dynamic private sector, the true engine of job creation in our economy. We can help to provide an impetus for America's businesses to start hiring again. We can nurture the conditions that allow companies to succeed and to grow.<p>And that's exactly what this jobs bill will help us do. Now, make no mistake, while this jobs bill is absolutely necessary, it's by no means enough. There's a lot more that we're going to need to do to spur hiring in the private sector and bring about full economic recovery, from helping creditworthy small businesses to get loans that they need to expand, to offering incentives to make homes and businesses more energy efficient, to investing in infrastructure so we can put Americans to work doing the work that America needs done.<p>Nevertheless, this jobs bill will make a difference in several important ways. First, we will forgive payroll taxes for businesses that hire someone who's been out of work at least 2 months. That's a tax benefit that will apply to unemployed workers hired between last month and the end of this year. So this tax cut says to employers, if you hire a worker who's unemployed, you won't have to pay payroll taxes on that worker for the rest of the year. And businesses that move quickly to hire today will get a bigger tax credit than businesses that wait until later this year.<p>This tax cut will be particularly helpful to small-business owners. Many of them are on the fence right now about whether to bring in that extra worker or two, or whether they should hire anyone at all. And this jobs bill should help make their decision that much easier. And by the way, I'd like to note that part of what health insurance reform would do is to provide tax credits for over 4 million small businesses so they don't have to choose between hiring workers and offering coverage.<p>The second thing this bill does is to encourage small businesses to grow and to hire by permitting them to write off investments they make in equipment this year. These kinds of expenses typically take years to depreciate, but under this law, businesses will be able to invest up to $250,000, let's say, in a piece of factory equipment, and write it off right away. Put simply, we'll give businesses an incentive to invest in their own future, and to do it today.<p>Third, we'll reform municipal bonds to encourage job creation by expanding investment in schools and clean energy projects. Say a town wants to put people to work rebuilding a crumbling elementary school or putting up wind turbines. With this law, we'll make it easier for them to raise the money they need to do what they want to do by using a model that we've called Build America Bonds, one of the most successful programs in the Recovery Act. We'll give Americans a better chance to invest in the future of their communities and of the country.<p>And finally, this jobs bill will maintain crucial investments in our roads and our bridges as we head into the spring and summer months, when construction jobs are picking up.<p>I want to commend all the Members of Congress, and their leadership is what made this bill possible. Many of them are here today. I'm also gratified that over a dozen Republicans agreed that the need for this jobs bill was urgent, and that they were willing to break out of the partisan morass to help us take this forward step for the American people. I hope this is a prelude to further cooperation in the days and months to come, as we continue to work on digging our way out of the recession and rebuilding our economy in a way that works for all Americans and not just some Americans.<p>After all, the jobs bill I'm signing today, and our broader efforts to achieve a recovery, aren't about politics. They're not about Democrat versus Republican. This isn't a game that we're playing here. They're about the people in this country who are out of work and looking for a job. They're about all the Americans of every race and region and age who've shared their stories with me over the last year.<p>The single mother who's told me she's filled out hundreds of job applications and been on dozens of interviews, but still hasn't found a job. The father whose son told me he started working when he was a teenager and recently found himself out of a job for the very first time in his life. The children who write to me, they're worried about their moms and their dads, worried about what the future holds for their families.<p>That's who I'm thinking about every morning when I enter into the Oval Office. That's who I'm signing this bill for. And that's who I'm going to continue to fight for so long as I am President of the United States.<p>So with that, let me sign this bill and let's get to work.\" "
"73" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, George Mason! How's everybody doing today? Thank you. Thank you.<p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can!<p><i>The President</i>. Thank you, everybody. It's good to be back with some real Patriots. I want to thank Dr. Alan Merten, the president of George Mason University, and his family; Dr. Shirley Travis, who's here--thank you; and Coach Larranaga--we were just talking a little bit about--[<i>applause</i>]--looking forward to picking George Mason in my bracket next year.<p><i>Audience member</i>. We love you!<p><i>The President</i>. I love you. I don't know if some of you remember, but I visited this university about 3 years ago for the first time. This was at just the dawn of my Presidential campaign. It was about 3 weeks old, I think. We didn't have a lot of money. We didn't have a lot of staff. Nobody could pronounce my name. [<i>Laughter</i>] Our poll numbers were quite low. And a lot of people in Washington, they didn't think it was even worth us trying.<p>They had counted us out before we had even started, because the Washington conventional wisdom was that change was too hard. But what we had even then was a group of students here at George Mason who believed that if we worked hard enough and if we fought long enough, if we organized enough supporters, then we could finally bring change to that city across the river. We believed that despite all the resistance, we could make Washington work, not for the lobbyists, not for the special interests, not for the politicians, but for the American people.<p>And now, 3 years later, I stand before you, 1 year after the worst recession since the Great Depression, having to make a bunch of tough decisions, having had a tumultuous debate, having had a lot of folks who were skeptical that we could get anything done. And right now we are at the point where we are going to do something historic this weekend. That's what this health care vote is all about.<p>A few miles from here, Congress is in the final stages of a fateful debate about the future of health insurance in America. It's a debate that's raged not just for the past year, but for the past century. One thing when you're in the White House, you've got a lot of history books around you. [<i>Laughter</i>] And so I've been reading up on the history here. Teddy Roosevelt, Republican, was the first to advocate that everybody get health care in this country. Every decade since, we've had Presidents, Republicans and Democrats, from Harry Truman to Richard Nixon to JFK to Lyndon Johnson to--every single President has said we need to fix this system. It's a debate that's not only about the cost of health care, not just about what we're doing about folks who aren't getting a fair shake from their insurance companies, it's a debate about the character of our country, about whether we can still meet the challenges of our time, whether we still have the guts and the courage to give every citizen, not just some, the chance to reach their dreams.<p>At the heart of this debate is the question of whether we're going to accept a system that works better for the insurance companies than it does for the American people, because if this vote fails, the insurance industry will continue to run amok. They will continue to deny people coverage. They will continue to deny people care. They will continue to jack up premiums 40 or 50 or 60 percent, as they have in the last few weeks, without any accountability whatsoever. They know this, and that's why their lobbyists are stalking the Halls of Congress as we speak and pouring millions of dollars into negative ads. And that's why they are doing everything they can to kill this bill.<p>So the only question left is this: Are we going to let the special interests win once again?<p><i>Audience members</i>. No!<p><i>The President</i>. Or are we going to make this vote a victory for the American people? <p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can!<p><i>The President</i>. George Mason, the time for reform is right now. Not a year from now, not 5 years from now, not 10 years from now, not 20 years from now, it's now. We have had a year of hard debate. Every proposal has been put on the table; every argument has been made. We have incorporated the best ideas from Democrats and from Republicans into a final proposal that builds on the system of private insurance that we currently have. The insurance industry and its supporters in Congress have tried to portray this as radical change.<p>Now, I just want to be clear, everybody. Listen up, because we have heard every crazy thing about this bill. You remember. First, we heard this was a Government takeover of health care. Then we heard that this was going to kill granny. Then we heard, well, illegal immigrants are going to be getting the main benefits of this bill. There has been--they have thrown every argument at this legislative effort. But when it--it turns out, at the end of the day, what we're talking about is commonsense reform. That's all we're talking about.<p>If you like your doctor, you're going to be able to keep your doctor. If you like your plan, keep your plan. I don't believe we should give Government or the insurance companies more control over health care in America. I think it's time to give you, the American people, more control over your health.<p>And since you've been hearing a whole bunch of nonsense, let's just be clear on what exactly the proposal that they're going to vote on in a couple of days will do. It's going to change health care in three ways. <p>Number one, we are going to end the worst practices of insurance companies. This is a patient's bill of rights on steroids. [<i>Laughter</i>] Starting this year, thousands of uninsured Americans with preexisting conditions will be able to purchase health insurance, some for the very first time. Starting this year, insurance companies will be banned forever from denying coverage to children with preexisting conditions. Starting this year, insurance companies will be banned from dropping your coverage when you get sick. And they've been spending a lot of time weeding out people who are sick so they don't have to pay benefits that people have already paid for. Those practices will end.<p>If this reform becomes law, all new insurance plans will be required to offer free preventive care to their customers. If you buy a new plan, there won't be lifetime or restrictive annual limits on the amount of care you receive from your insurance companies. And by the way, to all the young people here today, starting this year, if you don't have insurance, all new plans will allow you to stay on your parent's plan until you are 26 years old. <p>So you'll have some security when you graduate. If that first job doesn't offer coverage, you're going to know that you've got coverage. Because as you start your lives and your careers, the last thing you should be worried about is whether you're going to go broke or make your parents broke just because you get sick. All right?<p>So that's the first thing this legislation does: the toughest insurance reforms in history. And by the way, when you talk to Republicans and you say, \\"Well, are you against this?\\" a lot of them will say, \\"No, no, that part's okay.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] All right, so let's go to the second part.<p>The second thing that would change about the current system is that for the first time, small-business owners and people who are being priced out of the insurance market will have the same kind of choice of private health insurance that Members of Congress give to themselves.<p>So what this means is, is that small-business owners and middle class families, they're going to be able to be part of what's called a big pool of customers that can negotiate with the insurance companies. And that means they can purchase more affordable coverage in a competitive marketplace. So they're not out there on their own just shopping. They're part of millions of people who are shopping together. And if you still can't afford the insurance in this new marketplace, even though it's going to be cheaper than what you can get on your own, then we're going to offer you tax credits to help you afford it, tax credits that add up to the largest middle class tax cut for health care in American history.<p>Now, these tax credits cost money. Helping folks who can't afford it right now, that does cost some money. It costs about $100 billion per year.<p><i>Audience member</i>. That's all right.<p><i>The President.</i> But most of the cost--[<i>Laughter</i>]--well, here's the reason it's all right. [<i>Laughter</i>] Here's the reason it's all right. It wouldn't be all right if we weren't paying for it--and by the way, that's what a previous Congress did with the prescription drug plan. All they did was they gave the benefits and they didn't pay for it.<p>That's not what we're doing. What we're doing is we're taking money that America is already spending in the health care system, but is being spent poorly, that's going to waste and fraud and unwarranted subsidies for the insurance companies, and we're taking that money and making sure those dollars go towards making insurance more affordable.<p>So we're going to eliminate wasteful taxpayer subsidies to insurance companies. We're going to set a new fee on insurance companies that stand to gain millions of new customers. So here's the point: This proposal's paid for. Unlike some of these previous schemes in Washington, we're not taking out the credit card in your name, young people, and charging it to you. We're making sure this thing is paid for. All right, so that's the second thing.<p>Now, the third thing that this legislation does is it brings down the cost of health care for families and businesses and the Federal Government. Americans who are buying comparable coverage in the individual market would end up seeing their premiums go down 14 to 20 percent. Americans who get their insurance through the workplace, cost savings could be as much as $3,000 less per employer than if we do nothing. Now, think about that. That's $3,000 your employer doesn't have to pay, which means maybe she can afford to give you a raise.<p>And by the way, if you're curious, well, how exactly are we saving these costs? Well, part of it is, again, we're not spending our health care money wisely. So, for example, you go to the hospital or you go to a doctor and you may take five tests, when it turns out, if you just took one test, and you send an e-mail around with the test results, you wouldn't be paying $500 per test. So we're trying to save money across the system. And altogether, our cost-cutting measures would reduce most people's premiums. And here's the bonus: It brings down our deficit by more than $1 trillion over the next two decades.<p>So you've got a whole bunch of opponents of this bill saying, \\"Well, we can't afford this; we're fiscal conservatives.\\" These are the same guys who passed that prescription drug bill without paying for it, adding over $1 trillion to our deficit--\\"Oh, we can't afford this.\\" But this bill, according to the Congressional Budget Office, which is the referee, the scorekeeper for how much things cost, says we'll save us $1 trillion. Not only can we afford to do this, we can't afford not to do this.<p>So here's the bottom line. That's our proposal: toughest insurance reforms in history, one of the biggest deficit-reduction plans in history, and the opportunity to give millions of people--some of them in your own family, some of the people who are in this auditorium today--an opportunity for the first time in a very long time to get affordable health care. That's it. That's what we're trying to do. That's what the Congress of the United States is about to vote on this weekend.<p>Now, it would be nice if we were just kind of examining the substance, we were walking through the details of the plan, what it means for you. But that's not what the cable stations like to talk about. [<i>Laughter</i>] What they like to talk about is the politics of the vote. What does this mean in November? What does it mean to the poll numbers? Is this more of an advantage for Democrats or Republicans? What's it going to mean for Obama? Will his Presidency be crippled? <p><i>Audience members. </i>No!<p><i>The President. </i>Or will he be the comeback kid? Well, that's what they like to talk about. That's what they like to talk about. I understand.<p>One of the things you realize is, basically, that a lot of reporting in Washington, it's just like \\"SportsCenter.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] It's considered a sport, and who's up and who's down, and everybody's keeping score. And you got the teams going at it. It's Rock 'Em Sock 'Em Robots. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Look, let me say this, George Mason: I don't know how this plays politically. Nobody really does. I mean, there's been so much misinformation and so much confusion, and the climate, at times, during the course of this year has been so toxic, and people are so anxious because the economy has been going through such a tough time. I don't know what's going to happen with the politics on this thing. I don't know whether my poll numbers go down, they go up. I don't know what happens in terms of Democrats versus Republicans.<p>But here's what I do know: I do know that this bill, this legislation, is going to be enormously important for America's future. I do know the impact it will have on the millions of Americans who need our help. And the millions more who may not need help right now, but a year from now or 5 years from now or 10 years from now, if they have some bad luck, if, heaven forbid, they get sick, if they've got a preexisting condition, if their child has a preexisting condition, if they lose their job, if they want to start a company, I know the impact it will have on them.<p>I know what this reform will mean for people like Leslie Banks, a single mom I met in Pennsylvania. She's trying to put her daughter through college, just like probably some of your moms and dads are trying to put you through college. And her insurance company just sent her a letter saying they plan to double her premium this year, have it go up 100 percent. And she can't afford it. So now she's trying to figure out, am I going to keep my insurance or am I going to keep my daughter in college? Leslie Banks needs us to pass this reform bill.<p>I know what reform will mean for people like Laura Klitzka. I met Laura up in Green Bay, Wisconsin, while I was campaigning. She thought she had beaten her breast cancer. Then she discovered it had spread to her bones. And she and her insurance--she and her husband, they were lucky enough to have insurance, but their medical bills still landed them in debt. So now she's spending time worrying about the debt, when all she wants to do is think about how she can spend time with her two kids. Laura needs us to pass this reform bill.<p>I know what reform will mean for people like Natoma Canfield. When her insurance company raised her rates, she had to give up her coverage, even though she had been paying thousands of dollars in premiums for years, because she had beaten cancer 11 years earlier. They kept on jacking up her rates, jacking up her rates. Finally, she thought she was going to lose her home. She was scared that a sudden illness would lead to financial ruin, but she had no choice. Right now she's lying in a hospital bed, faced with paying for such an illness, after she had to give up her health insurance. She's praying that somehow she can afford to get well. She knows that it is time for reform.<p>So, George Mason, when you hear people saying, \\"Well, why don't we do this more incrementally; why don't we do this a little more piecemeal; why don't we just help the folks that are easiest to help,\\" my answer is, the time for reform is now. We have waited long enough. We have waited long enough.<p>And in just a few days, a century-long struggle will culminate in a historic vote. We've had historic votes before. We had a historic vote to put Social Security in place to make sure that our elderly did not live out their golden years in poverty. We had a historic vote in civil rights to make sure that everybody was equal under the law. As messy as this process is, as frustrating as this process is, as ugly as this process can be, when we have faced such decisions in our past, this Nation, time and time again, has chosen to extend its promise to more of its people.<p>You know, the naysayers said that Social Security would lead to socialism. [<i>Laughter</i>] But the men and women of Congress stood fast and created that program that lifted millions out of poverty.<p>There were cynics that warned that Medicare would lead to a Government takeover of our entire health care system and that it didn't have much support in the polls. But Democrats and Republicans refused to back down, and they made sure that our seniors had the health care that they needed and could have some basic peace of mind.<p>So previous generations, those who came before us, made the decision that our seniors and our poor, through Medicaid, should not be forced to go without health care just because they couldn't afford it. Today, it falls to this generation to decide whether we will make that same promise to hard-working middle class families and small businesses all across America and to young Americans like yourselves who are just starting out.<p>So here's my bottom line: I know this has been a difficult journey. I know this will be a tough vote. I know that everybody's counting votes right now in Washington. But I also remember a quote I saw on a plaque in the White House the other day. It's hanging in the same room when I demanded answers from insurance executives and just received a bunch of excuses. And it was a quote from Teddy Roosevelt, the person who first called for health care reform--that Republican--all those years ago. And it said, \\"Aggressively fighting for the right is the noblest sport the world affords.\\"<p>Now, I don't know how passing health care will play politically, but I know it's right. Teddy Roosevelt knew it was right; Harry Truman knew that it was right; Ted Kennedy knew it was right. And if you believe that it's right, then you've got to help us finish this fight. You've got to stand with me, just like you did 3 years ago, and make some phone calls and knock on some doors, talk to your parents, talk to your friends. Do not quit, do not give up. We keep on going. We are going to get this done. We are going to make history. We are going to fix health care in America, with your help. <p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"74" "\"Thank you very much. Everybody, please have a seat. To Leader Reid, to Steny Hoyer, John Larson, Xavier Becerra, Jim Clyburn, Chris Van Hollen, to an extraordinary leader and extraordinary Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, and to all the Members here today, thank you very much for having me. Thanks for having me, and thanks for your tireless efforts waged on behalf of health insurance reform in this country.<p>I have the great pleasure of having a really nice library at the White House. And I was tooling through some of the writings of some previous Presidents, and I came upon this quote by Abraham Lincoln: \\"I am not bound to win, but I'm bound to be true. I'm not bound to succeed, but I'm bound to live up to what light I have.\\"<p>This debate has been a difficult debate, this process has been a difficult process, and this year has been a difficult year for the American people. When I was sworn in, we were in the midst of the worst recession since the Great Depression. Eight hundred thousand people per month were losing their jobs, millions of people were losing their health insurance, and the financial system was on the verge of collapse.<p>And this body has taken on some of the toughest votes and some of the toughest decisions in the history of Congress, not because you were bound to win, but because you were bound to be true, because each and every one of you made a decision that at a moment of such urgency, it was less important to measure what the polls said than to measure what was right.<p>Now, a year later, we're in different circumstances. Because of the actions that you've taken, the financial system has stabilized. The stock market has stabilized. Businesses are starting to invest again. The economy, instead of contracting, is now growing again. There are signs that people are going to start hiring again. There's still tremendous hardship all across the country, but there is a sense that we are making progress, because of you.<p>But even before this crisis, each and every one of us knew that there were millions of people across America who were living their own quiet crises. Maybe because they had a child who had a preexisting condition, and no matter how desperate they were, no matter what insurance company they called, they couldn't get coverage for that child. Maybe it was somebody who had been forced into early retirement, in their fifties, not yet eligible for Medicare, and they couldn't find a job, and they couldn't find health insurance, despite the fact that they had some sort of chronic condition that had to be tended to.<p>Every single one of you at some point before you arrived in Congress and after you arrived in Congress have met constituents with heartbreaking stories. And you've looked them in the eye, and you've said: \\"We're going to do something about it. That's why I want to go to Congress.\\"<p>And now we're on the threshold of doing something about it. We're a day away. After a year of debate, after every argument has been made by just about everybody--[<i>Laughter</i>]--we're 24 hours away.<p>Now, some of you know, I'm not somebody who spends a lot of time surfing the cable channels, but I'm not completely in the bubble. I have a sense of what the coverage has been, and mostly, it's an obsession with: What will this mean for the Democratic Party? What will this mean for the President's polls? How will this play out in November? Is this good or is this bad for the Democratic majority? What does it mean for those swing districts?<p>And I noticed that there's been a lot of friendly advice offered all across town. [<i>Laughter</i>] Mitch McConnell, John Boehner, Karl Rove, they're all warning you of the horrendous impact if you support this legislation. Now, it could be that they are suddenly having a change of heart and they are deeply concerned about their Democratic friends. [<i>Laughter</i>] They are giving you the best possible advice--[<i>Laughter</i>]--in order to assure that Nancy Pelosi remains Speaker and Harry Reid remains leader and that all of you keep your seats. That's a possibility. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But it may also be possible that they realize after health reform passes and I sign that legislation into law, that it's going to be a little harder to mischaracterize what this effort has been all about.<p>Because this year, small businesses will start getting tax credits so that they can offer health insurance to employees who currently don't have it. Because this year, those same parents who are worried about getting coverage for their children with preexisting conditions now are assured that insurance companies have to give them coverage--this year. Because this year, insurance companies won't suddenly be able to drop your coverage when you get sick or impose lifetime limits or restrictive limits on the coverage that you have. Maybe they know that this year, for the first time, young people will be able to stay on their parents' health insurance until they're 26 years old, and they're thinking that might just be popular all across the country.<p>And what they also know is what won't happen. They know that after this legislation passes and after I sign this bill, lo and behold, nobody is pulling the plug on granny. [<i>Laughter</i>] It turns out that, in fact, people who like their health insurance are going to be able to keep their health insurance, that there's no Government takeover. People will discover that if they like their doctor, they'll be keeping their doctor. In fact, they're more likely to keep their doctor because of a stronger system.<p>It'll turn out that this piece of historic legislation is built on the private insurance system that we have now and runs straight down the center of American political thought. Turns out, this is a bill that tracks the recommendations not just of Democrat Tom Daschle, but also Republicans Bob Dole and Howard Baker, that this is a middle-of-the-road bill that is designed to help the American people in an area of their lives where they urgently need help.<p>Now, there are some who wanted a single-payer, Government-run system. That's not this bill. The Republicans wanted what I call the \\"foxes guard the henhouse approach,\\" in which we further deregulate the insurance companies and let them run wild, the notion being somehow that that was going to lower costs for the American people. I don't know a serious health care economist who buys that idea, but that was their concept. And we rejected that, because what we said was, we want to create a system in which health care is working not for insurance companies, but it's working for the American people, it's working for middle class families.<p>So what did we do? What is the essence of this legislation? Number one, this is the toughest insurance reforms in history. We are making sure that the system of private insurance works for ordinary families. A prescription--this is a patient's bill of rights on steroids. So many of you individually have worked on these insurance reforms--they are in this package--to make sure that families are getting a fair deal; that if they're paying a premium, that they're getting a good service in return; making sure that employers, if they are paying premiums for their employees, that their employees are getting the coverage that they expect; that insurance companies are not going to game the system with fine print and rescissions and dropping people when they need it most, but instead are going to have to abide by some basic rules of the road that exemplify a sense of fairness and good value. That's number one.<p>The second thing this does is it creates a pool, a marketplace, where individuals and small businesses, who right now are having a terrible time out there getting health insurance, are going to be able to purchase health insurance as part of a big group, just like Federal employees, just like Members of Congress. They are now going to be part of a pool that can negotiate for better rates, better quality, more competition.<p>And that's why the Congressional Budget Office says this will lower people's rates for comparable plans by 14 to 20 percent. That's not my numbers, that's the Congressional Budget Office's numbers. So that people will have choice and competition, just like Members of Congress have choice and competition.<p>Number three, if people still can't afford it, we're going to provide them some tax credits, the biggest tax cut for small businesses and working families when it comes to health care in history.<p>And number four, this is the biggest reduction in our deficit since the budget balance act, one of the biggest deficit-reduction measures in history, over $1.3 trillion that will help put us on the path of fiscal responsibility.<p>And that's before we count all the game-changing measures that are going to assure, for example, that instead of having five tests when you go to the doctor, you just get one, that the delivery system is working for patients, not just working for billings. And everybody who's looked at it says that every single good idea to bend the cost curve and start actually reducing health care costs are in this bill.<p>So that's what this effort is all about: toughest insurance reforms in history; a marketplace so people have choice and competition who right now don't have it and are seeing their premiums go up 20, 30, 40, 50 percent; reductions in the cost of health care for millions of American families, including those who have health insurance. The Business Roundtable did their own study and said that this would potentially save employers $3,000 per employee on their health care because of the measures in this legislation.<p>And by the way, not only does it reduce the deficit, we pay for it responsibly in ways that the other side of the aisle that talks a lot about fiscal responsibility, but doesn't seem to be able to walk the walk, can't claim when it comes to their prescription drug bill. We are actually doing it. This is paid for and will not add a dime to the deficit. It will reduce the deficit.<p>Now, is this bill perfect? Of course not. Will this solve every single problem in our health care system right away? No. There are all kinds of ideas that many of you have that aren't included in this legislation. I know that there's been discussion, for example, of how we're going to deal with regional disparities, and I know that there was a meeting with Secretary Sebelius to assure that we can continue to try to make sure that we've got a system that gives people the best bang for their buck.<p>So this is not--there are all kinds of things that many of you would like to see that isn't in this legislation. There are some things I'd like to see that's not in this legislation. But is this the single most important step that we have taken on health care since Medicare? Absolutely. Is this the most important piece of domestic legislation, in terms of giving a break to hard-working middle class families out there, since Medicare? Absolutely. Is this a vast improvement over the status quo? Absolutely.<p>Now, I still know this is a tough vote, though. I know this is a tough vote. I've talked to many of you individually. And I have to say that if you honestly believe in your heart of hearts, in your conscience, that this is not an improvement over the status quo; if despite all the information that's out there that says that without serious reform efforts like this one, people's premiums are going to double over the next 5 or 10 years, that folks are going to keep on getting letters from their insurance companies saying that their premium just went up 40 or 50 percent; if you think that somehow it's okay that we have millions of hard-working Americans who can't get health care, and that it's all right, it's acceptable in the wealthiest nation on Earth that there are children with chronic illnesses that can't get the care that they need; if you think that the system is working for ordinary Americans rather than the insurance companies, then you should vote no on this bill. If you can honestly say that, then you shouldn't support it. You're here to represent your constituencies, and if you think your constituencies honestly wouldn't be helped, you shouldn't vote for this.<p>But if you agree that the system's not working for ordinary families, if you've heard the same stories that I've heard everywhere, all across the country, then help us fix this system. Don't do it for me. Don't do it for Nancy Pelosi or Harry Reid. Do it for all those people out there who are struggling.<p>Some of you know I get 10 letters a day that I read out of the 40,000 that we receive. Started reading some of the ones that I got this morning: \\"Dear President Obama, my daughter, a wonderful person, lost her job. She has no health insurance. She had a blood clot in her brain. She's now disabled, can't get care.\\" \\"Dear President Obama, I don't yet qualify for Medicare. COBRA is about to run out. I am desperate, don't know what to do.\\"<p>Do it for them. Do it for people who are really scared right now, through no fault of their own, who've played by the rules, who've done all the right things and have suddenly find--found out that because of an accident, because of an ailment, they're about to lose their house; or they can't provide the help to their kids that they need; or they're a small business who, up until now, has always taken pride in providing care for their workers, and it turns out that they just can't afford to do it anymore, and they're having to make a decision about, do I keep providing health insurance for my workers, or do I just drop their coverage, or do I not hire some people because I simply can't afford it, it's all being gobbled up by the insurance companies?<p>Don't do it for me. Don't do it for the Democratic Party. Do it for the American people. They're the ones who are looking for action right now.<p>I know this is a tough vote. And I am actually confident--I've talked to some of you individually--that it will end up being the smart thing to do politically, because I believe that good policy is good politics. I am convinced that when you go out there and you are standing tall and you are saying, I believe that this is the right thing to do for my constituents and the right thing to do for America, that ultimately, the truth will out.<p>I had a wonderful conversation with Betsy Markey--I don't know if Betsy is around here; there she is right there--who--Betsy's in a tough district. The biggest newspaper is somewhat conservative, as Betsy described. [<i>Laughter</i>] They weren't real happy with health care reform. They were opposed to it. Betsy, despite the pressure, announced that she was in favor of this bill. And lo and behold, the next day, that same newspaper runs an editorial saying, you know what, we've considered this, we've looked at the legislation, and we actually are pleased that Congresswoman Markey is supporting the legislation.<p>When I see John Boccieri stand up proud with a whole bunch of his constituencies--in as tough a district as there is--and stand up with a bunch of folks from his district with preexisting conditions and saying, \\"You know, I don't know what is going on in Washington, but I know what's going on with these families,\\" I look at him with pride.<p>Now, I can't guarantee that this is good politics. Every one of you know your districts better than I do. You talk to folks. You're under enormous pressure. You're getting robocalls. You're getting e-mails that are tying up the communications system. I know the pressure you're under. I get a few comments made about me. I don't know if you've noticed. [<i>Laughter</i>] I've been in your shoes. I know what it's like to take a tough vote.<p>But what did Lincoln say? \\"I am not bound to win, but I am bound to be true.\\" Two generations ago, folks who were sitting in your position, they made a decision: We are going to make sure that seniors and the poor have health care coverage that they can count on. And they did the right thing.<p>And I'm sure at the time they were making that vote, they weren't sure how the politics were either, any more than the people who made the decision to make sure that Social Security was in place knew how the politics would play out or folks who passed the civil rights acts knew how the politics were going to play out. They were not bound to win, but they were bound to be true.<p>And now we've got middle class Americans, don't have Medicare, don't have Medicaid, watching the employer-based system fray along the edges or being caught in terrible situations. And the question is, are we going to be true to them?<p>Sometimes I think about how I got involved in politics. I didn't think of myself as a potential politician when I got out of college. I went to work in neighborhoods, working with Catholic churches in poor neighborhoods in Chicago, trying to figure out how people could get a little bit of help. And I was skeptical about politics and politicians, just like a lot of Americans are skeptical about politics and politicians right now. Because my working assumption was, you know, when it--when push comes to shove, all too often, folks in elected office, they're looking out for themselves and not looking out for the folks who put them there, that there are too many compromises, that the special interests have too much power, they just got too much clout, there's too much big money washing around.<p>And I decided finally to get involved because I realized if I wasn't willing to step up and be true to the things I believed in, then the system wouldn't change. Every single one of you had that same kind of moment at the beginning of your careers. Maybe it was just listening to stories in your neighborhood about what was happening to people who'd been laid off of work. Maybe it was your own family experience, somebody got sick and didn't have health care, and you said something should change.<p>Something inspired you to get involved, and something inspired you to be a Democrat instead of running as a Republican. Because somewhere deep in your heart, you said to yourself, I believe in an America in which we don't just look out for ourselves, that we don't just tell people, you're on your own, that we are proud of our individualism, we are proud of our liberty, but we also have a sense of neighborliness and a sense of community, and we are willing to look out for one another and help people who are vulnerable and help people who are down on their luck and give them a pathway to success and give them a ladder into the middle class. That's why you decided to run.<p>And now a lot of us have been here a while, and everybody here has taken their lumps and their bruises. And it turns out, people have had to make compromises, and you've been away from families for a long time, and you've missed special events for your kids sometimes. And maybe there have been times where you asked yourself, why did I ever get involved in politics in the first place? [<i>Laughter</i>] And maybe things can't change after all. And when you do something courageous, it turns out, sometimes you may be attacked. And sometimes the very people you thought you were trying to help may be angry at you and shout at you. And you say to yourself, maybe that thing that I started with has been lost.<p>But you know what? Every once in a while--every once in a while a moment comes where you have a chance to vindicate all those best hopes that you had about yourself, about this country, where you have a chance to make good on those promises that you made in all those town meetings and all those constituency breakfasts and all that traveling through the district, all those people who you looked in the eye, and you said, \\"You know what, you're right, the system's not working for you, and I'm going to make it a little bit better.\\"<p>And this is one of those moments. This is one of those times where you can honestly say to yourself, \\"Doggone it, this is exactly why I came here. This is why I got into politics. This is why I got into public service. This is why I've made those sacrifices. Because I believe so deeply in this country, and I believe so deeply in this democracy, and I'm willing to stand up even when it's hard, even when it's tough.\\"<p>Every single one of you have made that promise, not just to your constituents, but to yourself. And this is the time to make true on that promise. We are not bound to win, but we are bound to be true. We are not bound to succeed, but we are bound to let whatever light we have shine. We have been debating health care for decades. It has now been debated for a year. It is in your hands. It is time to pass health care reform for America, and I am confident that you are going to do it tomorrow.<p>Thank you very much, House of Representatives. Let's get this done.\" "
"75" "\"Today I want to extend my best wishes to all who are celebrating Nowruz in the United States and around the world. On this New Year's celebration, friends and family have a unique opportunity to reflect on the year gone by, to celebrate their time together, and to share in their hopes for the future.<p>One year ago, I chose this occasion to speak directly to the people and leaders of the Islamic Republic of Iran and to offer a new chapter of engagement on the basis of mutual interests and mutual respect. I did so with no illusions. For three decades, the United States and Iran have been alienated from one another. Iran's leaders have sought their own legitimacy through hostility to America, and we continue to have serious differences on many issues.<p>I said last year that the choice for a better future was in the hands of Iran's leaders. That remains true today. Together with the international community, the United States acknowledges your right to peaceful nuclear energy; we insist only that you adhere to the same responsibilities that apply to other nations. We are familiar with your grievances from the past; we have our own grievances as well, but we are prepared to move forward. We know what you're against; now tell us what you're for.<p>For reasons known only to them, the leaders of Iran have shown themselves unable to answer that question. They have refused good faith proposals from the international community. They have turned their backs on a pathway that would bring more opportunity to all Iranians and allow a great civilization to take its rightful place in the community of nations. Faced with an extended hand, Iran's leaders have shown only a clenched fist.<p>Last June, the world watched with admiration as Iranians sought to exercise their universal right to be heard. But tragically, the aspirations of the Iranian people were also met with a clenched fist, as people marching silently were beaten with batons, political prisoners were rounded up and abused, absurd and false accusations were leveled against the United States and the West, and people everywhere were horrified by the video of a young woman killed in the street.<p>The United States does not meddle in Iran's internal affairs. Our commitment, our responsibility is to stand up for those rights that should be universal to all human beings. That includes the right to speak freely, to assemble without fear, the right to the equal administration of justice, and to express your views without facing retribution against you or your families.<p>I want the Iranian people to know what my country stands for. The United States believes in the dignity of every human being and an international order that bends the arc of history in the direction of justice, a future where Iranians can exercise their rights, participate fully in the global economy, and enrich the world through educational and cultural exchanges beyond Iran's borders. That is the future that we seek. That is what America is for.<p>That is why, even as we continue to have differences with the Iranian Government, we will sustain our commitment to a more hopeful future for the Iranian people. For instance, by increasing opportunities for educational exchanges so that Iranian students can come to our colleges and universities and through our efforts to ensure that Iranians can have access to the software and Internet technologies that will enable them to communicate with each other and with the world without fear of censorship.<p>Finally, let me be clear: We are working with the international community to hold the Iranian Government accountable because they refuse to live up to their international obligations. But our offer of comprehensive diplomatic contacts and dialogue stands. Indeed, over the course of the last year, it is the Iranian Government that has chosen to isolate itself and to choose a self-defeating focus on the past over a commitment to build a better future.<p>Last year, I quoted the words of the poet Saadi, who said, \\"The children of Adam are limbs to each other, having been created of one essence.\\" I still believe that; I believe it with every fiber of my being. And even as we have differences, the Iranian Government continues to have the choice to pursue a better future and to meet its international responsibilities while respecting the dignity and fundamental human rights of its own people.<p>Thank you. And <i>Eid-eh Shoma Mobarak</i>.\" "
"76" "\"On Monday, the Banking Committee of the United States Senate will debate a proposal to address the abuse and excess that led to the worst financial crisis in generations. These reforms are essential. As I've urged over the past year, we need commonsense rules that will allow our markets to function fairly and freely while reining in the worst practices of the financial industry. That's the central lesson of this crisis. And we fail to heed that lesson at our peril.<p>Of course, there were many causes of the economic turmoil that ripped through our country over the past 2 years. But it was a crisis that began in our financial system. Large banks engaged in reckless financial speculation without regard for the consequences and without tough oversight. Financial firms invented and sold complicated financial products to escape scrutiny and conceal enormous risk. And there were some who engaged in the rampant exploitation of consumers to turn a quick profit, no matter who was hurt in the process.<p>Now, I have long been a vigorous defender of free markets. And I believe we need a strong and vibrant financial sector so that businesses can get loans and families can afford mortgages, entrepreneurs can find the capital to start a new company, sell a new product, or offer a new service. But what we have seen over the past 2 years is that without reasonable and clear rules to check abuse and protect families, markets don't function freely. In fact, it was just the opposite. In the absence of such rules, our financial markets spun out of control, credit markets froze, and our economy nearly plummeted into a second great depression. That's why financial reform is so necessary.<p>After months of bipartisan work, Senator Chris Dodd and his committee have offered a strong foundation for reform, in line with the proposal I previously laid out and in line with the reform bill passed by the House. It would provide greater scrutiny of large financial firms to prevent any one company from threatening the entire financial system, and it would update the rules so that complicated financial products like derivatives are no longer bought and sold without oversight. It would prevent banks from engaging in risky dealings through their own hedge funds while finally giving shareholders a say on executive salaries and bonuses. And through new tools to break up failing financial firms, it would help ensure that taxpayers are never again forced to bail out a big bank because it's, quote, \\"too big to fail.\\"<p>Finally, these reforms include a new consumer financial protection agency. It would prevent predatory loan practices and other abuses to ensure that consumers get clear information about loans and other financial products before they sign on the dotted line. Because this financial crisis wasn't just the result of decisions made by large financial firms, it was also the result of many decisions made by ordinary Americans to open credit cards and take on mortgages. And while there were many who took out loans they knew they couldn't afford, there were also millions of people who signed contracts they didn't fully understand, offered by lenders who didn't always tell the truth.<p>This is in part because the job of protecting consumers is spread across seven different Federal agencies, none of which has the interests of ordinary Americans as its principal concern. This diffusion of responsibility has made it easier for credit card companies to lure customers with attractive offers and then punish them in the fine print or for payday lenders and others who charge outrageous interest rates to operate without much oversight and for mortgage brokers to entice home buyers with low initial rates, only to trap them with ballooning payments down the line.<p>For these banking reforms to be complete, for these reforms to meet the measure of the crisis we've just been through, we need a consumer agency to advocate for ordinary Americans and help enforce the rules that protect them. That's why I won't accept any attempts to undermine the independence of this agency. And I won't accept efforts to create loopholes for the most egregious abusers of consumers, from payday lenders to auto finance companies to credit card companies.<p>Unsurprisingly, this proposal has been a source of contention with financial firms, who like things just the way they are. In fact, the Republican leader in the House reportedly met with a top executive of one of America's largest banks and made thwarting reform a key part of his party's pitch for campaign contributions. And this week, the allies of bank and consumer finance companies launched a multimillion-dollar ad campaign to fight against the proposal. You might call this air support for the army of lobbyists already arm-twisting members of the committee to reject those reforms and block this consumer agency. Perhaps that's why, after months of working with Democrats, Republicans walked away from this proposal. I regret that and urge them to reconsider.<p>The fact is, it's now been well over a year since the near collapse of the entire financial system, a crisis that helped wipe out more than 8 million jobs and that continues to exact a terrible toll throughout our economy. Yet today, the very same system that allowed this turmoil remains in place. No one disputes that. No one denies that reform is needed. So the question we have to answer is very simple: Will we learn from this crisis, or will we condemn ourselves to repeat it? That's what's at stake.<p>I urge those in the Senate who support these reforms to remain strong, to resist the pressure from those who would preserve the status quo, to stand up for their constituents and our country. And I promise to use every tool at my disposal to see these reforms enacted, to ensure that the bill I sign into law reflects not the special interests of Wall Street, but the best interests of the American people.<p>Thank you.\" "
"77" "\"Good evening, everybody. Tonight, after nearly 100 years of talk and frustration, after decades of trying, and a year of sustained effort and debate, the United States Congress finally declared that America's workers and America's families and America's small businesses deserve the security of knowing that here in this country, neither illness nor accident should endanger the dreams they've worked a lifetime to achieve.<p>Tonight, at a time when the pundits said it was no longer possible, we rose above the weight of our politics. We pushed back on the undue influence of special interests. We didn't give in to mistrust or to cynicism or to fear. Instead, we proved that we are still a people capable of doing big things and tackling our biggest challenges. We proved that this Government, a Government of the people and by the people, still works for the people.<p>I want to thank every Member of Congress who stood up tonight with courage and conviction to make health care reform a reality. And I know this wasn't an easy vote for a lot of people, but it was the right vote. I want to thank Speaker Nancy Pelosi for her extraordinary leadership and Majority Leader Steny Hoyer and Majority Whip Jim Clyburn for their commitment to getting the job done. I want to thank my outstanding Vice President, Joe Biden, and my wonderful Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius, for their fantastic work on this issue. I want to thank the many staffers in Congress and my own incredible staff in the White House, who have worked tirelessly over the past year with Americans of all walks of life to forge a reform package finally worthy of the people we were sent here to serve.<p>Now, today's vote answers the dreams of so many who have fought for this reform. To every unsung American who took the time to sit down and write a letter or type out an e-mail hoping your voice would be heard, it has been heard tonight. To the untold numbers who knocked on doors and made phone calls, who organized and mobilized out of a firm conviction that change in this country comes not from the top down, but from the bottom up, let me reaffirm that conviction: This moment is possible because of you.<p>Most importantly, today's vote answers the prayers of every American who has hoped deeply for something to be done about a health care system that works for insurance companies, but not for ordinary people. For most Americans, this debate has never been about abstractions, the fight between right and left, Republican and Democrat; it's always been about something far more personal. It's about every American who knows the shock of opening an envelope to see that their premiums just shot up again when times are already tough enough. It's about every parent who knows the desperation of trying to cover a child with a chronic illness only to be told no again and again and again. It's about every small-business owner forced to choose between insuring employees and staying open for business. They are why we committed ourselves to this cause.<p>Tonight's vote is not a victory for any one party; it's a victory for them. It's a victory for the American people, and it's a victory for common sense.<p>Now, it probably goes without saying that tonight's vote will give rise to a frenzy of instant analysis. There will be tallies of Washington winners and losers, predictions about what it means for Democrats and Republicans, for my poll numbers, for my administration. But long after the debate fades away and the prognostication fades away and the dust settles, what will remain standing is not the Government-run system some feared or the status quo that serves the interests of the insurance industry, but a health care system that incorporates ideas from both parties, a system that works better for the American people.<p>If you have health insurance, this reform just gave you more control by reining in the worst excesses and abuses of the insurance industry with some of the toughest consumer protections this country has ever known, so that you are actually getting what you pay for.<p>If you don't have insurance, this reform gives you a chance to be a part of a big purchasing pool that will give you choice and competition and cheaper prices for insurance. And it includes the largest health care tax cut for working families and small businesses in history, so that if you lose your job and you change jobs, start that new business, you'll finally be able to purchase quality, affordable care and the security and peace of mind that comes with it.<p>This reform is the right thing to do for our seniors. It makes Medicare stronger and more solvent, extending its life by almost a decade. And it's the right thing to do for our future. It will reduce our deficit by more than $100 billion over the next decade and more than $1 trillion in the decade after that.<p>So this isn't radical reform, but it is major reform. This legislation will not fix everything that ails our health care system, but it moves us decisively in the right direction. This is what change looks like.<p>Now, as momentous as this day is, it's not the end of this journey. On Tuesday, the Senate will take up revisions to this legislation that the House has embraced, and these are revisions that have strengthened this law and removed provisions that had no place in it. Some have predicted another siege of parliamentary maneuvering in order to delay adoption of these improvements. I hope that's not the case. It's time to bring this debate to a close and begin the hard work of implementing this reform properly on behalf of the American people. This year and in years to come, we have a solemn responsibility to do it right.<p>Nor does this day represent the end of the work that faces our country. The work of revitalizing our economy goes on. The work of promoting private sector job creation goes on. The work of putting American families' dreams back within reach goes on. And we march on with renewed confidence, energized by this victory on their behalf.<p>In the end, what this day represents is another stone firmly laid in the foundation of the American Dream. Tonight we answered the call of history as so many generations of Americans have before us. When faced with crisis, we did not shrink from our challenge, we overcame it. We did not avoid our responsibility, we embraced it. We did not fear our future, we shaped it.<p>Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"78" "\"Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat.<p>We wanted to do this twice--[<i>Laughter</i>]--because there are so many people we have to thank. And as I look around the room, we've got leaders of labor who helped to make this happen, we've got ordinary folks who knocked on doors and made phone calls at the last minute to get this thing over the top. My extraordinary members of my Cabinet--we've still got some additional Members of Congress who helped lead the charge on this. There's my staff, who I see are still here. [<i>Laughter</i>] They--at any given moment, I thought they were going to quit--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but they just stuck it out with me. So the main purpose here is to say thank you, and thank you on behalf of the American people.<p>After a century of striving, after a year of debate, after a historic vote, health care reform is no longer an unmet promise, it is the law of the land. It is the law of the land.<p>And although it may be my signature that's affixed to the bottom of this bill, it was your work, your commitment, your unyielding hope that made this victory possible. When the special interests deployed an army of lobbyists, an onslaught of negative ads to preserve the status quo, you didn't give up. You hit the phones, and you took to the streets. You mobilized, and you organized. You turned up the pressure, and you kept up the fight.<p>When the pundits were obsessing over who was up and who was down, you never lost sight of what was right and what was wrong. You knew this wasn't about the fortunes of a party, this was about the future of our country. And when the opposition said this just wasn't the right time, you didn't want to wait another year or another decade or another generation for reform. You felt the fierce urgency of now.<p>You met the lies with truth. You met cynicism with conviction. Most of all, you met fear with a force that's a lot more powerful, and that is faith in America. You met it with hope.<p>Despite decades in which Washington failed to tackle our toughest challenges, despite the smallness of so much of what passes for politics these days, despite those who said that progress was impossible, you made people believe that people who love this country can still change it. So this victory is not mine, it is your victory. It's a victory for the United States of America.<p>For 2 years on the campaign trail, and for the past year as we've worked to reform our system of health insurance, it's been folks like you who have propelled this movement and kept us fixed on what was at stake in this fight. And rarely has a day gone by that I haven't heard from somebody personally--whether in a letter, or an e-mail, or at a town hall--who's reminded me of why it was so important that we not give up, who reminded me why we could not quit.<p>I heard from Ryan Smith, who's here today, and runs a small business with five employees. He is trying to do the right thing, paying for half of the cost of coverage for his workers. But as his premiums keep on going up and up and up, he's worried he's going to have to stop offering health care for his people. But because of this bill, he is now going to be getting tax credits that allow him to do what he knows is the right thing to do, and that's going to be true for millions of employers all across America.<p>I heard the story of 11-year-old Marcelas Owens, who's right here, looking sharp in his--[<i>applause</i>]. He and I made sure to coordinate our ties today. [<i>Laughter</i>] Yes, it looks good. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Marcelas is a wonderful young man, and he lost his mom to illness. And she didn't have insurance and couldn't afford the care that she needed. So in her memory, Marcelas, 11 years old, has told her story across America so that no other children have to go through what his family has experienced. That's why we don't quit.<p>I heard from folks like Natoma Canfield, who had to give up her health coverage after her rates were jacked up by more than 40 percent. And she was terrified that an illness would mean she'd lose the house that her parent built, but she also knew that if she was burdened by these huge premiums, that she wouldn't be able to pay the mortgage. So she finally decided not to keep her health insurance. And she's now lying in a hospital bed, as we speak, faced with just such an illness, and she's praying that she can somehow afford to get well. And her sister Connie is here today. And it's because of Natoma's family that we could not quit.<p>I've met people like Ashley Baia, who worked for my campaign. Where's Ashley? She's around here somewhere, I know she is. There she is, right in front. She just doesn't like waving. [<i>Laughter</i>] Ashley decided to get involved with our campaign a couple of years ago because her own mother lost her job and with it her health insurance when she got sick. And they had to file bankruptcy. And so Ashley worked tirelessly, not to get me elected, but to solve a problem that millions of families across the country were facing.<p>Each of these Americans made their voices heard. And it's because of them, so many others, so many of you, that real, meaningful change is coming to the United States of America. It is because of you that we did not quit. It's because of you that Congress did not quit. It's because of you that I did not quit. It's because of you.<p>Now, let me tell you what change looks like, because those fighting change are still out there, still making a lot of noise--[<i>Laughter</i>]--about what this reform means. So I want the American people to understand it and look it up for yourself. Go on our web site, whitehouse.gov, or go to any credible news outlet's web site and look in terms of what reform will mean for you. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I said this once or twice, but it bears repeating: If you like your current insurance, you will keep your current insurance. No Government takeover, nobody is changing what you've got if you're happy with it. If you like your doctor, you will be able to keep your doctor. In fact, more people will keep their doctors because your coverage will be more secure and more stable than it was before I signed this legislation.<p>And now that this legislation is passed, you don't have to take my word for it. You'll be able to see it in your own lives. I heard one of the Republican leaders say this was going to be Armageddon. Well, 2 months from now, 6 months from now, you can check it out. We'll look around--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and we'll see. You don't have to take my word for it.<p>So what works in our system won't change. And a lot of people are happy with the health care that they've got, and that won't change because of this legislation. Here's what will change, and here's what will change right away.<p>This year, we'll start offering tax credits to about 4 million small businesses to help them cover the cost of coverage. And that means that folks like Ryan will immediately get a tax break so that he can better afford the coverage he's already providing for his employees. And who knows, because of that tax break, he may decide to hire a couple more folks in his small business, because of this legislation.<p>This year, tens of thousands of uninsured Americans with a preexisting condition and parents whose children have a preexisting condition will finally be able to purchase the coverage they need. And that means folks like Natoma Canfield will have access to affordable insurance. That happens this year.<p>This year, insurance companies will no longer be able to drop people's coverage when they get sick or place lifetime limits or restrictive annual limits on the amount of care they can receive. This year, all new insurance plans will be required to offer free preventive care. And this year, young adults will be able to stay on their parents' policies until they're 26 years old. That all happens this year.<p>This year, seniors who fall in the coverage gap known as the doughnut hole will get some help to help pay for prescription drugs. And I want seniors to know, despite what some have said, these reforms will not cut your guaranteed benefits. Let me repeat that: They will not cut your guaranteed benefits, period. I'd be wary of anybody who claimed otherwise.<p>So these are the reforms that take effect right away. These reforms won't give the Government more control over your health care. They certainly won't give the insurance companies more control over your health care. These reforms give you more control over your health care. And that's only the beginning. <p>That's only the beginning. After more than a decade, we finally renewed the Indian Health Care Improvement Act. And the other changes I'm signing into law will take several years to implement fully, but that's because this is a difficult, complex issue and we want to get it right.<p>One of these reforms is the creation of a health insurance exchange. This is one of the most important reforms--and by the way, originally, I should point out, a Republican idea. Imagine that. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>The idea is, is that right now there are a lot of people out there buying health insurance on their own or small businesses buying health insurance on their own. They don't work for a big company, they're not part of a big pool, so they have no leverage; they've got no bargaining power with insurance companies. But now what we're going to do is create exchanges all across the country where uninsured people, small businesses, they're going to be able to purchase affordable, quality insurance. They will be part of a big pool, just like Federal employees are part of a big pool. They'll have the same choice of private health insurance that Members of Congress get for themselves. That's going to happen as a consequence of this legislation.<p>And when this exchange is up and running, not only because of better bargaining power will they see their premiums reduced, will people get a better deal, but millions of people who still can't afford it are going to get tax breaks so they can afford coverage. And this represents the largest middle class tax cut for health care in our history. And it's going to mean that millions of people can get health care that don't have it currently.<p>Now, for those of us who fought so hard for these reforms and believe in them so deeply, I have to remind you our job is not finished. We're going to have to see to it that these reforms are administered fairly and responsibly. And this includes rooting out waste and fraud and abuse in the system. That's how we'll extend the life of Medicare and bring down health care costs for families and businesses and governments. And in fact, it is through these reforms that we achieve the biggest reduction in our long-term deficits since the Balanced Budget Act of the 1990s.<p>So for all those folks out there who are talking about being fiscal hawks and didn't do much when they were in power, let's just remind them that according to the Congressional Budget Office, this represents over a trillion dollars of deficit reduction, but it's being done in a smart way.<p>And for those who've been suspicious of reform--and there are a lot of wonderful folks out there who, with all the noise, got concerned because of the misinformation that has marred this debate--I just repeat: Don't take my word for it. Go to our web site, whitehouse.gov; go to the web sites of major news outlets out there; find out how reform will affect you. And I'm confident that you will like what you see: a commonsense approach that maintains the private insurance system, but makes it work for everybody; makes it work not just for the insurance companies, but makes it work for you.<p>So that's what health reform is all about. Now, as long as a road that this has been, we all know our journey is far from over. There's still the work to do to rebuild this economy. There's still work to do to spur on hiring. There's work to do to improve our schools and make sure every child has a decent education. There's still work to do to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. There's more work to do to provide greater economic security to a middle class that has been struggling for a decade.<p>So this victory does not erase the many serious challenges we face as a nation. Those challenges have been allowed to linger for years, even decades, and we're not going to solve them all overnight.<p>But as we tackle all these other challenges that we face, as we continue on this journey, we can take our next steps with new confidence, with a new wind at our backs. Because we know it's still possible to do big things in America. Because we know it's still possible to rise above the skepticism, to rise above the cynicism, to rise above the fear. Because we know it's still possible to fulfill our duty to one another and to future generations.<p>So yes, this has been a difficult 2 years. There will be difficult days ahead. But let us always remember the lesson of this day and the lesson of history: that we, as a people, do not shrink from a challenge, we overcome it; we don't shrink from our responsibilities, we embrace it; we don't fear the future, we shape the future. That's what we do. That's who we are. That makes us the United States of America.<p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"79" "\"<i>The President</i>. Thank you, everybody. Please, have a seat. Thank you, Joe. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Vice President Joe Biden</i>. Good to be with you, Mr. President. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President</i>. Today, after almost a century of trying, today, after over a year of debate, today, after all the votes have been tallied, health insurance reform becomes law in the United States of America--today.<p>It is fitting that Congress passed this historic legislation this week. For as we mark the turning of spring, we also mark a new season in America. In a few moments, when I sign this bill, all of the overheated rhetoric over reform will finally confront the reality of reform. <p>And while the Senate still has a last round of improvements to make on this historic legislation--and these are improvements I'm confident they will make swiftly--the bill I'm signing will set in motion reforms that generations of Americans have fought for and marched for and hungered to see. <p>It will take 4 years to implement fully many of these reforms, because we need to implement them responsibly. We need to get this right. But a host of desperately needed reforms will take effect right away. <p>This year, we'll start offering tax credits to about 4 million small business men and women to help them cover the cost of insurance for their employees. That happens this year. <p>This year, tens of thousands of uninsured Americans with preexisting conditions, the parents of children who have a preexisting condition, will finally be able to purchase the coverage they need. That happens this year. <p>This year, insurance companies will no longer be able to drop people's coverage when they get sick or place--[<i>applause</i>]. They won't be able to place lifetime limits or restrictive annual limits on the amount of care they can receive. <p>This year, all new insurance plans will be required to offer free preventive care. And this year, young adults will be able to stay on their parents' policies until they're 26 years old. That happens this year. <p>And this year, seniors who fall in the coverage gap known as the doughnut hole will start getting some help. They'll receive $250 to help pay for prescriptions, and that will, over time, fill in the doughnut hole. And I want seniors to know, despite what some have said, these reforms will not cut your guaranteed benefits. In fact, under this law, Americans on Medicare will receive free preventive care without copayments or deductibles. That begins this year. <p>Once this reform is implemented, health insurance exchanges will be created, a competitive marketplace where uninsured people and small businesses will finally be able to purchase affordable, quality insurance. They will be able to be part of a big pool and get the same good deal that Members of Congress get. That's what's going to happen under this reform. And when this exchange is up and running millions of people will get tax breaks to help them afford coverage, which represents the largest middle class tax cut for health care in history. That's what this reform is about. <p>This legislation will also lower costs for families and for businesses and for the Federal Government, reducing our deficit by over $1 trillion in the next two decades. It is paid for, it is fiscally responsible, and it will help lift a decades-long drag on our economy. That's part of what all of you together worked on and made happen. <p>That our generation is able to succeed in passing this reform is a testament to the persistence and the character of the American people, who championed this cause, who mobilized, who organized, who believed that people who love this country can change it. It's also a testament to the historic leadership and uncommon courage of the men and women of the United States Congress, who've taken their lumps during this difficult debate. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Audience member</i>. Yes, we did. [<i>Laughter</i>] But we're still standing.<p><i>The President</i>. You know, there are few tougher jobs in politics or Government than leading one of our legislative Chambers. In each Chamber, there are men and women who come from different places and face different pressures, who reach different conclusions about the same things and feel deeply concerned about different things. <p>And by necessity, leaders have to speak to those different concerns. It isn't always tidy; it is almost never easy. But perhaps the greatest and most difficult challenge is to cobble together out of those differences the sense of common interest and common purpose that's required to advance the dreams of all people, especially in a country as large and diverse as ours. <p>And we are blessed by leaders in each Chamber who not only do their jobs very well, but who never lost sight of that larger mission. They didn't play for the short term; they didn't play to the polls or to politics. One of the best Speakers the House of Representatives have ever had, Speaker Nancy Pelosi.<p><i>Audience members</i>. Nancy! Nancy! Nancy!<p><i>The President</i>. One of the best majority leaders the Senate has ever had, Mr. Harry Reid.<p>To all of the terrific committee chairs, all the Members of Congress who did what was difficult but did what was right and passed health care reform, not just this generation of Americans will thank you, but the next generation of Americans will thank you.<p>And of course, this victory was also made possible by the painstaking work of members of this administration, including our outstanding Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius, and one of the unsung heroes of this effort, an extraordinary woman who led the reform effort from the White House, Nancy-Ann DeParle. Where's Nancy?<p>Today I'm signing this reform bill into law on behalf of my mother, who argued with insurance companies even as she battled cancer in her final days.<p>I'm signing it for Ryan Smith, who's here today. He runs a small business with five employees. He's trying to do the right thing, paying half the cost of coverage for his workers. This bill will help him afford that coverage.<p>I'm signing it for 11-year-old Marcelas Owens, who's also here. Marcelas lost his mom to an illness. And she didn't have insurance and couldn't afford the care that she needed. So in her memory, he has told her story across America so that no other children have to go through what his family has experienced.<p>I'm signing it for Natoma Canfield. Natoma had to give up her health coverage after her rates were jacked up by more than 40 percent. She was terrified that an illness would mean she'd lose the house that her parents built, so she gave up her insurance. And now she's lying in a hospital bed, as we speak, faced with just such an illness, praying that she can somehow afford to get well without insurance. Natoma's family is here today because Natoma can't be. And her sister Connie is here. Connie, stand up.<p>I'm signing this bill for all the leaders who took up this cause through the generations, from Teddy Roosevelt to Franklin Roosevelt, from Harry Truman to Lyndon Johnson, from Bill and Hillary Clinton to one of the deans who's been fighting this so long, John Dingell, to Senator Ted Kennedy--and it's fitting that Ted's widow, Vicki, is here--[<i>applause</i>]--it's fitting that Teddy's widow, Vicki, is here and his niece Caroline, his son Patrick, whose vote helped make this reform a reality. <p>I remember seeing Ted walk through that door in a summit in this room a year ago, one of his last public appearances. And it was hard for him to make it. But he was confident that we would do the right thing. <p>Our presence here today is remarkable and improbable. With all the punditry, all of the lobbying, all of the game-playing that passes for governing in Washington, it's been easy at times to doubt our ability to do such a big thing, such a complicated thing, to wonder if there are limits to what we as a people can still achieve. It's easy to succumb to the sense of cynicism about what's possible in this country. <p>But today we are affirming that essential truth, a truth every generation is called to rediscover for itself, that we are not a nation that scales back its aspirations. We are not a nation that falls prey to doubt or mistrust. We don't fall prey to fear. We are not a nation that does what's easy. That's not who we are. That's not how we got here.<p>We are a nation that faces its challenges and accepts its responsibilities. We are a nation that does what is hard, what is necessary, what is right. Here in this country, we shape our own destiny. That is what we do. That is who we are. That is what makes us the United States of America.<p>And we have now just enshrined, as soon as I sign this bill, the core principle that everybody should have some basic security when it comes to their health care. And it is an extraordinary achievement that has happened because of all of you and all the advocates all across the country.<p>So thank you. Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America. [<i>applause</i>] Thank you. Thank you.<p>All right. I would now like to call up to stage some of the Members of Congress who helped make this day possible and some of the Americans who will benefit from these reforms. And we're going to sign this bill. <p>This is going to take a little while. I've got to use every pen, so it's going to take a really long time. [<i>Laughter</i>] I didn't practice. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>[At this point, the President signed the bill.]</i><p>We are done.\" "
"80" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Iowa! Are you fired up? Oh, it is good to be back in Iowa. I got to take off my jacket when I'm in Iowa. It is good to be back in Iowa. It's a little colder than it is in DC, I got to admit. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I can feel spring coming.<p>I want to make a couple of acknowledgements. First of all, University of Iowa President Dr. Sally Mason and the entire Hawkeye community--thanks for hosting us. The outstanding Governor of the great State of Iowa, Chet Culver, and First Lady Mari Culver; there he is back there.<p>A couple of great friends: Lieutenant Governor Patty Judge; the cochairs of my campaign here in Iowa, Attorney General Tom Miller and Treasurer Mike Fitzgerald. The former Governor of Iowa, who's now, I think, going to end up being one of the greatest Secretaries of Agriculture in history, Tom Vilsack's in the house.<p>I want to acknowledge Iowa City Mayor Matt Hayek. They're--the entire Iowa delegation could not be here because they are still busy finishing business, crossing \\"t's\\" and dotting \\"i's\\" in Washington. But I want every single person to know that this celebration would not be happening if it were not for your Members of Congress: Leonard Boswell, Bruce Braley, your own personal Congressman, Dave Loebsack, and Senator Tom Harkin.<p>Now, thank you, Secretary Sebelius, for the introduction, but more importantly, for all the amazing and tireless work that you've done to make health care reform a reality. I too feel your pain, because in my bracket--[<i>Laughter</i>]--I had Kansas winning it all. [<i>Laughter</i>] I feel a little bitter. [<i>Laughter</i>] The president of Northern Iowa came here, and he was just--big smile, he was gloating-- [<i>Laughter</i>] . Well, I now--I'm sold. I want to congratulate all the Northern Iowa fans in this part of the State on their big win. And since you ruined my bracket, I'm rooting for you now. [<i>Laughter</i>] I want you to just go ahead and take it and go all the way.<p>I also want to start things off--oh, there's one other thing. Some of you know that I have a military aide that travels with me wherever I go. This is one of the things the President does, is carries a big satchel with all kinds of important stuff in there. And the military aide I have with me today is a guy named Lieutenant Colonel Dave Kalinske. And Dave was strong safety for the Hawkeyes. There he is right there; there's Dave Kalinske--strong safety. See, that briefcase is big, so you've got to have a former strong safety carrying it. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I want to start off by telling folks here how inspired that I've been by your continued resilience in the wake of the floods that devastated this region a few years back. And I remember traveling here right after they happened and how tough things were.<p>I know the rebuilding's been difficult, but you should know that you always have a committed partner in this administration to support the road to recovery. And we know that Iowa City's going to be as good as new and better; Cedar Rapids, all across the State, we're seeing that rebuilding take place.<p>So it's just good to be back in Iowa. This is the State that first believed in our campaign. When all the pundits had written us off, when we were down in the polls, this is the State that inspired us to keep on going, even when the path was uncertain. And because of you, this is the place where change began.<p>Because 3 years ago I came here to this campus to make a promise. Just a few months into our campaign, I stood at the University of Iowa hospital right around the corner, and I promised that by the end of my first term in office, I would sign legislation to reform our health insurance system.<p>On Tuesday, after a year of debate, a century of trying, after so many of you shared your stories and your heartaches and your hopes, that promise was finally fulfilled. And today, health insurance reform is the law of the land all across America. Just----<p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes we did! Yes we did! Yes we did!<p><i>The President.</i> Yes we did. Yes we did. Just like the campaign that led us here, this historic change didn't start in Washington. It began in places like Iowa City, places just like this, with Americans just like you.<p>It began when people had the courage to stand up in town hall meetings and talk about how insurance companies were denying their families coverage because of a preexisting condition. It began when folks wrote letters about how premium hikes of 40 and 50 and 100 percent were forcing them to give up their insurance. It began when countless small-business owners and families and doctors shared stories about a health care system that works better for the insurance industry than it does for the American people.<p>So this is your victory, because when the special interests sent an army of lobbyists to Congress, they blanketed the airwaves with millions of dollars of negative ads, you mobilized, and you organized, and you refused to give up. And when the pundits were obsessing over, who's up and who's down and how's this affecting the Obama administration and what's going on over in the House and--you never lost sight of what was right and what was wrong. You knew this was not about the fortunes of one party, this was about the future of our country. And today, because of what you did, that future looks stronger and more hopeful and brighter than it has in some time--because of you.<p>Three years ago, we made a promise. That promise has been kept. Of course, over the last year, there's been a lot of misinformation spread about health care reform. There's been plenty of fearmongering, plenty of overheated rhetoric. You turn on the news, you'll see the same folks are still shouting about, there's going to be a end of the world because this bill passed. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm not exaggerating. Leaders of the Republican Party, they called the passage of this bill \\"Armageddon.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Armageddon. \\"End of freedom as we know it.\\"<p>So after I signed the bill, I looked around to see if there were--[<i>Laughter</i>]--any asteroids falling or some cracks opening up in the Earth. [Laughter] It turned out, it was a nice day. [Laughter] Birds were chirping. Folks were strolling down the Mall. People still have their doctors.<p>From this day forward, all of the cynics, all the naysayers, they're going to have to confront the reality of what this reform is and what it isn't. They'll have to finally acknowledge this isn't a Government takeover of our health care system. They'll see that if Americans like their doctor, they'll be keeping their doctor. You like your plan? You'll be keeping your plan. No one is taking that away from you. Three months from now, 6 months from now, you're going to look around. You're going to be sitting in a doctor's office reading through the old People magazines, and--[<i>Laughter</i>]--you'll say, hey, this is same doctor, same plan. It wasn't Armageddon.<p>What this reform does is build on the system of private health insurance that we already have. So does that mean that it's going to solve every health care problem that we have? No. But it finally tells----<p><i>[At this point, there was a disruption in the audience.]</i><p><i>The President.</i> Oops, it looks like somebody may have fainted. That happens sometimes in the crowd. Just give them some space. If the medics can make sure to check on them--in the meantime, just make sure that they've got some air. All right? And if anybody has some water down there, that'd be great. They'll be all right.<p>So--but here's what the bill does: It finally tells the insurance companies that in exchange for all the new customers they're about to get, they've got to start playing by a new set of rules that treats everybody honestly and treats everybody fairly. The days of the insurance industry running roughshod over the American people are over.<p>So if you already have insurance, this reform will make it more secure and more affordable. If you can't afford insurance right now or if you've been denied coverage--and I'll bet there are some folks here who don't have insurance or can't afford it or have been denied coverage--you're going to finally be able to get it. Costs will come down for families and businesses and the Federal Government, reducing our deficit by more than $1 trillion over the next two decades. That's what reform is going to do.<p>Now, it's going to take about 4 years to implement this entire plan, because we've got to do it responsibly, and we need to do it right. So I just want to be clear: That means that health care costs won't go down overnight; not all the changes are going to be in place; there are still going to be aspects of the health care system that are very frustrating over the next several years.<p>But we have built into law all sorts of measures that in the years to come, health care inflation, which has been rising about three times as fast as people's wages, is finally going to start slowing down. We'll start reducing the waste in the system, from unnecessary tests to unwarranted insurance subsidies, so that over time, Americans are going to save money.<p>And meanwhile, there are a set of reforms that begin to take into effect this year, so I want to talk about this. This year, millions of small-business owners will be eligible for tax credits that will help them cover the cost of insurance for their employees. This year, millions of small businesses will benefit.<p>So let me talk to you about what this means for a business like your own Prairie Lights bookstore downtown. This is a small business that's been offering coverage to their full-time employees for the last 20 years. Last year, their premiums went up 35 percent, which made it a lot harder for them to offer the same coverage. On Tuesday, I was joined at the bill signing by Ryan Smith, who runs a small business with five employees. His premiums are going up too. He's worried about having to stop offering health insurance to his workers.<p>So starting now, small-business owners like Ryan and the folks at Prairie Light, they're going to have the security of knowing that they'll qualify for a tax credit that covers up to 35 percent of their employees' health insurance. Starting today--starting today, small-business owners--[<i>applause</i>]--so starting today, small-business owners can sit down at the end of the week, look at their expenses, and they can begin calculating how much money they're going to save. And maybe they can even use those savings to not only provide insurance, but also create jobs. This health care tax credit is projobs, it is probusiness, and it starts this year, and it's starting because of you.<p>Starting this year, tens of thousands of uninsured Americans with a preexisting condition and parents whose children have a preexisting condition will finally be able to purchase the coverage they need.<p>On Tuesday, right after I signed the bill, I met David Gallagher, whose daughter Lauren had written me a letter last year. And when Lauren's mom lost her job, the entire family lost their health insurance. And when they tried to get new insurance, David was denied coverage because he once had a complication-free hernia surgery.<p>So Lauren's been worried sick about what would happen if her father became ill or injured. But now, because of this reform, David Gallagher can finally have access to health insurance again. That starts this year, because of you and the work that you did.<p>This year, insurance companies will no longer be able to drop people's coverage when they get sick or place lifetime limits or restrictive annual limits on the amount of care they can receive.<p>This year, all new insurance plans will be required to offer free preventive care. And by the way, for all the students who are here today, starting this year, if you don't have insurance or if you're about to graduate and you're not sure what your next job's going to be or there's a little gap between getting that job with insurance, all new plans and some current ones will allow you to stay on your parent's insurance policy until you're 26 years old--starting this year. Because as you start your lives and your careers, the last thing you should worry about is whether you go broke just because you get sick.<p>This year, for the seniors who are in the audience, if you fall in the coverage gap known as the doughnut hole, you're going to receive $250 to help pay for prescriptions, which will be the first step towards closing that doughnut hole, that gap, completely. And I want seniors to know that despite what some have said, these reforms will not cut your guaranteed benefits. In fact, under this law, Americans on Medicare will receive free preventive care without copayments and deductibles.<p>Darlyne Neff is here today. She's a breast cancer survivor. She's fought her heart out for reform over the last few years. Today, the preventive care she needs will finally be covered without charge. That's what this reform will do. That's what's happening because of you.<p>And once this reform is implemented, then health insurance exchanges are going to be created. This is the core aspect of this bill that is going to be so important to Americans who are looking for coverage. Basically, we set up a competitive marketplace where people without insurance, small businesses, people who are having to pay through the teeth because they're just buying insurance on their own, you're--maybe you're self-employed, you're finally going to be able to purchase quality, affordable health insurance, because you're going to be part of a big pool--by the way, with Members of Congress. So you will be able to get the same good deal that they're getting, because if you're paying their salary, you should have health insurance that's at least as good as theirs.<p>That's what's going to happen in the next few years. And when this exchange is up and running, millions of people are going to be getting tax breaks to help them afford coverage. And the credits add up to the largest middle class tax cut for health care in history. So this is a--that's the basic aspects of reform.<p><i>Audience member.</i> What about the public option?<p><i>The President.</i> That's not in it.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Why not?<p><i>The President.</i> Because we couldn't get it through Congress, that's why. So they----<p><i>[There was a disruption in the audience.]</i><p><i>The President.</i> Let's--but--let's--there's no need to shout, young man, no need to shout.<p>Thirty-two people are--32 million people are going to have health insurance because of this legislation. That's what's this--this is what it's about. All right? So that's what's going to happen.<p>Now, I want to just make this point. This legislation's not perfect, as you just heard. [<i>Laughter</i>] This young man is dissatisfied with an aspect of it, which is fine. I mean, that's part of what democracy is about. But what this is, is a historic step to enshrine the principle that everybody gets health care coverage in this country, every single person.<p>And it's absolutely true--it's absolutely true, this is a middle-of-the-road bill. This isn't single-payer, which some people wanted. It's also not what the Republicans were looking for, which was basically to deregulate the insurance industry, arguing that somehow this would cut down costs, something that defies the experience of everybody who's dealt with an insurance company out there. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So yes, this is a commonsense bill. It doesn't do everything that everybody wants, but it moves us in the direction of universal health care coverage in this country, and that's why everybody here fought so hard for it.<p>This is the reform that some folks in Washington are still hollering about, still shouting about. Now that they passed it--now that we passed it, they're already promising to repeal it. They're actually going to run on a platform of repeal in November. You've been hearing that. And my attitude is, go for it.<p>If these Congressmen in Washington want to come here in Iowa and tell small-business owners that they plan to take away their tax credits and essentially raise their taxes, be my guest. If they want to look Lauren Gallagher in the eye and tell her they plan to take away her father's health insurance, that's their right. They want to make Darlyne Neff pay more money for her checkups, her mammograms, they can run on that platform. This young man out here thinks this is a bad bill, he can run to repeal it. If they want to have that fight, we can have it. Because I don't believe that the American people are going to put the insurance industry back in the driver's seat. We've already been there. We're not going back. This country's moving forward.<p>The road to this victory, Iowa, has been long, it has been difficult. It's a struggle that a lot of brave Americans have waged for years. For others, like our friend Ted Kennedy, it's a struggle that was waged for nearly a lifetime.<p>But what this struggle has taught us about ourselves and about this country is so much bigger than any one issue, because it's reminded us what so many of us learned all those months ago on a cold January night here in Iowa, and that's that change is never easy, but it's always possible. It comes not from the halls of power, but from the hearts of our people. Amid setbacks, it requires perseverance. Amid calls for delay, it requires the fierce urgency of now. In the face of unrelenting cynicism, it requires unyielding hope.<p>And when I came here 3 years ago, I told the story of when Lyndon Johnson stood with Harry Truman and signed Medicare into law. That wasn't perfect either. I'm sure there was somebody who was dissatisfied with it at the time. And as he looked out over the crowd in Independence, Missouri, that day, he said, \\"History shapes men, but it is necessary--it is a necessary faith of leadership that men can shape history.\\"<p>What this generation has proven today is that we still have the power to shape history. In the United States of America, it is still a necessary faith that our destiny is written by us, not for us. Our future is what we make it. Our future is what we make it. Look, this is not the end of difficult times for America. From creating jobs to reducing deficits to making sure every child has a decent education, we still face enormous challenges in this country. And as we meet those challenges, we're going to face more resistance. We're going to face more doubt. We're going to face more cynicism. We're going to hear more voices who will warn us that we're reaching too far, that we're going too fast, who are going to tell us that we can't wait--who are going to just make wild accusations about what we're trying to do.<p>And when that happens, we've got to remember the promise that we've already fulfilled and the people who fulfilled it and the generations before us who made it possible. We're going to have to respond with the creed that continues to define the character of this country we love--and it's my favorite memory of Iowa--that creed that says, yes we can.<p>Iowa, yes we did, because of you. And it's because of you that we are going to keep on going to make sure that we fulfill every promise to every child in this country for a brighter future.<p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"81" "\"Good morning, everybody. I just concluded a productive phone call with President Medvedev, and I'm pleased to announce that after a year of intense negotiations, the United States and Russia have agreed to the most comprehensive arms control agreement in nearly two decades.<p>Since taking office, one of my highest priorities has been addressing the threat posed by nuclear weapons to the American people. And that's why, last April in Prague, I stated America's intention to pursue the peace and security of a world without nuclear weapons, a goal that's been embraced by Presidents like John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan. While this aspiration will not be reached in the near future, I put forward a comprehensive agenda to pursue it, to stop the spread of these weapons, to secure vulnerable nuclear materials from terrorists, and to reduce nuclear arsenals. A fundamental part of that effort was the negotiation of a new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty with Russia.<p>Furthermore, since I took office, I've been committed to a reset of our relationship with Russia. When the United States and Russia can cooperate effectively, it advances the mutual interests of our two nations and the security and prosperity of the wider world. We've so far already worked together on Afghanistan. We've coordinated our economic efforts through the G-20. We are working together to pressure Iran to meet its international obligations. And today we have reached agreement on one of my administration's top national security priorities, a pivotal new arms control agreement.<p>In many ways, nuclear weapons represent both the darkest days of the cold war and the most troubling threats of our time. Today we've taken another step forward by--in leaving behind the legacy of the 20th century, while building a more secure future for our children. We've turned words into action. We've made progress that is clear and concrete. And we've demonstrated the importance of American leadership and American partnership on behalf of our own security and the world's.<p>Broadly speaking, the new START Treaty makes progress in several areas. It cuts, by about a third, the nuclear weapons that the United States and Russia will deploy. It significantly reduces missiles and launchers. It puts in place a strong and effective verification regime. And it maintains the flexibility that we need to protect and advance our national security and to guarantee our unwavering commitment to the security of our allies.<p>With this agreement, the United States and Russia, the two largest nuclear powers in the world, also send a clear signal that we intend to lead. By upholding our own commitments under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, we strengthen our global efforts to stop the spread of these weapons and to ensure that other nations meet their own responsibilities.<p>I'm pleased that, almost 1 year to the day after my last trip to Prague, the Czech Republic, a close friend and ally of the United States, has agreed to host President Medvedev and me on April 8 as we sign this historic treaty. The following week, I look forward to hosting leaders from over 40 nations here in Washington as we convene a summit to address how we can secure vulnerable nuclear materials so that they never fall into the hands of terrorists. And later this spring, the world will come together in New York to discuss how we can build on this progress and continue to strengthen the global nonproliferation regime.<p>Through all these efforts, cooperation between the United States and Russia will be essential. I want to thank President Medvedev for his personal and sustained leadership as we worked through this agreement. We've had the opportunity to meet many times over the last year and we both agree that we can serve the interests of our people through close cooperation.<p>I also want to thank my national security team, who did so much work to make this day possible. That includes the leaders with me here today: Secretary Clinton, Secretary Gates, and Admiral Mullen. And it includes a tireless negotiating team. It took patience, it took perseverance, but we never gave up. And as a result, the United States will be more secure and the American people will be safer.<p>Finally, I look forward to continuing to work closely with Congress in the months ahead. There's a long tradition of bipartisan leadership on arms control. Presidents of both parties have recognized the necessity of securing and reducing these weapons. Statesmen like George Shultz, Sam Nunn, Henry Kissinger, and Bill Perry have been outspoken in their support of more assertive action. Earlier this week, I met with my friends John Kerry and Dick Lugar to discuss this Treaty, and throughout the morning, my administration will be consulting Senators from both parties as we prepare for what I hope will be a strong, bipartisan support to ratify the new START Treaty.<p>With that, I'm going to leave you in the able hands of my Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, as well as Secretary of Defense Gates and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Mike Mullen. So I want to thank all of you for your attention.\" "
"82" "\"This was a momentous week for America. It was a week in which, together, we took bold new steps toward restoring economic security for our middle class and rebuilding a stronger foundation for our future. It was a week in which some of the change that generations have hoped for and worked for finally became reality in America.<p>It began with the passage of comprehensive health insurance reform that will begin to end the worst practices of the insurance industry, rein in our exploding deficits, and, over time, finally offer millions of families and small businesses quality, affordable care and the security and peace of mind that comes with it. And it ended with Congress casting a final vote on another piece of legislation that accomplished what we've been talking about for decades, legislation that will reform our student loan system and help us educate all Americans to compete and win in the 21st century.<p>Year after year, we've seen billions of taxpayer dollars handed out as subsidies to bankers and middlemen who handle Federal student loans, when that money should have gone to advancing the dreams of our students and working families. And yet attempts to fix this problem and reform this program were thwarted by special interests that fought tooth and nail to preserve their exclusive giveaway. But this time, we said, we would be different. We said we'd stand up to the special interests and stand up for the interests of students and families. That's what happened this week. I commend all the Senators and Representatives who did the right thing.<p>This reform of Federal student loan programs will save taxpayers $68 billion over the next decade. And with this legislation, we're putting that money to use achieving a goal I set for America. By the end of this decade, we will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world.<p>To make college more affordable for millions of middle class Americans for whom the cost of higher education has become an unbearable burden, we're expanding Federal Pell grants for students, increasing them to keep pace with inflation in the coming years and putting the program on a stronger financial footing. In total, we are doubling funding for the Federal Pell grant program to help students who depend on it.<p>To make sure our students don't go broke just because they chose to go to college, we're making it easier for graduates to afford their student loan payments. Today, about two in three graduates take out loans to pay for college. The average student ends up with more than $23,000 in debt. So when this change takes effect in 2014, we'll cap a graduate's annual student loan repayments at 10 percent of his or her income.<p>To help an additional 5 million Americans earn degrees and certificates over the next decade, we're revitalizing programming at our community colleges, the career pathways for millions of dislocated workers and working families across this country. These schools are centers of learning, where students young and old can get the skills and technical training they need for the jobs of today and tomorrow. They're centers of opportunity as well, where we can forge partnerships between students and businesses so that every community can gain the workforce it needs, and they are vital to our economic future.<p>And to ensure that all our students have every chance to live up to their full potential, this legislation also increases support for our minority-serving institutions, including our Historically Black Colleges and Universities, to keep them as strong as ever in this new century.<p>Education and health care, two of the most important pillars of a strong America, grew stronger this week. These achievements don't represent the end of our challenges, nor do they signify the end of the work that faces our country. But what they do represent is real and major reform. What they show is that we're a nation still capable of doing big things. What they prove is what's possible when we can come together to overcome the politics of the moment, push back on the special interests, and look beyond the next election to do what's right for the next generation.<p>That's the spirit in which we continue the work of tackling our greatest common tasks: an economy rebuilt, job creation revitalized, an American Dream renewed for all people.<p>Thank you.\" "
"83" "\"<i>The President.</i> How's it going, Bagram? Well, you know, it turns out that the American people, they let me use this plane called Air Force One, and so I thought I'd come over and say hello.<p>Couple of people I want to thank, in addition to Sergeant Major Eric Johnson for the outstanding introduction and his great service. I want to thank Major General Mike Scaparrotti. Thank you for your great work as commanding general. I want to thank Ms. Dawn Liberi, who's the senior civilian representative of Regional Command East, for her outstanding work; and Brigadier General Steven Kwast, commander, 455th Air Expeditionary Wing. Thank you all for your outstanding service. Give them a big round of applause.<p>Thank you for the unbelievable welcome. I know this was on a little bit of short notice.<p><i>Audience member.</i> No worries.<p><i>The President.</i> Say no worries. [<i>Laughter</i>] It is great to be here at Bagram, and it's great to see all the services. We've got Air Force, we got Army, we've got Navy, we've got some marines in the house. And we've got a lot of civilians here too, who are making an outstanding contribution to this effort. <p>And I'm honored to be joined by America's outstanding civilian-military leadership team here in Afghanistan, Ambassador Karl Eikenberry, who's doing outstanding work, and the commander of our 43-nation coalition, General Stan McChrystal. The two of them together have paired up to do an extraordinarily difficult task, but they are doing it extraordinarily well, and we are proud of them. Please give your outstanding team a big round of applause. They've got my full confidence and my full support.<p>We're also joined by troops from some of our coalition partners, because this is not simply an American mission or even just a NATO mission. Al Qaida and their extremist allies are a threat to the people of Afghanistan and the threat to the people of America, but they're also a threat to people all around the world, and that's why we're so proud to have our coalition partners here with us. Thank you very much for the great work that you do. We salute you, and we honor you for all the sacrifices you make, and you are a true friend of the United States of America. Thank you very much.<p>And we also salute the members of the Afghan National Army who are fighting alongside all of you. They're risking their lives to protect their country. And as I told President Karzai today, the United States is a partner, but our intent is to make sure that the Afghans have the capacity to provide for their own security. That is core to our mission, and we are proud of the work that they are doing and the continuing increased capacity that we're seeing out of Afghan National Security Forces. So thank you very much for the great work you're doing to take responsibility for security here in your own country.<p>And to the Afghan people, I want to say that I'm honored to be a guest in your country. Now, the Afghans have suffered for decades--decades of war. But we are here to help Afghans forge a hard-won peace while realizing the extraordinary potential of the Afghan people, Afghanistan's sons and daughters, from the soldiers and the police to the farmers and the young students. And we want to build a lasting partnership founded upon mutual interests and mutual respect, and I'm looking forward to returning to Afghanistan many times in the years to come.<p>Now, I know for most of you, you didn't get a lot of notice that I was coming. But I want you to understand, there's no visit that I considered more important than this visit I'm making right now, because I have no greater honor than serving as your Commander in Chief. And it is a privilege to look out and see the extraordinary efforts of America's sons and daughters here in Afghanistan. So my main job here today is to say thank you on behalf of the entire American people.<p>You are part of the finest military in the history of the world, and we are proud of you. And so I want you to know that everybody back home is proud of you. Everybody back home is grateful. And everybody understands the sacrifices that you have made and your families have made to keep America safe and to keep America secure in this vital mission.<p>And I know it's not easy. You're far away from home. You miss your kids. You miss your spouses, your family, your friends. Some of you, this is your second or your third or your fourth tour of duty. I'll tell you right now the same thing that I said at West Point last December: If I thought for a minute that America's vital interests were not served, were not at stake here in Afghanistan, I would order all of you home right away.<p>So I want you to know, I want every American serving in Afghanistan, military and civilian, to know, whether you're working the flight line here at Bagram or patrolling a village down in Helmand, whether you're standing watch at a forward operating base or training our Afghan partners or working with the Afghan Government, your services are absolutely necessary, absolutely essential to America's safety and security. Those folks back home are relying on you.<p>We can't forget why we're here. We did not choose this war. This was not an act of America wanting to expand its influence, of us wanting to meddle in somebody else's business. We were attacked viciously on 9/11. And thousands of our fellow country men and women were killed. And this is the region where the perpetrators of that crime, Al Qaida, still base their leadership. Plots against our homeland, plots against our allies, plots against the Afghan and Pakistani people are taking place as we speak right here. And if this region slides backwards, if the Taliban retakes this country and Al Qaida can operate with impunity, then more American lives will be at stake. The Afghan people will lose their chance at progress and prosperity. And the world will be significantly less secure.<p>And I'm--as long as I'm your Commander in Chief, I am not going to let that happen. That's why you are here. Now, I've made a promise to all of you who serve: I will never send you into harm's way unless it's absolutely necessary. I anguish in thinking about the sacrifices that so many of you make. That's why I promise I will never send you out unless it is necessary.<p>But that's only part of the promise, because the other part of the promise is that when it is absolutely necessary, you will be backed up by a clear mission and the right strategy, and you will have the support to finish the job, to get the job done. And I am confident all of you are going to get the job done right here in Afghanistan. I am confident of that.<p>That's why I ordered more troops and civilians here into Afghanistan shortly after taking office. That's why we took a hard look and forged a new strategy and committed more resources in December. That's why we've pushed our friends and allies and partners to pony up more resources themselves, more commitments of aid and additional forces and trainers.<p>Our broad mission is clear: We are going to disrupt and dismantle, defeat, and destroy Al Qaida and its extremist allies. That is our mission. And to accomplish that goal, our objectives here in Afghanistan are also clear: We're going to deny Al Qaida safe haven; we're going to reverse the Taliban's momentum; we're going to strengthen the capacity of Afghan security forces and the Afghan Government so that they can begin taking responsibility and gain confidence of the Afghan people.<p>And our strategy includes a military effort that takes the fight to the Taliban while creating the conditions for greater security and a transition to the Afghans, but also a civilian effort that improves the daily lives of the Afghan people and combats corruption, and a partnership with Pakistan and its people, because we can't uproot extremists and advance security and opportunity unless we succeed on both sides of the border. Most of you understand that.<p>Many of the troops that I ordered to Afghanistan have begun to arrive, and more are on the way. And we'll continue to work with Congress to make sure that you've got the equipment that you need, particularly as we complete our drawdown in Iraq. We're providing more helicopters; we're providing more intelligence and reconnaissance capabilities, more Special Operations Forces, more armored vehicles that can save lives.<p>And here in Afghanistan, you've gone on the offensive. And the American people back home are noticing. We have seen a huge increase in support in--stateside, because people understand the kinds of sacrifices that you guys are making and the clarity of mission that you're bringing to bear.<p>And together with our coalition and Afghan partners, our troops have pushed the Taliban out of their stronghold in Marja. We've changed the way we operate and interact with the Afghan people. We see Afghans reclaiming their communities, and we see new partnerships that will help them build their own future and increase their security.<p>And across the border, Pakistan's mounting major offensives. We've seen violent extremists pushed out of their sanctuaries. We struck major blows against Al Qaida leadership as well as the Taliban's. They are hunkered down. They're worried about their own safety. It's harder for them to move, it's harder for them to train and to plot and to attack, and all of that makes America safer. And we are going to keep them on the run, because that is what's going to be required in order to assure that our families back home have the security that they need. That's the work that you are doing.<p>So thanks to you, there's been progress these last several months. But we know there are going to be some difficult days ahead. There's going to be setbacks. We face a determined enemy. But we also know this: The United States of America does not quit once it starts on something. You don't quit. The American Armed Services does not quit. We keep at it, we persevere, and together with our partners, we will prevail. I am absolutely confident of that.<p>And I also want you to know that as you're doing your duty here, we're going to do right by you back home. We're going to help take care of your families, and that's why the First Lady, Michelle Obama, visited with military families and makes sure that their needs are met. That's why she stays after me once she gets home, when I'm at the White House. And we're going to make sure that we are keeping to improve your pay and your benefits, but also things like childcare and support that ensure that you've got a little bit of security knowing your family is being looked after back home.<p>And we'll be there for you when you come home. That's why we're improving care for our wounded warriors, especially those with PTSD and traumatic brain injuries. We're moving forward with the post-9/11 GI bill so you and your families can pursue your dreams. And we've made the biggest increase in the VA budget in 30 years, because we're going to keep our sacred trust with all those who serve.<p>You've been there for us, tour after tour, year after year, at a time when too many American institutions have let us down, when too many institutions have put short-term gain in front of a commitment to duty and a commitment to what's right. You've met your responsibilities, you've done your duty, not just when it's easy, but when it's hard. That's why you've inspired your fellow Americans, and that's why you inspire me. That's why you've earned your place next to the very greatest of American generations.<p>And all of you represent the virtues and the values that America so desperately needs right now: sacrifice and selflessness, honor and decency. That's what I see here today. That's what you represent.<p>I've seen your sense of purpose and your willingness to step forward and serve in a time of danger. I've seen it from the marines I've met at Camp Lejeune to the cadets at West Point, from the midshipmen at Annapolis to the troops I have met in Iraq and at bases across America and here in Afghanistan. I've seen your courage and your heroism in the story of a young sergeant first class named Jared Monti, who gave his life here in Afghanistan to save his fellow soldiers, and whose parents I was proud to present with our Nation's highest military decoration, the Medal of Honor. I've seen your tenacity and determination in our wounded warriors in Landstuhl and Walter Reed, Americans fighting to stand again and to walk again and to get back with you--their units--incredible dedication, incredible focus, incredible pride. And I've been humbled by your sacrifice, in the solemn homecoming of flag-draped coffins at Dover to the headstones in Section 60 at Arlington, where the fallen from this war rest in peace alongside the fellow heroes of America's story.<p>So here in Afghanistan, each one of you is part of an unbroken line of American servicemembers who've sacrificed for over two centuries. You're protecting your fellow citizens from danger. You're serving alongside old allies and new friends. You're bringing hope and opportunity to a people who've known a lot of pain and a lot of suffering.<p>And I know that sometimes when you're watching TV, the politics back home may look a little messy, and people are yelling and hollering and--Democrats this and Republicans that. I want you to understand this: There's no daylight when it comes to support of all of you. There's no daylight when it comes to supporting our troops. That brings us together. We are all incredibly proud. We all honor what you do. And all of you show all of America what's possible when people come together, not based on color or creed, not based on faith or station, but based on a commitment to serve together, to bleed together, and to succeed together as one people, as Americans.<p>Make no mistake, this fight matters to us. It matters to us, it matters to our allies, it matters to the Afghan people. Al Qaida and the violent extremists who you're fighting against want to destroy. But all of you want to build, and that is something essential about America. They've got no respect for human life. You see dignity in every human being. That's part of what we value as Americans. They want to drive races and regions and religions apart. You want to bring people together and see the world move forward together. They offer fear, in other words, and you offer hope.<p>And that's why it is so important that you know that the entire country stands behind you. That's why you put on that uniform, because in an uncertain world, the United States of America will always stand up for the security of nations and the dignity of human beings. That's who we are. That is what we do.<p>Much has happened to our country and to the world since 9/11. But I'm confident that so long as brave men and women like you--Americans who are willing to serve selflessly half a world away on behalf of their fellow citizens and the dreams of people they've never met--so long as there are folks like you, then I'm confident that our Nation will endure and hope will overcome fear. And I am confident that better days lie ahead.<p>So thank you very much, everybody. God bless you, God bless the United States Armed Forces, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"84" "\"Thank you, Alexandria. Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat.<p>Thank you, Dr. Biden, for that outstanding introduction and for putting up with Joe. [<i>Laughter</i>] I want to also thank Dr. Biden for being one of the thousands of instructors all across the country who make such a difference in the lives of students each and every day. So we are very proud of you for that.<p>I want to thank President Templin and the entire NOVA Community College family for hosting us here today--[<i>applause</i>]--you can applaud for that.<p>On stage, we've got a couple of my outstanding Cabinet members, Secretary Sebelius and Secretary Arne Duncan. Please give them a big round of applause. In the audience, we've got Secretary Salazar of Interior, Secretary Donovan of HUD, and Ambassador Ron Kirk, our U.S. Trade Representative. Please give them a big round of applause.<p>To all the outstanding Members of Congress who've made this day possible, and I'm going to mainly single out the amazing Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi.<p>Today we mark an important milestone on the road to health insurance reform and higher education reform. But more broadly, this day affirms our ability to overcome the challenges of our politics and meet the challenges of our time.<p>And when I took office, one of the questions we needed to answer was whether it was still possible to make Government responsive to the needs of everyday people, middle class Americans, the backbone of this country, or whether the special interests and their lobbyists would continue to hold sway, like they've done so many times before. And that's a test we met 1 week ago, when health insurance reform became the law of the land in the United States of America.<p>And it's a test we met later in the week, when Congress passed higher education reforms that will have a tremendous impact on working families and America's future. That's two major victories in 1 week that will improve the lives of our people for generations to come.<p>Now, I've said before and I've repeated this week, the health insurance reform bill I signed won't fix every problem in our health care system in one fell swoop, but it does represent some of the toughest insurance reforms in history. It represents a major step forward towards giving Americans with insurance, and those without, a sense of security when it comes to their health care. It enshrines the principle that when you get sick, you've got a society there, a community that is going to help you get back on your feet. It represents meaningful progress for the American people.<p>And today I'm signing a bill that will make a number of improvements to these core reforms. We'll increase the size of tax credits to help middle class families and small businesses pay for their health insurance. We're going to offer $250 to seniors who fall in the Medicare coverage gap known as the doughnut hole to help them pay for prescriptions, and that's a first step towards closing that gap completely. We'll make a significant new investment in community health centers all across America that can provide high-quality primary care to people who need it most. And we'll strengthen efforts to combat waste and fraud and abuse to make sure your dollars aren't lining the pockets of insurance companies when they should be making your health care better.<p>Now, the debate on health care reform is one that's gone on for generations, and I'm glad--I'm gratified that we were able to get it done last week. But what's gotten overlooked amid all the hoopla, all the drama of last week, is what happened in education, when a great battle pitting the interests of the banks and financial institutions against the interests of students finally came to an end.<p>You see, for almost two decades, we've been trying to fix a sweetheart deal in Federal law that essentially gave billions of dollars to banks to act as unnecessary middlemen in administering student loans. So these--those are billions of dollars that could have been spent helping more of our students attend and complete college, that could have been spent advancing the dreams of our children, that could have been spent easing the burden of tuition on middle class families. Instead, that money was spent padding student lenders' profits.<p>Now, it probably won't surprise you to learn that the big banks and financial institutions hired a army of lobbyists to protect the status quo. In fact, Sallie Mae, America's biggest student lender, spent more than $3 million on lobbying last year alone.<p>But I didn't stand with the banks and the financial industries in this fight--that's not why I came to Washington--and neither did any of the Members of Congress who are here today. We stood with you. We stood with America's students. And together, we finally won that battle.<p>I don't have to tell folks here at NOVA why this victory matters. In the 21st century, when the success of every American hinges more than ever on the quality of their education and when America's success as a nation rests more than ever on an educated workforce that is second to none, we can't afford to waste billions of dollars on giveaways to banks.<p>We need to invest that money in our students. We need to invest in our community colleges. We need to invest in the future of this country. We need to meet the goal I set last year and graduate more of our students than any other nation by the year 2020. And through the extraordinary leadership of Education Secretary Arne Duncan, that's what the reforms I'm signing today will help us do.<p>By cutting out the middleman, we'll save American taxpayers $68 billion in the coming years--$68 billion. That's real money--[<i>Laughter</i>]--real savings that we'll reinvest to help improve the quality of higher education and make it more affordable.<p>Now, we've already taken a number of steps through the Recovery Act and through my budget to significantly increase the support provided to young people attending colleges and universities all across the country. And I just--President Templin handed me a sheet just as I walked in. Just in case you're wondering whether this makes a difference, so far this year--and the year isn't over--right here at NOVA, Pell grant recipients increased by 41 percent over last year, the total dollar amount of Pell grants increased by 59 percent, the number of federally guaranteed loans increased by 43 percent, and loan awards increased by 68 percent. That's right here at this one community college, because of the steps that we had already taken.<p>So using the $68 billion that we're saving, that had been going to the banks, here's what we're going to be able to do. First, we will reinvest a portion of those savings to upgrade our community colleges, which are one of the great, undervalued assets in our education system.<p>Community colleges like NOVA are incredibly important because they serve a varied group of learners, from recent high school grads seeking a pathway to a college degree to adults seeking training for the jobs of tomorrow. By forging private sector partnerships, community colleges can offer students the education and training they need to find a good job when they graduate, and it helps offer businesses the assurance they need that graduates will be ready for the jobs that they're hired to do.<p>And because community colleges like NOVA are so essential to a competitive workforce, I've asked your outstanding professor, Dr. Jill Biden--who does not have enough to do--[<i>Laughter</i>]--to host a summit on community colleges at the White House this fall. And we're going to bring everybody together, from educators to students, experts to business leaders. We are going to bring everybody together to share innovative ideas about how we can help students earn degrees and credentials, and to forge private sector partnerships so we can better prepare America's workforce and America's workers to succeed in the 21st century.<p>Now, to help open the doors of higher education to more students, we'll also reinvest part of that $68 billion in savings in Pell grants, one of the most popular forms of financial aid. Pell grants once covered more than three-quarters of the cost of going to college. But now, because the cost of college has skyrocketed, the amount Pell grants cover is about one-third.<p>Today students hoping to attend college on a Pell grant are going to be able to feel more secure because not only are we going to offer over 800,000 additional Pell awards over the next 10 years, we're also going to raise the amount they're worth to almost $6,000, so that inflation does not erode the value of your grant.<p>And we'll put the entire Pell grant program on firmer footing for years to come. Altogether, we are more than doubling the amount of Pell grant funding that was available when I took office. It's one of the most significant investments in higher education since the GI bill.<p>Now, third, we're going to restore a measure of fairness to how students repay their loans. Today, two out of every three students graduates with help from a loan, and often they take on a mountain of debt as a result. Here in Virginia, the typical student carries almost $20,000 in debt. Across the country, the average student graduates with over $23,000 in debt. I know what that's like. Michelle and I had big debts coming out of school, debts we weren't able to fully repay until just a few years before I started running for office.<p>Today we're making it easier for responsible students to pay off their loans. Right now, if you're a borrower, you don't have to spend more than 15 percent of your income on loans. But starting in 2014, you won't have to pay more than 10 percent of your income in repaying your student loans. That will make a meaningful difference for over 1 million more students. We're also going to give students an incentive to do what's right. If you pay your loans on time, you'll only have to pay them off for 20 years. And you'll only have to pay them off for 10 years if you repay them with service to your community and to our country, as a teacher or a nurse or a member of our Armed Forces.<p>Finally, we'll reinvest some of the $68 billion in savings to strengthen our Historically Black Colleges and Universities and minority serving institutions. These are institutions that have struggled more than most in these tough economic times.<p>The reforms in this bill are significant, but they're just part of a broader effort to strengthen our entire higher education system. We're putting college tuition tax credits in the pockets of millions of students from working families to help them pay for college. We've taken steps to simplify the Federal college assistance form, called the FAFSA, because it shouldn't take a Ph.D. to apply for financial aid. And we're helping ensure that America's high school graduates are ready for college. All of this is paid for. We're redirecting money that was poorly spent to make sure we're making investments in our future.<p>Now, this won't solve all of our problems in higher education. We continue to expect colleges and universities to do their part to hold down tuition increases. That has to happen. We've got to work on that. And we also need to take greater initiative not only to help more college--students enter college, we've got to make sure that we see more students successfully earn a college degree. <p>But what we've done over the past year represents enormous progress. So I'll close by saying this. For a long time, our student loan system has worked for banks and financial institutions. Today we're finally making our student loan system work for students and our families. But we're also doing something more.<p>From the moment I was sworn into office, I've spoken about the urgent need for us to lay a new foundation for our economy and for our future. And two pillars of that foundation are health care and education, and each has long suffered from problems that we chose to kick down the road.<p>With the bill I signed last week, we finally undertook meaningful reform of our health care system. With this bill and other steps we've pursued over the last year, we are finally undertaking meaningful reform in our higher education system. So this week, we can rightly say, the foundation on which America's future will be built is stronger than it was 1 year ago.<p>And so at the end of this extraordinary week, I want to acknowledge some of the people who made it possible. There isn't time to single out everyone who's here--outstanding Members of Congress--but I want to make sure I once again say this would not have happened had it not been for the leadership of Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Senator Dick Durbin, and Congressman Steny Hoyer. All provided outstanding leadership that our Nation needed.<p>On health care, Max Baucus, Chris Dodd, Henry Waxman, Charlie Rangel, and so many others offered invaluable expertise throughout the year. Congressmen George Miller, Jim Clyburn, Dale Kildee, Ruben Hinojosa led the way in the House on education reforms that I sign today.<p>Senator Tom Harkin's dedication ensured that the Senate would include these reforms in this bill. Virginia's own Bobby Scott and an outstanding freshman, Tom Perriello, helped to make this thing possible. We are grateful to them.<p>Now, courage is an essential ingredient in any landmark legislation, particularly when the attacks are as fierce and unrelenting and inaccurate--[<i>Laughter</i>]--as they have been over the past year. So I just want to commend Members of Congress who had the courage to do what's right, and to say a special thank you to all of the newer Members.<p>The past couple of years have brought one challenge after another, and you've risen to the moment each time. I could not be prouder of the work that all of you have done. And it would not have happened had it not been for the incredible persistence and stick-to-itiveness of all the folks in the audience here today.<p>Ultimately, Congress responds to the voices that they're hearing in their communities, and so many of you have written letters and come to meetings and let people know of the ordinary struggles that people are going through each and every day. You're what provided Members of Congress the courage that they needed to do what was right. And so on behalf of all of us who are serving in Washington, we want to thank you, the American people, for your outstanding leadership.<p>And with that, I'm going to sign this bill. Thank you very much.\" "
"85" "\"Thank you so much. Please have a seat. I've got a few introductions that I want to make very quickly before I start my remarks. First of all, I think that by the end of his tenure, we're going to know that Ken Salazar is one of the finest Secretaries of Interior we've ever had. So please give him a big round of applause. <p>Other members of what we call our green team are here: Steven Chu, our Secretary of Energy; Martha Johnson, the Administrator of the GSA; Nancy Sutley, the CEQ Chair. We've got Carol Browner, who's the White House Energy and Climate Change Director. Please give them a big round of applause. They've put in a lot of work. <p>Governor Martin O'Malley is here, Governor of Maryland. Ray Mabus, Secretary of the Navy, is here. Admiral Gary Roughead, Chief of Naval Operations, is here, and we appreciate his outstanding service. Thank you, Gar.<p>I want to thank Steven Shepro, the base commander here at Andrews, and the leadership that's present from the Air Force, the Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard. <p>Ken and I were colleagues in the Senate, and I appointed him because I knew that he would be a faithful and pragmatic steward of our natural resources. And as Secretary, he is changing the way that the Interior Department does business so that we're responsibly developing traditional sources of energy and renewable sources of energy, from the wind on the high plains to the suns in the desert to the waves off our coasts. And so I'm very grateful to the work that he's done, and it's culminating in one of the announcements that we're making today.<p>It's also good to see so many members of our Armed Forces here today. Andrews is the home of Air Force One, and I appreciate everything that you do for me and my family. I should point out that you've got a 100-percent ontime departure record. [<i>Laughter</i>] You don't charge for luggage--[<i>Laughter</i>]--so it's a pretty good deal. And I want to thank you not only for the support that you provide me, but also for the service that you perform to keep our country safe each and every day. So I'm very grateful to all of you. <p>We're here to talk about America's energy security, an issue that's been a priority for my administration since the day I took office. Already, we've made the largest investment in clean energy in our Nation's history. It's an investment that's expected to create or save more than 700,000 jobs across America, jobs manufacturing advanced batteries for more efficient vehicles, upgrading the power grid so that it's smarter and it's stronger, doubling our Nation's capacity to generate renewable electricity from sources like the wind and the Sun.<p>And just a few months after taking office, I also gathered the leaders of the world's largest automakers, the heads of labor unions, environmental advocates, and public officials from California and across the country to reach a historic agreement to raise fuel economy standards in cars and trucks. And tomorrow, after decades in which we have done little to increase auto efficiency, those new standards will be finalized, which will reduce our dependence on oil while helping folks spend a little less at the pump. <p>So my administration is upholding its end of the deal, and we expect all parties to do the same. And I'd also point out, this rule that we're going to be announcing about increased mileage standards will save 1.8 billion dollars--billion barrels of oil overall--1.8 billion barrels of oil. And that's like taking 58 million cars off the road for an entire year.<p>Today we're also going to go one step further. In order to save energy and taxpayer dollars, my administration, led by Secretary Chu at Energy, as well as Administrator Johnson at GSA, is doubling the number of hybrid vehicles in the Federal fleet, even as we seek to reduce the number of cars and trucks used by our Government overall. So we're going to lead by example and practice what we preach: cutting waste, saving energy, and reducing our reliance on foreign oil.<p>But we have to do more. We need to make continued investments in clean coal technologies and advanced biofuels. A few weeks ago, I announced loan guarantees to break ground on America's first new nuclear facility in three decades, a project that will create thousands of jobs. And in the short term, as we transition to cleaner energy sources, we've still got to make some tough decisions about opening new offshore areas for oil and gas development in ways that protect communities and protect coastlines.<p>Now, this is not a decision that I've made lightly. It's one that Ken and I, as well as Carol Browner, my energy adviser, and others in my administration looked at closely for more than a year. But the bottom line is this: Given our energy needs, in order to sustain economic growth and produce jobs and keep our businesses competitive, we are going to need to harness traditional sources of fuel, even as we ramp up production of new sources of renewable, homegrown energy.<p>So today we're announcing the expansion of offshore oil and gas exploration, but in ways that balance the need to harness domestic energy resources and the need to protect America's natural resources. Under the leadership of Secretary Salazar, we'll employ new technologies that reduce the impact of oil exploration. We'll protect areas that are vital to tourism, the environment, and our national security. And we'll be guided not by political ideology, but by scientific evidence. <p>That's why my administration will consider potential areas for development in the mid- and south Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico while studying and protecting sensitive areas in the Arctic. That's why we'll continue to support development of leased areas off the North Slope of Alaska while protecting Alaska's Bristol Bay.<p>Now, there will be those who strongly disagree with this decision, including those who say we should not open any new areas to drilling. But what I want to emphasize is that this announcement is part of a broader strategy that will move us from an economy that runs on fossil fuels and foreign oil to one that relies more on homegrown fuels and clean energy. And the only way this transition will succeed is if it strengthens our economy in the short term and the long run. To fail to recognize this reality would be a mistake.<p>Now, on the other side, there are going to be some who argue that we don't go nearly far enough, who suggest we should open all our waters to energy exploration without any restriction or regard for the broader environmental and economic impact. And to those folks I've got to say this: We have less than 2 percent of the world's oil reserves; we consume more than 20 percent of the world's oil. And what that means is that drilling alone can't come close to meeting our long-term energy needs. And for the sake of our planet and our energy independence, we need to begin the transition to cleaner fuels now. <p>So the answer is not drilling everywhere all the time. But the answer is not, also, for us to ignore the fact that we are going to need vital energy sources to maintain our economic growth and our security. Ultimately, we need to move beyond the tired debates of the left and the right, between business leaders and environmentalists, between those who would claim drilling is a cure-all and those who would claim it has no place, because this issue's just too important to allow our progress to languish while we fight the same old battles over and over again. <p>For decades, we've talked about how our dependence on foreign oil threatens our economy, yet our will to act rises and falls with the price of a barrel of oil. When gas gets expensive at the pump, suddenly everybody's an energy expert. And when it goes back down, everybody's back to their old habits.<p>For decades, we've talked about the threat to future generations posed by our current system of energy, even as we can see the mounting evidence of climate change, from the Arctic Circle to the Gulf Coast. And--this is particularly relevant to all of you who are serving in uniform--for decades, we've talked about the risks to our security created by dependence on foreign oil, but that dependence has actually grown year after year after year after year.<p>And while our politics has remained entrenched along these worn divides, the ground has shifted beneath our feet. Around the world, countries are seeking an edge in the global marketplace by investing in new ways of producing and saving energy. From China to Germany, these nations recognize that the nation that leads the clean energy economy will be the country that leads the global economy. And meanwhile, here at home, as politicians in Washington debate endlessly about whether to act, our own military's determined that we can no longer afford not to.<p>Some of the press may be wondering why we are announcing offshore drilling in a hangar at Andrews Air Force Base. Well, if there's any doubt about the leadership that our military is showing, you just need to look at this F-18 fighter and the light armored vehicle behind me. The Army and Marine Corps have been testing this vehicle on a mixture of biofuels. And this Navy fighter jet, appropriately called the Green Hornet, will be flown for the first time in just a few days, on Earth Day. If tests go as planned, it will be the first plane ever to fly faster than the speed of sound on a fuel mix that is half biomass. The Air Force is also testing jet engines using biofuels and had the first successful biofuel-powered test flight just last week. I don't want to drum up any kind of rivalry here, but-- [<i>Laughter</i>] .<p>Now, the Pentagon isn't seeking these alternative fuels just to protect our environment; they're pursuing these homegrown energy sources to protect our national security. Our military leaders recognize the security imperative of increasing the use of alternative fuels, decreasing energy use, reducing our reliance on imported oil, making ourselves more energy efficient. And that's why the Navy, led by Secretary Mabus, who's here today, has set a goal of using 50 percent alternative fuels in all planes, vehicles, and ships in the next 10 years. That's why the Defense Department has invested $2.7 billion this year alone to improve energy efficiency.<p>So moving towards clean energy is about our security. It's also about our economy. And it's about the future of our planet. And what I hope is, is the policies that we've laid out--from hybrid fleets to offshore drilling, from nuclear energy to wind energy--underscores the seriousness with which my administration takes this challenge. It's a challenge that requires us to break out of the old ways of thinking, to think and act anew. And it requires each of us, regardless of whether we're in the private sector or the public sector, whether we're in the military or in the civilian side of Government, to think about how could we be doing things better, how could we be doing things smarter so that we are no longer tethered to the whims of what happens somewhere in the Middle East or with other major oil-producing nations. <p>So I'm open to proposals from my Democratic friends and my Republican friends. I think that we can break out of the broken politics of the past when it comes to our energy policy. I know that we can come together to pass comprehensive energy and climate legislation that's going to foster new energy--new industries, create millions of new jobs, protect our planet, and help us become more energy independent. That's what we can do. That is what we must do. And I'm confident that is what we will do.<p>So thank you very much. And thanks, again, to all of you who are serving in our Armed Services. It--you are making an enormous contribution, and this is just one example of the leadership that you are showing. <p>Thank you very much. Thank you.\" "
"86" "\"Hello, hello. Thank you, everybody. Please, please, have a seat. First, one caveat: I will not be good--as good as Michelle. [<i>Laughter</i>] So keep your expectations lower.<p>I want to first of all acknowledge John Berry for the extraordinary work he's doing here and for helping to organize this. Thank you, John. <p>In addition, we've got--Secretary Hilda Solis is here from our Department of Labor. Dr. Christina Romer, who's the Chair of our Council of Economic Advisers--where are you, Christina?--right there; Valerie Jarrett, a Senior Adviser and Chair of the White House Council on Women and Girls. Ms. Melody Barnes I actually just saw run off to the garden. She was on my list--the Chair of our Domestic Policy Council--but she's not here; Karen Mills, who is the Administrator for our Small Business Administration; and Ms. Martha Johnson, Administrator of the General Services Administration. <p>So I understand you've had a wonderful session. I heard all about it. And I want to thank all of you for joining us today and sharing your thoughts on what we can do, as business leaders and advocates, as employees and as Government officials, to modernize our workplaces to meet the needs of our workforce and our families.<p>And all of us here today know just how wide that gap has grown. And we're all familiar with the economic and demographic changes that have brought us to this point, how over the past generation or two, as costs have risen and wages have lagged, many families have found they can no longer survive on just one income. And at the same time, we've broken down barriers and opened up opportunities, so more women have entered into the workforce, bringing home paychecks that are increasingly critical to supporting families.<p>Today, two-thirds of American families with kids are headed by two working parents or a single working parent, and the result is the rise of what one expert I know refers to as \\"the juggler family.\\" For these families, every day is a high wire act. Everything is scheduled right down to the minute. There's no room for error. If the car breaks down, or somebody gets sick, or there's a problem at school, that begins a cascading domino effect that leaves everybody scrambling.<p>And I have to say that this is something that Michelle and I have struggled with in our own family. As she told you earlier today, it wasn't that long ago that both of us were working full-time outside the home while raising two young daughters. I was away for days on end for my job, and Michelle was working hard at hers, so a lot of times we felt like we were just barely keeping everything together. When we were at work, we were worrying about what was happening at home; when we were at home, we were worrying about work. We both felt our overloaded schedules were taking a toll on our marriage.<p>And we had it relatively easy. We could afford good health care. We had a wonderful mother-in-law, grandmother--[laughter]--who could help out. We had to ship her in, even in the White House. [<i>Laughter</i>] We both had jobs where we could rework our schedules in an emergency without risking being fired or having our paychecks docked.<p>Now, most folks just aren't that lucky, particularly in today's economy when many people aren't just working one job but are having to work two or three to get by, or they're working longer hours, or they're out of a job and they can't afford to be choosy about things like flexibility and benefits.<p>And this disconnect between the needs of our families and the demands of our workplace also reflects a broader problem, that today, we as a society still see workplace flexibility policies as a special perk for women rather than a critical part of a workplace that can help all of us. There's still this perception out there that an employee who needs some time to tend to an aging parent or attend to a parent-teachers conference isn't fully committed to his or her job, or that if you make a workplace more flexible, it necessarily will be less profitable.<p>Now, it's true that women are still disproportionately affected by this issue--something Michelle always reminds me of--[<i>Laughter</i>]--which is another reason why it's such great concern for me. But plenty of fathers out there wish they had more time to spend with their kids. Plenty of sons wish they could do more for their elderly parents. Plenty of workers, both women and men, wish they could go back to school so they can beef up their skills and advance their careers. And there are plenty of communities that desperately need the new jobs we can create when we embrace teleworking and mobile workplaces.<p>And as for how this issue affects companies' bottom lines, a report by the White House Council of Economic Advisers that we're releasing today found that companies with flexible work arrangements can actually have lower turnover and absenteeism and higher productivity and healthier workers.<p>So let's be clear: Workplace flexibility isn't just a women's issue. It's an issue that affects the well-being of our families and the success of our businesses. It affects the strength of our economy, whether we'll create the workplaces and jobs of the future we need to compete in today's global economy.<p>And ultimately, it reflects our priorities as a society, our belief that no matter what each of us does for a living, caring for our loved ones and raising the next generation is the single most important job that we have. I think it's time we started making that job a little easier for folks.<p>Now, many of you here represent companies and workplaces that are already doing just that: embracing telecommuting, flextime, compressed work weeks, job sharing, flexible start and end times, and helping your employees generally find quality childcare and eldercare. And if you're doing this not just because it's the right thing to do, but because you've found that what's good for your workers and is good for your families can be good for your bottom lines and your shareholders as well, then you need to spread the word.<p>My administration is committed to supporting efforts like these. Our budget for next year includes competitive grants to help States launch their own paid-leave programs. It increases funding for childcare and nearly doubles the childcare tax credit for millions of middle class families. And it provides support for folks caring for aging relatives and for seniors who want to live independently for as long as possible.<p>We're also committed to practicing what we preach and serving as a model for the policies that we're encouraging. And John has been all over this. That's the purpose of the pilot project that John just told you about.<p>And that's why John is working with our Chief Technology Officer, Aneesh Chopra, to provide opportunities for Federal employees here in Washington, but also all across America to telework on a regular basis. Where regulations are in the way, we'll see what we can do to change them. Where new technology can help, we'll find a secure, cost-effective way to install it. Where training is needed to help managers and workers embrace this approach, we'll adopt the best practices from the private sector.<p>Because in the end, we believe that all of this isn't just about providing a better work experience for our employees, it's about providing better, more efficient service for the American people, even in the face of snowstorms and other crises that keep folks from getting to the office. [<i>Laughter</i>] I do not want to see the Government close because of snow again. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It's about attracting and retaining top talent in the Federal workforce and empowering them to do their jobs and judging their success by the results that they get, not by how many meetings they attend or how much face time they log or how many hours are spent on airplanes. It's about creating a culture where, as Martha Johnson puts it, \\"Work is what you do, not where you are.\\"<p>And in these efforts, we'll be looking to all of you for advice and ideas. And we plan to continue this conversation in the coming months, holding forums and roundtables in communities across the country, so we can seek out more good ideas and best practices that we can adopt and promote.<p>So again, I thank you for being part of this forum. I look forward to hearing about what you all came up with today. And I look forward to working with all of you in the years to come.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"87" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, everybody. Thank you. Please, everybody, be seated. <p>Let me just begin by acknowledging some great friends. First of all, somebody who I consider one of the finest Governors in the country, and somebody who I know you guys are going to reelect, Governor Deval Patrick is in the house. <p>To the Massachusetts congressional delegation--I see Ed Markey here, but I want to--I know I saw Congressman Delahunt and Capuano earlier. They have shown such courage and have stuck to it in some very difficult circumstances and are consistently showing the kind of leadership we need. We now got Barney Frank who is about to make sure that we've got financial regulatory reform, which is going to be so critical. So to your congressional delegation, please give them a big round of applause, and Ed Markey in particular. <p>To my dear friend who has been a constant source of inspiration--Vicki Kennedy is here, and I want everybody to give her a big round of applause. And to all of you who cochaired this elegant event, I assure you I will not break out into song. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I want to thank Tim Kaine for not only the generous introduction, not only for being an extraordinary Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, but also now being one of the best leaders of our party that we've ever had. Some of you may know, Tim Kaine was the first person, the first elected official outside of Illinois to endorse me when I announced my Presidential race--[<i>applause</i>]--on the steps of the old capitol of the Confederacy in Richmond in February of 2007, where most people couldn't pronounce my name. And there was no political gain for him to--in doing it. He just stepped out because he thought it was the right thing to do. And that's the kind of person that Tim Kaine has always been. He is decent; he is smart; he is principled. And to have somebody like that leading our party makes me feel better, and it should make you feel a lot better too. So thank you. <p>Very quickly, I want to say, obviously, that our hearts go out to all the families who've been affected by the recent flooding throughout New England. I was at the emergency center where Deval walked me through the steps that are being taken coordinating State, local, and Federal resources. We hope that the worst is behind us, but it's at moments like this where leadership is tested. And as usual, Deval has passed with flying colors.<p>It's also at moments like this--I spoke to a larger group before I came here--that we are reminded of the value of government. There is this notion afoot that somehow it's cool to be cynical about government. And then you go into this emergency center and you see these extraordinarily dedicated people working 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, just to help others. And they're not making a lot of money doing it. But they're dedicated, they care. And it's a reminder that we are not just individuals out there pursuing our own self-interest, we're also a community, we're also neighbors, we're also friends. And those values that we care so deeply about, they need to express themselves through our Government as well.<p>And so it's something that is worth remembering. And I want to thank all the local and State officials who've been working so diligently, as well as our Federal officials, for doing what's so important.<p>Most of you are dear friends. I have known you through good times and tough times. The event right before we came here was held--Deval, what's the name of that place?<p><i>Governor Deval L. Patrick of Massachusetts.</i> The State Room.<p><i>The President</i>. The State Room. This room holds a special place in my heart because this is the room where I appeared before a whole bunch of supporters here in Boston the day after I lost the New Hampshire primary. You remember that? A bunch of you guys remember that. Marianne was there; a whole bunch of folks were there.<p>Most of the folks who were our supporters in Boston had gone up to New Hampshire to trudge around and knock on doors and help to organize for the primary. And everybody had been on this euphoria coming out of Iowa. Remember, Jane? Everybody thought, oh, my goodness, this is, you know, everybody was talking about McCain already and measuring the drapes. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And although everybody worked hard, nobody took it for granted; I do think that there was just sort of a giddiness that was unhealthy in New Hampshire, which was punctured very quickly. And so one minute everybody was full of glee, and then the next moment, everybody was looking down. And that in New Hampshire was where I made the speech talking about \\"yes we can,\\" that ended up winning a Grammy for Will.i.am--[<i>Laughter</i>]--I didn't get a share of this. <p>But I remember going to that room and saying to folks, you know, I know this sounds like revisionist history, I know it sounds like I'm just trying to put some spin on something. I won't lie to you, I would have preferred to have won. But I said, I actually think in the long run this will be a good thing. And the reason I said that was because running for President is such an incredible honor, and the task you are setting for yourself in being President is so profound that it shouldn't be easy. You shouldn't glide into that job.<p>The American people expect, rightly, that their President will have been tested. And the reason is, is because they're tested all the time. They're tested when they lose their job. They're tested when they're trying to scramble to put together enough savings to send their kids to college. They're tested when somebody in the family gets sick and it turns out that the insurance doesn't cover everything that they're doing. They're tested in all sorts of ways that aren't always easy to anticipate.<p>And so the least they can expect is that somebody who has the audacity and the megalomania to run for President is going to be put through the paces. And folks want to see--well, we're not going to just hand this to you, we want to see that you can bounce back. We want to see that you have the resilience and the determination to help guide this country through what folks at that time knew was going to be a very difficult period for our country. And so it was fascinating to me to be back in that room with many of the same supporters, because it was a reminder of what this past year and a half has been about. <p>A lot of people have asked, \\"Why is it you seem so calm?\\" And what I've tried to say often--and a lot of times this gets discounted in the press--is that the experience of having traveled throughout this country, having learned the stories of ordinary folks who are doing extraordinary things in their communities, in their neighborhoods, having met all the people who put so much energy and effort into our campaign, having seen the ups and downs, and having seen how Washington was always the last to get what was going on, always the last to get the news, what that told me was that if we were willing to not do what was expedient, and not do what was convenient, and not try to govern based on the polls today or tomorrow or the next day, but rather based on a vision for how we can rebuild this country in a way that works for everybody; if we are focused on making sure that there are ladders of opportunity for people to continue to strive and achieve the American Dream and that that's accessible to all, not just some; if we kept our eye on what sort of future do we want for our kids and our grandkids so that 20 years from now and 30 years from now people look back on this generation the way we look back on the greatest generation and say to ourselves, \\"Boy, they made some tough decisions, they got through some tough times, but look, we now have a clean energy economy; look, our schools are revitalized; look, our health care system works for every single American; imagine how tough that was and how much resistance they met from the special interests, but they were still willing to do it\\"--if that was how we governed, then I figured that the politics would take care of itself. And if it didn't, then we could still stand tall and still look at ourselves in the mirror and say, you know what, this was worth it. This is why we worked so hard to get here.<p>That's what this last year has been about. And I want you to know now that's what this next year will be about. And that's what the year after that will be about, because we've got a lot of work to do. When we signed up--and I say \\"we\\" because all of you guys were early investors. Many of you didn't just write a check, but you bled this stuff. And many of you over the last year have had to answer aggravated e-mails from people or political advice--I'm sure you get those e-mails, \\"Please tell the President that if he just\\"-- [<i>Laughter</i>] . Right? I know. I get them too. [<i>Laughter</i>] We should expect that it's going to continue to be hard. <p>These November elections, as Tim said, will be hard, partly because this country is still divided, and after 2006 and 2008, we hit a very high watermark in terms of Democratic representation in Congress and Governorships, and we're in the midst of what is still a very difficult time. And we've got more work to do; we are not finished. <p>We have to have an energy policy that works for the future. We don't have an option. We can pretend like we've got an option, and we can resort to simplification and say, well, you know what, if we just open up drilling everywhere and have no regulatory oversight whatsoever, that somehow it's all going to work itself out. Or we can simplify it by saying that--by denying the fact that it's going to take some time for us to get up to full capacity on clean energy and we need some breakout technologies in order to make that full transition. So we can play politics with this and take comfort in our own certainties. But the truth of the matter is this is a big, complicated task and it's going to require us to work really hard. <p>And there is going to be a lot of resistance from a whole range of special interests. And there are going to be legitimate geographical differences that exist when it comes to energy policy. And so we're going to have to work that through.<p>And when it comes to education, my Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan, I think is doing an extraordinary job. And one of the things that has not gotten much attention is the way that we have started to bridge some of the traditional differences between the left and the right and said, yes, we want standards, and we want reform; and yes, we need more resources as well; and yes, everybody is going to have to change: parents and teachers and students and principals and elected officials and communities. But slowly, we are making progress in that direction. <p>And one of the unsung aspects of last week was me--or this week, in fact, was me being able to sign legislation that really puts higher education into the hands of every single young person that is committed to excelling in this country in a way that hasn't been done in years. But it's still going to be hard. We're not going to change the schools overnight. We have fallen behind on too many measures, and it's going to require us to keep moving. <p>And we're going to have to continue to work on health care. I know people may not want to hear that, but what we've done is we've enshrined a principle that every single person in this country should not be bankrupt when they get sick, that every child who's got a preexisting condition, they can get health care, that small businesses who want to do the right thing by their employees, that they're going to have the capacity to provide health insurance at reasonable rates.<p>So we've set up a structure, and it is a good structure and a sensible structure. And we are going down the path of reducing costs. But there are a lot of decisionmakers in a $2 trillion health care system. There are doctors and hospitals and nurses and physician's assistants and there are those of us as consumers. And that process of making the system work smarter and better so that we're all leading healthier lives, and that the States and Federal governments aren't bankrupted, that's going to take a lot of work. It's going to be an ongoing project.<p>And that's all just on the domestic side. And we've got challenges in terms of bringing about peace in the Middle East. And we've got challenges in dealing with nuclear proliferation. And we've got challenges in making sure that we complete getting our troops out of Iraq and that we complete our mission in Afghanistan, and the extraordinary sacrifices that young men and women are making there as we speak, that they know they are supported not only by the resources they need, but also by a smart strategy in diplomacy and all the elements of American power that go into keeping America safe and secure.<p>All these things are going to require a steadfast attitude. And they're going to require that all of us occasionally stand up to the immediate winds that are blowing out there. But I'm so confident that we can achieve it. I'm so confident we can get it done. And part of the reason I'm confident is because we've traveled this path before and we've got it done before, not because of me, but because all of you have been willing to stick with this process.<p>And I think that over time, I just have so much faith and confidence in the American people and their ability, even when they're anxious, even when they're scared, even when they're uncertain, to ultimately have an instinct about what is right, not just right for them individually, not just right for them in the here and now, but what's right for them over the long term, what's right for the country over the long term, what's right for the next generation and not just for the next election.<p>And that's a hard sense to maintain in this political environment. Some of you saw the speech I gave up in Portland. I started joking about imagine if the Washington press corps were on a farm, and you till the soil, and they would say, \\"Look, the soil is all broken up; something is wrong.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And then you'd put the seeds in and cover it up, and the next day they'd have the cameras there and, \\"Nothing is growing!\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] It's--\\"there are no crops. We're going to starve.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It--that's just the nature of the environment that we're in right now. But we've got to keep the long view. That's our task. That's what this project has always been about. When you helped me get elected President, that wasn't the end, that was the beginning. That wasn't the hard part, that was the easy part. This is the hard part. But this is also the worthy part. <p>A lot of people win elections. But I'll tell you, the day that we passed health care in the House, you know, I had been in the Roosevelt Room watching it with my team, and I invited everybody up to the residence to celebrate that evening. And we were out on the Truman Balcony looking at the Washington Monument and, beyond that, the Jefferson Monument. And I looked around and I saw these incredible people, most of them a lot younger than me, who had just poured their heart and soul into this effort, and you could see the sense on their part that somehow, some way, working together they had put their shoulders against the wheel of history and moved it in a more just and a more fair direction. <p>What incredible satisfaction that was, because not only did I know that it was going to be helping all those people who write me letters and talk about all the things that they're burdened with in their lives, but it also told me that all those people, all those young people on my balcony, they're going to believe once again that you can change the country for the better.<p>That's the great gift that all of you have given in this process. That's what your support means. That's what I'm going to ask you to continue in the weeks and months and years to come, as fellow travelers in this effort for us to perfect our Union.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"88" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, Boston. It's good to be back. Good to be back in Beantown.<p><i>Audience member</i>. We love you, President Obama!<p><i>The President</i>. I love you back.<p><i>Audience member</i>. Keep smiling! [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President</i>. I can't help it. [<i>Laughter</i>] There are a couple people I want to make sure I acknowledge: our Lieutenant Governor Tim Murray is in the house. I believe a sizable portion of the Massachusetts congressional delegation is here. Please wave. Where are they? I see--who do I got? Markey, Capuano--who else we got here? Delahunt is over here. Love these guys. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>One of the finest mayors in the country, Tom Menino is in the house. Senator Paul Kirk is here. My dear friend, Vicki Kennedy, is here.<p>Somebody else who's inspired me--some of you know that the Democrats, when we came in, we decided we'd try to advance this novel concept, and that is that women should get the same pay as men for doing the same work. The bill that we signed was called the Lilly Ledbetter bill because Lilly Ledbetter, through her court case, inspired an entire nation to say that the Supreme Court wasn't right and we needed to do something about it. And Lilly Ledbetter is here. I want everybody to give her a big round of applause.<p>Now, it's a hard thing being a Governor. It's a hard thing being a Governor and the chairman of the Democratic National Committee. And over the last year, this guy has done it with the grace and the stick-to-it-iveness that has marked his entire career. He's one of my dearest friends, the first person to endorse me outside of Illinois, standing in the seat of the old Confederacy in February of 2007, my dear friend Tim Kaine. I should point out that he was term limited. He only had one term to serve, so he was willing to do something crazy like endorse me that quick. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And then let me thank Deval for the extraordinary introduction. And before I begin, I want to say a few words about the record flooding that's been sweeping across a large portion of New England. I stopped by the Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency with Deval earlier today to be briefed on relief and recovery efforts, and I want everybody to know that we are working closely, minute by minute, with authorities in both States to provide the necessary assistance.<p>And I want to thank personally local and State first-responders who've been working tirelessly and under difficult circumstances to save lives and property. I want to thank our team at FEMA that is fully engaged and committed to working with affected communities not only in terms of response efforts, but also in terms of rebuilding efforts. And tomorrow Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano and FEMA Director--or FEMA Deputy Administrator Rich Serino, who is a Boston native, by the way----<p><i>Audience member</i>. Woo! [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President</i>. ----will be visiting Rhode Island to tour some of the hardest hit areas and make sure that we are doing everything we can.<p><i>Audience member</i>. Thank you!<p><i>The President</i>. You are welcome, but thank them. And all of our thoughts and prayers are with the families who've been dislocated and are wrestling with this enormous tragedy.<p>It is worth reminding people at a time when folks who work in Government don't get enough credit that when times are tough, when trouble arises, there are all kinds of civil servants out there who are working 24/7 in order to help folks. And I think it's worth remembering that when you hear some of the rhetoric out there.<p>Now, it's good to be back in a town that's been so good to me. People forget I once spent 3 years cooped up in a library across the river. [<i>Laughter</i>] I still managed to make some good memories though. A few years ago, I gave this speech down at the convention speech that went pretty good. [<i>Laughter</i>] Most of you didn't know my name before that. But one man who did is a man who wakes up every single day determined to fight the good fight for Massachusetts families and Massachusetts's future, and that's your Governor, and my dear friend, Deval Patrick.<p>Deval stood up for me when I was running for the United States Senate that year. Then, right after I took office, he came to me; I had just set up my office at the Hart Building. Deval is saying this is a true story; this is a true story. [<i>Laughter</i>] He says \\"Barack, congratulations. We're so proud of you. I've got this idea. I've got this feeling that the people of Massachusetts might be looking for something a little bit different, and so I've got this hunger to serve. I want to run for Governor.\\" And I thought to myself, \\"Well, this guy is crazy.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"He's not going to win. He's never run for anything.\\" At the time there were these candidates who had been planning the race for years. But then I thought to myself, \\"Well, yes, but he supported me when I was doing this stupid thing running for the United States Senate, so--and I like him, so, what the heck.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>He had already put himself out there for one hopeless cause, I figured the least I could do was to return the favor. But the reason that I did it happily was because I knew there was a core decency and integrity about Deval. I knew that this was a man who does the right thing, who has a vision for the future, somebody who was going to be tenacious in his pursuit of that vision. And even though he didn't have any money or big-name support, as soon as he started getting organized, I said to myself, \\"He's going to win.\\"<p>And I watched him travel across this Commonwealth, listening to you and building his campaign house by house, block by block, neighborhood by neighborhood, and that confidence spread to others. And folks began to say, \\"You know, this guy Patrick, he's not Irish.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"But we like him anyway.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, it was a good trick. Initially, people would come--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and then when it was too late to--they listened to him and-- [<i>Laughter</i>] . I did the same thing. [<i>Laughter</i>] I put an apostrophe after the \\"O\\"--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and it worked out pretty good.<p>But the reason it worked was because Deval knew that the campaign wasn't about him, it was about you. His core vision was that everyone in this Commonwealth had a part to play in building its future, and so many of you built a movement for change that could not be denied.<p>So I want you to realize that you've got a tremendous leader in Deval Patrick. In what is an extraordinarily tough time to be a Governor, he has moved forward, not on the easy issues, but on the tough issues: pushing historic ethics reform, making education a top priority, keeping Massachusetts at the forefront of clean technology and biotechnology and all the innovations that are ultimately going to determine how well America is able to compete around the world in the 21st century. He's the Governor that's going to keep leading Massachusetts into the future.<p>And here's what else I want you to remember, Boston. The campaign Deval Patrick built is the same campaign for change that you and I built across this country, same way: house by house, block by block, neighborhood by neighborhood. Because we shared a simple belief: Change does not come from the top down; change comes from the bottom up. It comes from Americans like you. That's what this movement has been about.<p>You believed that government of the people and by the people could still work for the people. You believed that we could still stand up to the special interests by standing up for middle class interests. You believed that we should finally solve the problems that had been holding back our families and our businesses year after year after year. You believed that it was still possible to change the United States of America for the better. And Boston, I've come to tell you tonight that we have kept faith with those beliefs. We have begun to solve those problems. The change you fought for is beginning to take hold.<p>Now, we knew from the beginning that it wouldn't be easy. Change never is. President Kennedy once said: \\"When we got into office, the thing that surprised me most was that things were as bad as we'd been saying they were.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Right, Deval?<p><i>Governor Deval L. Patrick of Massachusetts</i>. That's right. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President</i>. So when we took office, we faced a financial crisis unseen since the 1930s, economy bleeding 750,000 jobs a month, a $1.3 trillion deficit, and two wars that were costly in every sense of the word.<p>So priority number one was responding to this incredible economic crisis. And by the way, some of the short-term steps required to do that weren't popular and they weren't easy. The pundits in Washington kept on saying, \\"What's he doing shoring up the banks and the auto industry and passing a Recovery Act? Doesn't he know it's unpopular? Doesn't he know it will make him vulnerable?\\"<p>Well, yes, it turns out I've got pollsters too. [<i>Laughter</i>] We usually know what's going to be unpopular before the newspapers do. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I also knew that if you govern by pundits and polls, then you lose sight of why you got into public service in the first place. You lose sight of why all of you fought so hard to put me there in the first place. And I refuse to govern that way. That's not why we fought so hard to win office.<p>My job is to solve problems for the people who elected me to solve them and for the people who didn't. [<i>Laughter</i>] My job wasn't to husband my popularity, make sure that I'm not making waves. That's how a lot of folks who get into office govern. It's easy. But that's part of the reason why we've seen so little progress on the things that matter so much to ordinary people.<p>So I resolved to do not necessarily what was popular, but what I thought was right. And a year later, the financial system has stabilized. I love, you know, in the midst of the crisis--you guys may remember last March, when the stock market was bottoming out--\\"This is Obama's stock market.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Wall Street Journal said that, \\"Oh, look at his policies.\\" And I notice it's not my market anymore. [<i>Laughter</i>] I don't know what happened. You notice that? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We recovered most of the money it took to stabilize the financial markets. And I've proposed a fee on the biggest banks to recover every last dime that's still out there, so we are going to make sure that taxpayers get all their money back. A year later, GM is hiring again, on the verge of reopening hundreds of dealerships. A year later, the Recovery Act has put Americans back to work across the country rebuilding our infrastructure, provided nearly $300 billion in tax cuts designed to help small businesses and 95 percent of working Americans, and that's a major reason why the economy that was shrinking a year ago is growing today. Taking those steps was the right thing to do.<p>Now, think back to just 2 months ago. Everybody thought our chances at progress were suddenly doomed. A Republican had won Ted Kennedy's seat.<p><i>Audience members</i>. Boo!<p><i>The President</i>. Massachusetts, you caused quite a bit of excitement around the country. [<i>Laughter</i>] The sky was falling. You remember that? I'm sure none of you felt that way. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But we did what our friend Teddy would have done. We kept up the fight, because it was the right thing to do. And because we did, and because of the Members of Congress who are here today, last week we proved that America is a better nation than one that allows illness or accident to endanger the dreams of its people, people who have worked a lifetime to build those dreams. We finally passed comprehensive health insurance reform in America. After a hundred years, we passed health insurance reform and enshrined the idea that everybody should have some security when it comes to their health care. Nobody should be bankrupt when they get sick. No child should languish because of lack of care. After a hundred years.<p>As Joe Biden said, who has a way with words, this is--[<i>Laughter</i>]--what? [<i>Laughter</i>] He said it's a big deal. [<i>Laughter</i>] This reform will begin to end the worst practices of the insurance industry. They're going to rein in our exploding deficits, and over time, finally offer millions of families and small-business owners quality, affordable care and the security and peace of mind that comes with it, some of those folks for the very first time in their lives. And what it doesn't do is it doesn't hand more control to the Government or to health insurance companies; it gives it back to you, the American people.<p>And then this week, we built on that progress. I signed into law a bill that will finally reform the student loan system so that it works for students and families instead of bankers. We took $68 billion--$68 billion--that would have been going to financial middlemen to pad their profits, even though they weren't taking any risks--because these were all federally guaranteed loans--and we said, why don't we use that to make college more affordable and to strengthen our community colleges, which are a pathway for so many working families to success. Because that's how we'll achieve the goal that I've set: By 2020, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world.<p>And so we're able to say to college students today that we have doubled Pell grants, and we are going to make sure that you never have to pay more than 10 percent of your income for your college debt, because we don't want you being hampered as you get started in life. And if you go into a job like teaching we will forgive your loans after 10 years. That's an agenda for moving America forward.<p>And then next week, I'll travel to Prague, where the United States of America and Russia will sign the most comprehensive arms control agreement in nearly 20 years, part of our effort to stop the spread of nuclear weapons and seek a world without them.<p>So these are some of the recent successes that you made possible. But some of our other successes happened so quick, everybody's forgotten about them. [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, people don't realize we made the largest investment in clean energy in history. Folks don't realize that we made this huge investment in information technologies for the health care system, so that you don't have to fill out as many forms when you go to the doctor and we can all start saving some money and saving some time. Folks don't realize that we put the law behind the principle of equal pay for an equal day's work. We passed laws to protect consumers from getting ripped off by credit card companies and homeowners from being taken advantage of by predatory lenders and our children being targeted from big tobacco. And we appointed Sonia Sotomayor to the Supreme Court. And we made the White House the people's house again. And we passed a service bill named for Senator Ted Kennedy that's giving young and old a chance to serve their country and give back to their communities.<p><i>Audience member</i>. What's next? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President</i>. I'm telling you. [<i>Laughter</i>] You sound like the reporters. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I was up in Maine, and I was joking about--only slightly joking--about the fact that the day after we signed it, everybody started writing these stories about how the country is still divided on health care, it hasn't suddenly become universally popular. [<i>Laughter</i>] What's going on? It's been a week, folks. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So I said, can you imagine if, you know, the pundits and the cable guys were covering a farm? [<i>Laughter</i>] And you know, you sort of till the soil and, look, the soil is all messed up. [<i>Laughter</i>] And then you put the seeds in, and the next day they'd write a story: \\"Nothing is growing.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"We're going to starve. There are no crops.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"It's polling really badly.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Here's the point--[<i>Laughter</i>]--I'm starting to have fun, which I should not do--in ways large and small, Boston, we've begun to deliver on the change you believed in. We have done what we said we would do.<p>That's the other thing that surprises folks in Washington. They said, \\"Well, you know, why did you keep on doing health care?\\" Well, because I said--that's what I said I was going to do. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>What our recent debates have lain bare is that even though we've had some success overcoming political gridlock, we haven't had as much success in changing political gridlock. We have to admit that. And I wanted to change the tone in Washington; it hasn't changed, not yet. But I still believe that if we're going to deal with the great challenges of our time and secure a better future, as past generations of Americans have done, as they did for us, then we're going to have to change our politics, because for all our efforts, change can't come fast enough for so many Americans.<p>Every time I visit workers in a factory or families in a diner, every night when I sit down and I read letters from everyday Americans, I get the same questions. People ask: \\"How am I going to find a job? I'm 50 years old. I've known only one skill my entire life, and now I've been laid off. Where do I turn?\\" Or, \\"How am I going to retire when I keep spending the savings I--all my savings just to get by, just to pay skyrocketing health care bills?\\" Or, \\"How am I going to make it when I'm stretched to the limit on my mortgage and my bills and I'm trying to save for my kids' college education?\\"<p>You know, they're not asking me: \\"Barack, which party is scoring more political points? Who's ahead at the polls? Who won the news cycle today?\\" They look to Washington, and they see a city that's just obsessed with red versus blue and who's up and who's down and every day is election day. Every day is election day. There are stories out right now--\\"We've polled Obama in 2012.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm not joking. I mean, people write entire columns--\\"Well, you know, matched up against hypothetical Republicans, here's what happening\\"--less concerned about what's going on in the life of folks in America.<p>And it's no wonder there's so much frustration out there. And yes, some of it is going to be directed at us because, you know what, one of the things you sign up for when you become a Governor or you become a President is that you're a lightning rod for all these frustrations that build up, legitimate frustrations.<p>Now, there are always going to be some issues where Democrats and Republicans just don't see eye to eye. That's how our democracy works. It's supposed to be messy. It was designed that way. But it's one thing to disagree out of principle; it's another way to stand--it's another thing to stand in the way just because it's politically expedient. And I don't know how else to describe one of the Republican Senators saying that health care was going to be \\"Obama's Waterloo.\\" You remember that?<p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes.<p><i>The President</i>. That's the kind of politics that says, \\"When you lose, I win,\\" regardless of what it means for the country. And that's an unfortunate approach, especially when this new law has a lot of Republicans in it--or a lot of Republican ideas in it. You know, you've got a former Governor of Massachusetts who's running around--[<i>Laughter</i>]--saying, \\"What's this health reform bill?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And I keep on scratching my head and I say, boy, this Massachusetts thing, who designed that? [<i>Laughter</i>] And I have to say, already you're starting to see some Republicans that are actually claiming credit for some of the ideas in the bill, even though they fought against the bill.<p>And part of this was a early calculated decision made by Republican leaders in Congress not to work with us on the most important issues facing the American people. And they made this decision even before I was sworn into office. The general strategy was if they could block progress on any big issue, then they could say that the Democrats had failed and they could run on that in November. That's not just short-term politics, that's short-term thinking. And it's especially disappointing in a time of crisis when there's so much work to be done.<p>Well, it turns out health reform wasn't my Waterloo. [<i>Laughter</i>] And it turns out that the day after I signed the bill it wasn't Armageddon. [<i>Laughter</i>] No asteroids fell. [<i>Laughter</i>] The Earth didn't crack open. Nobody has lost their doctor. Nobody has been manacled and dragged into a Government plan. We're going to be okay. [<i>Laughter</i>] We're going to be better than okay. Because in the end, it was a long-overdue victory for the American people, and it's a step, like everything that we've done over the past year, to help restore some certainty and security to middle class families that have felt that security slipping away. And we're going to keep on fighting on those other challenges that we face.<p>So my friend back there, whoever it was, asked me what was next. Let me tell you. [<i>Laughter</i>] Folks can keep on calling me naive if they want. I've been called that before. I'm going to keep on reaching out to Republicans for their help.<p><i>Audience member</i>. Don't bother! [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President</i>. It may be heresy to say so at an event like this, I know--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but I believe that those of us in public life have to care less about what's right for a party and more about what's right for the country. So I'm going to keep incorporating their ideas, even if they refuse to consider mine. Maybe we can even get your newest Senator on board with some of our efforts, because there's a lot we should be able to agree on.<p>We should all agree that we have to rebuild this economy so that hard work is once again rewarded and families feel like they've got a shot at the American Dream again. This isn't just an economic challenge for our country. It's a crisis that tears at our society's soul, because a job is more than just a paycheck. It's about feeling that sense of self-worth from a job well done, the fulfillment in meeting one's responsibilities. No American should be deprived of that dignity. And so we've going to have to think creatively and collaboratively if we're going to put Americans back to work.<p>We should all agree we have to pursue a comprehensive strategy for energy security that moves us from fossil fuels and foreign oil to homegrown fuels and clean energy, because the nation that leads in the clean energy sector will lead the economy in the 21st century.<p>We should all agree that we've got to pass commonsense rules for Wall Street to prevent the kind of nonsense that took place and helped to lead to this crisis, where a few reckless financial institutions can bring down an entire economy and burst the dreams of millions of American families.<p>We should all agree that we've got to bring down our mounting deficits, which is why I signed into law PAYGO rules--very simple concept, you pay as you go--that helped produce the budget surpluses of the 1990s. And that's why I ordered a freeze on discretionary spending and have created a bipartisan, independent commission to help solve our fiscal crisis, because we face some tough choices ahead, and we need to make them together. And they're not going to be made by slogans. They're going to be made by us coming together and deciding to do right by the next generation.<p>I know we can do this. I know we can overcome the politics of cynicism and come together in common purpose to solve our greatest challenges. And I know this because of you. I was remarking to Deval, the first time I was in this room was after the New Hampshire primary. Some of you were here. You remember that? And as is true, once you're President--folks had gotten carried away on the upswing, all right? So after Iowa, everybody had just gone crazy and \\"it's over\\" and this and that and the other. And then we lost New Hampshire, and suddenly, everybody was \\"ooh\\"-- [<i>Laughter</i>] . Everybody was sad. [<i>Laughter</i>] Well, not everybody; I mean the folks who were supporting me were sad. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And I remember coming to this room and--I don't know if some of you remember me saying this--I said, you know, I actually think this is a good thing. Because, I said, the race for the Presidency should not be easy. It should be hard; you should be tested. You should be poked and prodded, and the American people should be able to lift the hood and take candidates out for a test drive and see whether they meet the test. And the process of running for President is so humbling, in part because what you come to realize is the American people are so good, and they're so decent, and they deserve the best possible leadership.<p>And so I remember speaking to all of you and said, cheer up, stand up. We're in the midst of this remarkable democratic experiment, and I didn't get involved in this because I was a sure thing. I got involved in this because I felt it was the right thing to do, and that maybe my voice combined with your voice and voices of people all across the country could somehow make a meaningful difference.<p>And my faith is renewed every day by Americans that I meet all across this great country who refuse to settle for the status quo. My resolve is strengthened every time I see an American who rejects the idea that Americans can no longer do big things. I am fired up by every American who still believes that people who love their country can change it. And, Boston, we have seen what happens when we don't back down. We have seen what's happens when we don't quit. I don't quit; you don't quit. And I am absolutely confident, with your help, we will rise to our challenges. We will finish what we've started. We'll reelect Deval Patrick. We will keep the American Dream alive for this generation and for the next generation. You can bank on that.<p>Thank you, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"89" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, Portland. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can!<p><i>The President</i>. Thank you, Portland. Thank you so much. Thank you, everybody. Well, what a wonderful--I guess when the Sun comes out around here, everybody gets pretty excited. <p><i>Audience member</i>. I love you!<p><i>The President</i>. I love you back. <p>Now, I have to say, the last time I was in Maine, it was before the caucuses. It was a little cooler here--[<i>Laughter</i>]--as I recall. But it is wonderful to be back. There are some people I want to say a few nice things about. <p>First of all, we could not have a better Small Business Administrator than your own neighbor, Karen Mills. And so please give her a huge round of applause. She's doing a great job. And I think she has more than a few folks from Maine on her staff. She's kind of stocked them all over the place. And everybody is doing a great job over at the SBA. I want to thank----<p><i>Audience member</i>. Thank you!<p><i>The President</i>. Thank you. I want to thank one of the finest Governors in the country, John Baldacci, who is here. Thank you, John. Where is he? There he is right there. Thank you.<p>Your outstanding mayor, Nick Mavodones, is here. And we've got two great champions from Maine whose tireless efforts have helped working families all across this State and all across this country, Congresswoman Chellie Pingree and Congressman Mike Michaud. <p>All right, it is good to be back in Maine. And I want everybody to remember, when I came here during the campaign, I made a promise. And it wasn't a promise about any particular issue. It was a promise that our Government would once again be responsive to the needs and aspirations of working families, of America's middle class. It was a promise that Washington would concern itself not just with the next election, but with the next generation of Americans. <p>Now, keeping that promise is even more critical now, at a time when so many families and so many small-business owners are still struggling here in Maine and all across the country. Every time I visit with workers in a factory or families in a diner, every time I sit down and read letters from Americans across the country, I see and hear the same questions. Folks are asking: \\"How am I going to find a job when I've only known one skill my entire lifetime and I just got laid off and I'm in my fifties?\\" \\"How am I going to retire when I keep spending my savings just to get by, or trying to make sure that my kid can go to college and tuition keeps on going up?\\" \\"How am I going to make it when I'm stretched to the limits on my mortgage and on my bills?\\" Those are the questions that I hear.<p>And I want you to know we are working every single day to spur job creation and to turn this economy around. That's why we worked so hard over the last year to lift one of the biggest burdens facing middle class families and small-business owners, and that is the crushing cost of health care right here in America. <p>And, Mainers, I want you to know that last week, after a year of debate and a century of trying, health insurance reform became the law of the land--last week. Last week.<p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes we did! Yes we did! Yes we did!<p><i>The President</i>. Yes we did. Because of folks like Chellie and Mike, it happened. Because of people like you, it happened. It happened because people had the courage to stand up at town hall meetings and talk about how insurance companies were denying their families coverage because of a preexisting condition. It happened because folks wrote letters about how premiums had gone up 50 or 70 or 100 percent, in some cases, and it was forcing them to give up their insurance. It happened because countless small-business owners and families and doctors shared stories about a health care system that was working better for the insurance industry than it did for American people. <p>And when the special interests sent an army of lobbyists to Congress and blanketed the airwaves with millions of dollars in negative ads, all of you mobilized and organized, and you refused to give up. And when the pundits were obsessed over what the polls were saying and who was up and who was down and what would this mean for Democrats or Republicans, you never lost sight of what was right and what was wrong. You knew it wasn't about the fortunes of one party; it was about the future of our country. And today, Portland, because of what you did, the future looks stronger and more hopeful than it has in some time.<p>Now, over the last year, there's been a lot of misinformation spread about health reform. There's been a lot of fearmongering, a lot of overheated rhetoric. You turned on the news, you'd see that those same folks who were hollering about it before it passed, they're still hollering about how the world will end because we passed this bill. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is not an exaggeration. John Boehner called the passage of this bill----<p><i>Audience members</i>. Boo!<p><i>The President</i>. ----no need to--we don't need to boo; I just want to give the facts--called this passage of this bill \\"Armageddon.\\" You had others who said this is the \\"end of freedom as we know it.\\"<p>So after I signed the bill, I looked around. [<i>Laughter</i>] I looked up at the sky to see if asteroids were coming. [<i>Laughter</i>] I looked at the ground to see if cracks had opened up in the earth. You know what, it turned out it was a pretty nice day. [<i>Laughter</i>] Birds were still chirping. Folks were strolling down the street. Nobody had lost their doctor. Nobody had pulled the plug on granny. [<i>Laughter</i>] Nobody was being dragged away to be forced into some Government-run health care plan. <p>But the thing is, though, you have to love some of the pundits in Washington. Every single day since I signed the reform law, there's been another poll or headline that said \\"Nation Still Divided on Health Care Reform. Polls Haven't Changed Yet.\\" Well, yes. It just happened last week. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's only been a week. <p>Can you imagine if some of these reporters were working on a farm, and--[laughter]--you know, you planted some seeds, and they came out the next day and they looked, and--\\"Nothing's happened!\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"There's no crop! We're going to starve! Oh, no! It's a disaster!\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It's been a week, folks. [<i>Laughter</i>] So before we find out if people like health care reform, we should wait to see what happens when we actually put it into place. Just a thought.<p>Now, look, this reform is not going to solve every problem with our health care system. It is a huge, complicated piece of business: a couple of trillion dollars, thousands of people affected, thousands of people working in the industry. It's not going to bring down the cost of health care overnight. We're going to have to make some adjustments along the way. But it represents enormous progress. It enshrines the principle that every American should have the security of decent care and that nobody should go bankrupt because they've got a kid who's sick with a preexisting condition, that small businesses shouldn't be burdened because they want to do the right thing by their employee. So now that this bill is finally law and all the folks who've been playing politics will finally have to confront the reality of what this reform is, they're also going to have to confront the reality of what it isn't. <p>They'll have to finally acknowledge that this isn't a Government takeover of our health care system. They'll see that if Americans like their doctor, they will keep their doctor. And if you like your insurance plan, you will keep it. No one will be able to take that away from you. It hasn't happened yet. It won't happen in the future.<p>What this reform represents is basically a middle-of-the-road solution to a very serious problem. It's not single-payer. Some people wanted that, I understood that, but that is not--[<i>applause</i>]--see? But--so it's not that. But it's also not what the Republicans were advocating for, which is essentially that you completely deregulate the insurance industry, you let them run wild, and that somehow you are going to benefit. That was their theory. It was called the \\"foxes guarding the chicken coop\\" health care plan.<p>So it's not the plan that some on the left supported in the past. It's not what some on the right supported, but it is a commonsense plan. This reform incorporates ideas from both Democrats and Republicans, including, by the way, a number of ideas from your Senator and somebody I consider a friend, Olympia Snowe, who spent many hours meeting with me on this bill. <p>And what this reform does is, it builds on the system of private health insurance that we've already got, so that if you have insurance, this reform will make it more secure and more affordable. If you can't afford insurance or if you've been denied coverage, you're finally going to be able to get it. And over time, costs will come down for families, businesses, and the Federal Government, reducing our deficit by more than $1 trillion over the next two decades. That's what this reform will do. <p>Now, Portland, it will take about 4 years to implement this entire plan, because we've got to do it responsibly, we need to get it right. But there's also a set of reforms that will take effect this year. So I just want to--I want everybody to understand what's going to happen this year. <p>Starting this year, millions of small-business owners are going to be eligible for a tax credit that will help them cover the cost of insurance for their employees. And let me talk about what this means for a small-business owner like Bill Milliken. Is that--Bill, stand up. That's Bill right there. Now, I want to give a little plug to Bill here. [<i>Laughter</i>] Bill owns Market House Coffee and the Maine Beer and Beverage corporation, both here, right here in Portland. In exchange for this publicity, I hope that I'm going to get some samples of the beer. [<i>Laughter</i>] Okay, he nodded in the affirmative. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, he wants to give his part-time employees health insurance, and he wants to give them more hours, but he can't do both. He can't afford to do both. So this tax credit will make it easier for an employer like Bill who wants to do the right thing by his workers. <p>Starting now, small-business owners like Bill will have the security of knowing that they can qualify for a tax credit that covers up to 35 percent--over a third--of what they pay for their employees' health insurance. And starting now, small-business owners that provide health care for their workers can sit down at the end of the week, they can look at their expenses, and they can begin calculating how much money they're going to save. And for small-business owners who don't currently provide health insurance, they're going to be able to factor in this new benefit when they're deciding to do so. <p>Now, it won't solve all our problems, but it means that employees that work for Bill have a better chance of keeping their health care or getting health care. And if they're already getting health care, it means Bill has got some extra money. That means he might hire that extra worker, right? <p>So this health care tax credit is projobs, it's probusiness, and it starts this year. This month we're going to be sending out details on how to apply for this credit to millions of small businesses across the county, but if you want to learn about it today, we're going to put all the facts on our web site, www.whitehouse.gov. All right? So that happens this year. <p>Here's what else happens this year: Tens of thousands of uninsured Americans with preexisting conditions and parents whose children have a preexisting condition will finally be able to purchase the coverage that they need. That happens this year. <p>So last week I met a man named David Gallagher, whose daughter Lauren had written me a letter last year. When Lauren's mom lost her job, their entire family lost their health insurance. When they tried to get new insurance, David was denied coverage because he once had a complication-free hernia surgery, but the insurance companies wanted to weed him out. They figured, \\"Well, the guy has been sick before; we don't want to have to cover him, we don't want to bear that risk.\\" So Lauren has been worried sick about what would happen if her father became ill or injured. Now, because of this reform, David Gallagher can finally have access to health insurance again. That begins this year; that starts this year. <p>So that's just one of the insurance reforms that starts this year. Here's what else happens: Insurance companies won't be able to drop people's coverage when they get sick or place lifetime limits or restrictive annual limits on the amount of care they can receive. <p>Now, this isn't some abstract concept. There was a story in a local paper this week about a woman named Theresa D'Andrea. And Theresa's husband----<p><i>Audience member</i>. D'Andrea.<p>The President. D'Andrea, excuse me. Thank you. Where is she? Are you up there? Stand up. Stand up, Theresa. Now, Theresa's husband passed away recently from cancer, and before he died, he hit the lifetime cap on his insurance. And as a result, Theresa's not only had to cope with the loss of her husband, but with $60,000 in medical bills--and this is after she's already spent all of her retirement savings on medical care. Now, because of this reform, a situation like Theresa's won't happen again in the United States of America. And that's going to start this year. And we're inspired by stories like yours.<p>Starting this year, all new insurance plans will be required to offer free preventive care. And starting this year--this may interest some of you here--if you are a young person who doesn't have insurance or doesn't have a job that offers insurance, you're going to be able to stay on your parent's insurance policy until you're 26 years old, starting this year--starting this year. So----<p><i>Audience member</i>. Thank you.<p><i>The President</i>. ----now--you're welcome. [<i>Laughter</i>] Thank Chellie and Mike; they voted for it. Thank them. <p>This year, seniors who fall into the coverage gap known as the doughnut hole--some seniors probably know about that--they're going to receive $250 to help pay for prescriptions, and that's just the first step, because what we're going to be doing is, over the next several years, closing that gap completely. And I want seniors to know, despite some of the stuff that's been said out there, these reforms don't cut into your guaranteed benefits. What they do is eliminate copayments and deductibles for preventive care, like checkups and mammograms. You will be getting those for free now. <p>This is why AARP supported this bill, because it's good for seniors. It's the right thing to do. It's good for young people. It's the right thing to do. It's good for people who've hit these lifetime limits. It's good for people with preexisting conditions. All that happens this year. <p>And then, by 2014, each State will set up what we're calling a health insurance exchange, but it's basically just a competitive marketplace where uninsured people and small businesses, who right now are out there on their own trying to negotiate with insurance companies, they can now be part of a big pool: millions of people coming together, leveraging their purchasing power, which is going to lower their rates. They'll get a better deal.<p>You know, Wal-Mart, the reason they are able to give you low prices is because they buy, and they tell their suppliers, we're the biggest--we're a 800-pound gorilla when it comes to whatever product you're talking about, so you've got to give better prices. Well, the same thing is true when it comes to the insurance market. So everybody who can be part of this pool is going to get a better deal than they would otherwise get.<p>And by the way, Members of Congress are going to be part of this pool. So you know it's going to be good, because they're going to have to use it themselves for their own families.<p>So that'll happen in the next few years. And when this exchange is up and running, millions of people are also going to get tax breaks to help them afford coverage. So even though this pool will give you lower rates, you'll get a better deal, some folks still can't afford it. So we're going to give you tax credits to help you afford it. And that adds up to the largest middle class tax cut in health care in history. That's what this bill is about. <p>So think about it. That's what this is about. We're setting up a pool using the private market to give people a better deal. We're giving tax breaks to working people--some of them working two, three jobs, who still can't get insurance--we're going to give them some help. We're going to give small businesses help so that they can help their workers and improve their bottom line. And we've got a whole bunch of insurance reforms so people like Theresa aren't going to be disadvantaged and taken advantage of when they need it most. That's what this bill is. And it's paid for, and it saves on our deficits. <p>Now, this is what everybody's been hollering about as the end of freedom. [<i>Laughter</i>] And now that it's passed, they're already promising, we're going to repeal it. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Boo!<p><i>The President</i>. They're going to run on a platform of repeal in November. And my attitude is, go for it. You try to repeal it. <p>I want these Members of Congress to come out of Washington, come here to Maine, and tell Mr. Milliken there, you know what, we're going to take away your tax credits, essentially raise your taxes. If you want to--if they want to do that, be my guest. <p>If they want to look at Lauren Gallagher in the eye and tell her they plan to take away her father's ability to get health insurance, that's their right. If they want to go tell Theresa that once again, you could face a lifetime of debt if you lose a family member, they can run on that platform.<p>If they want to have a fight, I welcome that fight, because I don't believe the American people are going to put the insurance industry back in the driver's seat. I'm happy to have that argument. I'm happy to have that argument. <p>Now, in fairness--and I want to be scrupulously fair--some of them have now said, \\"Well, we want to repeal and replace this bill with our brand of insurance reform.\\" But when you poke and prod and you ask them, well, what is it exactly you're going to replace it with, it turns out they want to deregulate the insurance market. We've already been there. We know what that's like. We're not going back. We're not going backwards. This country is ready to move forwards. Portland, Maine, is ready to move forward. <p>And while we're talking about moving forward, I just want to mention one thing. Kind of lost in the shuffle of all this health care debate is the fact that part of the bill that we signed--that I signed this week--is going to provide an additional $68 billion that used to go to banks and financial services companies, and that's now going to go to the student loan program to expand Pell grants and to make sure that college is affordable for every young person in America. And I want to know, do they want to repeal that as well, because I'm happy to have that discussion. <p>Now, $68 billion--$68 billion--that was going to banks and financial institutions, we've just taken that money from the banks, from the financial institutions, doubling Pell grants, making sure that young people, if you've got debt when you go out of college--and I know I did, so I--you probably do too--that you will never have to pay more than 10 percent of your income in repayments, so that you're not going broke because you decide to get a college education that makes our economy stronger, that makes America stronger. If they want to repeal that too, we can have that discussion. <p>You know, the road to this victory has been long. It has been difficult. And it's absolutely true that because health care is such a complicated issue, a lot of people got worried. A lot of people got scared. And the misinformation seeped in. And then the process was ugly and everybody was arguing and there was all kinds of stuff going on in the Senate and the House, and everybody just said, \\"Ah, you know, this looks like a mess.\\"<p>I understand that. That's part of our democracy. This is a--democracy is a messy business. It is the worst form of government except for all the other ones that have been tried. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's what Winston Churchill said. That's what Winston Churchill said; he's absolutely right. You know, it can be frustrating sometimes, but ultimately that's what makes our country so great, is because everybody is able to voice their opinions; everybody is able to get out there and organize. And you're free to call your President an idiot. [<i>Laughter</i>] You know?<p><i>Audience member.</i> You're not one.<p><i>The President.</i> They----<p><i>Audience members</i>. Boo!<p><i>The President</i>. No, that's--it's a wonderful thing. As I was driving by, people were waving. Everybody was clapping. And then one guy's like, \\"Eh.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] He saw me through the window too. He went, \\"Eh.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] I thought, that's a great thing about the country.<p>Look--but I want everybody to learn the lesson from this debate. In reaching this milestone, it doesn't represent the end of all our problems. We still have jobs to create and deficits to reduce. We still have children to educate. We still face enormous challenges in this country. Jobs haven't been returning fast enough, despite everything that we're doing. The economy is growing again, but people still haven't been hired back as fast as they need to. Small businesses are still having trouble getting credit out there. So there are all kinds of issues we're going to have to work on. <p>But what this fight has taught us about ourselves and about this country, it's bigger than any one issue. It reminds us that change is never easy, but it's always possible. It reminds us that in the United States of America, we still have the power to shape our own destiny. And it reminds us that we as a people don't shrink from a challenge. We don't shirk our responsibilities, we embrace challenges. We don't fear the future, we shape the future. That's what we do. That's who we are. That's what you're about. That's why you're here. That's why I ran for President of the United States of America. That's what makes us the United States of America. <p>Thank you, Portland. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"90" "\"This is a week of faithful celebration. On Monday and Tuesday nights, Jewish families and friends in the United States and around the world gathered for a Seder to commemorate the Exodus from Egypt and the triumph of hope and perseverance over injustice and oppression. On Sunday, my family will join other Christians all over the world in marking the resurrection of Jesus Christ.<p>And while we worship in different ways, we also remember the shared spirit of humanity that inhabits us all, Jews and Christians, Muslims and Hindus, believers and nonbelievers alike.<p>Amid the storm of public debate, with our 24/7 news cycle, in a town like Washington that's consumed with the day to day, it can sometimes be easy to lose sight of the eternal. So on this Easter weekend, let us hold fast to those aspirations we hold in common as brothers and sisters, as members of the same family, the family of man.<p>All of us know how important work is, not just for the paycheck, but for the peace of mind that comes from knowing you can provide for your family. As Americans and as human beings, we seek not only the security, but the sense of dignity, the sense of community, that work confers. That's why it was heartening news that last month, for the first time in more than 2 years, our economy created a substantial number of jobs, instead of losing them. We've begun to reverse the devastating slide, but we have a long way to go to repair the damage from this recession, and that will continue to be my focus every single day.<p>All of us value our health and the health of our loved ones. All of us have experienced an illness, a loss, or personal tragedy. All of us know that no matter what we're doing or what else is going on in our lives, if the health of someone we love is endangered, nothing else matters. Our health is the rock upon which our lives are built, for better and for worse.<p>All of us value education. We know that in an economy as competitive as ours, an education is a prerequisite for success. But we also know that ultimately education is about something more, something greater. It's about the ability that lies within each of us to rise above any barrier, no matter how high, to pursue any dream, no matter how big, to fulfill our God-given potential.<p>All of us are striving to make a way in this world, to build a purposeful and fulfilling life in the fleeting time we have here. A dignified life, a healthy life, a life true to its potential, and a life that serves others, these are aspirations that stretch back through the ages, aspirations at the heart of Judaism, at the heart of Christianity, at the heart of all of the world's great religions.<p>The rites of Passover and the traditions of Easter have been marked by people in every corner of the planet for thousands of years. They've been marked in times of peace, in times of upheaval, and in times of war.<p>One such war-time service was held on the black sands of Iwo Jima more than 60 years ago. There, in the wake of some of the fiercest fighting of World War II, a chaplain rose to deliver an Easter sermon, consecrating the memory, he said, \\"of American dead, Catholic, Protestant, Jew. Together,\\" he said, \\"they huddled in foxholes or crouched in the bloody sands. . . . Together they practiced virtue, patriotism, love of country, love of you and me.\\" The chaplain continued, \\"The heritage they have left, the vision of a new world, was made possible by the common bond that united them . . . their only hope that this unity will endure.\\" Their only hope that this unity will endure.<p>On this weekend, as Easter begins and Passover comes to a close, let us remain ever mindful of the unity of purpose, the common bond, the love of you and of me, for which they sacrificed all they had and for which so many others have sacrificed so much. Let us make its pursuit and fulfillment our highest aspiration, as individuals and as a nation. Happy Easter and happy Passover to all those celebrating here in America and around the world.\" "
"91" "\"How about Amber? Please give Amber a big round of applause. <p>Is everybody having a good time? Happy Easter, everybody. We are thrilled that all of you could come. I'm not going to make a long speech, because we've got the best speaker, the smartest and best looking of the older Obamas--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and that would be the First Lady of the United States, Michelle Obama.\" "
"92" "\"Good morning, everybody. Thank you. Please have a seat. Have a seat. What a great honor and pleasure it is to have all of you here today. Before I begin, I want to just acknowledge two members of my Cabinet who I believe are here: Secretary Gary Locke--is that correct? Where's Gary? There he is--our Commerce Secretary; and Secretary Janet Napolitano, who's keeping us safe each and every day. [<i>applause</i>] Here you go.<p>I also want to acknowledge the Mt. Ennon Clinton children's chorus for being here. They're going to be giving us a medley later on. There they are up there, looking very serious. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Before I begin, I want to send my deepest condolences, our thoughts and prayers to the families and the friends of the workers who lost their lives after an explosion took place in a West Virginia mine yesterday. At this moment, there are still people missing. There are rescue teams that are searching tirelessly and courageously to find them.<p>I spoke with Governor Manchin of West Virginia last night and told him that the Federal Government stands ready to offer whatever assistance is needed in this rescue effort. So I would ask that the faithful who've gathered here this morning pray for the safe return of the missing, the men and women who've put their lives on the line to save them, and the souls of those who've been lost in this tragic accident. May they rest in peace, and may their families find comfort in the hard days ahead.<p>One of my hopes upon taking this office was to make the White House a place where all people would feel welcome. To that end, we held a Seder here to mark the first Passover. We held an iftar here with Muslim Americans to break the daily fast during Ramadan. And today I'm particularly blessed to welcome you, my brothers and sisters in Christ, for this Easter breakfast.<p>With us are Christian leaders from all across America, men and women who lead small-town churches and big-city congregations and major organizations in service of others, folks whose sermons are heard and whose examples are followed by millions all across the country. So I wanted to join you for a brief moment today to continue the Easter celebration of our risen Savior and to reflect on the work to which His promise calls all of us.<p>I can't tell any of you anything about Easter that you don't already know. [<i>Laughter</i>] I can't shed light on centuries of scriptural interpretation or bring any new understandings to those of you who reflect on Easter's meaning each and every year and each and every day. But what I can do is tell you what draws me to this holy day and what lesson I take from Christ's sacrifice and what inspires me about the story of the resurrection.<p>For even after the passage of 2,000 years, we can still picture the moment in our mind's eye: young man from Nazareth marched through Jerusalem, object of scorn and derision and abuse and torture by an empire; the agony of crucifixion amidst the cries of thieves; the discovery just 3 days later that would forever alter our world: that the Son of Man was not to be found in His tomb and that Jesus Christ had risen.<p>And we are awed by the grace He showed even to those who would have killed Him. We are thankful for the sacrifice He gave for the sins of humanity. And we glory in the promise of redemption in the resurrection.<p>And such a promise is one of life's great blessings, because, as I am continually learning, we are, each of us, imperfect. Each of us errs, by accident or by design. Each of us falls short of how we ought to live. And selfishness and pride are vices that afflict us all.<p>It's not easy to purge these afflictions, to achieve redemption. But as Christians, we believe that redemption can be delivered by faith in Jesus Christ. And the possibility of redemption can make straight the crookedness of a character and make whole the incompleteness of a soul. Redemption makes life, however fleeting here on Earth, resound with eternal hope.<p>Of all the stories passed down through the Gospels, this one in particular speaks to me during this season. And I think of hanging--watching Christ hang from the cross, enduring the final seconds of His passion. He summoned what remained of His strength to utter a few last words before He breathed His last breath.<p>\\"Father,\\" He said, \\"into Your hands I commit My spirit.\\" Father, into Your hands I commit My spirit. These words were spoken by our Lord and Savior, but they can just as truly be spoken by every one of us here today. Their meaning can just as truly be lived out by all of God's children.<p>So, on this day, let us commit our spirit to the pursuit of a life that is true, to act justly, and to love mercy and walk humbly with the Lord. And when we falter, as we will, let redemption--through commitment and through perseverance and through faith--be our abiding hope and fervent prayer.<p>Many of you are living out that commitment every day. So we want to honor you through this brief program, celebrating both the meaning of Easter and the spirit of service that embodies so much of your work. And our first celebrant today is Reverend Dr. Cynthia Hale, who will deliver our opening prayer.<p>Thank you all for being here.\" "
"93" "\"Thank you very much, everybody. President Klaus, and to the people of the Czech Republic, thank you for your extraordinary hospitality.<p>To President Medvedev, Dmitry, we have learned to work together, and I'm extraordinarily grateful for your leadership and your clarity. And I think it has served us extraordinarily well during the course of these negotiations.<p>And to our teams, on both the Russian and the American side, I could not be prouder of the diligence and meticulousness and the degree of effort that all of you poured into crafting what I think is a extraordinarily important document that not only has helped to reset in a very concrete and tangible way U.S.-Russian relations, but I think is going to help lay the foundation for a safer world for generations to come.<p>We gather today in a magnificent castle, surrounded by history and the relics of thousands of years, a castle that's seen empires rise and fall, that have witnessed great movements in the arts and music and culture, spires that have survived world wars and a cold war and that now grace a capital of a vibrant democracy.<p>And so I think it's an indication of how we are not just creatures of fate, we can determine our fates; and that when men and women of good will, regardless of previous differences, regardless of history, regardless of a past, determined that they want to seize a better future, they can do so.<p>I think the Czech Republic is a testament to that ability to seize the future. I think the direction that President Medvedev has moved the Russian Federation is a testimony to the impulse to seek a new future.<p>In the United States, we are constantly wanting to remake our economy and our politics and our culture in ways that looks forward, even as it's grounded in the deep traditions of our past.<p>And so today what I'd like to do is to propose a toast not only to the extraordinary work that's been done by the men and the women in this room, but also a toast to the vision of a future in which we are defined not just by our differences, but increasingly defined by our common aims, our common goals, and our common hopes for our children and our grandchildren. And I think this treaty hopefully is one brick on that path towards a brighter future for all mankind.<p>So thank you.\" "
"94" "\"<i>Supreme Court Associate Justice John Paul Stevens</i><p>Good afternoon, everybody. I want to say a few words about the tragedy that took place this week in West Virginia. But before I do, I'd first like to comment on the news that Justice John Paul Stevens will retire from the Supreme Court at the end of its current term.<p>When President Ford was faced with a Supreme Court vacancy shortly after the Nation was still recovering from the Watergate scandal, he wanted a nominee who was brilliant, nonideological, pragmatic, and committed above all to justice, integrity, and the rule of law. He found that nominee in John Paul Stevens.<p>Justice Stevens has courageously served his country from the moment he enlisted the day before Pearl Harbor to his long and distinguished tenure on the Supreme Court. During that tenure, he has stood as an impartial guardian of the law. He's worn the judicial robe with honor and humility. He has applied the Constitution and the laws of the land with fidelity and restraint. He will soon turn 90 this month, but he leaves his position at the top of his game. His leadership will be sorely missed, and I just had an opportunity to speak with him and told him on behalf of a grateful nation that I thanked him for his service.<p>Now, as Justice Stevens expressed to me in the letter announcing his retirement, it is in the best interests of the Supreme Court to have a successor appointed and confirmed before the next term begins. And so I will move quickly to name a nominee, as I did with Justice Sotomayor.<p>Once again, I view the process of selecting a Supreme Court nominee as among my most serious responsibilities as President. And while we cannot replace Justice Stevens's experience or wisdom, I will seek someone in the coming weeks with similar qualities: an independent mind, a record of excellence and integrity, a fierce dedication to the rule of law, and a keen understanding of how the law affects the daily lives of the American people. It will also be someone who, like Justice Stevens, knows that in a democracy, powerful interests must not be allowed to drown out the voices of ordinary citizens. Much like they did with Justice Sotomayor, I hope the Senate will move quickly in the coming weeks to debate and then confirm my nominee so that the new Justice is seated in time for the fall term.<p>Now, let me say a few words about what has happened in West Virginia.<p>This has been a unimaginably difficult week for the people who live near Montcoal. Thirty-one workers were inside the Upper Big Branch mine when an explosion ripped through its walls on Monday afternoon. Two were saved, twenty-five were lost, and for the four who remain missing, we are praying for a miracle.<p>I want to offer my deepest condolences to the friends and the families of the fathers and the husbands and brothers, nephews, and sons who were killed in this accident. I'm also in awe of the courage and selflessness shown by the rescue teams who've risked their lives over and over and over this week for the chance to save another. They've worked around the clock, with little sleep, for the past few days, and this Nation owes them a debt of gratitude.<p>Now, mining has a long and proud history in West Virginia. And for many families and communities, it's not just a way to make a living, it's a way of life. And the jobs they do in these mines help bring heat and electricity to millions of Americans.<p>It's a profession that's not without risks and danger, and the workers and their families know that. But their Government and their employers know that they owe it to these families to do everything possible to ensure their safety when they go to work each day.<p>When I was in the Senate, I supported the efforts of Senator Byrd and Rockefeller to try to improve mine safety, but it's clear that more needs to be done. And that's why I've asked my Secretary of Labor as well as the head of Mine Safety and Health Administration to give me a preliminary report next week on what went wrong and why it went wrong so badly, so that we can take the steps necessary to prevent such accidents in the future.<p>Because mining is a tradition that's often passed down through generations, it's not uncommon to see an entire family choose this line of work. And sadly, when a tragedy like this occurs, it's also not uncommon to lose almost an entire family all at once.<p>I spoke to some surviving members of one such family on Wednesday. This week, Tim Davis and two of his nephews, Josh, age 25, and Cory, age 20, were killed in the explosion in the Upper Big Branch mine. Rescuers have reported that Tim and his two nephews were all found together. Two other members of their families that worked in the mine were able to escape unharmed.<p>And before he left for the mine on Monday, Josh wrote a letter for his girlfriend and young daughter. And in it, he said, \\"If anything happens to me, I'll be looking down from heaven at you all. I love you. Take care of my baby. Tell her that daddy loves her. She's beautiful. She's funny. Just take care of my baby girl.\\"<p>Reflecting on that letter and the losses she endured in just one week, Josh's mother Pam simply said, \\"It is just West Virginia. When something bad happens, we come together.\\" When something bad happens, we come together.<p>Through tragedy and heartache, that's the spirit that has sustained this community and this country for over 200 years. And as we pray for the souls of those that we've lost and the safe return of those who are missing, we are also sustained by the words of the Psalm that are particularly poignant right now. Those words read: \\"You, O Lord, keep my lamp burning; my God turns my darkness into light.\\" <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"95" "\"All across America are good, decent folks who meet their obligations each and every day. They work hard. They support their families. They try to make an honest living the best they can. And this weekend, many are sitting down to pay the taxes they owe, not because it's fun, but because it's a fundamental responsibility of our citizenship.<p>But in tough times, when many families are having trouble just making it all work, tax day can seem even more daunting. This year, however, many Americans are seeing some welcome relief.<p>So far, Americans who have filed their taxes have discovered that the average refund is up nearly 10 percent this year to an alltime high of about $3,000. This is due in large part to the Recovery Act. In fact, one-third of the Recovery Act was made up of tax cuts--tax cuts that have already provided more than $160 billion in relief for families and businesses, and nearly 100 billion of that goes directly into the pockets of working Americans.<p>No one I've met is looking for a handout, and that's not what these tax cuts are. Instead, they're targeted relief to help middle class families weather the storm, to jump-start our economy, and to bring the fundamentals of the American Dream--making an honest living, earning an education, owning a home, and raising a family--back within reach for millions of Americans.<p>First, because folks who work hard should be able to make a decent living, I kept a promise I made when I campaigned for this office and cut taxes for 95 percent of working Americans. For most Americans, this Making Work Pay tax credit began showing up in your paychecks last April. And it continues this year, for a total of $400 per individual and $800 per couple, per year.<p>Second, because a college education is critical to the success of our workers and our economy, we're helping to make it more affordable for millions of Americans. Millions of students and parents paying for college tuition are now eligible for up to $2,500 under the American Opportunity Credit. Along with a host of other steps we've taken, this will help us reach our goal of once again having the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020.<p>Third, we're restoring the home as a source of stability and an anchor of the American Dream. If you've bought a home for the first time, you're eligible for a credit of up to $8,000. And if you bought a new car last year, you can deduct the State and local sales taxes you paid on that car.<p>Fourth, whether you bought a home for the first time or you've owned one for a long time, if you invested in making your home more energy efficient with certain improvements like new insulation or windows, or you plan to this year, you're eligible for up to $1,500 in new tax credits. This does more than just put money back in your pocket, it's helping create new clean energy, manufacturing, and construction jobs at small businesses across the country.<p>Fifth, to help working families with children through difficult times, we increased the earned-income tax credit and allowed more families to qualify for the child tax credit.<p>Finally, for those who lost their jobs in the recession and need some help getting back on their feet, we provided a 65-percent tax credit to help cover the cost of health care, and we made sure the first $2,400 in unemployment benefits is tax free.<p>These are among the tax breaks and savings that are available to over 100 million Americans right now. It's also important to note that the new health reform law includes the largest middle class tax cut for health care in history. And once it's implemented, millions of Americans will finally be able to purchase quality, affordable care and the security and peace of mind that comes with it. <p>And one thing we have not done is raise income taxes on families making less than $250,000 a year. That's another promise that we've kept.<p>We've also made it easy to find out what's owed to you and your family. After all, the big guys know how to find their tax breaks; it's time you did too. Just visit whitehouse.gov and click on the tax savings tool. It's already been accessed more than 100,000 times by folks who want to see what savings they're owed and how to collect them. If you've already filed your taxes and missed some of the savings available to you, don't worry, you can still amend your returns after April 15 to save hundreds or even thousands of dollars.<p>And just as each of us meet our responsibilities as citizens, we expect our businesses and our Government to meet theirs in return. That's why I've asked Congress to close some of the biggest tax loopholes exploited by some of our most profitable corporations to avoid paying their fair share or, in some cases, paying taxes at all. That's why we're tightening Washington's belt by cutting programs that don't work and contracts that aren't fair and spending we don't need. And that's why I've proposed a freeze on discretionary spending, signed a law that restores the pay-as-you-go principle that helped produce the surpluses of the 1990s, and created a bipartisan, independent commission to help solve our fiscal crisis and close the deficits that have been growing for a decade. Because I refuse to leave our problems to the next generation.<p>It's been a tough couple years for America. But the economy is growing again. Companies are beginning to hire again. We are rewarding work and helping more of our people reach for the American Dream again. And while there's no doubt we still face a long journey together, with more steps to take, more obstacles to overcome, and more challenges to face along the way, if there is one thing on which the people of this great country have convinced me, it's that the United States of America will recover, stronger than before.<p>Thanks for listening, and have a great weekend.\" "
"96" "\"Forty-one years ago, in the city of Cleveland, people watched in horror as the Cuyahoga River, choked with debris and covered in oil, caught on fire. Images of the burning Cuyahoga shocked a nation, and it led one Wisconsin Senator the following year to organize the first Earth Day to call attention to the dangers of ignoring our environment. <p>In the four decades since, we've made remarkable progress. Today, our air and water are cleaner, pollution's been greatly reduced, and Americans everywhere are living in a healthier environment. We've passed the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, and founded the Environmental Protection Agency. And in Cleveland, the Cuyahoga River is cleaner than it's been in 100 years.<p>But the true story of the environmental movement is not about the laws that have been passed. It's about the citizens who've come together time and time again to demand cleaner air, healthier drinking water, and safer food and who've demanded that their representatives in government hold polluters accountable. <p>That progress continues today, as individuals and entrepreneurs across the country help lay the foundation for a clean energy economy one solar panel or smart meter and energy-efficient home at a time.<p>Since taking office, my administration's been a partner in the fight for a healthier environment. Through the Recovery Act, we've invested in clean energy and clean water infrastructure across the country. We're taking the necessary steps to keep our children safe and hold polluters accountable. And we've rejected the notion that we have to choose between creating jobs and a healthy environment, because we know that the economy of the 21st century will be built on infrastructure powered by clean energy.<p>But even though we've made significant progress, there is much more to do. And as we continue to tackle our environmental challenges, it's clear that change won't come from Washington alone. It will come from Americans across the country who take steps in their own homes and their own communities to make that change happen.<p>That's why, as we get ready to celebrate the 40th anniversary of Earth Day, I want to leave you with a challenge. I want you to take action in your home or your community, at your school or your business, to improve our environment. It can be as simple as riding the bus or the subway to work, making your home more energy efficient, or organizing your neighbors to clean up a nearby park. <p>Just go to whitehouse.gov/earthday to learn how you can help. And then tell us your story about what you're doing to make a difference. <p>In the end, it's people like you, the small-business owners and community leaders, the teachers and the students, the young people and the grandparents, who've made Earth Day so successful. And it's going to be up to you to make an even bigger difference over the next 40 years.<p>So let's get to work. Together, we can continue to make progress towards a cleaner environment and a healthier planet.\" "
"97" "\"Good morning, everybody. On April 5, the United States suffered the worst mine disaster in more than a generation. Twenty-nine lives were lost. Families have been devastated; communities have been upended. And during this painful time, all of us are mourning with the people of Montcoal and Whitesville and Naoma and the Coal River Valley. The people of West Virginia are in our prayers.<p>But we owe them more than prayers. We owe them action. We owe them accountability. We owe them an assurance that when they go to work every day, when they enter that dark mine, they are not alone. They ought to know that behind them, there is a company that's doing what it takes to protect them and a Government that is looking out for their safety.<p>In the immediate aftermath of the tragedy, I asked the officials standing with me, Labor Secretary Hilda Solis and Joe Main and Kevin Stricklin with the Mine Safety and Health Administration, to lead an investigation into what caused the explosion at Massey Energy Company's Upper Big Branch mine. I asked them to report back with preliminary findings this week.<p>We just concluded a meeting where they briefed me on their investigation. I want to emphasize that this investigation is ongoing and there's still a lot that we don't know. But we do know that this tragedy was triggered by a failure at the Upper Big Branch mine, a failure first and foremost of management, but also a failure of oversight and a failure of laws so riddled with loopholes that they allow unsafe conditions to continue.<p>So today I've directed Secretary Solis, Assistant Secretary Main, and Administrator Stricklin to work closely with State mining officials to press ahead with this investigation so we can help make sure a disaster like this never happens again. Owners responsible for conditions in the Upper Big Branch mine should be held accountable for decisions they made and preventive measures they failed to take. And I've asked Secretary Solis to work with the Justice Department to ensure that every tool in the Federal Government is available in this investigation.<p>But this isn't just about a single mine. It's about all of our mines. The safety record at the Massey Upper Big Branch mine was troubling. And it's clear that while there are many responsible companies, far too many mines aren't doing enough to protect their workers' safety.<p>And that's why yesterday Governor Manchin announced that West Virginia miners will take this Friday off from coal production so they can mourn their loss, but also reevaluate safety procedures. He also called for additional inspections in West Virginia mines. The Federal Government is taking sweeping actions as well. Starting today, we'll go back and take another look at mines across this country with troubling safety records and get inspectors into those mines immediately to ensure they aren't facing the same unsafe working conditions that led to this disaster.<p>Second, I've directed Secretary Solis, Assistant Secretary Main, and Administrator Stricklin to work with Congress to strengthen enforcement of existing laws and close loopholes that permit companies to shirk their responsibilities. Stronger mine safety laws were passed in 2006 after the Sago mine disaster. But safety violators like Massey have still been able to find ways to put their bottom line before the safety of their workers, filing endless appeals instead of paying fines and fixing safety problems. To help ensure that mine companies no longer use a strategy of endless litigation to evade their responsibilities, we need to tackle the backlog of cases at the Mine Safety and Health Review Commission.<p>And to help hold companies accountable, I've also asked Secretary Solis to streamline the rules for proving that a mining company has committed a pattern of violations so that we can empower the mine safety agency to take essential steps to keep miners safe. If a mining company consistently violates safety standards, they should be subjected to the tougher enforcement that comes with being placed on an updated pattern of violations list.<p>Third, we can't just hold mining companies accountable; we need to hold Washington accountable. And that's why I want to review how our Mine Safety and Health Administration operates. For a long time, the mine safety agency was stacked with former mine executives and industry players. The industry [agency]* is now run, I'm proud to say, by former miners and health safety experts like Joe Main and Kevin Stricklin. Even so, we need to take a hard look at our own practices and our own procedures to ensure that we're pursuing mine safety as relentlessly as we responsibly can. In addition, we need to make sure that miners themselves, and not just the Government or mine operators, are empowered to report any safety violations.<p>I think we all understand that underground coal mining is, by its very nature, dangerous. Every miner and every mining family understands this. But we know what can cause mine explosions, and we know how to prevent them. I refuse to accept any number of miner deaths as simply a cost of doing business. We can't eliminate chance completely from mining any more than we can from life itself. But if a tragedy can be prevented, it must be prevented. That's the responsibility of mine operators, that's the responsibility of Government, and that is the responsibility that we're all going to have to work together to meet in the weeks and months to come.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"98" "\"Thank you, everybody. Thank you so much. Please have a seat. Thank you. I want to thank Senator Bill Nelson and NASA Administrator Charlie Bolden for their extraordinary leadership. I want to recognize Dr. Buzz Aldrin as well, who's in the house. Four decades ago, Buzz became a legend, but in the four decades since, he's also been one of America's leading visionaries and authorities on human space flight.<p>Now, few people, present company excluded, can claim the expertise of Buzz and Bill and Charlie when it comes to space exploration. I have to say that few people are as singularly unimpressed by Air Force One as those three. [<i>Laughter</i>] Sure, it's comfortable, but it can't even reach low Earth orbit. And that obviously is in striking contrast to the Falcon 9 rocket we just saw on the launch pad, which will be tested for the very first time in the coming weeks.<p>A couple of other acknowledgments I want to make. We've got Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee from Texas visiting us, a big supporter of the space program. My Director, Office of Science and Technology Policy--in other words, my chief science adviser--John Holdren is here. And most of all, I want to acknowledge your Congresswoman, Suzanne Kosmas, because every time I meet with her, including the flight down here, she reminds me of how important our NASA programs are and how important this facility is. And she is fighting for every single one of you and for her district and for the jobs in her district. And I--you should know that you've got a great champion in Congresswoman Kosmas. Please give her a big round of applause.<p>I also want to thank everybody for participating in today's conference. And gathered here are scientists, engineers, business leaders, public servants, and a few more astronauts as well. And last but not least, I want to thank the men and women of NASA for welcoming me to the Kennedy Space Center and for your contributions not only to America, but to the world.<p>Here at the Kennedy Space Center, we are surrounded by monuments and milestones of those contributions. It was from here that NASA launched the missions of Mercury and Gemini and Apollo. It was from here that Space Shuttle <i>Discovery</i>, piloted by Charlie Bolden, carried the Hubble telescope into orbit, allowing us to plumb the deepest recesses of our galaxy. And I should point out, by the way, that in my private office just off the Oval, I've got the picture of Jupiter from the Hubble. So thank you, Charlie, for helping to decorate my office. [<i>Laughter</i>] It was from here that men and women, propelled by sheer nerve and talent, set about pushing the boundaries of humanity's reach.<p>That's the story of NASA. And it's a story that started a little more than half a century ago, far from the space coast, in a remote and desolate region of what is now called Kazakhstan, because it was from there that the Soviet Union launched Sputnik, the first artificial satellite to orbit the Earth, which was little more than a few pieces of metal with a transmitter and a battery strapped to the top of a missile. But the world was stunned. Americans were dumbfounded. The Soviets, it was perceived, had taken the lead in a race for which we were not yet fully prepared.<p>But we caught up very quickly. President Eisenhower signed legislation to create NASA and to invest in science and math education, from grade school to graduate school. In 1961, President Kennedy boldly declared before a joint session of Congress that the United States would send a man to the Moon and return him safely to the Earth within a decade. And as a nation, we set about meeting that goal, reaping rewards that have, in the decades since, touched every facet of our lives. NASA was at the forefront. Many gave their careers to the effort. And some have given far more.<p>In the years that have followed, the space race inspired a generation of scientists and innovators, including, I'm sure, many of you. It's contributed to immeasurable technological advances that have improved our health and well-being, from satellite navigation to water purification, from aerospace manufacturing to medical imaging. Although, I have to say, during a meeting right before I came out on stage, somebody said, \\"You know, it's more than just Tang.\\" And I had to point out, I actually really like Tang. [<i>Laughter</i>] I thought that was very cool.<p>And leading the world to space helped America achieve new heights of prosperity here on Earth, while demonstrating the power of a free and open society to harness the ingenuity of its people.<p>And on a personal note, I have been part of that generation so inspired by the space program. Nineteen sixty-one was the year of my birth, the year that Kennedy made his announcement. And one of my earliest memories is sitting on my grandfather's shoulders, waving a flag as astronauts arrived in Hawaii. For me, the space program has always captured an essential part of what it means to be an American: reaching for new heights, stretching beyond what previously did not seem possible. And so as President, I believe that space exploration is not a luxury, it's not an afterthought in America's quest for a brighter future; it is an essential part of that quest.<p>So today I'd like to talk about the next chapter in this story. Now, the challenges facing our space program are different and our imperatives for this program are different than in decades past. We're no longer racing against an adversary. We're no longer competing to achieve a singular goal like reaching the Moon. In fact, what was once a global competition has long since become a global collaboration. But while the measure of our achievements has changed a great deal over the past 50 years, what we do--or fail to do--in seeking new frontiers is no less consequential for our future in space and here on Earth.<p>So let me start by being extremely clear: I am 100 percent committed to the mission of NASA and its future. Because broadening our capabilities in space will continue to serve our society in ways that we can scarcely imagine. Because exploration will once more inspire wonder in a new generation, sparking passions and launching careers. And because, ultimately, if we fail to press forward in the pursuit of discovery, we are ceding our future and we are ceding that essential element of the American character.<p>Now, I know there have been a number of questions raised about my administration's plan for space exploration, especially in this part of Florida, where so many rely on NASA as a source of income as well as a source of pride and community. And these questions come at a time of transition, as the space shuttle nears its scheduled retirement after almost 30 years of service. And understandably, this adds to the worries of folks concerned not only about their own futures, but about the future of the space program to which they've devoted their lives.<p>But I also know that underlying these concerns is a deeper worry, one that precedes not only this plan, but this administration. It stems from the sense that people in Washington, driven sometimes less by vision than by politics, have for years neglected NASA's mission and undermined the work of the professionals who fulfill it. We've seen that in the NASA budget, which has risen and fallen with the political winds.<p>But we can also see it in other ways: in the reluctance of those who hold office to set clear, achievable objectives, to provide the resources to meet those objectives, and to justify not just these plans, but the larger purpose of space exploration in the 21st century.<p>All that has to change. And with the strategy I'm outlining today, it will. We start by increasing NASA's budget by $6 billion over the next 5 years, even--[<i>applause</i>]--I want people to understand the context of this. This is happening even as we have instituted a freeze on discretionary spending and sought to make cuts elsewhere in the budget.<p>So NASA, from the start, several months ago when I issued my budget, was one of the areas where we didn't just maintain a freeze, but we actually increased funding by $6 billion. By doing that, we will ramp up robotic exploration of the solar system, including a probe of the Sun's atmosphere, new scouting missions to Mars and other destinations, and an advanced telescope to follow Hubble, allowing us to peer deeper into the universe than ever before.<p>We will increase Earth-based observation to improve our understanding of our climate and our world, science that will garner tangible benefits, helping us to protect our environment for future generations.<p>And we will extend the life of the International Space Station likely by more than 5 years, while actually using it for its intended purpose: conducting advanced research that can help improve the daily lives of people here on Earth as well as testing and improving upon our capabilities in space. This includes technologies like more efficient life support systems that will help reduce the cost of future missions. And in order to reach the space station, we will work with a growing array of private companies competing to make getting to space easier and more affordable.<p>Now, I recognize that some have said it is unfeasible or unwise to work with the private sector in this way. I disagree. The truth is, NASA has always relied on private industry to help design and build the vehicles that carry astronauts to space, from the Mercury capsule that carried John Glenn into orbit nearly 50 years ago to the Space Shuttle <i>Discovery</i> currently orbiting overhead. By buying the services of space transportation rather than the vehicles themselves, we can continue to ensure rigorous safety standards are met. But we will also accelerate the pace of innovations as companies, from young startups to established leaders, compete to design and build and launch new means of carrying people and materials out of our atmosphere.<p>In addition, as part of this effort, we will build on the good work already done on the Orion crew capsule. I've directed Charlie Bolden to immediately begin developing a rescue vehicle using this technology, so we are not forced to rely on foreign providers if it becomes necessary to quickly bring our people home from the International Space Station. And this Orion effort will be part of the technological foundation for advanced spacecraft to be used in future deep space missions. In fact, Orion will be readied for flight right here in this room.<p>Next, we will invest more than $3 billion to conduct research on an advanced heavy lift rocket, a vehicle to efficiently send into orbit the crew capsules, propulsion systems, and large quantities of supplies needed to reach deep space. Now, in developing this new vehicle, we will not only look at revising or modifying older models, we want to look at new designs, new materials, new technologies that will transform not just where we can go, but what we can do when we get there. And we will finalize a rocket design no later than 2015 and then begin to build it. That at--[<i>applause</i>]--and I want everybody to understand, that's at least 2 years earlier than previously planned, and that's conservative, given that the previous program was behind schedule and over budget.<p>At the same time, after decades of neglect, we will increase investment right away in other groundbreaking technologies that will allow astronauts to reach space sooner and more often, to travel farther and faster for less cost, and to live and work in space for longer periods of time more safely. That means tackling major scientific and technological challenges. How do we shield astronauts from radiation on longer missions? How do we harness resources on distant worlds? How do we supply spacecraft with energy needed for these far-reaching journeys? These are questions that we can answer and will answer. And these are the questions whose answers no doubt will reap untold benefits right here on Earth.<p>So the point is, what we're looking for is not just to continue on the same path, we want to leap into the future. We want major breakthroughs, a transformative agenda for NASA.<p>Now, yes, pursuing this new strategy will require that we revise the old strategy. In part, this is because the old strategy, including the Constellation program, was not fulfilling its promise in many ways. That's not just my assessment, that's also the assessment of a panel of respected nonpartisan experts charged with looking at these issues closely. Now, despite this, some have had harsh words for the decisions we've made, including some individuals who I've got enormous respect and admiration for.<p>But what I hope is, is that everybody will take a look at what we are planning, consider the details of what we've laid out, and see the merits as I've described them. The bottom line is, nobody is more committed to manned space flight, to human exploration of space than I am. But we've got to do it in a smart way, and we can't just keep on doing the same old things that we've been doing and thinking that somehow is going to get us to where we want to go.<p>Some have said, for instance, that this plan gives up our leadership in space by failing to produce plans within NASA to reach low Earth orbit, instead of relying on companies and other countries. But we will actually reach space faster and more often under this new plan, in ways that will help us improve our technological capacity and lower our costs, which are both essential for the long-term sustainability of space flight. In fact, through our plan, we'll be sending many more astronauts to space over the next decade.<p>There are also those who've criticized our decision to end parts of Constellation as one that will hinder space exploration below low Earth orbit. But it's precisely by investing in groundbreaking research and innovative companies that we will have the potential to rapidly transform our capabilities, even as we build on the important work already completed, through projects like Orion, for future missions. And unlike the previous program, we are setting a course with specific and achievable milestones.<p>Early in the next decade, a set of crewed flights will test and prove the systems required for exploration beyond low Earth orbit. And by 2025, we expect new spacecraft designed for long journeys to allow us to begin the first-ever crewed missions beyond the Moon into deep space. So we'll start by sending astronauts to an asteroid for the first time in history. By the mid-2030s, I believe we can send humans to orbit Mars and return them safely to Earth. And a landing on Mars will follow. And I expect to be around to see it.<p>But I want to repeat--I want to repeat this: Critical to deep space exploration will be the development of breakthrough propulsion systems and other advanced technologies. So I'm challenging NASA to break through these barriers. And we'll give you the resources to break through these barriers. And I know you will, with ingenuity and intensity, because that's what you've always done.<p>Now, I understand that some believe that we should attempt a return to the surface of the Moon first, as previously planned. But I just have to say pretty bluntly here, we've been there before. Buzz has been there. There's a lot more of space to explore and a lot more to learn when we do. So I believe it's more important to ramp up our capabilities to reach and operate at a series of increasingly demanding targets, while advancing our technological capabilities with each step forward. And that's what this strategy does. And that's how we will ensure that our leadership in space is even stronger in this new century than it was in the last.<p>Now, finally, I want to say a few words about jobs. Suzanne pointed out to me that the last time I was here, I made a very clear promise that I would help in the transition into a new program to make sure that people who are already going through a tough time here in this region were helped. And despite some reports to the contrary, my plan will add more than 2,500 jobs along the space coast in the next 2 years compared to the plan under the previous administration. So I want to make that point.<p>We're going to modernize the Kennedy Space Center, creating jobs as we upgrade launch facilities. And there's potential for even more jobs as companies in Florida and across America compete to be part of a new space transportation industry. And some of those industry leaders are here today. This holds the promise of generating more than 10,000 jobs nationwide over the next few years. And many of these jobs will be created right here in Florida, because this is an area primed to lead in this competition.<p>Now, it's true, there are Floridians who will see their work on the shuttle end as the program winds down. This is based on a decision that was made 6 years ago, not 6 months ago, but that doesn't make it any less painful for families and communities affected as this decision becomes a reality.<p>So I'm proposing--in part because of strong lobbying by Bill and by Suzanne as well as Charlie--I'm proposing a $40 million initiative led by a high-level team from the White House, NASA, and other agencies to develop a plan for regional economic growth and job creation. And I expect this plan to reach my desk by August 15th. It's an effort that will help prepare this already skilled workforce for new opportunities in the space industry and beyond.<p>So this is the next chapter that we can write together here at NASA. We will partner with industry. We will invest in cutting-edge research and technology. We will set far-reaching milestones and provide the resources to reach those milestones. And step by step, we will push the boundaries not only of where we can go, but what we can do.<p>Now, 50 years after the creation of NASA, our goal is no longer just a destination to reach. Our goal is the capacity for people to work and learn and operate and live safely beyond the Earth for extended periods of time, ultimately in ways that are more sustainable and even indefinite. And in fulfilling this task, we will not only extend humanity's reach in space, we will strengthen America's leadership here on Earth.<p>Now, I'll close by saying this. I know that some Americans have asked a question that's particularly apt on tax day: Why spend money on NASA at all? Why spend money solving problems in space when we don't lack for problems to solve here on the ground? And obviously, our country is still reeling from the worst economic turmoil we've known in generations. We have massive structural deficits that have to be closed in the coming years.<p>But you and I know this is a false choice. We have to fix our economy. We need to close our deficits. But for pennies on the dollar, the space program has fueled jobs and entire industries. For pennies on the dollar, the space program has improved our lives, advanced our society, strengthened our economy, and inspired generations of Americans. And I have no doubt that NASA can continue to fulfill this role. But that is why--[<i>applause</i>]--but I want to say clearly to those of you who work for NASA, but to the entire community that has been so supportive of the space program in this area: That is exactly why it's so essential that we pursue a new course and that we revitalize NASA and its mission, not just with dollars, but with clear aims and a larger purpose.<p>Now, little more than 40 years ago, astronauts descended the nine-rung ladder of the lunar module called <i>Eagle</i> and allowed their feet to touch the dusty surface of the Earth's only Moon. This was the culmination of a daring and perilous gambit, of an endeavor that pushed the boundaries of our knowledge, of our technical prowess, of our very capacity as human beings to solve problems. It wasn't just the greatest achievement in NASA's history, it was one of the greatest achievements in human history.<p>And the question for us now is whether that was the beginning of something or the end of something. I choose to believe it was only the beginning.<p>So thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"99" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, Miami! Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Everybody have a seat, everybody have a seat. Settle down here for a second. Oh, it is good to be back in Miami. It's good to be back in the Sunshine State. I came to Florida today to visit NASA, lay out a bold new vision for America's future in space. And I figured, hey, while I'm here--[<i>Laughter</i>]--let's beam down and visit some old friends in Miami, so--[<i>applause</i>].<p>Thank you, Tim Kaine, not only for the generous introduction, but for the great job he is doing--[<i>applause</i>]--an unbelievable job as DNC chair, just like he did an unbelievable job as the Governor of the great Commonwealth of Virginia.<p>Thank you to your vice chair, your own Debbie Wasserman Schultz. We love Debbie. We have in the house Florida's next Governor, Alex Sink. We've got Florida's next CFO and one of the first people in Florida to stand up and endorse my campaign--Loranne Ausley is here as well. Somewhere around here is the next Senator from the great State of Florida, Kendrick Meek. He's here somewhere. There he is. Kendrick's doing a great job. <p>I also want to point out a great friend of mine, a former member of my administration who just yesterday announced he is running for Congress in Florida's 25th, Joe Garcia is in the house--Joe Garcia. So is Florida's next agricultural commissioner, Scott Maddox. And a wonderful Member of Congress from further up north--I don't know if she came out, but she's doing unbelievable work, so keep her in mind--Suzanne Kosmas. There's Suzanne. There she is. She came out. <p>And thank you to the talented Esperanza Spalding. Isn't she terrific? I love listening to Esperanza; she is wonderful.<p>I also want to thank all the leaders of the Haitian American community who are with us tonight. So--[<i>applause</i>]--I think some of you know my political director, Patrick Gaspard, is from Haiti. And so through him, we understood how much you've lost and how much you've given. And some of you know, I think, Michelle just took her first solo trip abroad as First Lady. Her first stop was to Haiti. The devastation moved her deeply, and she also saw, though, the resiliency and the resolve of the people. And that filled her with hope. And so I asked her to give the people of Haiti a message from me, which is, the United States of America will continue to stand with the people of Haiti as they recover and they rebuild. That is something that we are committed to. <p>So it's good to be among friends in Florida. I spent a lot of time here during our campaign. Many of you were on the frontlines, devoting your time, your energy, knocking on doors, making phone calls, arguing with people--[<i>Laughter</i>]--most of all, affirming that unyielding faith in the promise of America. And so I want to thank you for being part of this journey. <p>In a time of incredible economic uncertainty, you believed that we could still make the American Dream accessible for everybody who was willing to work for it. And at a time of cynicism, you believed that we could still solve problems that had held us back for years, decades. At a time of great challenge--especially when we were challenged--you believed that change was still possible in the United States of America.<p>So, Miami, I've come back here to tell you tonight that we have kept the faith with those beliefs. We've begun to fix the problems that we identified during the campaign. The change you fought for is beginning to take hold in Washington and all across the country. <p>Now, change is never easy. I don't know if you've noticed this. [<i>Laughter</i>] People tend to be comfortable with the status quo, even when the status quo isn't working for them. And the fact is that with all the turbulence that's been taking place this year, for many Americans, change still can't come fast enough. But I wanted people to understand what we were looking at when we first came into office: a financial crisis unlike any we had seen in generations; an economy that was bleeding 750,000 jobs a month; challenges that ranged from the specter of terrorism to the impacts of globalization to two wars that were costly in every sense of the word.<p>And before we could start healing, we had to stop the bleeding. We needed to make sure that an economic disaster did not become a full-blown depression. And some of those short-term steps designed to stabilize the economy, they weren't popular. The Recovery Act, even though we gave tax cuts to everybody, somehow got confused with the bank bailout. And then there was the auto thing, and everybody said, \\"Gosh, what's Obama doing?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"He's not listening to the polls; this is unpopular.\\" <p>But it turns out that there are some things that, shockingly enough, are more important than polls, more important than elections. The country was in trouble. We had to respond. We had to respond to the problems that were facing the American people with the same sense of urgency that they felt in their own lives. That was just over a year ago.<p>Now, we've still got a long way to travel. There's still a lot of people hurting out there. You see them in your communities, you see them in your own family, maybe you see them in your own lives. But 1 year later, we can say that the financial system has stabilized. People have recouped a lot of what they had lost in their 401(k)s. We had--we've seen that an economy that was contracting is now growing again. We were losing jobs; now we're gaining jobs.<p>As far as the bank system goes, we recovered most of the money that it cost to stabilize it. And I've proposed a fee on the Nation's biggest banks so that we recover every dime the taxpayers put into them. <p>So 1 year later, we've made progress: The economy is growing again; the markets are rising again; America's businesses are creating jobs again. One year later, more than 2 million Americans, more than 100,000 Floridians are at work today who otherwise would not be there--because of the Recovery Act, because of what Debbie Wasserman Schultz did and Suzanne Kosmas did and Kendrick Meeks did.<p>And since today happens to be tax day--[<i>Laughter</i>]--I should just point out that one-third of the Recovery Act went to tax cuts, tax cuts that strengthened the cornerstone of the American Dream: working for a living, earning an education, owning a home, raising a family. We cut taxes for 95 percent of working Americans, just like I promised we would on the campaign. That made a difference for 7 million families in Florida alone. We cut taxes on small businesses. We cut taxes for students and parents paying for college. We cut taxes for first-time home buyers, more than 128,000 here in Florida. In all, we passed 25 different tax cuts last year. And one thing we haven't done is raise income taxes on families making less than $250,000 a year, another promise that we kept. <p>So I've been a little amused over the last couple of days where people have been having these rallies--[<i>Laughter</i>]--about taxes, taxes. You would think they would be saying thank you. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's what you'd think. <p>So we're headed in the right direction on our road to recovery. But the true measure of our progress is the progress that the American people feel in their lives. And there's still a lot of hurt out here, too many folks still out of work. That's why we're doing everything we can in the short term to accelerate private sector job creation. But here's the thing, Miami: If we want our economy to fuel job creation in the long term, if we want to grow in the way that brings the middle class along for the ride, then we need to rebuild it on a new and a stronger foundation for growth. And that's what we've been doing. We're working to give every American the world-class education they need to compete and win in the global economy--every child in America.<p>We launched a national competition to improve our schools. We took on the special interests, and with the help of Debbie and Suzanne and Kendrick, we reformed the school loan system--$68 billion that was going to banks is now going to students and families to help pay for their education. So we're making college education more affordable and more accessible. <p>We've made the largest investment in clean and renewable energy in our Nation's history, because there are factories to reopen and assembly lines to restart and workers ready to build wind turbines and solar panels and advanced batteries for the new electric cars right here in America. And the nation that leads the clean energy economy will lead the 21st-century economy. And I believe that America has to be that nation. And that's what we're going to fight for.<p>And, Miami, for the sake of our families and businesses, and with your help, we finally passed comprehensive health reform right here in the United States of America. Now, as--[<i>applause</i>].<p><i>Audience members. </i>Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can!<p><i>The President. </i>We did it thanks to Debbie and thanks to Suzanne and thanks to Kendrick and thanks to you. As my Vice President said, this is a big deal. [<i>Laughter</i>] Joe's got a way with words. And he was right. It's a big deal.<p>I mean, think about what we accomplished here. This reform is the strongest, most sweeping insurance reform in history. It will begin to end the worst practices of the insurance industry. It cuts the deficit by over $1 trillion, puts in place all sorts of reforms that are going to make sure that we are getting better quality health care for less money, and it's going to finally offer millions of families and small-business owners quality, affordable care and the security and peace of mind that comes with it--a lot of people for the very first time in their lives. <p>So for all the sound and fury and all the scare tactics, here's what you need about health care reform. The law doesn't hand more control to the Government. It doesn't hand more control to health insurance companies. It gives it back to you, the American people. This law doesn't weaken Medicare; it strengthens it and extends its life almost by a decade. This law doesn't increase our deficits, it's going to reduce them, more than $100 billion over the next decade, over $1 trillion the decade after that. <p>And there's an array of consumer protection and benefits that take effect this year. I just want to list some of these off, just in case you're having a conversation with your--[<i>Laughter</i>]--you know, a coworker or a friend. I know you've had some of those conversations. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>This year, seniors who fall into the doughnut hole coverage gap will receive $250 to help them pay for their prescriptions, and that begins a pathway where we are closing that doughnut hole completely so that seniors have the coverage they need and the security they need for their prescription drug coverage. This year, millions of small-business owners will be eligible for tax credits to cover the cost of insuring their employees--this year. This year, ten thousands--tens of thousands of uninsured Americans with a preexisting condition and parents with children with preexisting conditions will finally be able to purchase the coverage they need. This year, insurance companies can't drop you when you get sick. This year, insurance companies can't apply lifetime limits on your coverage. These are big deals for families all across America. <p>Now, this reform's not perfect. There are going to be adjustments that we're going to have to make. This is going to take a few years to fully implement, because we've got the responsibility to get it right.<p>But when you turn on the television, you've got pundits saying that the country's still divided on health care; it's not universally popular yet. Folks, I want to repeat what I said in Maine: It's only been a couple weeks. [<i>Laughter</i>] You know, sometimes the way they cover stuff in Washington--I was talking about how--the way they'd cover a farm, you know? You'd be up there tilling the soil, and the press would look, and, \\"Look, the dirt's all messed up!\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And then you'd put the seeds in and pack it down. And next morning they'd come up, \\"There are no crops! It's not working! We're going to starve!\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Let me tell you. <p>And then you've got--then you have some of my Republican friends who were warning that after health care, this was going to be Armageddon--[<i>Laughter</i>]--wanted to repeal health reform before the signature was even dry. <p>So I went to NASA today, and I asked some of the guys, I said, are asteroids coming? [<i>Laughter</i>] Are you sending Bruce Willis and Ben Affleck out to-- [<i>Laughter</i>] . They told me, \\"America's going to be okay.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And for those Republicans and folks who are on the \\"repeal\\" platform, my attitude is, go for it. I'll have that fight. We'll have that argument. We'll take that argument across the country. If they want to let kids be barred from getting insurance because of preexisting conditions, we can have that discussion. If they want to take back tax cuts from small businesses who want to do the right thing by their employees, I'm happy to have that argument. They want to allow insurance companies to take away your insurance right when you get sick and need it most, I'm happy to have that debate. Are they really willing to look that senior in the eye and say, we're not going to help you afford that medicine? <p><i>Audience member.</i> Yes, they are.<p><i>The President.</i> Well, they may--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but I tell you what, if they do it, I don't think they're going to get a very good response. I don't think they're going to look a small-business owner in the eye and take away their tax credits or say that your son can't have health care after all; too bad, tough luck, you're on your own.<p>Look what happened the other day, just north of here. Ted Deutch won the first congressional election since health reform passed. Now, look, I mean, let's not get too excited; it's a Democratic district. [<i>Laughter</i>] But to listen to the Republicans, they were warning over and over again this would be a referendum on health care, this is a referendum on the Recovery Act, this is a referendum on Obama. Well, maybe it was. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm just listening to them.<p>Audience members. Obama! Obama! Obama!<p>The President. I----<p>Audience members. Obama! Obama! Obama!<p><i>The President</i>. Here's what I think, Miami. Here's what I think. I think if we stay true to our principles, if we do what's right for the American people, then elections will take care of themselves. You know, I noticed that this was one of the great things about running for President, especially for 2 years--[<i>Laughter</i>]--is it gives you a little perspective, because you realize that these things go in cycles, the mood of the media and how things get portrayed. And so you're like a genius for about a month, and then you're an idiot for about 6 months. [<i>Laughter</i>] And then, you know, you're smart again for--you're not as smart as you were, but you're a little smarter than they thought you were. [<i>Laughter</i>] And then you're an idiot again. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But what it shows you is that you can't hyperventilate about the day-to-day politics and the gamesmanship and the polls. What you've got to focus on is that true north, that lodestar, which is, are the things we're doing over the long term going to help not just this generation, but the next generation? Is this going to make America stronger? Is it going to help the economy grow? Is it going to help equip our children to compete in a new economy?<p>There are always going to be issues that Democrats and Republicans don't see eye to eye on. That's how our democracy works. I have to say, though, it's one thing to disagree out of principle, it's another to stand in the way simply because of politics. And too often, that's been what's going on. And we had Republican leaders who made a decision even before I took office--now, this is their quote, so I'm not making this up--who just said, you know, \\"We're not going to work with the Obama administration on the most important issues facing the American people.\\"<p>A few weeks into my Presidency, I went to the Capitol to meet with some of my Republican friends on the House to talk about what were we going to do about this economy plunging into disaster. It turned out there was a press release issued before I got to the meeting saying they had already decided to vote against it. They didn't know what \\"it\\" was--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but they were going to oppose it. <p>Early in the health care debate, a Republican Senator said, \\"If we are able to stop Obama on this, it will be his Waterloo; it will break him.\\"<p>When it comes to fiscal responsibility--now, these are the folks who inherited this massive surplus from Bill Clinton and the Democrats, right? So they conveniently forget when they're in charge that they turned this massive surplus into massive deficits, voting for two tax cuts for the wealthy that weren't paid for, two wars, a new entitlement program--paid for none of it. Suddenly, we're in, and they've got the green visors out, and they're sharpening the pencils--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and they're deficit hawks again, blamed me for all of it. I walked in with a $1.3 trillion deficit. Suddenly, it's mine. This is a sight to see. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So I said, okay, I'm President, I'm going to take responsibility for it. I embraced a Republican idea: We're going to create a bipartisan fiscal commission to help us close the deficit. What happened? Some of the same folks who had proposed the idea--they were sponsors of the bill--suddenly they're against it. [<i>Laughter</i>] So I'm sensing a pattern. [<i>Laughter</i>] So somebody's got to tell them, you talk and you share ideas first, then you can say no. You don't say no first. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So not surprisingly, people are frustrated with Washington. But if folks spent less time trying to score points and more time thinking about the needs and the hopes of the American people, imagine all that we could accomplish together. I know this may be heresy to say in front of a crowd like this, at an event like this, but there are more important things than political party. <p>So I'm going to keep on reaching out to Republicans. I'm going to keep on incorporating good ideas when they have them, even if they refuse to consider my good ideas, because there is a lot that we should be able to agree on. We should be able to agree on rebuilding our economy so that hard work is rewarded and families feel like they've got a shot at achieving the American Dream again. This is more than just an economic challenge, because jobs are more than about a paycheck. It's about feeling a job well done, the sense of self-worth and dignity, the fulfillment of meeting one's responsibilities. We've got to think creatively and collaboratively if we want to put America back to work in well-paying jobs.<p>We should all agree we've got to close our mounting deficits. I take this very seriously. Even as we've had to spend our way out of this recession in the near term, helping people with unemployment insurance and their health insurance needs and helping States so they're not having to lay off teachers and cops and firefighters, we've still been making hard choices necessary to put our country on a more stable fiscal footing in the long run.<p>But we're going to face more tough choices ahead, and we've got to work on them together. We should all agree that we've got to pass commonsense Wall Street reform that prevents the kind of situation that led us into this crisis in the first place and damaged the dreams of millions of Americans. <p>Now, it's no surprise that the financial institutions that profit from the status quo have sent hordes of lobbyists to kill reform. It's like throwing a piece of meat into a piranha tank. They're going to race to see how fast they can tear it apart. But we can't allow them to succeed. Every Member of Congress is soon going to have to make a decision; they're going to have to make a choice. And the choice is going to be very simple, between special interests and the American people. If you want the status quo, where banks are able to take wild risks to pump up their bonuses and leave you footing the bill when things go south, that's one option. I don't think it's the right one. And there's going to be a very clear choice to make. And I believe that all of us, Democrat and Republican, can find some common ground here.<p>So the bottom line is, we've come a long way to go--we've come a long way this past year, but we've got a long way to go. We've got a lot of work left to do. Times are still tough for too many of our fellow Americans. But here's what I want you to remember: America's endured tough times before, tougher times than these, even. And we always come out of them stronger; we always come out of them smarter; we always come out more united. And, Miami, I'm convinced that if we keep at it, if we see this through, if we shun the cynics, if we heed the better angels of our nature, if we look beyond the next election, do what's right for the next generation, then we're going to meet our common challenges and we are going to finish what we've started. We are going to keep the promise and hope of America alive for this generation and for the next generation and every generation after that. And we're only going to do it because of you guys and the incredible work that you're doing each and every day.<p>Thank you. I love you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"100" "\"Thank you. Please, everybody, have a seat. Thank you.<p>It is a great privilege to join for this conference on America's great outdoors. There are a number of people that, obviously, I want to acknowledge here who have worked tirelessly to move this agenda forward. At the top of our list, our Secretary of the Interior, who I believe is going to be one of the best Secretaries of Interior in American history, Ken Salazar, who has just fully embraced this issue. We're thrilled with the work he's done. Thank you. Thank you, Ken.<p>Secretary Tom Vilsack, Administrator Lisa Jackson, Nancy Sutley--all have been part of what we call our green team and are consistently providing creative ideas to make sure that we understand that conservation is not contrary to economic growth, it is an integral part of economic growth. And they have just done a fabulous job on that, so please give them a big round of applause.<p>We have my outstanding NOAA Administrator, Dr. Jane Lubchenco. We have Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, Jo-Ellen Darcy; Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Installations and the Environment, Dr. Dorothy Robyn. And in the audience, if I'm not mistaken, we've got some luminaries. Is Governor Bill Richardson in the house? There he is--from New Mexico, a great conservationist. Former Secretary of the Interior, Secretary Bruce Babbitt is here; one of the finest young mayors in the country, Mayor Cory Booker; and to all the outstanding Members of Congress who have been so diligent in promoting a conservation agenda.<p>Now, I am mindful that the first such conference was held over one century ago by one of my favorite Presidents, one of our greatest Presidents, and certainly our greatest conservation President. Upon taking office, Theodore Roosevelt--avid birdwatcher, bear hunter--set out on a tour of the American West that would change his life and the life of a nation forever.<p>He stood in awe of the geysers at Yellowstone. He camped in a snow blizzard at Yosemite. He stood on the lip of the Grand Canyon. \\"The ages have been at work on it,\\" he declared. \\"Man can only mar it.\\"<p>And from that sense of commitment sprang 5 national parks, 18 national monuments, 51 Federal bird reservations, and 150 national forests. From that commitment sprang an effort to save the great redwoods of California and the petrified forest of Arizona, the great bird rocks of the Aleutian Islands and the Tongass of Alaska. From that commitment sprang a breathtaking legacy of conservation that still enhances our lives.<p>Now, that legacy is an extraordinary achievement, and no matter how long I have the privilege of serving as President, I know I can never match it. And I will probably never shoot a bear. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's a fair bet there, fair guess. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I do intend to enrich that legacy, and I feel an abiding bond with the land that is the United States of America.<p>And I do for the same reasons that all of you do, for the same reasons families go outside for a picnic or campers spend a night in a national park and sportsmen track game through the woods or wade deep into a river. It's a recognition passed down from one generation to the next that few pursuits are more satisfying to the spirit than discovering the greatness of America's outdoors.<p>And when we see America's land, we understand what an incredible bounty that we have been given. And it's our obligation to make sure that the next generation enjoys that same bounty.<p>That recognition has been a touchstone of this Presidency, thanks to the outstanding leadership of Ken Salazar and Secretary Vilsack and Lisa Jackson and Nancy Sutley. They have done extraordinary work.<p>Last year, I signed into law a public lands bill--the most significant in decades--that designated 2 million acres of wilderness, over 1,000 miles of wild and scenic rivers, and three national parks. We better protected cherished places like Oregon's Mount Hood. We're taking a new approach to our national forests to make sure they're not just providing timber for lumber companies, but water and jobs for rural communities. We are restoring our rivers and coasts, from the Chesapeake Bay to the Gulf Coast, from the Great Lakes to the Everglades.<p>So yes, we are working faithfully to carry on the legacy of Teddy Roosevelt in the 21st century. But we also know that we must adapt our strategies to meet the new challenges of our time. Over the last century, our population grew from about 90 million to 300 million people, and as it did, we lost more and more of our natural landscape to development. Meanwhile, a host of other factors, from a changing climate to new sources of pollution, have put a growing strain on our wildlife and our waters and our lands.<p>So rising to meet these challenges is a task and an obligation, but it's one that Government cannot and should not meet alone. There are roughly 1,600 privately run land trusts in this country that have protected over 10 million acres through voluntary efforts. And by working with farmers and ranchers and landowners, the Department of Agriculture's Conservation Reserve Program has protected over 30 million acres, and its Natural Resource Conservation Service, a service that is 75 years old this year, has protected almost 3 million more. So together, we are conserving our working lands in a way that preserves the environment and protects local communities.<p>And that's the kind of collaborative spirit at the heart of the America's Great Outdoors Initiative that we're launching today. In the months ahead, members of this administration will host regional listening sessions across America. We'll meet with everybody, from tribal leaders to farmers, from young people to businesspeople, from elected officials to recreation and conservation groups. And their ideas will help us form a 21st-century strategy for America's great outdoors to better protect our natural landscape and our history for generations to come.<p>Now, understand, we're not talking about a big Federal agenda being driven out of Washington. We're talking about how we can collect best ideas on conservation, how we can pursue good ideas that local communities embrace, and how we can be more responsible stewards of tax dollars to promote conservation.<p>First, we're going to build on successful conservation efforts being spearheaded outside of Washington--by local and State governments, by tribes, and by private groups--so we can write a new chapter in the protection of rivers, wildlife habitats, historic sites, and the great landscapes of our country.<p>Secondly, we're going to help farmers, ranchers, property owners who want to protect their lands for their children and their grandchildren.<p>Third, we'll help families spend more time outdoors, building on what the First Lady has done through the \\"Let's Move!\\" initiative, to encourage young people to hike and bike and get outside more often.<p>And fourth, we want to foster a new generation of community and urban parks so that children across America have the chance to experience places like Millennium Park in my own Chicago.<p>We're launching this strategy because it's the right thing to do, because, as TR said, we must not mar the work of the ages. But we're also doing it because it's the right thing to do for our economy. It's how we're going to spur job creation in the tourism industry and the recreation industry. It's how we'll create jobs preserving and maintaining our forests, our rivers, our great outdoors.<p>In a time of great difficulty, when we are recovering from the worst recession in generations and waging two wars abroad, some may ask whether now's the time to reaffirm our commitment to our national heritage. But I want everybody to recall, it was in the midst of the Civil War that Abraham Lincoln set aside lands that are now Yosemite. It was in the midst of a Great Depression that FDR formed the Civilian Conservation Corps that built the trails and campgrounds and parks we enjoy today.<p>Even in times of crisis, we're called to take the long view to preserve our national heritage, because in doing so, we fulfill one of the responsibilities to--that falls to all of us as Americans and as inhabitants of this same small planet. And that is the responsibility that we are rising to meet today.<p>So thank you all for the outstanding work that you're doing individually. I look forward to the work that you're going to be doing collectively in advising this administration. Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"101" "\"There were many causes of the turmoil that ripped through our economy over the past 2 years. But above all, this crisis was caused by the failures in the financial industry. What's clear is that this crisis could have been avoided if Wall Street firms were more accountable, if financial dealings were more transparent, and if consumers and shareholders were given more information and authority to make decisions.<p>But that didn't happen. And that's because special interests have waged a relentless campaign to thwart even basic, commonsense rules, rules to prevent abuse and protect consumers. In fact, the financial industry and its powerful lobby have opposed modest safeguards against the kinds of reckless risks and bad practices that led to this very crisis. <p>The consequences of this failure of responsibility--from Wall Street to Washington--are all around us: 8 million jobs lost, trillions in savings erased, countless dreams diminished or denied. I believe we have to do everything we can to ensure that no crisis like this ever happens again. And that's why I'm fighting so hard to pass a set of Wall Street reforms and consumer protections.<p>A plan for reform is currently moving through Congress. Here's what this plan would do. First, it would enact the strongest consumer financial protections ever. It would put consumers back in the driver's seat by forcing big banks and credit card companies to provide clear, understandable information so that Americans can make financial decisions that work best for them. <p>Next, these reforms would bring new transparency to financial dealings. Part of what led to this crisis was firms like AIG and others making huge and risky bets, using things like derivatives, without accountability. Warren Buffett himself once described derivatives bought and sold with little oversight as \\"financial weapons of mass destruction.\\" That's why through reform we'd help ensure that these kind of complicated financial transactions take place on an open market. Because ultimately, it is a marketplace that is open, free, and fair that will allow our economy to flourish.<p>We'd also close loopholes to stop the kind of recklessness and irresponsibility that we've seen. It's these loopholes that allowed executives to take risks that not only endangered their companies, but also our entire economy. And we're going to put in place new rules so that big banks and financial institutions will pay for the bad decisions they make, not taxpayers. Simply put, this means no more taxpayer bailouts. Never again will taxpayers be on the hook because a financial company is deemed too big to fail.<p>Finally, these reforms hold Wall Street accountable by giving shareholders new power in the financial system. They'll get a say on pay, a vote on salaries and bonuses awarded to top executives. And the SEC will ensure that shareholders have more power in corporate elections so that investors and pension holders have a stronger voice in determining what happens with their life savings.<p>Now, unsurprisingly, these reforms have not exactly been welcomed by the people who profit from the status quo, as well their allies in Washington. This is probably why the special interests have spent a lot of time and a lot of money lobbying to kill or weaken the bill. Just the other day, in fact, the leader of the Senate Republicans and the chair of the Republican Senate campaign committee met with two dozen top Wall Street executives to talk about how to block progress on this issue.<p>Lo and behold, when he returned to Washington, the Senate Republican leader came out against commonsense reforms that we've proposed. In doing so, he made the cynical and deceptive assertion that reform would somehow enable future bailouts, when he knows that it would do exactly the opposite. Every day we don't act, the same system that led to bailouts remains in place, with the exact same loopholes and the exact same liabilities. And if we don't change what led to the crisis, we will doom ourselves to repeat it. That's the truth. Opposing reform will leave taxpayers on the hook if a crisis like this ever happens again. <p>So my hope is that we can put this kind of politics aside. My hope is that Democrats and Republicans can find common ground and move forward together. But this is certain: One way or another, we will move forward. This issue is too important. The costs of inaction are too great. We will hold Wall Street accountable. We will protect and empower consumers in our financial system. That's what reform is all about. That's what we're fighting for. And that's exactly what we're going to achieve.<p>Thanks so much.\" "
"102" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, California! Hello. I am fired up. It's good to see you. All right, all right, all right. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, California.<p>I want to begin by just thanking--everybody's a special guest, but let me just point out some folks who are here who I want to acknowledge. First of all, somebody who was one of the finest Governors in the country, is now one of the best DNC chairmen of the country, Tim Kaine--give it up for Tim Kaine; attorney general, and may soon be another great Governor, Jerry Brown--where's Jerry?--he's around here somewhere; State Superintendent of Public Instruction Jack O'Connell is in the house; Congresswoman--outstanding Congresswoman Jane Harman; Congressman Joe Baca; Congresswoman Diane Watson; Congresswoman Laura Richardson; Congresswoman Judy Chu; former Governor Gray Davis; Speaker Emeritus--that's a pretty fancy title--[<i>Laughter</i>]--Speaker Emeritus of the California Assembly Karen Bass is in the house.<p>I haven't seen her, but I'm told she's here, and I love this woman's music and her spirit, India Arie is supposedly in the house. Hello, India, wherever you are. Where is she?<p><i>Audience members. </i>[<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President. </i>Right there--there she--there--no--where you are?<p><i>Audience member.</i> Backstage.<p><i>The President.</i> Backstage--she's backstage, okay. I was like, where? I don't see her.<p>Somebody else who I'm very honored to have--I want everybody to acknowledge----<p><i>Audience members.</i> There she is.<p><i>The President.</i> There she is; there's my girl, India Arie.<p>And while we're at it with special people, somebody who helped Major League Baseball become what it is, but also helped America become what it is, Hall of Fame pitcher Don Newcombe is in the house. I just had the honor of meeting him. Just had the honor of meeting him and taking a picture with him, and he was very gracious in saying, \\"You know, Jackie would be proud.\\" And I said, \\"Well, I would not be here if it were not for Jackie and it were not for Don Newcombe.\\"<p>It is nice to be back. It is nice to be in California, not just because it's good to get out of Washington--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but one of the things that I enjoy most about coming to events like this is the chance to be with some old friends, to be with some of the people who were there with me at the beginning, who knocked on doors and made telephone calls and who helped us win the Presidency in 2008.<p>But as happy as I am to see you, I am even happier to be with my good friend and great Senator, Barbara Boxer. It was one of the privileges of being a Senator that I had a chance to work alongside Barbara. You know, California has been----<p><i>Audience member</i>. [<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President</i>. ----you know, California has been a leader in promoting hybrids and cleaner burning fuels, and appropriately, you have in Barbara Boxer a subcompact Senator with a seemingly inexhaustible supply of energy.<p>Now, a lot of you are aware of how deeply Barbara cares about the environment, about her work to pursue clean--a clean energy future, and that work's vitally important. But what I also want you to know is that this is a woman who has a deep passion for fighting for you, fighting for all her constituents here in California.<p>She's passionate about fighting for jobs, jobs with good wages, jobs with good benefits. She's passionate about fighting for California's families. She is----<p><i>Audience member</i>. Repeal \\"don't ask, don't tell\\"!<p><i>The President</i>. We are going to do that.<p><i>[At this point, there was a disruption in the audience.]</i><p><i>The President. </i>Hey, hold on a second, hold on a second. We are going to do that.<p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can!<p><i>The President.</i> So let's----<p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can!<p><i>The President</i>. There we go. All right----<p><i>[The disruption continued.]</i><p><i>The President.</i> Guys, guys----<p><i>Audience member</i>. [<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President</i>. All right. I agree. I agree. I agree. Now----<p><i>[The disruption continued.]</i><p><i>The President.</i> No, no, no--no, listen. What the young man was talking about was, we need to repeal \\"don't ask, don't tell,\\" which I agree with and which we have begun to do. But let me say this: When you've got an ally like Barbara Boxer and you've got an ally like me who are standing for the same thing, then you don't know exactly why you've got to holler, because we already hear you, all right? I mean, it would make more sense to holler that at the people who oppose it.<p>When you've got Barbara Boxer, who is passionate about fighting to give people all across this State a fair shake, to put the American Dream within reach for all Americans, then what we should be worrying about is how are we going to make sure Barbara Boxer gets elected.<p>And that's mostly what I want to talk about tonight. I am proud of the work we've done to bring the world together around a host of problems, from terrorism to the nuclear threat, from climate change to deprivation and poverty around the globe. I was gratified to sign a new START Treaty with Russia and to host so many world leaders in Washington last week, working in concert to reduce the perilous risk that nuclear materials could fall into the wrong hands.<p>But reviving our own economy remains the central challenge that we're facing today. I don't have to tell you that. This State has been hit as hard as any State in the Union with economic troubles these past few years. Jobs have been lost at a heartbreaking level all across this State, and they've devastated families and devastated communities.<p>The housing crisis hit this State with a particular vengeance, driving your friends, your neighbors out of their homes, injecting a sense of fear and financial insecurity into too many people's lives.<p><i>Audience member</i>. It's time for equality for all Americans!<p><i>The President</i>. I'm sorry, do you want to come up here? You know, the--all right, because can I just say, once again, Barbara and I are supportive of repealing \\"don't ask, don't tell,\\" so I don't know why you're hollering.<p>Now, the problems that we have here put a further strain on folks in this State, forcing painful choices about where to spend and where to save. And the challenges folks have been facing here----<p><i>Audience member</i>. [<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can!<p><i>The President</i>. Barbara----<p><i>[The President talked privately with Sen. Boxer. He continued his remarks as follows.]</i><p>I just--everybody, I just wanted to confirm--I just checked with Barbara, so if anybody else is thinking about starting a chant, Barbara didn't even vote for \\"don't ask, don't tell\\" in the first place, so you know she's going to be in favor of repealing \\"don't ask, don't tell.\\"<p>Now, that is a key issue, but I think putting Californians back to work is also a key issue, because there are folks, gay and straight, who are out of work right now. And the challenges that are being faced right here in California are facing Americans all across the country.<p>Now, these aren't challenges that suddenly appeared when I got sworn into office. They didn't come out of nowhere. When I walked into the White House on that very first day, America was embroiled in a series of crises the likes of which we hadn't seen in some time.<p>Abroad, we were confronting a war in Iraq that needed to come to a responsible end, a war in Afghanistan that demanded greater focus, a new world of threats and new dangers.<p>And at home, we were facing a financial crisis that just about every credible economist said had the potential to plunge us into another great depression, an economic crisis that was producing stagnant wages, falling incomes, and a shaken middle class, and a deficit crisis that was saddling our children with a mountain of debt. That's what we inherited when we came in.<p>And while we've still got a long and difficult road ahead of us, while too many of our neighbors are still struggling, especially here in California, these are challenges that Barbara and I and others are working hard to solve together. We're beginning to see some signs of progress all across America: adding jobs instead of losing them; spending--people spending again; orders rising again; an economy that's growing instead of shrinking.<p>And, California, this progress we're seeing didn't happen by accident. It happened because we've taken a number of necessary but not always popular steps to break the back of this recession and to get our economy moving again. But you didn't send us to Washington just to manage the crisis or rescue the economy. You sent us there to rebuild it so that it was stronger than before, to make it more prosperous than it was before, more competitive than it was before. You sent us there to make the 21st century another American century and lay a new foundation for growth that will reach all our people.<p>And that's what health insurance reform was about. That's why we embarked on historic education reform. That's why we're embarking on clean energy reform. That's what our future's about. That's why we have restored science to its rightful place. That's why we renewed our commitment to research and development, from medical labs to nanotechnology. We're focusing on the next generation, California, not just the next election.<p>That's the mission that I've been trying to faithfully carry out on your behalf. And that's the mission that Members of Congress like Barbara have been carrying out faithfully on your behalf. Now, I'll be honest, it would have been nice if we had had a little more help from the other side of the aisle sometimes.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Any help.<p><i>The President.</i> Say any help--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and I--just a smidgen of help. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I've been disappointed sometimes that that little smidgen hasn't been more forthcoming. You would have expected that Republican leaders would have been willing to help out, cleaning up after this mess, since they had more than a little to do with creating it.<p>And we all have a stake in cleaning it up. We're all, after all, Americans. Not Democrats, not Republicans first; we're Americans first. So we should all have a stake in seeing success in cleaning this situation up. And yet, after driving our economy into the ditch, they decided to stand on the side of the road and watch us while we pulled it out of the ditch. They asked, \\"Why haven't you pulled it out fast enough?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"I noticed there's, like, a little scratch there in the fender. Why didn't you do something about that?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, look, you know, that's their prerogative, California. That's also what elections are for. And the American people will have a clear choice when they head to the polls in November. And they'll have to do--all they'll have to do is look what we've been for and what the other side's been against.<p>For example, tax cuts--you know, we just had tax day, and there were a bunch of folks out there complaining about their taxes. I understand that. Nobody likes paying taxes, except I just want to make sure their anger is properly directed, because we were for putting $200 billion in tax cuts into the pockets of the American people, tax cuts for making college more affordable, tax cuts for buying a first home. Altogether, we gave 25 different tax cuts for families and for businesses, several of them directed at small businesses that they're the backbone of our economy. Here in California, 98 percent of working families are getting a tax cut. So that's what we were for, and that's what the other side was against.<p><i>Audience member</i>. Thank you for my tax cut.<p><i>The President</i>. You're welcome. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We--Barbara and I and the other Members of Congress here--we thought it was wasteful and wrong to give billions of dollars to banks to act as unnecessary middlemen in administering student loans. So we said, let's use that money to help more students go to college and get the skills they need to outcompete workers around the world. We said, let's make the repayment of student loans more manageable so that kids don't start out with a crushing debt. That's what we were for; that's what they were against.<p>We thought it was unfair to deny health insurance to Americans with preexisting conditions. We thought it was wrong to let hard-working families and small businesses continue to get crushed by skyrocketing health care costs and families go bankrupt because somebody gets sick in their family. So we did what Americans have been trying to do for a century--Republican Presidents and Democratic Presidents and Republican Congresses and Democratic Congresses--and we finally enshrined the principle that all of us ought to have a sense of security when it comes to our health care. That's what we were for; that's what they were against.<p>In fact, the Republican leader in the House said the other day that repealing health insurance reform would be his number-one priority if he becomes Speaker of the House in November.<p><i>Audience members</i>. No! Boo!<p><i>The President</i>. So he would say to you and 800,000 Californians with preexisting conditions, \\"You know what? We think it was a mistake to make sure that you can get coverage.\\" And he'd tell all those seniors, \\"Give back that $250 you'll get this year to help pay for prescription drugs.\\" And then he'll say to millions of small-business men and women who today qualify for new tax credits to help them cover their workers, \\"You know what? Your workers don't need health insurance, and you don't need help either.\\"<p>Now, that--if he wants to run on that appealing agenda--[<i>Laughter</i>]--go ahead. But Barbara Boxer's not going to let it happen, and I'm not going to let it happen, and you're not going to let it happen, and the American people are not going to let it happen, because we believe that Americans should have affordable, quality health care.<p><i>Audience member</i>. Thank you!<p><i>The President</i>. You're welcome. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, even as we speak, we're in the midst of another important battle in Washington. I want everybody to be paying attention these next several weeks, because one of the main reasons our economy faltered was because some on Wall Street made irresponsible bets with no accountability. The rules weren't adequate. Sometimes the Government simply looked the other way. And as a result, we had a financial crisis that led to the loss of 8 1/2 million jobs, a crisis that's caused millions of Californians to lose their homes and cost families and businesses trillions of dollars in savings and assets.<p>Now, I've said this many times before: I believe in the free financial market. I believe that's--that it's essential that we have a strong financial market, because that helps to boost dynamic economic growth.<p>But a free market doesn't mean you should be free to do whatever you want, however you can get it, without regard to consequences. There have to be some rules of the road, there's got to be some accountability, there's got to be some transparency, or else we're going to see more abuses and disastrous meltdowns like the ones we just experienced.<p>So Barbara and the Members of Congress who are here and I believe that we've got to update the rules governing the financial markets to bring greater accountability, greater transparency to Wall Street and greater protections to consumers and taxpayers and the broader economy.<p>And not surprisingly, Wall Street has fought some of these reforms--shocking. [<i>Laughter</i>] They've sent down an army of lobbyists. They're just waiting to water them down. The truth is, that's a big reason we got into this mess in the first place, because of the disproportionate power of these lobbies. So this time, we've got to get it right. This time, we have a responsibility to meet, a responsibility to the American people and to America's future.<p>Now, the Senate Republican leader, he paid a visit to Wall Street a week or two ago. He took along the chairman of their campaign committee. He met with some of the movers and shakers up there. I don't know exactly what was discussed. All I can tell you is when he came back, he promptly announced he would oppose the financial regulatory reform. He would oppose it.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Shocking.<p><i>The President.</i> Shocking. [<i>Laughter</i>] And once again, he's threatening to tie up the Senate with a filibuster to try to block progress.<p><i>Audience members</i>. Boo!<p><i>The President</i>. And he made the cynical argument that is just plain false that this plan that is essential to avoiding future taxpayer bailouts was somehow going to create taxpayer bailouts. <p>Now, understand, I'm not saying Democrats and Republicans ought to agree on everything. There are some things we just philosophically disagree on. And that's a good thing. That's part of our democracy. But a wise man once said, \\"He has the right to criticize who has the heart to help.\\"<p>And all we're looking right now for is some help, some common sense and some help. That's what we hope the other side is going to do, not just criticize, but help, exercise some common sense. Don't just stand in the way, but lend a hand and help. Because the fact is, we need everybody's help. The problems we face are too great for any one party to solve. And all of us, Democrats and Republicans, have to come together to solve them.<p>All of us together have to tackle exploding deficits. That's why I directed my team to go through the budget line by line to cut what we don't need so we can pay for what we do. That's why I took a Republican idea, an idea they'd been fighting for, and set up a bipartisan fiscal commission to rein in our deficits. And Barbara and I set a clear goal to cut our deficits in half over the next 3 years.<p>All of us need to come together on behalf of clean energy. It's the right thing to do for the environment. It's the right thing to preserve our natural heritage. It's the right thing to do for our economy. And that's why, following California's lead, I worked to bring everybody up to a tough, new standard for cars and trucks, ushering in the first national standard for fuel economy and greenhouse gas reductions. That's why Barbara and I worked together to provide incentives for companies building wind turbines and solar panels and green jobs that can't be outsourced. That's why we need to build on Barbara's good work and pass comprehensive energy and climate legislation, because the country that leads the energy economy will lead the global economy. Barbara and I want that country to be the United States of America.<p>All of us--all of us--need to come together to expand the reach of the American Dream. And that's why the first bill I signed as President helps ensure equal pay for equal work for men and women alike. And yes, that's why I'm committed to ending \\"don't ask, don't tell\\" and upholding nondiscrimination in the workplace.<p>That's why last week, I signed an order to help end the cruel practice of denying loved ones hospital visitation rights because of who they are. We need to keep a fundamental promise of America. We've got to keep a fundamental promise that it doesn't matter who you are, what you look like, where you come from, the blessings of this country are open to every single American.<p>So let me close by saying this: These have been difficult years for California, and they've been difficult years for America. And I can't pretend we're over all the tough times. There are going to be some more hard days ahead.<p>But here is what I want you to know: I have never been more optimistic about America's future. And I am optimistic because I know there are people like you out there and I know there are people like Barbara Boxer in the Senate who's fighting to change this country for the better. And because you are out there fighting and because Barbara is there fighting, I draw inspiration. And there are people all across this country who are dreaming of a better tomorrow, and then they are willing to fight for those dreams to come true.<p>And you know what? That's the story of California. This is a State that always drew dreamers, men and women with the courage to pursue their dreams. It's a State that inspired pioneers to head out across an unforgiving wilderness, a State that spurned--spurred glory seekers to rush westward for gold, and the State that draws innovators and entertainers, from Hollywood Hills to Mountain View. And there's always been something about California that inspires us to dream, that's called on us to build a better life, that has helped us imagine the world as it is and then recognize that the world as it might be is out there.<p>And I'm absolutely confident that if folks in Washington can recapture that same spirit, that same boundless, resilient American spirit, we're not only going to rescue our economy, we're not only going to rebuild it stronger than before, but we're going to do what generations did before and make the American Dream more secure for our children and our grandchildren. That's what Barbara Boxer is about. That's what you're about. And that's why I expect you to be out there making phone calls and knocking on doors and rallying the troops, just like you did in 2008, to make sure that you return Barbara Boxer to the United States Senate.<p>Thank you very much, California. God bless you.\" "
"103" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, hello. Good to see you. We've got a whole bunch of the congressional delegation--[<i>applause</i>]--you know who you are. [<i>Laughter</i>] I see a whole bunch of supporters from way back. It's good to see you again. It is just wonderful to be back in California. And I can't think of a better reason to come back to California than to get Barbara Boxer reelected.<p>Barbara was taking us down memory lane there for a second. [<i>Laughter</i>] So I won't go into every detail about what Barbara and I, together, and every Member of Congress here together has had to deal with over the last year and a half. Barbara mentioned two wars, the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, a housing market that had completely collapsed. I forgot about the pirates, but you--[<i>Laughter</i>]--you forgot about the pandemic. [<i>Laughter</i>] That was kind of--that was like seventh or eighth on the list. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But look, the fact is, is that as tough as the situation has been in Washington, it's been a lot tougher on the ground for American people all across this country. You know about it because you've been dealing with it. In your capacity as community leaders, as elected leaders, you've seen what's happening here in California. And California, in a lot of ways, has been ground zero for what's been happening all across the country: millions of people thrown out of work; millions of people losing their health care in the process of being thrown out of work; choices having to be made by local and State officials about are they going to hang on to teachers, are they going to lay off teachers, how are they going to pay off a burgeoning debt, how are we going to deal with the social services that are needed more than ever because of the crisis, but unfortunately, we've got less revenue to deal with.<p>So there have been a lot of people hurting out there. And I know that. I get 10 letters every single day that I read out of the 40,000 that I receive, and about half of them call me an idiot--because the charge of those selecting the letters is to make sure that we're evenhanded. [<i>Laughter</i>] But the other half--actually, the other three-quarters--tell again and again just heartbreaking stories about children asking why is it that they're having to move even though they really like the house they're living in and the neighborhood they live in; or families talking about how are they going to take care of their parents now that their retirement accounts were completely decimated, or how are they going to make their mortgage when both adults in the household have lost their jobs.<p>And nothing is harder and nothing is more heartbreaking than reading these letters and knowing that change has not come as fast as we'd like. But here is the main message that I have for all of you: Change is coming. Change has come. An economy that was contracting is now expanding. Folks who were losing their jobs, now we're seeing employers hiring again. Businesses are beginning to invest again. Tax revenue is starting to percolate up again. <p>And the reason is, is because we made a series of decisions that were not always popular but were the right thing to do. And nobody is tougher and nobody is more determined to do the right thing, even when in the face of fierce opposition, than Barbara Boxer.<p>You all know that Barbara is a huge champion for clean energy; she is a huge champion for the environment. She is a huge champion of hybrid cars and electric plug-ins. So it's appropriate that we have here this subcompact model--[<i>Laughter</i>]--that is an inexhaustible source of energy. And I could not have a better partner in the fights that have to be fought.<p>Now, we've made all this progress because of people like Barbara Boxer and the Members of Congress who are here today. And if you just tick off what has been accomplished this year in yanking this economic out of depression and getting it on a trajectory again, on having about as ambitious a education reform agenda that not many people talk about, but millions more young people are going to be able to afford to go to college--[<i>applause</i>]. We've cracked down on housing fraud; we've cracked down on credit card fraud. We are moving through the stimulus package---- <p><i>[At this point, Sen. Boxer's grandchild came onto the stage.]</i><p>Are you stealing my lines here? Come on. [<i>Laughter</i>] Talk about--wasn't it W.C. Fields who said, you never perform with kids or animals? [<i>Laughter</i>] Because they always, like, steal your thunder. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>On clean energy, on investments in science, on reversing the stem cell ban. We're now moving forward and reversing \\"don't ask, don't tell.\\" On health care reform so that every single--[<i>applause</i>]--on each and every one of those issues, Barbara Boxer has been right in--[<i>applause</i>].<p>But here is my message: We've got a lot more work to do. Our work is not yet done. And because some of the things that we did were not popular, we're going to have a tough political fight coming up. November is going to be tough. Barbara is going to have a tough race. It's always a tough race if you're an incumbent in this kind of economic environment. Even though it's picking up, people are still hurting like they haven't hurt in a long time. And so it's tough being an incumbent. And it's even tougher when you've got the other side of the aisle--which helped to cause the mess but doesn't seem to want to help in cleaning up after the mess--distorting the record of somebody like Barbara Boxer. <p>So we're going to have some work ahead of us. But when you're asked by your friends, your neighbors, people who you're making sure contribute to Barbara Boxer's campaign, I just want you to remind them what Barbara has been for and what the other side has been for. If they want to talk about the stimulus, you just remind them that one-third of that is tax cuts. We have 25 different tax cuts, and 98 percent of Californians got a tax cut because of the vote that Barbara Boxer cast, the biggest tax cut in history, biggest investment in clean energy in history, biggest investment in education in history. When they were against it, Barbara Boxer was for it.<p>You ask them, are you in favor of children with preexisting conditions not being able to get insurance and parents having to figure out how to scramble to find the care that their children need? Because they were against health care reform; Barbara Boxer was for health care reform. You ask them if they want to give away those millions of dollars' worth of tax credits to small businesses so they can do the right thing by their employees. Barbara Boxer was for it; they are against it.<p>We're going to have some more choices coming up, because right now we've got a big battle on financial regulatory reform. And I don't know about you, the notion that we would settle for the status quo and create a situation in which Wall Street could gamble with somebody else's money, take exorbitant risks, and put the entire economy at risk and force taxpayers to try to pick up the tab when things went south on them makes absolutely no sense, which is why Barbara Boxer and the present congressional delegation right here want to do something about it and have tough restrictions on the kinds of risks that--[<i>applause</i>]--and where the consumers can be protected.<p>And I think that that's something that is worthy of support. Now, it turns out Mitch McConnell thinks differently. [<i>Laughter</i>] I don't know exactly what happened, but he and the chairman of the Senate committee went up to Wall Street, had a powwow with them, and came away; the next thing we knew, they were all opposed to financial regulatory reform. [<i>Laughter</i>] I don't know the nature of the conversation--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but I'm hoping that they will do the right thing.<p>I don't welcome some of the pitched, partisan rhetoric that we've been seeing. Barbara doesn't either. None of us do. Because the problems we face are big enough that we've got to have Republicans and Democrats working together. But here's what I won't do, what I'm not going to do, and what Barbara Boxer is not going to do, is compromise our principles and sell out the American people just in order to try to create some false sense of peace. There are some stands that are worth fighting for, and financial regulatory reform is one of those stands.<p>Here is my bottom line. We've got a lot of work to do on a whole range of issues. We still need comprehensive immigration reform. We still need to make sure our K through 12 education is serving our children. We still have to make our economy more competitive and spur on greater innovation and investment in research and development. We've still got to have some control over our fiscal system. And you are going to need somebody who is as passionate and as caring and as committed and as tough as the Senator that you've got right here, right now.<p>So I don't want anybody here taking this for granted. A lot of you worked on my campaign in 2008, and sometimes it's easy to get excited about Presidential campaigns. But you know what? This is where the rubber hits the road. And unless Barbara gets the help that she needs from all of you--and that means digging deep and reaching out to your friends and your neighbors and carrying that message forward everywhere you go--unless she's got our support, she might not win this thing. And I don't think that's an acceptable outcome.<p>All right? So I want everybody to work hard, make phone calls, knock on doors, talk to your friends, talk to your neighbors, write big checks----<p><i>Audience member</i>. Fired up! Ready to go!<p><i>The President</i>. ----be fired up, and be ready to go, because Barbara Boxer is ready to go. And you are not going to have a better Senator than Barbara Boxer.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"104" "\"Hello, everybody. Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. Have a seat. I've got so many good friends in this magnificent setting that I don't want to single anybody out, but there are a couple of people that I do have to acknowledge. First of all, our two DNC southern California cochairs, John Emerson and Ken Solomon, thank you for everything that you've done to make this evening possible. <p>I feel bad for the Emersons, though. Apparently they were on their way to Paris--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and the ash got in the way. So this is a consolation--[<i>Laughter</i>]--spending time with me. But I'm thrilled to be here. They've been longtime supporters ever since I first ran for the United States Senate. And Ken's been just a terrific supporter of Democratic causes and my campaigns as well. So thank you, to all of you.<p>He started off not only as one of the finest Governors in the country, he was also the first person to endorse me outside of the State of Illinois. Now, I have to admit that he was term-limited, so--[<i>Laughter</i>]--maybe there wasn't that much of a downside to it. But at a time when nobody could pronounce my name and nobody gave me a chance, this person stood beside me in the seat of the old Confederacy, in Richmond, Virginia. And I am so grateful to him for not only the leadership he showed on behalf of the Commonwealth of Virginia, but the leadership he's shown as our DNC chair. Please give Tim Kaine a big round of applause. <p>Now, I don't know if he's still here, but you've got an outstanding mayor in Mayor Villaraigosa, so please give him a big round of applause. <p>And obviously, I want everybody to give a bunch of whoops and hollers on behalf of our honoree, the person who we are going to make sure gets four terms in the United States Senate, Barbara Boxer. Give Barbara a big round of applause. And give Stew a big round of applause for putting up with Barbara. Thank you, Stew. <p>You know, many of you know that Barbara has been a huge champion of clean energy, energy independence, environmental protection; she loves hybrids and plug-ins. And it is, therefore, appropriate that we have as a Senator a subcompact model--[<i>Laughter</i>]--with inexhaustible energy. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I'm not going to be long tonight. I just want to say a little bit about Barbara, but also a little bit about the state of our Union. <p>You know, when we came into office at the beginning of last year, we were confronting as many difficulties, as many challenges, as probably any President since FDR. We had a war in Iraq that required us to begin phasing down effectively. We had a war in Afghanistan that needed more focus. We had the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, losing 750,000 jobs every single month. And California has obviously been hit as hard as any State in the Union. We had a housing crisis, a crisis in the auto industry. We had a crisis in the financial industry that looked like it might be on the verge of meltdown. And obviously, the pain and difficulty that small businesses, large businesses, and their employees were suffering throughout this State and States all across the country were something that we just had not seen in a generation.<p>And so we had to act swiftly, and we did. We put in place the largest stimulus in history that included the largest investment in clean energy in history, the largest investment in Federal education in history, the largest investment in R&D and science in history, the biggest tax cuts that we've seen in a very, very long time--going to 98 percent of Californians--all of which were designed to do two things, not just to wrench ourselves out of this immediate crisis, but were also designed to start laying a foundation for growth, because we knew that we couldn't keep repeating a pattern of bubble and bust that we'd been seeing, that it wasn't a tenable model for our future and of our--the future of our children and our grandchildren.<p>And we still have a long way to go. I mean, you travel across this State, or you travel across this country, and people are hurting everywhere. People are still out of work. Small businesses are still struggling to get credit. And we're not going to rest until those folks who are willing to work hard and put their blood, sweat, and tears into achieving the American Dream have that opportunity once again.<p>But what we can say is that an economy that was shrinking rapidly is now growing again, that businesses that were shedding workers are now hiring again, that consumers are now spending again, that business investment is taking place again, that the financial market is stabilized and a lot of folks who were counting on that 401(k) being there for their retirement, that that has not--if not completely been restored in value, has come a long way from those dark days just a year ago. <p>All of this would not have been possible had it not been for folks like Barbara Boxer. And so--[<i>applause</i>]--and I don't want you to underestimate the courage of Barbara, because we knew some of the steps that we were taking were going to be unpopular at the time. Sometimes, reporters act as if we don't have pollsters. [<i>Laughter</i>] We do. We take polls all the time. We know when something is not going to be popular. But we also know that sometimes, if you're doing right by the country, you've got to ignore the short-term politics. You can't make decisions based on what's good for the next election; you make decisions based on what's good for the next generation. And that's what Barbara Boxer has done consistently throughout his--her career. <p>I love a story she told me backstage. She said a reporter came up to her and said, \\"You know what? You've been one of the most consistent Senators, politically, I've ever seen, but your hair is not consistent.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Sometimes it's-- [<i>Laughter</i>] . My hair is consistent, Barbara, by the way. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But it's true. One of the reasons to support Barbara Boxer is because you know exactly where she stands. You know where she came from. You know that she cares about working families. You know that she cares about giving them not a handout, but a hand up. You know that she cares about making sure that every child gets a decent education, that workers are getting decent wages and basic workplace protections. You know that she cares about making sure this environment and our natural resources are passed on to the next generation. You know that she cares about making sure that we've got a foreign policy that is smart and balanced and thinks about how we can work cooperatively with other nations even as we are adamant about our security. <p>And Barbara hasn't wavered. And she wants to cooperate with folks on the other side of the aisle where she can, but she's willing to fight where she has to. And that's not a bad adage, by the way, for the Democratic Party. In this entire year and a half of cleaning up the mess, it's been tough because the folks very responsible for a large portion of this mess decided to stand on the sidelines. It was as if somebody had driven their car into the ditch and then just watched you as you had to yank it out and asked you, \\"Why didn't you do it faster, and why do I have that scratch on the fender?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And you want to say, \\"Why don't you put your shoulder up against that car and help to push?\\" That's what we need, is some help. <p>And it wasn't forthcoming. It wasn't forthcoming when it came to economic recovery, and I don't know if you noticed, but it wasn't forthcoming when it came to trying to make sure that every American has secure health care in this country. And yet we got it done anyway without their help. <p>But you know, they've still got some opportunities to help. Right now there's some unfinished business that remains. We have passed a historic health care bill because of people like Barbara Boxer. We have seen the economy begin to recover. But there remains some structural changes, some structural fixes to this extraordinary system that we've got that we're going to have to undertake. And we're going to need people like Barbara in the trenches fighting for those things.<p>We're going to need a comprehensive energy bill that makes sure that we are finally moving away from the old ways of doing business into the new ways of doing business, that we're seizing the opportunities of the 21st century, that we're creating jobs here in the United States building wind turbines and solar panels and making sure that those jobs are created right here in the United States, that we're building the cars of the future. <p>Just one small statistic, because it gives you a sense of what's possible: Before the Recovery Act, the United States made 2 percent of the world's advanced batteries. We are now poised to have 20 percent of the market, and in a few years, we can have as much as 40 percent of the market. We're seeing an entirely new industry being created right here in the United States of America because of the investments we made in clean energy. <p>Now, you duplicate that across sectors, and you think about what that can do to put Californians back to work--because Californians have always been at the forefront of this stuff--and do it in a way that at the same time deals with this threat of climate change and makes sure that we are preserving our natural inheritance for the next generation. It is something that we're going to have to do and we will do, building on the work that Barbara has already done in her committee. We thank you, Barbara, for that. And I'm going to be right next to you to make sure that we can get a comprehensive energy bill done. That is something that we've got to fight for.<p>And then we've got financial regulatory reform. Now, I have consistently said, I believe fiercely in a free market. And I believe that a vibrant, dynamic financial sector is part of that free market. We can't have successful businesses if we don't have a successful and vibrant financial sector. But we have to acknowledge that the status quo has not worked. We've got to acknowledge that it hasn't worked for ordinary Americans, it hasn't worked for the economy as a whole. It's worked for a few but not for the many.<p>When we've got a situation where people are allowed to take wild risks and all the downsides are socialized even as the profits are privatized, then something's going to have to change. When we don't have basic rules of the road in place that assures that consumers aren't abused and tricked, and investors don't know what's going on, then something's got to change.<p>Now, we've got the opportunity to change coming up in the next few weeks. And you watch where Barbara Boxer is going to be, because she's going to be on the sides of investors and consumers and small businesses and on the side of making sure that we never again have any kind of taxpayer bailouts. And then you look at some of the rhetoric that's coming out of the other side of the aisle, and you see folks that so far, at least, don't seem to acknowledge that we're going to have to make some tough decisions and reform the system. The American people understand it. It should be common sense. But unfortunately, the lobbies and the money that is poured into campaigns has ended up distorting that basic truth<p>Fortunately, Barbara Boxer is not swayed. She knows what she stands for. She knows whose side she's on. And that's why you've got to send her back to the United States Senate, because she is going to help us get this stuff done.<p>Comprehensive immigration reform, we've got to get done. Making sure that we continue the progress that's already been made and we overturn \\"don't ask, don't tell,\\" that has to get done. Making sure that we're investing in science and technology and continuing to make our education system work better than any education system in the world so that our children can compete, that remains to be done. <p>So we've got a lot of business to do here. And I can't think of somebody I'd rather have beside me, somebody who has been a tougher fighter, but also a happy warrior, somebody who is just thrilled every day to serve her constituents and just bleeds with them when they're down and celebrates with them when they're doing well, who just wears her heart on her sleeve and cares so deeply about this country, than Barbara Boxer.<p>And so these midyear races are the ones where, historically, it's always been hardest to get folks activated, particularly the party in power. I mean, you remember 2008. That was fun, right? [<i>Laughter</i>] Because it was so obvious that the course we were on wasn't working. And everything felt fresh and new. And now we've gone through a year and a half of tough fights. And some folks are impatient, and some folks just didn't realize how long this was going to take and how hard each battle was going to be. And so people get kind of worn down, and in some cases, people get complacent; some cases, people take things for granted. <p>But you can't take it for granted. You can't take for granted that the next Supreme Court appointee or the Supreme Court appointee after that is going to reflect your values. You can't take that for granted, unless you know that you've got not just a President, but also a United States Senate that is willing to work on behalf of the things that we care about: making sure that everybody's got a chance, making sure that opportunity is open to all; making sure that those ladders into the middle class, into the American Dream, are there; making sure that there's a basic safety net for the vulnerable and the aged and the infirm; making sure that the thing that makes us Democrats, this notion that this country is there for everybody, that everybody has got to have a shot, and that it's nothing--there's nothing wrong with us, even as we affirm our individualism, saying, you know what, I'm going to help my neighbor, I'm going to help my friend, I'm going to help my coworker, I'm going to help somebody I may not know because that's part of what America is all about.<p>You can't take for granted that spirit. It has to be fought for; it has to be worked on. And people who embody it have to be supported. Barbara Boxer is one of those people. And so I want you to work just as hard, I want you to write just as many checks, I want you to call just as many people, I want you to knock on just as many doors as you did for me on behalf of Barbara Boxer. And if you do, I guarantee you we're going to send her back for another term as a great United States Senator from the great State of California. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you, and God bless America.\" "
"105" "\"Thank you very much. Everybody, please have a seat. Thank you very much. Well, thank you. It is good to be back. It is good to be back in New York. It is good to be back in the Great Hall at Cooper Union.<p>We've got some special guests here that I want to acknowledge: Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney is here in the house; Governor David Paterson is here; Attorney General Andrew Cuomo; State Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli is here; the mayor of New York City, Michael Bloomberg; Dr. George Campbell, Jr., president of Cooper Union; and all the citywide elected officials who are here. Thank you very much for your attendance.<p>It is wonderful to be back in Cooper Union, where generations of leaders and citizens have come to defend their ideas and contest their differences. It's also good to be back in lower Manhattan, a few blocks from Wall Street. [<i>Laughter</i>] It really is good to be back, because Wall Street is the heart of our Nation's financial sector.<p>Now, since I last spoke here 2 years ago, our country has been through a terrible trial. More than 8 million people have lost their jobs. Countless small businesses have had to shut their doors. Trillions of dollars in savings have been lost, forcing seniors to put off retirement, young people to postpone college, entrepreneurs to give up on the dream of starting a company. And as a nation, we were forced to take unprecedented steps to rescue the financial system and the broader economy.<p>And as a result of the decisions we made--some of which, let's face it, were very unpopular--we are seeing hopeful signs. A little more than 1 year ago, we were losing an average of 750,000 jobs each month. Today, America is adding jobs again. One year ago, the economy was shrinking rapidly. Today, the economy is growing. In fact, we've seen the fastest turnaround in growth in nearly three decades.<p>But you're here and I'm here because we've got more work to do. Until this progress is felt not just on Wall Street, but on Main Street, we can't be satisfied. Until the millions of our neighbors who are looking for work can find a job and wages are growing at a meaningful pace, we may be able to claim a technical recovery, but we will not have truly recovered. And even as we seek to revive this economy, it's also incumbent on us to rebuild it stronger than before. We don't want an economy that has the same weaknesses that led to this crisis. And that means addressing some of the underlying problems that led to this turmoil and devastation in the first place.<p>Now, one of the most significant contributors to this recession was a financial crisis as dire as any we've known in generations, at least since the thirties. And that crisis was born of a failure of responsibility--from Wall Street all the way to Washington--that brought down many of the world's largest financial firms and nearly dragged our economy into a second great depression.<p>It was that failure of responsibility that I spoke about when I came to New York more than 2 years ago, before the worst of the crisis had unfolded. It was back in 2007. And I take no satisfaction in noting that my comments then have largely been borne out by the events that followed. But I repeat what I said then because it is essential that we learn the lessons from this crisis so we don't doom ourselves to repeat it. And make no mistake: That is exactly what will happen if we allow this moment to pass. And that's an outcome that is unacceptable to me and it's unacceptable to you, the American people.<p>As I said on this stage 2 years ago, I believe in the power of the free market. I believe in a strong financial sector that helps people to raise capital and get loans and invest their savings. That's part of what has made America what it is. But a free market was never meant to be a free license to take whatever you can get, however you can get it. That's what happened too often in the years leading up to this crisis. Some--and let me be clear, not all--but some on Wall Street forgot that behind every dollar traded or leveraged, there's a family looking to buy a house, or pay for an education, open a business, save for retirement. What happens on Wall Street has real consequences across the country, across our economy.<p>I've also spoken before about the need to build a new foundation for economic growth in the 21st century, and given the importance of the financial sector, Wall Street reform is an absolutely essential part of that foundation. Without it, our house will continue to sit on shifting sands, and our families, businesses, and the global economy will be vulnerable to future crises. That's why I feel so strongly that we need to enact a set of updated, commonsense rules to ensure accountability on Wall Street and to protect consumers in our financial system.<p>Now, here's the good news: A comprehensive plan to achieve these reforms has already passed the House of Representatives. A Senate version is currently being debated, drawing on ideas from Democrats and Republicans. Both bills represent significant improvement on the flawed rules that we have in place today, despite the furious effort of industry lobbyists to shape this legislation to their special interests.<p>And for those of you in the financial sector, I'm sure that some of these lobbyists work for you, and they're doing what they are being paid to do. But I'm here today specifically--when I speak to the titans of industry here--because I want to urge you to join us instead of fighting us in this effort. I am here because I believe that these reforms are, in the end, not only in the best interest of our country, but in the best interest of the financial sector. And I'm here to explain what reform will look like and why it matters.<p>Now, first, the bill being considered in the Senate would create what we did not have before, and that is a way to protect the financial system and the broader economy and American taxpayers in the event that a large financial firm begins to fail. If there's a Lehmans or an AIG, how can we respond in a way that doesn't force taxpayers to pick up the tab or, alternatively, could bring down the whole system?<p>In an ordinary local bank, when it approaches insolvency, we've got a process--an orderly process through the FDIC that ensures that depositors are protected, maintains confidence in the banking system, and it works. Customers and taxpayers are protected, and owners and management lose their equity. But we don't have that kind of process designed to contain the failure of a Lehman Brothers or any of the largest and most interconnected financial firms in our country.<p>That's why, when this crisis began, crucial decisions about what would happen to some of the world's biggest companies, companies employing tens of thousands of people and holding hundreds of billions of dollars in assets, had to take place in hurried discussions in the middle of the night. And that's why, to save the entire economy from an even worse catastrophe, we had to deploy taxpayer dollars. Now, much of that money has now been paid back, and my administration has proposed a fee to be paid by large financial firms to recover all the money, every dime, because the American people should never have been put in that position in the first place.<p>But this is why we need a system to shut these firms down with the least amount of collateral damage to innocent people and innocent businesses. And from the start, I've insisted that the financial industry, not taxpayers, shoulder the costs in the event that a large financial company should falter. The goal is to make certain that taxpayers are never again on the hook because a firm is deemed too big to fail.<p>Now, there's a legitimate debate taking place about how best to ensure taxpayers are held harmless in this process. And that's a legitimate debate, and I encourage that debate. But what's not legitimate is to suggest that somehow the legislation being proposed is going to encourage future taxpayer bailouts, as some have claimed. That makes for a good sound bite, but it's not factually accurate. It is not true. In fact, the system as it stands is what led to a series of massive, costly taxpayer bailouts. And it's only with reform that we can avoid a similar outcome in the future. In other words, a vote for reform is a vote to put a stop to taxpayer-funded bailouts. That's the truth. End of story. And nobody should be fooled in this debate.<p>By the way, these changes have the added benefit of creating incentives within the industry to ensure that no one company can ever threaten to bring down the whole economy. To that end, the bill would also enact what's known as the Volcker rule--and there's a tall guy sitting in the front row here, Paul Volcker, who we named it after. And it does something very simple: It places some limits on the size of banks and the kinds of risks that banking institutions can take. And this will not only safeguard our system against crises, this will also make our system stronger and more competitive by instilling confidence here at home and across the globe. Markets depend on that confidence. Part of what led to the turmoil of the past 2 years was that in the absence of clear rules and sound practices, people didn't trust that our system was one in which it was safe to invest or lend. As we've seen, that harms all of us.<p>So by enacting these reforms, we'll help ensure that our financial system and our economy continues to be the envy of the world. So that's the first thing, making sure that we can wind down one firm if it gets into trouble without bringing the whole system down or forcing taxpayers to fund a bailout.<p>Number two, reform would bring new transparency to many financial markets. As you know, part of what led to this crisis was firms like AIG and others who were making huge and risky bets, using derivatives and other complicated financial instruments in ways that defied accountability or even common sense. In fact, many practices were so opaque, so confusing, so complex that the people inside the firms didn't understand them, much less those who were charged with overseeing them. They weren't fully aware of the massive bets that were being placed. That's what led Warren Buffett to describe derivatives that were bought and sold with little oversight as \\"financial weapons of mass destruction.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] That's what he called them. And that's why reform will rein in excess and help ensure that these kinds of transactions take place in the light of day.<p>Now, there's been a great deal of concern about these changes. So I want to reiterate: There is a legitimate role for these financial instruments in our economy. They can help allay risk and spur investment. And there are a lot of companies that use these instruments to that legitimate end: They are managing exposure to fluctuating prices or currencies and fluctuating markets. For example, a business might hedge against rising oil prices by buying a financial product to secure stable fuel costs, so an airlines might have an interest in locking in a decent price. That's how markets are supposed to work. The problem is, these markets operated in the shadows of our economy, invisible to regulators, invisible to the public, so reckless practices were rampant. Risks accrued until they threatened our entire financial system.<p>And that's why these reforms are designed to respect legitimate activities but prevent reckless risk-taking. That's why we want to ensure that financial products like standardized derivatives are traded out in the open, in the full view of businesses, investors, and those charged with oversight.<p>And I was encouraged to see a Republican Senator join with Democrats this week in moving forward on this issue. That's a good sign. That's a good sign. For without action, we'll continue to see what amounts to highly leveraged, loosely monitored gambling in our financial system, putting taxpayers and the economy in jeopardy. And the only people who ought to fear the kind of oversight and transparency that we're proposing are those whose conduct will fail this scrutiny.<p>Third, this plan would enact the strongest consumer financial protections ever. And that's absolutely necessary because this financial crisis wasn't just the result of decisions made in the executive streets--suites on Wall Street, it was also the result of decisions made across kitchen tables across America, by folks who took on mortgages and credit cards and auto loans. And while it's true that many Americans took on financial obligations that they knew or should have known they could not have afforded, millions of others were, frankly, duped. They were misled by deceptive terms and conditions buried deep in the fine print.<p>And while a few companies made out like bandits by exploiting their customers, our entire economy was made more vulnerable. Millions of people have now lost their homes. Tens of millions more have lost value in their homes. Just about every sector of our economy has felt the pain, whether you're paving driveways in Arizona or selling houses in Ohio or you're doing home repairs in California or you're using your home equity to start a small business in Florida.<p>That's why we need to give consumers more protection and more power in our financial system. This is not about stifling competition, stifling innovation; it's just the opposite. With a dedicated agency setting ground rules and looking out for ordinary people in our financial system, we will empower consumers with clear and concise information when they're making financial decisions. So instead of competing to offer confusing products, companies will compete the old-fashioned way, by offering better products. And that will mean more choices for consumers, more opportunities for businesses, and more stability in our financial system. And unless your business model depends on bilking people, there is little to fear from these new rules.<p>Number four, the last key component of reform: These Wall Street reforms will give shareholders new power in the financial system. They will get what we call a say on pay, a voice with respect to the salaries and bonuses awarded to top executives. And the SEC will have the authority to give shareholders more say in corporate elections so that investors and pension holders have a stronger role in determining who manages the company in which they've placed their savings.<p>Now, Americans don't begrudge anybody for success when that success is earned. But when we read in the past, and sometimes in the present, about enormous executive bonuses at firms, even as they're relying on assistance from taxpayers, or they're taking huge risks that threaten the system as a whole, or their company is doing badly, it offends our fundamental values.<p>Not only that, some of the salaries and bonuses that we've seen creates perverse incentives to take reckless risks that contributed to the crisis. It's what helped lead to a relentless focus on a company's next quarter to the detriment of its next year or its next decade. And it led to a situation in which folks with the most to lose, stock and pension holders, had the least to say in the process. And that has to change.<p>Let me close by saying this. I have laid out a set of Wall Street reforms. These are reforms that would put an end to taxpayer bailouts, that would bring complex financial dealings out of the shadows, that would protect consumers, and that would give shareholders more power in the financial system. But let's face it: We also need reform in Washington. And the debate over these changes is a perfect example.<p>I mean, we have seen battalions of financial industry lobbyists descending on Capitol Hill, firms spending millions to influence the outcome of this debate. We've seen misleading arguments and attacks that are designed not to improve the bill, but to weaken or to kill it. We've seen a bipartisan process buckle under the weight of these withering forces, even as we've produced a proposal that by all accounts is a commonsense, reasonable, nonideological approach to target the root problems that led to the turmoil in our financial sector and ultimately in our entire economy.<p>So we've seen business as usual in Washington, but I believe we can and must put this kind of cynical politics aside. We've got to put an end to it. That's why I'm here today. That's why I'm here today.<p>And to those of you who are in the financial sector, let me say this: We will not always see eye to eye. We will not always agree. But that doesn't mean that we've got to choose between two extremes. We do not have to choose between markets that are unfettered by even modest protections against crisis or markets that are stymied by onerous rules that suppress enterprise and innovation. That is a false choice. And we need no more proof than the crisis that we've just been through.<p>You see, there has always been a tension between the desire to allow markets to function without interference and the absolute necessity of rules to prevent markets from falling out of kilter. But managing that tension, one that we've debated since the founding of this Nation, is what has allowed our country to keep up with a changing world. For in taking up this debate, in figuring out how to apply well-worn principles with each new age, we ensure that we don't tip too far one way or the other, that our democracy remains as dynamic and our economy remains as dynamic as it has in the past. So yes, this debate can be contentious. It can be heated. But in the end, it serves only to make our country stronger. It has allowed us to adapt and to thrive.<p>And I read a report recently that I think fairly illustrates this point. It's from Time magazine. I'm going to quote: \\"Through the great banking houses of Manhattan last week ran wild-eyed alarm. Big bankers stared at one another in anger and astonishment. A bill just passed . . . would rivet upon their institutions what they considered a monstrous system . . . such a system, they felt, would not only rob them of their pride of profession but would reduce all U.S. banking to its lowest level.\\" That appeared in Time magazine in June of 1933. [<i>Laughter</i>] The system that caused so much consternation, so much concern was the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation--[laughter]--also known as the FDIC, an institution that has successfully secured the deposits of generations of Americans.<p>Look, in the end, our system only works, our markets are only free when there are basic safeguards that prevent abuse, that check excesses, that ensure that it is more profitable to play by the rules than to game the system. And that is what the reforms we've been proposing are designed to achieve--no more, no less. And because that is how we will ensure that our economy works for consumers, that it works for investors, and that it works for financial institutions--in other words, that it works for all of us--that's why we're working so hard to get this stuff passed.<p>This is the central lesson not only of this crisis, but of our history. It's what I said when I spoke here 2 years ago, because ultimately, there is no dividing line between Main Street and Wall Street. We will rise or we will fall together, as one Nation. And that is why I urge all of you to join me. I urge all of you to join me, to join those who are seeking to pass these commonsense reforms. And for those of you in the financial industry, I urge you to join me not only because it is in the interest of your industry, but also because it's in the interest of your country.<p>Thank you so much. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"106" "\"Hello, everybody! How are you? Now, this is a good-looking crowd. [<i>Laughter</i>] Thank you so much, everybody, for coming. <p>Today we celebrate 40 years of Earth Day. Now, obviously, Earth has been around longer than that. [<i>Laughter</i>] But we have been celebrating Earth Day for 40 years, which was a bright moment in our Nation's history and a milestone in the ongoing fight to protect our environment. <p>Many of you know the history. In 1970, a Senator from Wisconsin named Gaylord Nelson hired a young graduate student named Denis Hayes, who is with us today. Where's Denis? There he is. He still looks like a young graduate student. [<i>Laughter</i>] And so Denis helped to coordinate the first Earth Day. And together, they raised their voices and called on every American to take action on behalf of our environment. <p>And in the four decades since, millions of Americans have heeded that call and joined together to protect the planet. And we've made immense progress since that day, from the landmark legislation of the 1970s, the Clean Air and the Clean Water Act, to the conservation of America's precious landscapes. <p>I know that many of you have played an important role at one stage or another in these victories, and their impact can be felt today and will be felt tomorrow. And as a parent, I'm grateful for the good fight that so many of you have fought, because it means that I'm going to be able to pass on to Malia and Sasha and maybe some grandchildren down the line this incredible bounty not only of the United States of America, but the world as a whole.<p>And along the way, Earth Day has become much more than a date on the calendar. It's come to represent the simple truth that with each challenge comes the opportunity to make the world a better place.<p>So since taking office, we have seized that opportunity. With your help, we've made a historic investment in clean energy that will not only create the jobs of tomorrow, but will also lay the foundation for long-term economic growth. We've continued to invest in innovators and entrepreneurs who want to unleash the next wave of clean energy. We've strengthened our investment in our most precious resources: the air we breathe, the water we drink, and the parks and public spaces that we enjoy.<p>And together, we've also renewed our commitment to passing a comprehensive energy and climate bill that will safeguard our planet and spur innovation and help us to compete in the 21st century. <p>So looking out into the Rose Garden today, we see a lot of people who will help us achieve these goals: the business owners who know that protecting our environment is good for business, the Members of Congress who are helping to carry us along in the House and the Senate, the members of my \\"green\\" Cabinet who are helping to shape the policies that we're fighting for, and the environmental leaders who are on the ground fighting each and every day because they understand what's at stake. <p>So together, you represent what I believe is most inspiring about Earth Day, and that is the belief that each of us individually, from different backgrounds and different walks of life, have the capacity to make an enormous difference. <p>I think we all understand that the task ahead is daunting, that the work ahead will not be easy and it's not going to happen overnight. It's going to take your leadership. It's going to take all of your ideas. And it will take all of us coming together in the spirit of Earth Day, not only on Earth Day, but every day, to make the dream of a clean energy economy and a clean world a reality. I'm confident, though, that we can do it. And I want to thank all of you for your support, your counsel, your occasional grumbling--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and your dedication, because without you, we couldn't accomplish everything that needs to be accomplished. <p>So thank you very much, everybody. Enjoy the Rose Garden. Thank you.\" "
"107" "\"<i>The President</i>. Good morning, everybody. Thank you, Secretary Napolitano, for being here to administer the oath, for making it official. Thank you also for leading our efforts to achieve comprehensive immigration reform so that America keeps faith with our heritage as both a nation of immigrants and a nation of laws. <p>To Director Mayorkas and all the dedicated folks at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, thank you for your help to these men and women and so many of our troops to realize their dreams of citizenship. <p>We are joined by Congresswoman Susan Davis, Deputy Secretary of Defense Bill Lynn, and the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Jim \\"Hoss\\" Cartwright.<p>Most of all, to America's newest citizens: It is a great honor to serve as your Commander in Chief, and it is my greatest pleasure to be among the first to greet you as a fellow American. To you and your families, welcome to the White House.<p>Today is your day, a celebration of 24 inspiring men and women and the remarkable journeys that have brought you together on this beautiful spring morning to our Nation's Capital. The paths that led you here began in more than a dozen countries, from Peru to Poland, from Kenya to the Philippines.<p>Some of you came to America as children, holding tight to your parents' hands as you arrived in a new world. Some of you came as adults, leaving everything you knew behind in pursuit of a new life. And while your stories are your own, today we celebrate the common spirit that lives within each of you, a spirit that has renewed and strengthened America for more than two centuries.<p>We celebrate the love of family, your moms and dads who were willing to say good-bye to their own families, their own countries, so they could have an opportunity to give you the opportunity you never had. Like generations of immigrants before them, they worked hard, they scrimped, and they saved. They deferred their own dreams so that you could realize yours. So today is a tribute to their sacrifices as well. And I would ask that you join me in honoring your moms and dads and the families that helped bring you to this day.<p>We celebrate the spirit of possibility, an ethic that says if you're willing to put your shoulder to the wheel and apply your God-given talents, if you believe in yourself and you play by the rules, then there is a place for you in the United States of America, no matter where you come from and no matter what you look like.<p>It's the spirit that brought a young woman from the People's Republic of China and inspired her to enlist in the United States Air Force, where she excels as a material management specialist. So today we congratulate our fellow citizen, Yu Yuan.<p>It's the spirit that brought a refugee from Ethiopia and led him to enlist in the U.S. Army because, he said, he wanted to give back to the country that \\"has given me the opportunity to be all that I can be.\\" And today we congratulate Berhan Teferi.<p>We celebrate the true meaning of patriotism, the love of a country that's so strong that these men and women were willing to risk their lives to defend our country even before they could call it their own.<p>It's a patriotism of a daughter of Mexico who came to America in those first terrible days after 9/11, joined the U.S. Navy, and says, \\"I take pride in our flag and the history that forged this great Nation and the history we write day by day.\\" So today we congratulate Perla Ramos.<p>And it's the patriotism of a young man from Papua New Guinea, who joined the United States Marine Corps and deployed to Iraq not once, not twice, but three times. Asked why he would choose to become an American citizen, he said simply, \\"I might as well. I love this country already.\\" And so we congratulate Granger Michael.<p>The four of you can sit down. You represent not only the branch of the armed services that you are a part of, but also the other members who are your fellow citizens here today, and we thank you very much. We're grateful to you.<p>In short, today we celebrate the very essence of the country that we all love, an America where so many of our forbearers came from someplace else, a society that's been enriched by traditions and cultures from every corner of the world, a dynamic economy that's constantly renewed by the talents and energies of each new citizen, and a people who understand that citizenship is not just a collection of rights, but it's also a set of responsibilities.<p>Like so many others, these men and women met their responsibilities. They played by the rules. They have earned their citizenship. And so on a day like this, we are also reminded of how we must remain both a nation of immigrants and a nation of laws. This includes fixing America's broken immigration system.<p>Over the years, many have attempted to confront this challenge, but passions are great and disagreements run deep. Yet surely we can all agree that when 11 million people in our country are living here illegally, outside the system, that's unacceptable. The American people demand and deserve a solution. And they deserve commonsense, comprehensive immigration reform grounded in the principles of responsibility and accountability.<p>Government has a responsibility to enforce the law and secure our borders and set clear rules and priorities for future immigration. And under Secretary Napolitano's leadership at the Department of Homeland Security, that's exactly what we're doing. We've strengthened security at our borders, ports, and airports, and we will continue to do so because America's borders must be secure. That's part of what these young people here today stand for.<p>Businesses have a responsibility to obey the law and not undermine American workers, especially when so many Americans are out of work. Many businesses work to comply with the law every day. But for those that don't, those that ignore the law and exploit and abuse vulnerable workers and try to gain an unfair advantage over all the businesses that do follow the law, we will hold them accountable.<p>And people who are in America illegally have a responsibility to pay their back taxes and admit responsibility for breaking the law, pay a penalty, learn English, pass criminal background checks, and get right with the law--or face removal--before they can get in line and eventually earn their citizenship. So responsibility, accountability, commonsense, comprehensive immigration reform.<p>I thank Secretary Napolitano for helping to lead our efforts both on and off Capitol Hill. And I thank Senators Schumer and Graham for working with us to forge a bipartisan consensus on a framework for moving forward, and I welcome the commitment of House and Senate Democratic leaders to take action. <p>I'll continue to consult with Democrats and Republicans in Congress, and I would note that 11 current Republican Senators voted to pass immigration reform 4 years ago. So I'm hopeful that they will join with Democrats in doing so again so we can make the progress the American people deserve.<p>Indeed, our failure to act responsibly at the Federal level will only open the door to irresponsibility by others. And that includes, for example, the recent efforts in Arizona, which threaten to undermine basic notions of fairness that we cherish as Americans, as well as the trust between police and their communities that is so crucial to keeping us safe.<p>In fact, I've instructed members of my administration to closely monitor the situation and examine the civil rights and other implications of this legislation. But if we continue to fail to act at a Federal level, we will continue to see misguided efforts opening up around the country.<p>As a nation, as a people, we can choose a different future, a future that keeps faith with our history, with our heritage, and with the hope that America has always inspired in the hearts of people all over the world. For just as each of these 24 new citizens once cast their eyes upon our country from afar, so too somewhere in the world today is a young boy or a young girl wondering if they too might someday share in America's promise.<p>In the example of these new citizens and in the actions we take as a nation, let us offer our answer with confidence and optimism. Yes, there is a place called America that still welcomes those \\"yearning to breathe free,\\" a country where if you work hard and meet your responsibilities, you can pursue your dreams, a society where out of many, we are one, \\"one Nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.\\"<p>That's the promise of America. That is the spirit that all of you are renewing here today. We are incredibly proud of you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.<p>Now, we have one other piece of business. Would Sergeant Ledum Ndaanee please come forward. There he is. How are you, sir?<p><i>Sergeant Ledum D. Ndaanee</i>. Hello, sir.<p><i>The President</i>. Good to see you.<p><i>Sgt. Ndaanee</i>. [<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President</i>. Growing up in Nigeria, Ledum probably never imagined he'd be standing on this stage today.<p><i>Sgt. Ndaanee</i>. That's right, sir.<p><i>The President</i>. Neither did I. [<i>Laughter</i>] But thanks to the generosity of churches in Virginia, he and his parents found a home in the United States. And Ledum, who says, \\"I always wanted to be in the military,\\" found his calling in the United States Marine Corps.<p>He deployed to Iraq and was serving his second tour when his unit was struck by an improvised explosive device. In the weeks and months that followed, he battled to recover from traumatic brain injury. At a VA medical center, with his parents at his side, he was presented a Purple Heart. And a few moments later, he was sworn in as an American citizen.<p>This marine was not only determined to recover, he was determined to help others. He has been a leader and mentor to his fellow wounded warriors. In fact, I hear he's quite an athlete.<p><i>Sgt. Ndaanee</i>. Yes, sir.<p><i>The President</i>. He agrees. [<i>Laughter</i>] He will compete next month in the first Warrior Games at the U.S. Olympic training center in Colorado.<p>So for his distinguished service to country and for inspiring us all with his example of what citizenship truly means, I am proud to join the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services in presenting this recognition, the Outstanding American by Choice award, to Sergeant Ledum Ndaanee. Do we have the award?<p><i>[At this point, the President presented the award.]</i><p>Congratulations. Be proud of that. Thank you. With that, I'd ask Sergeant Ndaanee to conclude our ceremony by leading us all in the Pledge of Allegiance.<p><i>[Sgt. Ndaanee led a recital of the Pledge of Allegiance.]</i><p><i>The President</i>. Excellent.<p><i>Sgt. Ndaanee</i>. Thank you. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President</i>. Thank you, everybody.\" "
"108" "\"It was little more than 1 year ago that our country faced a potentially devastating crisis in our auto industry. Over the course of 2008, the industry shed 400,000 jobs. In the midst of a financial crisis and deep recession, both General Motors and Chrysler, two companies that for generations were a symbol of America's manufacturing might, were on the brink of collapse. The rapid dissolution of these companies, followed by the certain failure of many auto parts makers and car dealers and other smaller businesses, would have dealt a crippling blow to our already suffering economy. The best estimates are that more than 1 million American workers could have lost their jobs.<p>The previous administration extended temporary loans to both companies. Even so, when I took office, the situation remained dire. We had to determine whether or not we could justify additional taxpayer assistance. After all, many of the problems in the auto industry were a direct result of poor management decisions over decades. So it wasn't an easy call. But we decided that while providing additional assistance was a risk, the far greater risk to families and communities across our country was to do nothing. We agreed to additional help, but only if the companies and their stakeholders were willing to break with the past. They had to fundamentally reorganize, with new management that would reexamine the decisions that led to this mess and chart a path toward viability. I knew this wasn't a popular decision. But it was the right one.<p>So GM and Chrysler went through painful restructurings, ones that required enormous sacrifices on the part of all involved. Many believed this was a fool's errand. Many feared we would be throwing good money after bad, that taxpayers would lose most of their investment, and that these companies would soon fail regardless. But 1 year later, the outlook is very different. In fact, the industry is recovering at a pace few thought possible.<p>Just this week, we received some encouraging news. Since General Motors emerged from bankruptcy, the auto industry has actually added 45,000 jobs, the strongest growth in a decade. And Chrysler announced an operating profit in the first 3 months of this year. This is the first time Chrysler has reported a profit since the beginning of the economic crisis. What's more, GM announced that it paid back its loans to taxpayers with interest, fully 5 years ahead of schedule. It won't be too long before the stock the Treasury is holding in GM can be sold, helping to reimburse the American people for their investment.<p>In addition, Chrysler Financial has already fully repaid with interest the loans it received to support auto financing. And we're closing the books on the temporary program that helped parts suppliers weather this storm, returning this investment to the Treasury in full, with interest as well. Finally, we're bringing to an end many of the emergency programs designed to stabilize the financial sector and restart lending so folks could finance cars and trucks, as well as homes and small businesses.<p>On Friday, in fact, the Treasury Department informed Congress that this financial rescue, which was absolutely necessary to prevent an even worse economic disaster, will end up costing taxpayers a fraction of what was originally feared. This is a direct result of the careful management of the investments made by the American people so that we could recoup as many tax dollars as possible and as quickly as possible.<p>These steps, as well as others we've taken, have meant that millions of people are working today who might otherwise have lost their jobs. But these steps were never meant to be permanent. As I've said many times, I did not run for President to get into the auto business or the banking business. As essential as it was that we got in, I'm glad to see that we're getting out.<p>At the same time, even as we've come a long way, we still have a ways to go. The auto industry is more stable today. And the economy is on a better footing. But people are still hurting. I hear from them just about every day in letters I read and in the towns and cities that I visit. No matter what the economic statistics say, I won't be satisfied until folks who need work can find good jobs. After a recession that stole 8 million jobs, this is going to take some time. And this will require that we continue to tackle the underlying problems that caused this turmoil in the first place. In short, it's essential that we learn the lessons of this crisis, or we risk repeating it.<p>Now, part of what led to the crisis in our auto industry and one of the main causes of the economic downturn were problems in our financial sector. In the absence of commonsense rules, Wall Street firms took enormous, irresponsible risks that imperiled our financial system and hurt just about every sector of our economy. Some people simply forgot that behind every dollar traded or leveraged, there is a family looking to buy a house, pay for an education, open a business, or save for retirement.<p>That's why I went to New York City this week and addressed an audience that included leaders in the financial industry. And once again I called for reforms to hold Wall Street accountable and to protect consumers. These reforms would put an end once and for all to taxpayer bailouts. They would bring greater transparency to complex financial dealings. And they will empower ordinary consumers and shareholders in our financial system. Folks will get clearer and more concise information when they make financial decisions, instead of having to worry about deceptive fine print. And shareholders and pension holders will have a stronger voice in the boardrooms of companies in which they invest their savings.<p>That's how we'll restore trust and confidence in our markets. That's how we'll help to put an end to the cycle of boom and bust that we've seen. And that's how, after 2 very difficult years, we will not only revive the economy, but help to rebuild it stronger than ever before.<p>Thanks.\" "
"109" "\"Thank you. Please be seated. To all the families who loved so deeply the miners we've lost, to all who called them friends, worked alongside them in the mines, or knew them as neighbors in Montcoal and Naoma or Whitesville, in the Coal River Valley and across West Virginia, let me begin by saying that we have been mourning with you throughout these difficult days. Our hearts have been aching with you. We keep our thoughts with the survivors who are recovering and resting at the hospital and at the homes. We are thankful for the rescue teams. But our hearts ache alongside you.<p>We're here to memorialize 29 Americans: Carl Acord, Jason Atkins, Christopher Bell, Gregory Steven Brock, Kenneth Allan Chapman, Robert Clark, Charles Timothy Davis, Cory Davis, Michael Lee Elswick, William I. Griffith, Steven Harrah, Edward Dean Jones, Richard K. Lane, William Roosevelt Lynch, Nicholas Darrell McCroskey, Joe Marcum, Ronald Lee Maynor, James E. Mooney, Adam Keith Morgan, Rex L. Mullins, Joshua S. Napper, Howard D. Payne, Dillard Earl Persinger, Joel R. Price, Deward Scott, Gary Quarles, Grover Dale Skeens, Benny Willingham, and Ricky Workman.<p>Nothing I or the Vice President or the Governor, none of the speakers here today, nothing we say can fill the hole they leave in your hearts or the absence that they leave in your lives. If any comfort can be found, it can, perhaps, be found by seeking the face of God, who quiets our troubled minds, a God who mends our broken hearts, a God who eases our mourning souls.<p>Even as we mourn 29 lives lost, we also remember 29 lives lived. Up at 4:30, 5 o'clock in the morning at the latest, they began their day as they worked, in darkness. In coveralls and hard-toe boots, a hardhat over their heads, they would sit quietly for their hour-long journey, 5 miles into a mountain, the only light the lamp on their caps or the glow from the mantrip they rode in.<p>Day after day, they would burrow into the coal, the fruits of their labor what so often we take for granted: the electricity that lights up a convention center, that lights up our church or our home, our school, our office; the energy that powers our country; the energy that powers the world.<p>And most days they'd emerge from the dark mine squinting at the light. Most days they'd emerge sweaty and dirty and dusted from coal. Most days they'd come home. But not that day.<p>These men--these husbands, fathers, grandfathers, brothers, sons, uncles, nephews--they did not take on their job unaware of the perils. Some of them had already been injured; some of them had seen a friend get hurt. So they understood there were risks. And their families did too. They knew their kids would say a prayer at night before they left. They knew their wives would wait for a call when their shift ended saying everything was okay. They knew their parents felt a pang of fear every time a breaking news alert came on or the radio cut in.<p>But they left for the mines anyway, some having waited all their lives to be miners, having longed to follow in the footsteps of their fathers and their grandfathers. And yet none of them did it for themselves alone.<p>All that hard work, all that hardship, all the time spent underground, it was all for the families. It was all for you, for a car in the driveway, a roof overhead, for a chance to give their kids opportunities that they would never know and enjoy retirement with their spouses. It was all in the hopes of something better. And so these miners lived as they died, in pursuit of the American Dream.<p>There in the mines for their families, they became a family themselves, sharing birthdays, relaxing together, watching Mountaineers football or basketball together, spending days off together hunting or fishing. \\"They may not have always loved what they did,\\" said a sister, \\"but they loved doing it together.\\" They loved doing it as a family. They loved doing it as a community.<p>That's a spirit that's reflected in a song that almost every American knows. But it's a song most people, I think, would be surprised was actually written by a coal miner's son about this town, Beckley, about the people of West Virginia. It's the song \\"Lean on Me,\\" an anthem of friendship, but also an anthem of community, of coming together.<p>And that community was revealed for all to see in the minutes and hours and days after the tragedy: rescuers, risking their own safety, scouring narrow tunnels saturated with methane and carbon monoxide, hoping against hope they might find a survivor; friends keeping porch lights on in a nightly vigil, hanging up homemade signs that read, \\"Pray for our miners and their families\\"; neighbors consoling each other and supporting each other and leaning on one another.<p>And I've seen it, the strength of that community. In the days that followed the disaster, e-mails and letters poured into the White House. Postmarked from different places across the country, they often began the same way: \\"I am proud to be from a family of miners.\\" \\"I am the son of a coal miner.\\" \\"I am proud to be a coal miner's daughter.\\" They were always proud, and they asked me to keep our miners in my thoughts, in my prayers. Never forget, they say, miners keep America's lights on. And then in these letters, they make a simple plea: Don't let this happen again. Don't let this happen again.<p>How can we fail them? How can a nation that relies on its miners not do everything in its power to protect them? How can we let anyone in this country put their lives at risk by simply showing up to work, by simply pursuing the American Dream?<p>We cannot bring back the 29 men we lost. They are with the Lord now. Our task, here on Earth, is to save lives from being lost in another such tragedy, to do what we must do, individually and collectively, to assure safe conditions underground, to treat our miners like they treat each other, like a family. Because we are all family, and we are all Americans, and we have to lean on one another and look out for one another and love one another and pray for one another.<p>There's a Psalm that comes to mind today, a Psalm that comes to mind, a Psalm we often turn to in times of heartache: \\"Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for You are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me.\\"<p>God bless our miners. God bless their families. God bless West Virginia. And God bless the United States of America.\" "
"110" "\"Hello, everybody. Everybody have a seat, please.<p><i>[At this point, the President exchanged greetings with Yankees manager Joseph E. Girardi. He then continued his remarks as follows.]</i><p>Hello, everybody, and welcome to the White House. And congratulations on being World Series champions.<p>As you can see, we've got a few Yankees fans here in the White House--[<i>Laughter</i>]--who are pretty excited about your visit. I want to actually start by recognizing Secretary of Treasury Tim Geithner, who is here, and Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood. Now, I understand Ray and Joe went to the same high school a few years apart. [<i>Laughter</i>] But they grew up, obviously, big Yankees fans.<p>I want to congratulate the Steinbrenner family, Brian Cashman, and all the folks who helped to make this team what it is. And I want to thank all of the members of the New York congressional delegation. And I notice a couple of Connecticut and North Dakota guys showing up here too--[<i>Laughter</i>]--all of whom take credit for the Yankees' success. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, it's been 9 years since your last title, which must have felt like an eternity for Yankees fans. I think other teams would be just fine with a spell like that--[<i>Laughter</i>]--the Cubs, for example. [<i>Laughter</i>] But this is a team that goes down to spring training every year expecting to win it all, and more often than not, you guys get pretty close. Of course, if I had Rivera, I'd get pretty close too. [<i>Laughter</i>] My White Sox would get close every year. That attitude, that success has always made the Yankees easy to love and, let's face it, easy to hate as well. [<i>Laughter</i>] For a White Sox fan like me, it's painful to watch Mariano's cutter when it's against my team or to see the Yankees wrap up the pennant while the Sox are struggling on the South Side. Although, I do remember 2005, people, so--[<i>Laughter</i>]--don't get too comfortable. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But for the millions of Yankees fans in New York and around the world who bleed blue, nothing beats that Yankee tradition: 27 World Series titles; 48 Hall of Famers--a couple, I expect, standing behind me right now. From Ruth to Gehrig, Mantle to DiMaggio, it's hard to imagine baseball without the long line of legends who've worn the pinstripes. Last season, this team continued that legacy, winning 103 games and leaving no doubt who was the best team in baseball.<p>But what people tend to forget, especially after watching their teams lose, is that being a Yankee is as much about character as it is about performance, as much about who you are as what you do. Being successful in New York doesn't come easy, and it's not for everybody. It takes a certain kind of player to thrive in the pressure cooker of Yankee Stadium, somebody who's poised and professional and knows what it takes to wear the pinstripes. It takes somebody who appreciates how lucky he is and who feels responsibility for those who are less fortunate.<p>So it's somebody like Mark Teixeira. Before he was a three-time Golden Glove winner, Mark was a 21-year-old kid fresh out of Georgia Tech. Shortly after signing his first Major League contract, Mark visited his old high school and asked how much it would cost to set up a scholarship in the name of a friend who'd been killed in a car accident. And when he was told it would cost $75,000, he wrote a check on the spot. And he's been funding that scholarship ever since, helping to make the dream of college a reality for students in his hometown. <p>Someone like Jorge Posada. The first time I met Jorge was with his wife--where'd Jorge go? Right here--at a fundraiser on behalf of folks who needed help in New York City. Five-time All Star, one of the emotional leaders of this team, but he's also the father of a son born with a rare birth defect that has required numerous surgeries and expensive treatments. And Jorge and his wife have made it their mission to reach out to families who aren't as fortunate as they are, offering resources, providing a support network for parents, helping children who suffer from the disease live healthy and happier lives. And so we're very proud of the kind of work that Jorge has done.<p>And of course, then there's Jeter. Where's Jeter? There he is right there. Sportsman of the Year, according to the Sports Illustrated, and you can see why--passed Lou Gehrig to become the alltime Yankee hit leader. But Derek would rather tell you a story about being in spring training with another Yankee legend, Don Mattingly. I love this story. Walking off an empty field together one day, Mattingly suggested they run to the clubhouse, telling Derek, \\"You never know who's watching.\\" And Derek took that lesson to heart, and 15 years later, he still runs everywhere like he's trying out for the track team, always setting an example, always hustling, which is why, I think, everybody says that he epitomizes the best of the Yankee tradition, so--[<i>applause</i>].<p>And then somebody like Joe, a proud son of Illinois, I want to note. [<i>Laughter</i>] As the youngest manager in Yankees history to win a World Series, Joe is still in better shape than some of the players. I just want to--[<i>Laughter</i>]--he looks good. But what makes Joe proudest is HOPE Week, a program where the Yankees help make a difference in the lives of folks in need. Last year, Joe put out a signup sheet for anyone who wanted to participate. And when he checked the next day, every player, manager, and coach had written their name down. The team ended up winning all five games that week, a fact that Joe doesn't think was a coincidence. And this summer, they'll be doing it all over again.<p>That same spirit was on display today, when the team visited members of our Armed Forces recovering at Walter Reed. They spent time with soldiers and their families, bringing hope and joy to folks who really need it at a time of great difficulty. And so I just want to thank you personally for taking the time to do that. <p>In the end, that's what makes the Yankees special. It's not simply the names on the roster or the size of their trophy case, it's the people underneath the pinstripes that set this team apart. It's the players and coaches who shoulder a legacy unlike any other, but who share a belief that anybody blessed with first-class talent also has an obligation to be a first-class person.<p>That's what being a Yankee is all about. That's why I want to congratulate this team, for winning the World Series and for showing every young person what it means to be a true professional.<p>Congratulations, everybody. Great job.\" "
"111" "\"Thank you very much. Everybody, please have a seat. Good evening, everyone, and welcome to Washington. <p>In my life and as President, I have had the great pleasure of visiting many of your countries, and I've always been grateful for the warmth and the hospitality that you and your fellow citizens have shown me. And tonight I appreciate the opportunity to return the hospitality. <p>For many of you, I know this is the first time visiting our country. So let me say on behalf of the American people, welcome to the United States of America. <p>It is an extraordinary privilege to welcome you to this Presidential Summit on Entrepreneurship. This has been a coordinated effort across my administration, and I want to thank all the hard-working folks and leaders at all the departments and agencies who made it possible and who are here tonight.<p>That includes our United States Trade Representative, Ambassador Ron Kirk. Where's Ron? There he is. I especially want to thank the two departments and leaders who took the lead on this summit, Secretary of Commerce Gary Locke and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. So please give them a big round of applause.<p>We're joined by Members of Congress who work every day to help their constituents realize the American Dream and whose life stories reflect the diversity and equal opportunity that we cherish as Americans: Nydia Velazquez, who is also, by the way, the Chairwoman of our Small Business Committee in the House of Representatives; Keith Ellison is here; and Andre Carson is here. <p>Most of all, I want to thank all of you for being part of this historic event. You've traveled from across the United States and nearly 60 countries, from Latin America to Africa, Europe to Central Asia, from the Middle East to Southeast Asia. And you bring with you the rich tapestry of the world's great traditions and great cultures. You carry within you the beauty of different colors and creeds, races and religions. You're visionaries who pioneered new industries and young entrepreneurs looking to build a business or a community. <p>But we've come together today because of what we share, a belief that we are all bound together by certain common aspirations: to live with dignity, to get an education, to live healthy lives, maybe to start a business without having to pay a bribe to anybody, to speak freely and have a say in how we are governed, to live in peace and security, and to give our children a better future.<p>But we're also here because we know that over the years, despite all we have in common, the United States and Muslim communities around the world too often fell victim to mutual mistrust. And that's why I went to Cairo nearly 1 year ago and called for a new beginning between the United States and Muslim communities, a new beginning based on mutual interest and mutual respect. I knew that this vision would not be fulfilled in a single year or even several years, but I knew we had to begin and that all of us have responsibilities to fulfill.<p>As President, I've worked to ensure that America once again meets its responsibilities, especially when it comes to the security and political issues that have often been a source of tension. The United States is responsibly ending the war in Iraq, and we will partner with Iraqi people for their long-term prosperity and security. In Afghanistan, in Pakistan, and beyond, we're forging new partnerships to isolate violent extremists, but also to combat corruption and foster the development that improves lives and communities.<p>I say it again tonight: Despite the inevitable difficulties, so long as I am President, the United States will never waver in our pursuit of a two-state solution that ensures the rights and security of both Israelis and Palestinians. And around the world, the United States of America will continue to stand with those who seek justice and progress and the human rights and dignity of all people.<p>But even as I committed the United States to addressing these security and political concerns, I also made it clear in Cairo that we needed something else: a sustained effort to listen to each other and to learn from each other, to respect one another. And I pledged to forge a new partnership not simply between governments, but also between people on the issues that matter most in their daily lives, in your lives. <p>Now, many questioned whether this was possible. Yet over the past year, the United States has been reaching out and listening. We've joined interfaith dialogues and held town halls, roundtables, and listening sessions with thousands of people around the world, including many of you. And like so many people, you've extended your hand in return, each in your own way, as entrepreneurs and educators, as leaders of faith and of science. <p>I have to say, perhaps the most innovative response was from Dr. Naif Al-Mutawa of Kuwait, who joins us here tonight. Where is Dr. Mutawa? Right here. His comic books have captured the imagination of so many young people with superheroes who embody the teachings and tolerance of Islam. After my speech in Cairo, he had a similar idea. So in his comic books, Superman and Batman reached out to their Muslim counterparts. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I hear they're making progress too. [<i>Laughter</i>] Absolutely. <p>By listening to each other, we've been able to partner with each other. We've expanded educational exchanges because knowledge is the currency of the 21st century. Our distinguished science envoys have been visiting several of your countries, exploring ways to increase collaboration on science and technology. <p>We're advancing global health, including our partnership with the Organisation of the Islamic Conference to eradicate polio. This is just one part of our broader engagement with the OIC, led by my Special Envoy, Rashad Hussain, who joins us here tonight. Where's Rashad?<p>And we're partnering to expand economic prosperity. At a government level, I'd note that putting the G-20 in the lead on global economic decisionmaking has brought more voices to the table, including Turkey, Saudi Arabia, India, and Indonesia. And here today, we're fulfilling my commitment in Cairo to deepen ties between business leaders, foundations, and entrepreneurs in the United States and Muslim communities around the world.<p>Now, I know some have asked, given all the security and political and social challenges we face, why a summit on entrepreneurship? The answer is simple. <p>Entrepreneurship because you told us that this was an area where we can learn from each other, where America can share our experience as a society that empowers the inventor and the innovator, where men and women can take a chance on a dream, taking an idea that starts around a kitchen table or in a garage and turning it into a new business and even new industries that can change the world.<p>Entrepreneurship because throughout history, the market has been the most powerful force the world has ever known for creating opportunity and lifting people up out of poverty.<p>Entrepreneurship because it's in our mutual economic interest. Trade between the United States and Muslim-majority countries has grown. But all this trade combined is still only about the same as our trade with one country, Mexico. So there's so much more we can do together, in partnership, to foster opportunity and prosperity in all our countries.<p>And social entrepreneurship, because, as I learned as a community organizer in Chicago, real change comes from the bottom up, from the grassroots, starting with the dreams and passions of single individuals serving their communities.<p>And that's why we're here. And we have Jerry Yang, who transformed how we communicate, with Yahoo--is Jerry here? Where is he? He'll be here tomorrow--as well as entrepreneurs who have opened cybercafes and new forums on the Internet for discussion and development. Together, you can unleash the technologies that will help shape the 21st century.<p>We have successes like Dr. Mohamed Ibrahim, who I met earlier, who built a telecommunications empire that empowered people across Africa. And we have aspiring entrepreneurs who are looking to grow their businesses and hire new workers. Together, you can address the challenges of accessing capital. <p>We have trailblazers like Sheikha Hanadi of Qatar, along with Wa'd al Taweel, who I met earlier, a 20-year-old student from the West Bank who wants to build recreation centers for Palestinian youth. So together, they represent the incredible talents of women entrepreneurs and remind us that countries that educate and empower women are countries that are far more likely to prosper. I believe that. <p>We have pioneers like Chris Hughes, who created Facebook, as well as an online community that brought so many young people into my campaign for President, mybarackobama.com. [<i>Laughter</i>] We have people like Soraya Salti of Jordan, who are empowering the young men and women who will be leaders of tomorrow. And together, they represent the great potential and expectations of young people around the world.<p>And we've got social entrepreneurs like Tri Mumpuni, who's helped rural communities in Indonesia harness the electricity and revenues of hydropower, and Andeisha Farid, an extraordinary woman from Afghanistan, who's taken great risks to educate the next generation, one girl at a time. And together, they point the way to a future where progress is shared and prosperity is sustainable.<p>And I also happened to notice Dr. Yunus--it's wonderful to see you again. I think so many people know the history of Grameen Bank and all the great work that's been done to help finance entrepreneurship among the poorest of the poor, first throughout South Asia, and now around the world.<p>So this is the incredible potential that you represent, the future we can seize together. So tonight I'm proud to announce a series of new partnerships and initiatives that will do just that.<p>The United States is launching several new exchange programs. We will bring business and social entrepreneurs from Muslim-majority countries to the United States and send their American counterparts to learn from your countries, so women in technology fields will have the opportunity to come to the United States for internships and professional development. And since innovation is central to entrepreneurship, we're creating new exchanges for science teachers.<p>We're forging new partnerships in which high-tech leaders from Silicon Valley will share their expertise in venture capital, mentorship, and technology incubators with partners in the Middle East and in Turkey and in Southeast Asia. <p>And tonight I can report that the Global Technology and Innovation Fund that I announced in Cairo will potentially mobilize more than $2 billion in investment. And this is private capital, and it will unlock new opportunities for people across our countries in sectors like telecommunications, health care, education, and infrastructure. <p>And finally, I'm proud that we're creating here at this summit not only these programs that I've just mentioned, but it's not going to stop here. Together, we've sparked a new era of entrepreneurship, with events all over Washington this week and upcoming regional conferences around the world. <p>Tonight I am pleased to announce that Prime Minister Erdogan has agreed to host the next entrepreneurship summit next year in Turkey. And so I thank the Prime Minister and the people and private sector leaders of Turkey for helping to sustain the momentum that we will unleash this week.<p>So as I said, there are those who questioned whether we could forge these new beginnings. And given the magnitude of the challenges we face in the world--and let's face it, a lot of the bad news that comes through the television each and every day--sometimes it can be tempting to believe that the good will and good works of ordinary people are simply insufficient to the task at hand. But to any who still doubt whether partnerships between people can remake our world, I say, look at the men and women who are here today. <p>Look at the professor who came up with an idea--microfinance--that empowered the rural poor across his country, especially women and children. That's the powerful example of Dr. Yunus.<p>Look what happened when Muhammad shared his idea with a woman from Pakistan, who has since lifted hundreds of thousands of families and children out of poverty through a foundation whose name literally means \\"miracle.\\" That's the example of Roshaneh Zafar.<p>Look what happened when that idea spread across the world, including to people like my own mother, who worked with the rural poor from Pakistan to Indonesia. That simple idea began with a single person, has now transformed the lives of millions. That's the spirit of entrepreneurship.<p>So yes, the new beginning we seek is not only possible, it has already begun. It exists within each of you and millions around the world who believe, like we do, that the future belongs not to those who would divide us, but to those who come together; not to those who would destroy, but those who would build; not those trapped in the past, but those who, like us, believe with confidence and conviction in a future of justice and progress and the dignity of all human beings, regardless of their race, regardless of their religion. <p>That's the enormous potential that we're hoping to unlock during this conference and hoping to continue not only this week, but in the months and years ahead. So I'm grateful that all of you are participating. May God bless you all, and may God's peace be upon you. Thank you very much. Thank you.\" "
"112" "\"<i>The President. </i>Hello, everybody. Oh, it's good to be back in Iowa, good to be in Fort Madison. Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat. <p>I want to just acknowledge some of our special guests: first of all, my Secretary of Agriculture--you may still know him as Governor Vilsack; I know him as Secretary Vilsack--give Tom Vilsack a big round of applause; your current Governor, who is doing an outstanding job, Chet Culver; the mayor of Fort Madison, Steve Ireland. Steve, it's good to see you again. <p>The president and CEO of Siemens, Peter Loescher, is here; and our plant manager, Robert Gjuraj, who just gave me a terrific tour--so thank you, Robert. Where's Robert? There he is right there. <p>I have just been on an incredibly impressive tour of this facility and saw how these giant blades are created. And they look even cooler up close--unbelievably impressive technologies. And it was remarkable just to see how these things are made, but it's even more remarkable when you consider that just a few short years ago, this facility was dark, it was quiet, nothing was going on. And today it's alive and humming with more than 600 employees, almost two-thirds of whom found themselves unemployed before they were here. And this plant--[<i>applause</i>]--Robert was telling me--I may get my facts wrong here, but even 2 years ago, you had only 200 employees. Now we've got 600 employees 2 years later. And this plant supports more than 350 other jobs throughout Lee County, so--[<i>applause</i>]. <p>So you're manufacturing blades for some of the most advanced wind turbines in the world. Each one is as tall as Air Force One is long; each is capable of generating enough power for hundreds of homes, just by harnessing the wind. So what's going on here, what each of the employees of Siemens are involved with, is helping stake America's claim on a clean energy future. And you're staking Fort Madison's claim on America's future.<p>And that's why I come to Iowa here today. Somebody--one of the reporters said, \\"Why Iowa?\\" I said, well, I love Iowa, first of all--wouldn't have been President if it wasn't for Iowa. It's close to Illinois. [<i>Laughter</i>] But also, I wanted to come here because to talk with folks like you about the economic hardship and the pain that this town has gone through and so many people are still feeling is important, but it's also to talk about the economic potential.<p>Lately, we've been able to report some welcome news after a hard 2 years. Our economy is finally growing again. Our markets are climbing. Our businesses are beginning to create jobs again.<p>Now, in too many places, though, the recovery isn't reaching everybody just yet. Times are still tough in towns like Fort Madison. And times are still tough for middle class Americans, who have been swimming against the current for years before this economic tidal wave hit. So even as we took steps to rescue our economy and recover from this crisis, we also wanted to take steps to rebuild our economy on a new foundation, a firmer foundation for long-term growth and prosperity, to create conditions so that folks who work hard can finally get ahead.<p>And that means making our schools more competitive. It means making our colleges more affordable. Yes, it means making health insurance affordable and giving families and businesses more choice and more competition and more protection from the worst abuses of the insurance industry. And it means commonsense reforms that prevent irresponsibility of a few on Wall Street from threatening the dreams of millions on Main Street.<p>But the reason we're here is because it also means igniting a new, clean energy economy that generates good jobs right here in the United States.<p>Now, we've talked about this for decades. We talked about how our dependence on fossil fuels threatened our economy. But after all the talk, a lot of times our will to act rose and fell depending on what the price of a gallon of gas was at the pump. During the summer, when prices went up, everybody was all for clean energy. And when prices went back down, suddenly everybody forgot about it.<p>So we talked about this problem for a long time, how it threatened future generations. We talked about issues of how the climate's changing. We talked about how it threatened our national security because we're dependent on other countries for what makes our country run, dependence that grew deeper with every passing year.<p>And meanwhile, while we talked, other nations acted. From Spain to China, other nations recognized that the country that leads the clean energy economy will be the country that leads the 21st-century global economy. They were making serious investments to win that race and the jobs that come with it. <p>And some of you may have heard me say this before: I don't accept second place for the United States of America. And that's why our energy security has been a top priority for my administration since the day I took office.<p>We began early last year by making the largest investment in clean energy in our Nation's history. It's an investment expected to create or save more than 700,000 jobs across America by the end of 2012--jobs manufacturing next-generation batteries for next-generation vehicles, jobs upgrading to a smarter, stronger power grid, jobs doubling America's capacity to generate renewable electricity from sources like the Sun and the wind, just like you do here.<p>And that investment was all part of the Recovery Act. This facility took advantage of that act's Advanced Energy Manufacturing Tax Credit, and we were just talking--Robert and I were talking about the fact that part of what's allowed us to have these new platforms and these new molds is this tax credit. It allowed you to add equipment and boost output and hire new workers right here in Fort Madison. <p>So in the midst of the economic turmoil, the Recovery Act helped make it possible for America to install nearly 10 gigawatts of new wind generating capacity last year alone, and that's enough to power more than 2.4 million American homes. So when people ask you what was the Recovery Act about, what was the stimulus about, it was about this, this plant. <p>And each new wind farm has the potential to create hundreds of construction jobs and dozens of permanent local jobs in communities just like Fort Madison. Robert, we were talking about the fact that--who's catering the food here at the factory? That's suddenly a whole bunch of business for the local grocers; the folks who are installing the electricity here, additional work. So there's a ripple effect that occurs. <p>And one study suggests that if we pursue our full potential for wind energy and everything else goes right, wind could generate as much as 20 percent of America's electricity 20 years from now.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Yeah!<p><i>The President.</i> That's right, 20 percent. And Secretary Vilsack was telling me that Iowa is at the cutting-edge. Iowa's already hit that mark, hasn't it? Because of Governor Culver and his predecessor, Tom Vilsack, it may be a reality right here in Iowa. This State already generates a higher percentage of its electricity from wind than any other State, and that number is only growing. That number is only growing. <p>And as extraordinary as this facility is, here's the thing: Wind power isn't a silver bullet; it's not going to solve all our energy challenges. There's no single energy source. The key is to understand that this is a key component, a key part of a comprehensive strategy to move us from an economy that just runs on fossil fuels to one that relies on more homegrown fuels and clean energy. I believe that we can come together around this issue and pass comprehensive energy and climate legislation that will ignite new industries, spark new jobs in towns just like Fort Madison, make America more energy independent. Our security, our economy, the future of our planet all depend on it.<p>This is what's possible in a clean energy economy. And while it may not feel like it every day when you punch in, to all the folks who work here at Siemens, I want you to understand, you're making it possible. You are blazing a trail. You're showing America our future. And someday, our children and our children's children will look back at this factory, this moment, and they will be proud at a generation that chose, in a time of crisis, to place its bet on the future and to reopen factories and restart assembly lines and retrain workers, a generation that chose once again to step forward and meet the challenges of our time. <p>That's what this represents. That's what you represent. And we could not be prouder. So thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"113" "\"Good morning, everybody.<p>As a nation, we continue to experience the consequence of three distinct, but closely related challenges. One is a financial crisis, born of reckless speculation that threatened to choke off lending to families and to businesses. And this crisis, in turn, led to the deepest recession we've known in generations, costing millions of Americans their jobs and their homes, closing thousands of businesses, and devastating Main Streets across the country. And over the past 2 years, this downturn has aggravated an already severe fiscal crisis, brought on by decades of bad habits in Washington.<p>As a result, the day I walked into this door--the Oval Office--the deficit stood at $1.3 trillion, with projected deficits of $8 trillion over the next 10 years. Partly, this was caused by the recession, which meant the Government was taking in less, while demanding--while demand for assistance for those who had lost their jobs was far greater. Another contributor to our deficit has been the rising costs of health care. Each year, more tax dollars are devoted to Medicare and to Medicaid. <p>But what also made these large deficits possible was that for years, folks in Washington deferred politically difficult decisions and avoided telling hard truths about the nature of the problem. The fact is, it's always easier, when you're in public life, to share the good news, to tell people what they want to hear instead of what they need to know. And as the gentlemen behind me, Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles, can attest, this has been the norm around Washington for a very long time when it comes to our finances. <p>Now, over the past year, we've had to take emergency measures to prevent the recession from becoming another depression. And at a time when millions of people are out of work, we'll continue to do what it takes to spur job creation, while investing in a new foundation for lasting economic growth. But the emergency measures have added about $1 trillion to the deficit over the next 10 years. As a result, even as we take these necessary steps in the short term, we have an obligation to future generations to address our long-term, structural deficits, which threaten to hobble our economy and leave our children and grandchildren with a mountain of debt.<p>And that's why I asked Congress to restore the pay-as-you-go rule. This rule says that Congress can't spend a dollar on a new tax cut or entitlement program unless it saves a dollar elsewhere. It's what helped lead to the balanced budgets of the 1990s. In fact, it was only by abandoning pay-as-you-go that record surpluses turned into record deficits during the course of a decade.<p>Next, we've been scouring the budget line by line, identifying more than $20 billion in savings this year alone. We've cut or eliminated scores of outmoded or ineffective programs and begun to reform our bloated contracting system. We've also successfully challenged the custom in Congress of courting favored contractors by approving weapons systems the Pentagon itself said that it doesn't want or need. Because in these hard times, we have to save where we can afford so that we can pay for what we need, the same way families do.<p>Finally, I've proposed a freeze in Government spending for 3 years. This won't affect benefits through Medicare, Medicaid, or Social Security. And it will not affect national security, including benefits for veterans. But it will affect all other discretionary spending. My budget ends loopholes and tax giveaways for oil and gas companies and for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans, because we just can't afford them. And I kept my promise to pass a health reform bill without adding a dime to the deficit. In fact, by attacking waste and fraud and promoting better care, reform is expected to bring down our deficits by more than $1 trillion over the next two decades. <p>But all these steps, while significant, are simply not enough. For even as we rein in waste and ask that Congress account for every dollar it spends, this alone will not make up for the years in which those in Washington refused to make hard choices and live within their means. And it will not make up for the chronic failure to level with the American people about the cost of the services that they value. <p>This is going to require people of both parties to come together and take a hard look at the growing gap between what the Government spends and what the Government raises in revenue. And it will require that we put politics aside, that we think more about the next generation than the next election. There is simply no other way to do it.<p>That's why I appointed the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, based on a proposal originally presented by a bipartisan group of Senators. And today, the Commission will have its first official meeting. I am grateful to all of its members--Democrats and Republicans, folks in Government and folks from the private sector--for participating. <p>I especially want to thank Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson for chairing the Commission. These two men may have different political affiliations, but they share a strength of character, an ability to work across party lines, and a willingness to tell the hard truths even when it's hard. These qualities will be essential, as will the courage they've already shown by taking on this assignment. <p>Now, I've said that it's important that we not restrict the review or the recommendations that this Commission comes up with in any way. Everything has to be on the table. And I just met briefly with the Commission and said the same thing to them. Of course, this means that all of you, our friends in the media, will ask me and others, once a week or once a day, about what we're willing to rule out or rule in when it comes to the recommendations of the Commission. That's an old Washington game, and it's one that has made it all but impossible in the past for people to sit down and have an honest discussion about putting our country on a more secure fiscal footing.<p>So I want to deliver this message today: We're not playing that game. I'm not going to say what's in; I'm not going to say what's out. I want this Commission to be free to do its work. <p>In theory, there are few issues on which there is more vigorous bipartisan agreement than fiscal responsibility. But in practice, this responsibility for the future is often overwhelmed by the politics of the moment. It falls prey to special interest pressures, to the pull of local concerns, and to the reality familiar to every single American: It's a lot easier to spend a dollar than to save one. That's what, at root, led to these exploding deficits. And that is what will lead to a day of reckoning. But I believe, with the help of these gentlemen and this Commission, we can begin to meet this challenge in a serious and thoughtful way. And I believe we must, for the future of our country. <p>So, Alan, Erskine, thank you for your participation. I want to thank all the members of the Fiscal Commission. We've got a serious group in there of Democrats and Republicans, private sector and public sector, people who are sincere about this effort. And I told them that we are serious about it as well. <p>I think I've shown over the last year that I'm willing to do things even when they're not popular. A lot of the decisions, in terms of getting our budget under control, may not be popular, but I think the reason that Alan and Erskine agreed to take on this assignment is that they were convinced I was serious about it. And I'm going to be standing with them as they come up with the recommendations. <p>So thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"114" "\"Hello, everybody. Hello, POET. Thank you so much. Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. It is wonderful to be here. It is wonderful to be in Missouri. It is wonderful to be this close to my house. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I want to thank POET for their great hospitality today. I want to make a few acknowledgements. We've got some special guests: first of all, your outstanding Governor of the great State of Missouri, Jay Nixon; the mayor of Macon, Doug Bagler [Dale Bagley]*; and one of my favorite people, who I believe is going to be doing outstanding things, has already done great work as secretary of state, and I think is going to be an outstanding--eventually--United States Senator as well, Robin Carnahan. Your attorney general, Chris Koster, is here. The Missouri Director of Agriculture, Dr. Jon Hagler, is here. <p>The CEO of POET, Jeff Broin, is here--there's Jeff; the president of POET-Macon, John Eggleston; and the general manager, who gave me an outstanding tour, Steve Burnett. Where did Steve go? There he is, back there.<p>Also in the house is the Secretary of Agriculture for the United States of America, former Governor of Iowa, Tom Vilsack. <p>Well, thank you so much for the warm welcome. It is good to be in Missouri. It is good to be with all of you here at POET. <p>Steve just gave Secretary Vilsack and myself a tour of this outstanding facility, and I know Steve is very proud of the anniversary that's going to be coming up. Ten years ago next month, this plant produced its first gallon of ethanol. And Steve was there, and others were there, and that's something to be very proud of. Today, you've got 45 employees who are producing 46 million gallons a year. So that means one of you is overachieving. [<i>Laughter</i>] Congratulations to all of you.<p>I came here today, and I visited Iowa yesterday, because there's a lot that towns here in the heartland, here in Middle America, can teach the rest of the country. There's certainly a lot that you can share with Washington, including some common sense. So I wanted to talk with you about your communities, what you're going through, what you're experiencing, not only the economic pain, which I think a lot of us have heard about and experienced, but also the economic opportunity, the economic possibilities. <p>Lately, we've seen some welcome news around the country. After 2 hard years, our economy is growing again, and our markets are climbing again, and our businesses are beginning to create jobs again. But when you come out to Macon and surrounding areas, whether it's in Iowa or Illinois or Missouri or Kansas or other parts of the heartland, you understand that the recovery hasn't reached everybody yet. Times are tough out here. In some places, times have been tough for a very long time.<p>In the 2 years that I spent running for President and visiting towns like Macon, a lot of folks talked about how the American Dream seemed like it was starting to slip away, it was getting harder and harder to reach. Families were having a tougher time getting ahead. Farmers were having a tough time getting by. Worse yet, many young people had been convinced that the only way that they could make a go of it was if they moved someplace else. <p>But success stories like POET, what you've achieved here, prove that that doesn't have to be the case. And I believe that your company and companies like yours can replicate this success all across the country.<p>Since I took office, we had to take a series of steps to rescue our economy from the immediate crisis. Now, we were going through the worst crisis since the Great Depression, and we had to make sure that we didn't slip into a second great depression. And some of those decisions we made weren't popular, but they were the right ones. And now the economy is stabilizing. <p>Here's the thing, though: I didn't run for President just to get back to where we were, I ran for President so that we could move forward and finally start dealing with some of the problems that we've had for a very long time. I want our economy to be on a new foundation for long-term growth and prosperity and to create the kinds of conditions so that folks can work hard to finally get ahead. <p>That means making our schools more competitive and our colleges and our community colleges more affordable to young people. That means health insurance reform that gives families and businesses more choice and more competition and better protection from some of the worst abuses of the insurance industry. It means commonsense reforms that prevent the irresponsibility of a few people on Wall Street wreaking havoc all across Main Street, all across America. And it means igniting a new clean energy economy that generates good jobs right here in the United States and starts freeing ourselves from dependence on foreign oil. <p>Now, for decades, we've talked about doing this. For decades, we've talked about how that dependence on oil from other countries threatens our economy. But usually our will to act kind of rises or falls depending on the price of gas at the pump. We've talked about how it threatens future generations, even as we witnessed some funny things going on in terms of our climate, and recognizing the environmental costs of relying on fossil fuels, but frankly, we always said, we'll get to it tomorrow. We talked about how it threatened our security, but we've grown actually more dependent on foreign oil every single year since Richard Nixon started talking about this danger of dependency on foreign oil.<p>And as we talked about it, other nations were acting: China, Spain, countries that recognized that the country that leads the clean energy economy will be the country that leads the 21st-century economy. And they've made serious investments to win that race and the jobs that come with it. <p>Well, I've said before, I don't accept second place for the United States of America. I want us to be first in wind power, first in solar power, and I want us to be first when it comes to biodiesel and the technologies that are being developed in places like POET. <p>And that's why my energy security plan has been one of the top priorities of my administration since the day I took office. We began early last year by making the largest investment in clean energy in our Nation's history. It's an investment that we expect will create or save up to 700,000 jobs across America by the end of 2012, jobs manufacturing next-generation batteries for next-generation vehicles, jobs upgrading a smarter, stronger power grid, jobs doubling the capacity to generate renewable energy from sources like sun and wind and biofuels, just like you do here.<p>And that investment was part of the Recovery Act. It included $800 million in funding for ethanol fueling infrastructure, biorefinery construction, advanced biofuels research to help us reach the goal that I've set, which is to more than triple America's biofuels production in the next 12 years. That is a goal that we can achieve, and it's being worked on right here at POET. And we're very proud of that. <p>I've also created a biofuels working group led by Secretary Vilsack, our Energy Secretary, Steven Chu, and our EPA Administrator, Lisa Jackson. And they're working to promote this generation of biofuels and help you deliver on the next generation of biofuels.<p>And I was talking to your CEO about the incredible progress that's already being made around cellulosic ethanol and how potentially we can have facilities that are producing cellulosic right here, right next to the existing plant, and create overall energy efficiencies that we just have not seen before and effectively compete with biofuels from anyplace in the world, using brand new technologies, in part that are being developed right here. <p>So I may be the President these days, but I want to remind everybody, I was the Senator from Illinois. I didn't just discover the merits of biofuels like ethanol when I first hopped on the campaign bus. I was telling Steve, this was not the first ethanol plant I've visited. And I believe in the potential of what you're doing right here to contribute to our clean energy future, but also to our rural economies.<p>By the way, so does our military. Some of you may have seen just last week, the Navy tested a fighter jet, which was named the Green Hornet. It is the first plane ever to fly faster than the speed of sound while running on a mix of half biofuel. I actually saw the plane myself when I visited Andrews Air Force Base, and I have to say, it's pretty cool. <p>So there shouldn't be any doubt that renewable, homegrown fuels are a key part of our strategy for a clean energy future, a future of new industries, new jobs in towns like Macon, and new independence.<p>Here at POET, I believe that you're doing more than just helping stake America's claim on our future, you're staking Macon's claim on America's future. And I'm committed to making sure that communities like this one have a bright future of opportunity going forward. And I pledge to work with you and the great folks at the State level, like Governor Nixon, our Secretary of Agriculture, all of us are going to be collaborating day in, day out to make sure that you're successful and that we continue to build on the outstanding work. <p>Ten years from now, I want us to look back and say that the first 10 years were nothing, that the next 10 years were even better. All right? <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. Thank you.\" "
"115" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. It's good to be home. It is good to be back in Quincy. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. It is good to be back in Quincy.<p>We've got some special guests here I want to acknowledge: the outstanding Governor of the great State of Illinois, Patrick Quinn, is here--thanks, Patrick; your fine mayor, John Spring, give him a call--a big round of applause; Attorney General Lisa Madigan; treasurer and soon-to-be Senator, Alexi Giannoulias; secretary of state and tumbler supreme, Jesse White.<p>So I miss you guys. You know, now, being President is nice. [<i>Laughter</i>] You know, you got--you live above the store, so it's a really short commute. [<i>Laughter</i>] There's a nice plane. But one of the toughest things about being President is I don't get a chance to come home as much I'd like and visit with all of you like I used to. I see a lot of familiar faces in the crowd here.<p>Now, part of the problem is, is that when I travel now it kind of causes a ruckus. [<i>Laughter</i>] I do remember, though, the last time I was here--I think it was in this building--that we were filling up sandbags, weren't we? And I still remember that day because it was the picture of what America is about. You had people from all different walks of life, the whole community coming together. Everybody was working hard, everybody knew that there was a challenge coming from the potential flooding, but everybody was in good spirits because they figured, if we're all working together then there's no reason why we can't handle this. We've handled things before. And that's the American spirit on display, and that's the spirit of Quincy and the spirit of Illinois.<p>So it's just good to be reminded of that and to come back and spend some time with you all. And we spent a couple of days in Iowa and Missouri and now back here. [A<i>pplause</i>] Yay, Missouri. How about Iowa? Have we got some Iowans here? [<i>applause</i>] We got a few Iowans, but we are in Illinois. [<i>applause</i>]<p>But over the last couple of days, we've talked to workers who are busy building wind blades for these big wind turbines and a biofuel plant, families and small-business owners trying to navigate through a tough economy, talking to farmers about what's happening to family farms in the region. And because it's folks like all of you and towns like Quincy that give America its heartbeat, that's why it's so important for me to be able to visit.<p>It's towns like this where working men and women built the American Dream with their bare hands. This is where our roots are. I just met a young man coming in; he says he's my cousin. Where--there he is, right there. [<i>Laughter</i>] Seriously, it's--what is it, fourth generation?<p><i>Audience member</i>. Yes.<p><i>The President</i>. Four generations back? I told him he was a little better looking than me. [<i>Laughter</i>] But all of us trace back to this experience of parents, grandparents, great-grandparents building this American Dream, not having much to begin with. And that dream is shared by every Illinoisan and every American, the chance to make a good living, to raise a healthy and secure family, and most of all, to give our kids opportunities that we didn't have ourselves.<p>Now, the truth is, is that sometimes it feels like that dream is slipping away. Times are tough in Quincy. Times are tough all across America. We've gone through the worst economy since the Great Depression. And even though our economy is growing again, even though our markets are climbing again and our businesses are finally beginning to create jobs again, there are a lot of folks who still aren't feeling that recovery in their own lives.<p>And I've heard their stories across the country. I've read it in the letters that I get each night. And a lot of them are worried about whether or not they're going to be able to sustain their dream for a better life. Many felt that way even before this most recent crisis, even before the economic storm of the past 2 years. Folks were living up to their responsibilities as best they could, working hard, looking after their families, giving back to their communities, but they kept on finding themselves getting hurt in this economy in ways they didn't expect. And part of it was because Washington and Wall Street weren't living up to their responsibilities.<p>Now, that's why I asked to be your President. That's why so many of you joined the campaign. You joined me because you believed we had it within our power to change things.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Yeah!<p><i>The President.</i> You figured we could solve the problems that had been holding us back year after year after year and focus on working Americans again. You believed we could keep the American Dream alive in our time and for all time. And so that's what I want to talk about today.<p>When I took office, we were in the midst of this historic financial crisis brought on by reckless and irresponsible speculation on Wall Street. That in turn had led to a recession that hammered Main Street across America. And you saw lost jobs and lost homes and lost businesses and downscaled dreams.<p>The first thing we had to do, then, was to mount an aggressive response to make sure that this terrible recession didn't turn into another great depression. And let's face it, that required some tough steps to stabilize the financial sector. And some of those steps weren't popular. I knew they weren't popular. I've got pollsters. [<i>Laughter</i>] They told me, boy, that's really going to be unpopular. [<i>Laughter</i>] But we made those decisions anyway because the well-being of millions of Americans depended on them. Even if they didn't poll well, they were the right thing to do. It was the only thing we could do to take those steps.<p>So we took these steps to get America back on its feet. We aimed tax relief right at the middle class, the cornerstone of the American Dream. We made sure that we cut taxes for 95 percent of working families, put money in their pockets because they were experiencing hard times, fewer hours, or somebody in the family being laid off, making sure that they could still buy groceries and pay the bills to keep the economy afloat.<p>We cut taxes for small businesses. We cut taxes for first-time home buyers. We cut taxes for students and parents paying for college. And all of this--not only did this help those individual families, but it increased purchasing power and spending power for businesses all across the country. And then we extended unemployment benefits, and we made COBRA cheaper for folks who had lost their jobs. And then we helped give help to the States. And Pat Quinn will tell you, because of the Federal assistance that was provided, we averted some massive layoffs of teachers and police officers and firefighters all across the country.<p>So we did what it took to rescue our economy and spark its recovery. And that work goes on. And so I'm pleased to see that we were losing 700,000 jobs a month when I came into office, now we're gaining jobs. The economy was contracting, now the economy is growing. The markets are back. We're making progress. We're moving in the right direction.<p>But keep in mind, I didn't run for President just to get back to where we were when we started. I want us to do better than we were doing. I want folks to have more opportunity. I want people to have more and better jobs. And I want our young people to be getting better educations and more access to college.<p>It's time to rebuild our economy on a new foundation so that we've got real and sustained growth. It's time to extend opportunity to every corner of Main Street, in every city and every town and every county in America, so that young people don't feel like they've got to move someplace else to make their way. They can stay right here in Quincy. They can stay in Monroe. They can stay in Macon. They can stay in Fort Madison.<p>It's time to create conditions so that Americans who work hard can gain ground again. And they don't have to take out a bunch of credit card debt. They don't have to endanger their long-term financial future. And that's what--that's at the heart of all our efforts.<p>It's why we made the biggest investment in clean energy in our history, creating middle class jobs in middle America that harness the wind and the Sun and biofuels, that won't be shipped away, jobs that will stay right here in the United States of America and create energy independence so we don't have to import as much oil.<p>It's why we took on the special interests and reformed the student loan system so that it works for students, not bankers. I don't know if people paid attention to this because we were having such a big debate around health care; people may have missed this. The way the student loan system was working, the Federal Government was guaranteeing these loans, but the banks were still taking billions of dollars of profits out of the student loan program. And my attitude is, well, if we're guaranteeing them, then where's the risk? So why--what are you getting paid for?<p>So we said, we'll just lend the money directly to the students. And that saved tens of billions of dollars in wasteful spending that we're now reinvesting in making college more affordable and upgrading America's community colleges, so that every young person in America can get ahead in the 21st century.<p>And yes, Quincy, that's why we finally passed health reform in America, reform that will begin to end some of the worst practices in the insurance industry this year. So this year, they're going to--they will have to stop dropping you when you get sick. This year, children with preexisting conditions, they've got to be able to buy insurance. This year, some of these lifetime limits that mean that you got insurance but you still end up being bankrupt, those practices are going to end.<p>And in a few years, millions of families and small-business owners are going to have more choice, more competition. You're going to be able to purchase the same kind of high-quality, affordable care that Members of Congress get. And you know that's going to be pretty good. You know they're going to give themselves good insurance. You're going to be able to buy it too.<p>And by the way, this reform will reduce our deficit by more than $1 trillion. And listen, don't--you know, this notion--I know the debate was contentious. But the truth of the matter is, since I've been here, I've already met--I was in Mount Pleasant, Iowa, met a woman--[<i>Laughter</i>]--met a woman at Jerry's--you know Jerry's, right? And this is a restaurant there, and met a woman and she said--she came up and she said, \\"My husband is self-employed. I'm a homemaker. We both have preexisting conditions. We need help now.\\" And I told her, \\"Well, this is exactly why we fought so hard for health care reform.\\" And then today I met a woman who had breast cancer, and she was wondering how soon can we start moving on some of these programs inside the health care legislation.<p>This isn't some abstraction. Sometimes, the folks who were fighting us, they made it sound as if, oh, he just wants big Government, this--no. I just want people to be able to not go bankrupt and lose their house when they get sick. I just want them not to have--see their premiums doubled. I don't want them to be taken advantage of by insurance companies. I want you to get a fair deal and a fair shake. And that's part of my job as President of the United States of America.<p><i>The President. </i>Now<i>----</i><p><i>Audience member.</i> I love you!<p><i>The President.</i> I love you back.<p>Now, speaking of you getting a fair shake, that's why we need good old commonsense Wall Street reform. And we need it today. We don't need it next year. We don't need to do another study and examine it. We need it now.<p>And in case you're wondering, let me just take a minute to explain why it's important to you. The crisis we went through, it wasn't part of the normal economic cycle. What happened was you had some people--not all people--there's some very decent people here, but--who are in the financial sector--but you had some people on Wall Street who took these unbelievable risks with other people's money.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Damn. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> They made bets. They were making bets on what was going to happen in the housing market, and they would create these derivatives and all these instruments that nobody understood. But it was basically operating like a big casino. And it was producing big profits and big bonuses for them, but it was all built on shaky economics and some of these subprime loans that had been given out. And because we did not have commonsense rules in place, those irresponsible practices came awfully close to bringing down our entire economy and millions of dreams along with it.<p>We had a system where some on Wall Street could take these risks without fear of failure, because they keep the profits when it was working, and as soon as it went south, they expected you to cover their losses. So it was one of those heads, they tail--tails, you lose.<p>So they failed to consider that behind every dollar that they traded, all that leverage they were generating, acting like it was Monopoly money, there were real families out there who were trying to finance a home or pay for their child's college or open a business or save for retirement. So what's working fine for them wasn't working for ordinary Americans. And we've learned that clearly. It doesn't work out fine for the country. It's got to change.<p>Now, what we're doing--I want to be clear here, we're not trying to push financial reform because we begrudge success that's fairly earned. I mean, I do think at a certain point you've made enough money. [<i>Laughter</i>] But part of the American way is you can just keep on making it if you're providing a good product or you're providing a good service. We don't want people to stop fulfilling the core responsibilities of the financial system to help grow the economy.<p>I've said this before. I've said this on Wall Street just last week. I believe in the power of the free market. And I believe in a strong financial system. And when it's working right, financial institutions, they help make possible families buying homes and businesses growing and new ideas taking flight. An entrepreneur may have a great idea, but he may need to borrow some money to make it happen. It would be hard for a lot of us to buy a house--our first house, at least--if we weren't able to take out a mortgage.<p>So there's nothing wrong with a financial system that helps the economy expand. And there are a lot of good people in the financial industry who are doing things the right way. And it's in our interests when those firms are strong and when they're healthy.<p>But some of these institutions that operated irresponsibly, they're not just threatening themselves. They threaten the whole economy, and they threaten your dreams, your prospects, everything that you worked so hard to build.<p>So we just want them to operate in a way that's fair and honest and in the open, so that we don't have to go through what we've already gone through. We want to make sure the financial system doesn't just work for Wall Street, but it works for Main Street too. It works for Quincy. It works for Mount Pleasant. It works for Macon and Fort Madison.<p>Now, let me explain to you what this reform should look like, because one of the things you discover when you get to Washington is, what's black is white and what's up is down and sometimes people will----<p><i>Audience member.</i> Lie.<p><i>The President.</i> I didn't say lie, but--[<i>Laughter</i>]--they will tell stories about what's going on. So let me just be very clear in terms of what we're proposing on financial reform. First--and I know this is important to you because it's important to me--we're going to make sure the American taxpayer is never again on the hook when a Wall Street firm fails. Never again. We don't want to see another bailout. That's what this reform does.<p>Now, you've got some--you had some who were saying, cynically, just claiming the opposite, that somehow this was a bill that institutionalized bailouts. What this bill did was it said, no, if you have a firm on Wall Street that fails, the financial industry is going to pay, not taxpayers. So a vote for reform is a vote to end taxpayer-funded bailouts once and for all. If a crisis like this again happens, financial firms are going to foot the bill. That's point number one.<p>Point number two: We're going to close the loopholes that allowed derivatives and all these other large, risky deals that don't make a lot of economic sense and that could threaten our entire economy. We want to bring those deals out into the--out of the dark alleys of our financial system into the light of day, so that everybody knows exactly what's happening, what risks are being taken--investors, shareholders, everybody knows what's going on. That's the second thing.<p>Number three, this reform is going to give you more power because we're going to put in place the strongest consumer financial protections in history. Because--and the reason this is important--this crisis wasn't just the result of what happened on Wall Street. It also happened because there were a lot of decisions by folks out on Main Street who were taking out mortgages they didn't understand, credit cards they didn't understand, auto loans that weren't a good deal. Some took on obligations they couldn't afford, but millions of others were deceived or misled by shifting terms and confusing conditions and forests of fine print.<p>And your attorney general, Lisa Madigan, has been fighting on behalf of consumers in this State, and she knows how badly we need these protections. In fact, Lisa and a bunch of other attorney generals came to testify on behalf of the need for these consumer protection bills because they see this stuff in their offices every day. And it's true all across the country.<p>Now, some argue that giving consumers more information in clear, concise ways is somehow going to stifle competition. I believe the opposite. See, I think if you know what you're buying, you can make a good decision. And that means that the companies, instead of competing to see who can offer the most confusing products, companies will have to compete the old-fashioned way by offering the best product.<p>But that's not going to reduce innovation or competition. You just should be knowing what you're buying. It's like a lemon law, right? You don't want to go into the used car lot and get something where they've changed the odometer and put on a fresh coat of paint on some old beater and pretend like it's a new car. Well, it's the same thing with financial products. You should know what you're getting. All right, so that's the third thing. <p>Finally, we're going to give the people who own these companies, these financial companies--mainly investors and pension holders and shareholders like many of you--we want you to have more say in the way they're run. Because some of these firms, they've got these huge salaries, huge bonuses that create a perverse incentive to encourage people to take reckless risks. But if you own stock in these companies, you need to get some say in how they operate. You'll get to decide how managers are paid and how those firms operate. And that means that we'll actually increase the connection between Main Street and Wall Street. They'll be more accountable to you.<p>So that's the reform we've put forward. These are the reforms that we're putting forward: accountability, which means no more bailouts; closing loopholes--no more trading of things like derivatives in the shadows; consumer protections--no more deceptive products; a say on pay so that we give shareholders a more powerful voice. That's what we're trying to do.<p>Now, I don't think this should be a partisan issue. Everybody--Republicans and Democrats and Independents--were hurt by this crisis. So everybody should want to fix it. So I'm very pleased that after a few days of delay, it appears an agreement may be at hand to allow this debate to move forward on the Senate floor on this critical issue. I'm very pleased by that.<p>And I want to work with anyone--Republican or Democrat--who wants to pursue these reforms in good faith. And there can be some legitimate differences on certain issues, but the bottom line is, consumers have to be protected. We have to end bailouts. We've got to make sure that these trading practices are out in the open. We've got to make sure that people have a say in terms of how these firms operate so they're more accountable.<p>So as long as we're adhering to those clear principles, then I feel okay. What I don't want is a deal made that is written by the financial industry lobbyists. We've had enough of that. We've had enough of that. I want to listen to what they have to say, but I don't want them writing the bill. I don't want Democrats and Republicans agreeing to a bill written by them, for them. I want a bill that's written for you, for the American people.<p>So we're going to see how this debate unfolds. We're going to get this done. And we're going to get it done because you demand it. It's been 2 years since this crisis, born on Wall Street, slammed into Main Street with its full fury. And while things aren't nearly back to normal out here, they're getting back to normal pretty quick up there. Some in Washington think this debate is moving too fast. They think, well, this is kind of a political game, let's see how this whole thing can play to our advantage in November.<p>See, that's not how I play. I've been calling for better rules on Wall Street since 2007, before this crisis happened. So I don't think we're moving too fast. I think we've been moving too slow. It's time to get this done. And I don't think you want to see us wait for another year or 2 years. I don't think you think Washington is moving too fast. I think you want to get this done.<p>You shouldn't have to wait another day for the protections from some of the practices that got us into this mess. We can't let the recovery that's finally beginning to take hold fall prey to a whole new round of recklessness. If we don't learn the lessons of this crisis, we doom ourselves to repeat it. And I refuse to let that happen. So the time for reform is now.<p>Quincy, let me just say this. Through all the noise and the lobbyists and the partisanship, and I know sometimes you're watching TV and saying, jeesh, everybody is yelling and hollering, and why are they so mad? But this debate comes down to a simple choice: Are we going to go down the same road, where irresponsibility of a few can put millions of families at risk and stick taxpayers with a tab?<p><i>Audience members.</i> No!<p><i>The President.</i> Or are we going to protect consumers and strengthen our financial system and put rules in place that keep this from happening ever again? Are we going to give in to the special interests, or are we going to score another victory for the American people? Are we going to stick with the status quo, or are we going to bring about fundamental change that makes things work for ordinary Americans?<p>We've got the power to do something about this. That's all it comes down to, the will to act. I still believe we can come together, just like you all came together during those floods, filling those sandbags, everybody joining together, everybody breaking a little sweat, everybody helping out. That's how America got built.<p>We are not powerless in the face of our challenges. We don't quit when things get tough. We're not afraid. When something happens, we come together. We move forward. We act. We are Americans; our destiny is written by us, not for us. And if we remember that and summon that spirit once again, we're going to strengthen our economy today and tomorrow and restore security to the middle class.<p>That's what we're fighting for: the American Dream right here in Quincy, right here in Illinois, all across the country.<p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"116" "\"<i>The President.</i> Please be seated. Let me begin by saying a word to Dr. Dorothy Height's sister, Ms. Aldridge. To some she was a mentor, to all she was a friend, but to you she was family, and my family offers yours our sympathy for your loss.<p>We are gathered here today to celebrate the life and mourn the passing of Dr. Dorothy Height. It is fitting that we do so here, in our National Cathedral of Saint Peter and Saint Paul. Here in a place of great honor. Here in the House of God, surrounded by the love of family and of friends. The love in this sanctuary is a testament to a life lived righteously, a life that lifted other lives, a life that changed this country for the better over the course of nearly one century here on Earth.<p>Michelle and I didn't know Dr. Height as well, or as long, as many of you. We were reminded during a previous moment in the service, when you have a nephew who's 88--[<i>Laughter</i>]--you've lived a full life.<p>But we did come to know her in the early days of my campaign. And we came to love her, as so many loved her. We came to love her stories. And we loved her smile. And we loved those hats--[<i>Laughter</i>]--that she wore like a crown--regal. In the White House, she was a regular. She came by not once, not twice; 21 times she stopped by the White House. [<i>Laughter</i>] Took part in our discussions around health care reform in her final months.<p>Last February, I was scheduled to see her and other civil rights leaders to discuss the pressing problems of unemployment--Reverend Sharpton, Ben Jealous of the NAACP, Marc Morial of the National Urban League. Then we discovered that Washington was about to be blanketed by the worst blizzard in record--2 feet of snow.<p>So I suggested to one of my aides, we should call Dr. Height and say we're happy to reschedule the meeting. Certainly if the others come, she should not feel obliged. True to form, Dr. Height insisted on coming, despite the blizzard, never mind that she was in a wheelchair. She was not about to let just a bunch of men--[<i>Laughter</i>]--in this meeting. It was only when the car literally could not get to her driveway that she reluctantly decided to stay home. But she still sent a message--[<i>Laughter</i>]--about what needed to be done.<p>And I tell that story partly because it brings a smile to my face, but also because it captures the quiet, dogged, dignified persistence that all of us who loved Dr. Height came to know so well, an attribute that we understand she learned early on.<p>Born in the capital of the old Confederacy, brought north by her parents as part of that great migration, Dr. Height was raised in another age, in a different America, beyond the experience of many. It's hard to imagine, I think, life in the first decades of that last century when the elderly woman that we knew was only a girl. Jim Crow ruled the South. The Klan was on the rise, a powerful political force. Lynching was all too often the penalty for the offense of black skin. Slaves had been freed within living memory, but too often, their children, their grandchildren remained captive, because they were denied justice and denied equality, denied opportunity, denied a chance to pursue their dreams.<p>The progress that followed, progress that so many of you helped to achieve, progress that ultimately made it possible for Michelle and me to be here as President and First Lady, that progress came slowly.<p>That progress came from the collective efforts of multiple generations of Americans. From preachers and lawyers and thinkers and doers, men and women like Dr. Height, who took it upon themselves, often at great risk, to change this country for the better. From men like W.E.B Du Bois and A. Philip Randolph, women like Mary McLeod Bethune and Betty Friedan, they're Americans whose names we know. They are leaders whose legacies we teach. They are giants who fill our history books. Well, Dr. Dorothy Height deserves a place in this pantheon. She too deserves a place in our history books. She too deserves a place of honor in America's memory.<p>Look at her body of work: desegregating the YWCA; laying the groundwork for integration on Wednesdays in Mississippi; lending pigs to poor farmers as a sustainable source of income; strategizing with civil rights leaders, holding her own, the only woman in the room, Queen Esther to this Moses generation, even as she led the National Council of Negro Women with vision and energy, vision and class.<p>But we remember her not solely for all she did during the civil rights movement. We remember her for all she did over a lifetime, behind the scenes, to broaden the movement's reach, to shine a light on stable families and tight-knit communities, to make us see the drive for civil rights and women's rights not as a separate struggle, but as part of a larger movement to secure the rights of all humanity, regardless of gender, regardless of race, regardless of ethnicity.<p>It's an unambiguous record of righteous work, worthy of remembrance, worthy of recognition. And yet one of the ironies is, is that year after year, decade in, decade out, Dr. Height went about her work quietly, without fanfare, without self-promotion. She never cared about who got the credit. She didn't need to see her picture in the papers. She understood that the movement gathered strength from the bottom up, those unheralded men and women who don't always make it into the history books but who steadily insisted on their dignity, on their manhood and womenhood. She wasn't interested in credit. What she cared about was the cause--the cause of justice, the cause of equality, the cause of opportunity--freedom's cause.<p>And that willingness to subsume herself, that humility and that grace, is why we honor Dr. Dorothy Height. As it is written in the Gospel of Matthew: \\"For whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.\\" I don't think the author of the Gospel would mind me rephrasing: \\"whoever humbles herself will be exalted.\\"<p>One of my favorite moments with Dr. Height--this is just a few months ago--we had decided to put up the Emancipation Proclamation in the Oval Office, and we invited some elders to share reflections of the movement. And she came, and it was a intergenerational event, so we had young children there as well as elders, and the elders were asked to share stories. And she talked about attending a dinner in the 1940s at the home of Dr. Benjamin Mays, then president of Morehouse College. And seated at the table that evening was a 15-year-old student, \\"a gifted child,\\" as she described him, filled with a sense of purpose, who was trying to decide whether to enter medicine or law or the ministry.<p>And many years later, after that gifted child had become a gifted preacher--I'm sure he had been told to be on his best behavior--after he led a bus boycott in Montgomery and inspired a nation with his dreams, he delivered a sermon on what he called \\"the drum major instinct,\\" a sermon that said we all have the desire to be first, we all want to be at the front of the line.<p>The great test of a life, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., said, is to harness that instinct, to redirect it towards advancing the greater good, toward changing a community and a country for the better, toward doing the Lord's work.<p>I sometimes think Dr. King must have had Dorothy Height in mind when he gave that speech. For Dorothy Height met the test. Dorothy Height embodied that instinct. Dorothy Height was a drum major for justice, a drum major for equality, a drum major for freedom, a drum major for service. And the lesson she would want us to leave with today--a lesson she lived out each and every day--is that we can all be first in service. We can all be drum majors for a righteous cause. So let us live out that lesson. Let us honor her life by changing this country for the better as long as we are blessed to live. May God bless Dr. Dorothy Height and the Union that she made more perfect.\" "
"117" "\"<i>Gulf of Mexico Oil Spill</i><p>Good afternoon, everybody. Hello, everybody. Please have a seat. Welcome to the White House. Welcome to the Rose Garden. This is an extraordinary occasion, a beautiful day, appropriately so. So I hate to intrude on it, but before we begin, I do want to speak briefly to the American people about the recent BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.<p>I've been receiving frequent briefings from members of my Cabinet and White House staff, including an update last night on the additional breach and another update this morning. And while BP is ultimately responsible for funding the cost of response and cleanup operations, my administration will continue to use every single available resource at our disposal, including, potentially, the Department of Defense, to address the incident.<p>Earlier today DHS Secretary Napolitano announced that this incident is of national significance, and the Department of Interior has announced that they will be sending SWAT teams to the Gulf to inspect all platforms and rigs. And I have ordered the Secretaries of Interior and Homeland Security as well as Administrator Lisa Jackson of the Environmental Protection Agency to visit the site on Friday to ensure that BP and the entire U.S. Government is doing everything possible not just to respond to this incident, but also to determine its cause. And I've been in contact with all the Governors of the States that may be affected by this accident.<p>Now, earlier this week, Secretaries Napolitano and Salazar laid out the next steps for a thorough investigation into what precipitated this event. I am sure there may be a few science teachers here who have been following this issue closely with their classes, and if you guys have any suggestions, please let us know. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, that's the real reason why all of you are here, because you are great teachers, engaging your students in the world around you. So I want to start by congratulating all of you for your extraordinary achievement. We could not be prouder. And I had occasion to meet each and every one individually; you could not ask for a better bunch. And it made me want to go back to school. [<i>Laughter</i>] Maybe not take the exams--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but you could just tell these are people who love their work.<p>I want to acknowledge our wonderful Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan, who is your biggest booster, day in and day out, as well as my good friend and a teacher herself, Dr. Jill Biden, who is here. I also want to thank Senator Harkin, Representative Boswell, and Dennis Van Roekel, president of the National Education Association, for their leadership and for joining us here today.<p>So to all the award winners, congratulations. We are thrilled to have you in what has been a long tradition here at the White House. For nearly six decades, through 12 Presidential administrations, we've gathered here to honor America's teachers and to celebrate your contribution to the life of our country. And we do this because we recognize the role that you play in sustaining our democracy, in creating the informed citizenry and engaged leaders that we need for our Government, a Government of and by and for the people.<p>And we do this because you're the key to our success in the global economy, preparing our kids to compete at a time when a nation's most valuable currency is the knowledge and skills of its people. And we do this because the impact you've had on all of our lives, pushing us, believing in us, insisting, sometimes despite all evidence to the contrary, that we have potential and that we have something worthy to contribute.<p>As President Kennedy once said: \\"Our progress as a nation can be no swifter than our progress in education. . . . The human mind is our fundamental resource.\\" And it's all of you who we entrust every day with that resource and that responsibility.<p>And that's why as President, I'm committed to doing every single thing that I can do to support your work, to create better standards and assessments that you can use in your classrooms, to make critical investments in education at every level, from early childhood education through college, and to recruit and develop and reward excellent teachers.<p>And it's why, through our recovery efforts, we've provided emergency aid that saved the jobs of more than 400,000 teachers and other education jobs and why I believe these efforts must continue. I believe these efforts must continue as States face severe budget shortfalls that put hundreds of thousands of jobs at risk. We need and our children need our teachers in the classroom. We need your passion and your patience, your skill and experience, your determination to reach every single child, the very qualities that define this year's Teacher of the Year, Sarah Brown Wessling, from Johnston High School in Johnston, Iowa. So congratulations, Sarah.<p>Whether teaching basic writing to at-risk freshmen or literary theory to Advanced Placement seniors, Sarah writes, \\"I see a story in every learner, unique and yearning to be read.\\" That's why she creates individualized podcasts for each student with extensive feedback on their papers, prompting one parent to report that his own writing had improved just by listening to Sarah's comments to her daughter--to his daughter. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Sarah also helped develop 15 new courses this year alone, taking into account a wide array of interests and learning styles. And her students don't just write five-paragraph essays, but they write songs, public service announcements, film storyboards, even grant proposals for their own non-for-profit organizations.<p>One of her students reports that in Sarah's class, \\"No discussion was fruitless, no assignment was pointless, and not one day was boring.\\" And I'm not sure I could have said that when I was in school. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And all of this is in addition to her work mentoring other teachers, organizing a statewide teaching symposium, helping design Iowa's core curriculum, serving as president of the Iowa Council of Teachers of English, and much more--slow down. [<i>Laughter</i>] Plus, she's got these three cute kids in front. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>With Sarah as a teacher, good students have become great students. Students who'd been discouraged and disengaged have discovered a passion for learning. And many of her students have gone on to become teachers themselves, one of the best tributes any teacher could ask for.<p>In her application essay, Sarah wrote movingly about the achievements of several of her students, describing the transformation of one student as follows: \\"Instead of asking what, she asked why; instead of asking why, she asked why not; instead of asking why not, she asked what if.\\"<p>In honoring Sarah Brown Wessling and all of you, we also honor all those teachers across America who inspire students to ask what if, who enrich their lives and their prospects every single day.<p>But let's be clear: I think all the teachers here would agree with me, this is not the responsibility of teachers alone. Our teachers can prepare the best lesson plans imaginable, but you all can't guarantee that your students will show up ready to learn. You can be there for them before school, after school, and during lunch, but you can't be there at night to make sure those assignments get done or in the morning to make sure they're out of bed and to school on time. You can give your students all the encouragement in the world, but you can't give them the constant support and unconditional love that they need to succeed.<p>All of that is our job as parents. So today, even as we honor America's teachers, let's not forget that we all have a responsibility to educate our children. It is not just the job of schools, it's not just the job of teachers, but it's the job of our parents, it's the job of our communities, our places of worship. The message that we send in terms of our children being curious and active and aspiring for excellence, that's a job that all of us have to take on.<p>So let's turn off the TV. Let's put away the video games. Let's read to our kids once in a while. Let's make sure that homework is done and that they get a good night's sleep and a decent breakfast. Let's reach out to their teachers and ask what we can do to help. Let's be partners with teachers to prepare our kids to lead productive, fulfilling lives.<p>In the end, I think Sarah put it best when she wrote, simply, \\"My greatest contributions are my students.\\" That's true of us as a society as well, that our greatest contribution is what we do for the next generation, the sacrifices we make, the examples that we set, and all that we do to give them opportunities that we never dreamed of. All of you have dedicated your lives to that work, and for that, we honor you and we thank you, today and every day. Congratulations, everybody.<p>And it's now my pleasure to introduce the 2010 Teacher of the Year, Sarah Brown Wessling, and invite her to say a few words. But first I'm going to give her the apple.\" "
"118" "\"<i>Oil Spill in the Gulf of Mexico</i><p>Good morning, everybody. Before I make a statement on the economy, I just want to offer an update on the ongoing Federal response to the worsening oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.<p>I have dispatched the Secretaries of Interior and Homeland Security, as well as the Administrator of the EPA, my Assistant for Energy and Climate Change Policy, and the NOAA Administrator to the Gulf Coast to ensure that we continue to do everything necessary to respond to this event. And I expect their reports from the ground today.<p>As I said yesterday, BP is ultimately responsible under the law for paying the costs of response and cleanup operations, but we are fully prepared to meet our responsibilities to any and all affected communities. And that's why we've been working closely with State and local authorities since the day of the explosion.<p>There are now five staging areas to protect sensitive shorelines, approximately 1,900 Federal response personnel are in the area, and more than 300 response vessels and aircraft on the scene 24/7. We've also laid approximately 217,000 feet of protective boom, and there are more on the way.<p>I've ordered Secretary Salazar to conduct a thorough review of this incident and report back to me in 30 days on what, if any, additional precautions and technologies should be required to prevent accidents like this from happening again. And we're going to make sure that any leases going forward have those safeguards. We've also dispatched teams to the Gulf to inspect all deepwater rigs and platforms to address safety concerns.<p>So let me be clear: I continue to believe that domestic oil production is an important part of our overall strategy for energy security, but I've always said it must be done responsibly, for the safety of our workers and our environment. The local economies and livelihoods of the people of the Gulf Coast as well as the ecology of the region are at stake. And we're going to continue to update the American people on the situation in the Gulf going forward.<p>Now, I'd like to say a few words about the economy. Every 3 months, the Federal Government measures the total output of goods and services our businesses, our workers, and our Government produce. It determines whether our economy is shrinking or growing, the single broadest measure of America's economic health. At the height of our economic crisis, that measure all too often was delivering grim news. But today is a different story.<p>In the first quarter of last year, our economy shrank at a rate of 6.4 percent. Today we learned that in the first quarter of this year, our economy grew at a rate of 3.2 percent. What this number means is that our economy as a whole is in a much better place than it was 1 year ago. The economy that shrank for four quarters in a row has now grown for three quarters in a row. And that growth has been a condition for job growth; the economy that was losing jobs a year ago is creating jobs today.<p>After the single biggest economic crisis in our lifetimes, we're heading in the right direction. We're moving forward. Our economy is stronger; that economic heartbeat is growing stronger.<p>But I measure progress by a different pulse: the progress the American people feel in their own lives day in, day out. And this week, I spent a few days visiting with folks in small towns in the Midwest, places where the damage done by the worst recession in our lifetimes is profound. They're still trying to recover from a shockwave of lost homes, lost businesses, and more than 8 million lost jobs. It's a tragedy that has families and communities across America too often feeling like they're on life support.<p>So while today's GDP report is an important milepost on our road to recovery, it doesn't mean much to an American who has lost his or her job and can't find another. For millions of Americans--our friends, neighbors, and fellow citizens ready and willing to get back to work--\\"you're hired\\" is the only economic news they're waiting to hear. And they are why the work of moving this economy forward remains our focus every single day.<p>Now, government can't replace every job that has been lost. That's not government's role. It is America's business all across the country--the private sector, businesses that have always been and will always be the engines of our job creation. Our task, then, is to create the conditions necessary for those businesses to open their doors, expand their operations, and ultimately, hire more workers.<p>That's precisely what we've tried to do by cutting taxes for small businesses, by backing thousands of loans supporting billions of dollars in lending, and by making targeted investments in the areas of our economy where the potential for job growth is greatest, areas like clean energy.<p>So as an example, this week, I visited workers at a plant in Fort Madison, Iowa. Some of you guys went along. And just a few short years ago, that plant was shuttered, and it was dark. Today, it is alive and humming with more than 600 employees at work manufacturing some of the most advanced blades for wind turbines in the world. That facility capitalized on its growth by taking advantage of an Advanced Energy Manufacturing Tax Credit in the recovery that we passed last year, which allowed it to add equipment, boost output, and hire new workers at that plant.<p>In fact, this program was so successful that it was oversubscribed by a ratio of 3 to 1. That's why I've called for an additional $5 billion in investment into these projects to accelerate the creation of clean energy jobs in America's factories. Because every time a new factory or plant opens or expands in America, it becomes important to more people than the workers it employs; it becomes an economic lifeline to a community, capable of supporting dozens or hundreds or even thousands of jobs indirectly.<p>So the CEOs and the workers that we have here today could tell you the same thing. Malcolm Unsworth is the CEO of Itron--where did he go? There he is, right here. This is a company that produces smart meters to help businesses and consumers analyze real-time data about how they use energy. And these meters help reduce carbon emissions, improve energy efficiency, and save consumers money, and they're critical components of the smart electric grid of tomorrow.<p>The $3.4 billion investment that the Recovery Act made towards that smart grid helped increase demand for Itron's products. And in January, Itron competed for and won its own Advanced Energy Manufacturing Tax Credit. And it's using that tax credit to meet that new demand, adding production lines at its plants in Waseca of Minnesota, where it has hired 40 new workers, in Oconee, South Carolina, where it's hired 120 new workers.<p>Carla Reysack and James Morris are here, and these are two of the workers who have just been hired. James, a native of Oconee County, recently found himself laid off from a local plant after punching in for 28 years. Today, he and his wife Angela both work at Itron, helping to forge a clean energy future for their three daughters.<p>David Vieau, right over here, is president and CEO of A123 Systems, a company that produces advanced batteries for energy storage and next-generation vehicles. Last August, following a nationwide competition among America's clean energy technology leaders, Vice President Biden traveled to Michigan to announce that A123 was one of the 48 companies to win a Recovery Act grant for advanced battery technology.<p>That grant helped A123 hire 44 new workers. And that grant is supporting the construction of three new plants in the State of Michigan, which A123 expects will allow it to hire more than 120 workers by the end of this year, more than 1,000 by the end of next year, and more than 3,000 by the end of 2012. Two of those workers, James Fenton and Nino Biundo, are here today. They lost their previous jobs in the recession. And then 123--A123 hired them both to help manufacture the batteries of tomorrow.<p>A123 has already begun construction on one facility in the city of Livonia, which is scheduled to go on line in July, and they've begun designing a facility in the city of Romulus. And they've announced plans to build their first high-volume factory in Brownstown. So truth be told, A123 was looking to build that factory in Asia. But because it received that grant, it chose the State of Michigan for its largest and most innovative plant yet. And that plant will be one of 30 new plants to go fully operational over the next 6 years manufacturing electric vehicle batteries and components right here in the United States of America.<p>So this is what's possible in a clean energy economy, these folks right here, doing extraordinary work. This is what happens when we place our bets on American workers and American businesses. And we're going to continue working to help them manufacture more success stories like these across all sectors of our economy.<p>So we've still got a long way to go on our road to recovery. There are going to be more ups and downs along the way. But today's news is another sign that we're on the right track. And we're going to keep doing everything we can to help our businesses take the baton and power our recovery today and lead us to a more hopeful and more prosperous set of days in the future.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"119" "\"Over the past few weeks, as we've debated reforms to hold Wall Street accountable and protect consumers and small businesses in our financial system, we've come face to face with the great power of special interests in the workings of our democracy. Of course, this isn't a surprise. Every time a major issue arises, we've come to expect that an army of lobbyists will descend on Capitol Hill in the hopes of tilting the laws in their favor.<p>That's one of the reasons I ran for President, because I believe so strongly that the voices of ordinary Americans were being drowned out by the clamor of a privileged few in Washington. And that's why, since the day I took office, my administration has been taking steps to reform the system. Recently, however, the Supreme Court issued a decision that overturned decades of law and precedent, dealing a huge blow to our efforts to rein in this undue influence. In short, this decision gives corporations and other special interests the power to spend unlimited amounts of money--literally millions of dollars--to affect elections throughout our country. This in turn will multiply their influence over decisionmaking in our Government.<p>In the starkest terms, Members will know, when pressured by lobbyists, that if they dare to oppose that lobbyist's client, they could face an onslaught of negative advertisements in the runup to their next election. And corporations will be allowed to run these ads without ever having to tell voters exactly who is paying for them. At a time when the American people are already being overpowered in Washington by these forces, this will be a new and even more powerful weapon that the special interests will wield.<p>In fact, it's exactly this kind of vast power that led a great Republican President, Teddy Roosevelt, to tackle this issue a century ago. He warned of the dangers of limitless corporate spending in our political system. He actually called it \\"one of the principal sources of corruption in our political affairs.\\" And he proposed strict limits on corporate influence in elections. \\"Every special interest is entitled to justice,\\" he said, \\"but not one is entitled to a vote in Congress, to a voice on the bench, or to representation in any public office.\\"<p>In the wake of the recent Supreme Court ruling, we face a similar challenge. That's why it's so important that Congress consider new reforms to prevent corporations and other special interests from gaining even more clout in Washington. And almost all of these reforms are designed to bring new transparency to campaign spending. They're based on the principle espoused by former Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis that sunlight is the best disinfectant.<p>Shadowy campaign committees would have to reveal who's funding their activities to the American people. And when corporations and other special interests take to the airwaves, whoever is running and funding the ad would have to appear in the advertisement and claim responsibility for it, like a company's CEO or an organization's biggest contributor. This will mean citizens can evaluate the claims in these ads with information about an organization's real motives.<p>We know how important this is. We've all seen groups with benign-seeming names sponsoring television commercials that make accusations and assertions designed to influence the public debate and sway voters' minds. Now, of course every organization has every right in this country to make their voices heard. But the American people also have the right to know when some group like \\"Citizens for a Better Future\\" is actually funded entirely by \\"Corporations for Weaker Oversight.\\"<p>In addition, these reforms would address another troubling aspect of the Supreme Court's ruling. Under the bill Congress will consider, we'll make sure that foreign corporations and foreign nationals are restricted from spending money to influence American elections, just as they were in the past, even through U.S. subsidiaries. And we'll keep large contractors that receive taxpayer funds from interfering in our elections as well to avoid the appearance of corruption and the possible misuse of tax dollars.<p>Now, we can expect that these proposed changes will be met with heavy resistance from the special interests and their supporters in Congress. But I'm calling on leaders in both parties to resist these pressures. For what we are facing is no less than a potential corporate takeover of our elections. And what is at stake is no less than the integrity of our democracy. This shouldn't be a Democratic issue or a Republican issue. This is an issue that goes to whether or not we will have a Government that works for ordinary Americans, a Government of, by, and for the people. That's why these reforms are so important. And that's why I'm going to fight to see them passed into law.<p>Thanks so much.\" "
"120" "\"<i>The President. </i>Thank you so much, Ed. And to all the other board members, to honored guests, and to the lovely First Lady, good evening.<p>Ed is right, I work a lot. And so I wasn't sure that I should actually come tonight. Biden talked me into it. [<i>Laughter</i>] He leaned over, and he said, \\"Mr. President, this is no ordinary dinner.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"This is a big--[<i>electronic beep</i>]--ing meal.\\"<p>It's been quite a year since I've spoken here last, lots of ups, lots of downs, except for my approval ratings, which have just gone down. [<i>Laughter</i>] But that's politics. It doesn't bother me. Besides, I happen to know that my approval ratings are still very high in the country of my birth. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And then just the other day, my dear friend Hillary Clinton pulled me aside, and she gave me a pep talk. She said, despite the numbers, she said, \\"Don't worry, Barack, you're likeable enough.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Which made me feel better. Of course, I may not have had the star power that I once had, but in my defense, neither do all of you. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>People say to me, \\"Mr. President, you helped revive the banking industry, you saved GM and Chrysler, what about the news business?\\" I have to explain, hey, I'm just the President. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm not a miracle worker here. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Though I am glad that the only person whose ratings fell more than mine last year is here tonight. Great to see you, Jay. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm also glad that I'm speaking first, because we've all seen what happens when somebody takes the time slot after Leno's. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Jay Leno.</i> Goodnight, everyone. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President. </i>By the way, all of the jokes here tonight are brought to you by our friends at Goldman Sachs. [<i>Laughter</i>] So you don't have to worry, they make money whether you laugh or not. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We do have a number of notable guests in attendance here tonight. Obviously, I'm most pleased that Michelle accompanied me. She doesn't always go to these things. And there are few things in life that are harder to find and more important to keep than love--well, love and a birth certificate. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>The Jonas Brothers are here. They're out there somewhere. Sasha and Malia are huge fans. But, boys, don't get any ideas. [<i>Laughter</i>] I have two words for you: Predator drones. [<i>Laughter</i>] You will never see it coming. [<i>Laughter</i>] You think I'm joking? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Speaking of tween heartthrobs, Scott Brown is here. I admire Scott, a rare politician in Washington with nothing to hide. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, you should be aware that Scott Brown is not the only one with a salacious photo spread floating around. Recently, David Axelrod was offered a centerfold opportunity of his own; now, I did not know that Krispy Kreme had a catalog. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it's true.<p>I saw Michael Steele backstage when we were taking pictures, a.k.a. Notorious GOP. [<i>Laughter</i>] Michael, who knows what truly plagues America today, taxation without representin'. My brother. [<i>Laughter</i>] I did a similar routine last year, but it always works. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Odds are that the Salahis are here. [<i>Laughter</i>] There haven't been people that were more unwelcome at a party since Charlie Crist. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Unfortunately, John McCain couldn't make it. Recently, he claimed that he had never identified himself as a maverick. And we all know what happens in Arizona when you don't have ID. [<i>Laughter</i>] <i>Adios, amigos!</i> [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Look, I feel for John. You know, we were on the road together and obviously had a hard-fought battle. And you learn, certainly at the national level, politics isn't easy. This year, I've experienced my share of disappointments. For example, I had my heart set on the Nobel Prize--for Physics. [<i>Laughter</i>] But hey, you can't win 'em all. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Speaking of undeserved honors, a few weeks ago I was able to throw out the first pitch at the Nationals game. And I don't know if you saw it, but I threw it a little high and a little outside. This is how FOX News covered it: <p><i>[At this point, an altered image of FOX News's coverage of the story was shown on the screen.]</i><p>\\"President Panders to Extreme Left Wing of Batter Box.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] On the other hand, MSNBC had a different take: <p><i>[An altered image of MSNBC's \\"Countdown with Keith Olbermann\\" was shown on the screen.] </i><p>\\"President Pitches No-Hitter.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And then CNN went a different way altogether:<p><i>[A video was shown of CNN's coverage of the eruption of the Eyjafjallajokull volcano in Iceland.]</i><p><i>CNN Anchor Rick Sanchez</i>. I was just asking Chad, how can you get a volcano in Iceland? Isn't it too--when you think of a volcano, you think of Hawaii and long words like that. You don't think of Iceland, you think it's too cold to have a volcano there.<p><i>[The video clip ended.]</i><p><i>The President.</i> I guess that's why they're the most trusted name in news. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, look, I have a reputation for giving cable a hard time, so let's pick on Politico for a while. [<i>Laughter</i>] You know, people attack Politico for putting a new focus on trivial issues, political fodder, gossip sheet. That's not fair. Politico has been doing this for centuries now. Just check out these headlines--our researchers found these. <p><i>[An altered image of the Politico newspaper was shown on the screen.]</i><p>\\"Japan Surrenders--Where's the Bounce?\\" Then there's this one:<p><i>[An image was shown on the screen.]</i><p>\\"Lincoln Saves Union, But Can He Save House Majority?\\" I don't know if you can see, there's a little portion there: \\"He's lost the Southern White vote.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] It's an astute analysis there. <p><i>[An image was shown on the screen.]</i><p>And my favorite, July 3, 1776: \\"Senior Whig Official: Talks Break Down, Independence Dead.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So this is nothing new. But even though the mainstream press gives me a hard time, I hear that I'm still pretty big on Twitter, Facebook, or as Sarah Palin calls it, \\"the socialized media.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Of course, that's not the only thing that we've been accused of socializing this year. You might have heard we passed a health care bill and--[<i>applause</i>]. Is that Roger Ailes applauding out there? [<i>Laughter</i>] Some Republicans have suggested that the bill contains a few secret provisions. Now, that's ridiculous. There aren't a few secret provisions in the health care plan; there are, like, hundreds. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Tonight, in the interest of transparency, I'd like to share a couple. Let's see, this provision is called the \\"Bay State of Denial.\\" It reads: \\"This bill shall cover short-term memory loss related to the passage of Massachusetts health care reform.\\" So good news, Mitt, your condition is covered. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>This next provision is called the \\"Jersey Shore-Up.\\" It reads: \\"The following individuals shall be excluded from the indoor tanning tax within this bill: Snooki, J-Woww, the Situation, and House Minority Leader John Boehner.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>This provision ought to put a common misconception to rest. It says right here: \\"If you do not like the ruling of your death panel, you can appeal.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, look, obviously, I've learned this year politics can be a tough business, but there are times where you just can't help but laugh. You know what really tickles me? Eric Massa. [<i>Laughter</i>] Apparently, Massa claimed that Rahm came up to him one day in the House locker room, stark naked, started screaming obscenities at him, to which I say, welcome to my world. [<i>Laughter</i>] I feel you. It's a tense moment.<p>You know, even as we enjoy each other's company tonight, we're also mindful of the incredible struggles of our fellow Americans in the Gulf Coast, both those leading the efforts to stem this crisis and those along the coast whose livelihoods are in jeopardy as a result of the spill.<p>Also in our thoughts and prayers tonight are the men and women in uniform who put their lives at risk each and every day for our safety and freedom. So in that spirit, I'd also like to pay a tribute to the journalists who play an extraordinary role in telling their stories.<p>Earlier today I gave the commencement address at Michigan, where I spoke to the graduates about what is required to keep out democracy thriving in the 21st century. And one of the points I made is that for all the changes and challenges facing your industry, this country absolutely needs a healthy, vibrant media. Probably needs it more than ever now.<p>Today's technology has made it possible for us to get our news and information from a growing range of sources. We can pick and choose not only our preferred type of media, but also our preferred perspective. And while that exposes us to an unprecedented array of opinions, analysis, and points of view, it also makes it that much more important that we're all operating on a common baseline of facts. It makes it that much more important that journalists out there seek only the truth.<p>And I don't have to tell you that. Some of you are seasoned veterans who have been on the political beat for decades; others here tonight began their careers as bloggers not long ago. But I think it's fair to say that every single reporter in this room believes deeply in the enterprise of journalism. Every one of you, even the most cynical among you, understands and cherishes the function of a free press and the preservation of our system of government and of our way of life.<p>And I want you to know that for all the jokes and the occasional gripes, I cherish that work as well. In fact, tonight I wanted to present all of you with a bipartisan congressional resolution that honors all those wonderful contributions that journalists have made to our country and the world, but unfortunately, I couldn't break the filibuster. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"121" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you, everybody. Please be seated.<p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you!<p><i>The President.</i> Oh, I love you back. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It is great to be here in the Big House--[<i>applause</i>]--and so may I say, \\"Go Blue!\\" [<i>applause</i>] I thought I'd go for the cheap applause line to start things off. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Good afternoon, President Coleman, the board of trustees, to faculty, parents, family, and friends of the class of 2010. Congratulations on your graduation, and thank you for allowing me the honor of being a part of it. Let me acknowledge your wonderful Governor, Jennifer Granholm, your mayor, John Hieftje, and all the Members of Congress who are here today.<p>It is a privilege to be with you on this happy occasion, and you know, it's nice to spend a little time outside of Washington. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, don't get me wrong, Washington is a beautiful city. It's very nice living above the store; you can't beat the commute. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's just, sometimes, all you hear in Washington is the clamor of politics. And all that noise can drown out the voices of the people who sent you there. So when I took office, I decided that each night I would read 10 letters out of the tens of thousands that are sent to us by ordinary Americans every day. This is my modest effort to remind myself of why I ran in the first place.<p>Some of these letters tell stories of heartache and struggle. Some express gratitude, some express anger. I'd say a good solid third call me an idiot, which is how I know that I'm getting a good, representative sample. [<i>Laughter</i>] Some of the letters make you think, like the one that I received last month from a kindergarten class in Virginia.<p>Now, the teacher of this class instructed the students to ask me any question they wanted. So one asked, \\"How do you do your job?\\" Another asked, \\"Do you work a lot?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Somebody wanted to know if I wear a black jacket or if I have a beard, so clearly they were getting me mixed up with the other tall guy from Illinois. [<i>Laughter</i>] And one of my favorites was from a kid who wanted to know if I lived next to a volcano. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm still trying to piece the thought process on this one. [<i>Laughter</i>] Loved this letter. But it was the last question from the last student in the letter that gave me pause. The student asked, \\"Are people being nice?\\" Are people being nice?<p>Well, if you turn on the news today or yesterday or a week ago or a month ago, particularly one of the cable channels, you can see--[<i>Laughter</i>]--you can see why even a kindergartener would ask this question. [<i>Laughter</i>] We've got politicians calling each other all sorts of unflattering names. Pundits and talking heads shout at each other. The media tends to play up every hint of conflict because it makes for a sexier story, which means anyone interested in getting coverage feels compelled to make their arguments as outrageous and as incendiary as possible.<p>Now, some of this contentiousness can be attributed to the incredibly difficult moment in which we find ourselves as a nation. The fact is, when you leave here today, you will search for work in an economy that is still emerging from the worst crisis since the Great Depression. You live in a century where the speed with which jobs and industries move across the globe is forcing America to compete like never before. You will raise your children at a time when threats like terrorism and climate change aren't confined within the borders of any one country. And as our world grows smaller and more connected, you will live and work with more people who don't look like you or think like you or come from where you do.<p>I really enjoyed Alex's remarks, because that's a lot of change. And all these changes, all these challenges inevitably cause some tension in the body politic. They make people worry about the future, and sometimes they get people riled up.<p>But I think it's important that we maintain some historic perspective. Since the days of our founding, American politics has never been a particularly nice business. It's always been a little less gentile during times of great change. A newspaper of the opposing party once editorialized that if Thomas Jefferson were elected, \\"Murder, robbery, rape, adultery, and incest will be openly taught and practiced.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Not subtle. Opponents of Andrew Jackson often referred to his mother as a \\"common prostitute,\\" which seems a little over the top. [<i>Laughter</i>] Presidents from Teddy Roosevelt to Lyndon Johnson have been accused of promoting socialism or worse. And we've had arguments between politicians that have been settled with actual duels. There was even a caning once on the floor of the United States Senate, which I'm happy to say didn't happen while I was there. [<i>Laughter</i>] It was a few years before. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>The point is, politics has never been for the thinskinned or the faint of heart, and if you enter the arena, you should expect to get roughed up. Moreover, democracy in a nation of more than 300 million people is inherently difficult. It's always been noisy and messy, contentious, complicated. We've been fighting about the proper size and role of Government since the days the Framers gathered in Philadelphia. We've battled over the meaning of individual freedom and equality since the Bill of Rights was drafted. As our economy has shifted emphasis from agriculture to industry to information to technology, we have argued and struggled at each and every juncture over the best way to ensure that all of our citizens have a shot at opportunity.<p>So before we get too depressed about the current state of our politics, let's remember our history. The great debates of the past all stirred great passions. They all made somebody angry and at least once led to a terrible war. What is amazing is that despite all the conflict, despite all its flaws and its frustrations, our experiment in democracy has worked better than any form of government on Earth.<p>On the last day of the Constitutional Convention, Benjamin Franklin was famously asked, \\"Well, Doctor, what have we got, a republic or a monarchy?\\" And Franklin gave an answer that's been quoted for ages. He said, \\"A republic, if you can keep it.\\" If you can keep it.<p>Well, for more than 200 years, we have kept it. Through revolution and civil war, our democracy has survived. Through depression and world war, it has prevailed. Through periods of great social and economic unrest, from civil rights to women's rights, it has allowed us slowly, sometimes painfully, to move towards a more perfect Union.<p>And so now, class of 2010, the question for your generation is this: How will you keep our democracy going? At a moment when our challenges seem so big and our politics seem so small, how will you keep our democracy alive and vibrant? How will you keep it well in this century?<p>Now, I'm not here to offer some grand theory or detailed policy prescription. But let me offer a few brief reflections based on my own experiences and the experiences of our country over the last two centuries.<p>First of all, American democracy has thrived because we have recognized the need for a Government that, while limited, can still help us adapt to a changing world. On the fourth panel of the Jefferson Memorial is a quote I remember reading to my daughters during our first visit there. It says, \\"I am not an advocate for frequent changes in laws and constitutions, but . . . with the change of circumstances, institutions must advance also to keep pace with the times.\\"<p>The democracy designed by Jefferson and the other Founders was never intended to solve every problem with a new law or a new program. Having thrown off the tyranny of the British Empire, the first Americans were understandably skeptical of government. And ever since, we've held fast to the belief that government doesn't have all the answers, and we have cherished and fiercely defended our individual freedom. That's a strand of our Nation's DNA.<p>But the other strand is the belief that there are some things we can only do together, as one Nation, and that our Government must keep pace with the times. When America expanded from a few colonies to an entire continent and we needed a way to reach the Pacific, our Government helped build the railroads. When we transitioned from an economy based on farms to one based on factories and workers needed new skills and training, our Nation set up a system of public high schools. When the markets crashed during the Depression and people lost their life savings, our Government put in place a set of rules and safeguards to make sure that such a crisis never happened again, and then put a safety net in place to make sure that our elders would never be impoverished the way they had been. And because our markets and financial systems have evolved since then, we're now putting in place new rules and safeguards to protect the American people.<p>Now, this notion, class, hasn't always been partisan. It was the first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, who said the role of government is to do for the people what they cannot do better for themselves. And he'd go on to begin that first intercontinental railroad and set up the first land-grant colleges. It was another Republican, Teddy Roosevelt, who said, \\"The object of government is the welfare of the people.\\" And he's remembered for using the power of Government to break up monopolies and establish our National Park System. Democrat Lyndon Johnson announced the Great Society during a commencement here at Michigan, but it was the Republican President before him, Dwight Eisenhower, who launched the massive Government undertaking known as the Interstate Highway System.<p>Of course, there have always been those who've opposed such efforts. They argue government intervention is usually inefficient, that it restricts individual freedom and dampens individual initiative. And in certain instances, that's been true. For many years, we had a welfare system that too often discouraged people from taking responsibility for their own upward mobility. At times, we've neglected the role of parents, rather than government, in cultivating a child's education. And sometimes regulations fail, and sometimes their benefits don't justify their costs.<p>But what troubles me is when I hear people say that all of government is inherently bad. One of my favorite signs during the health care debate was somebody who said, \\"Keep Your Government Hands Out Of My Medicare\\"--[<i>Laughter</i>]--which is essentially saying, \\"Keep Government Out Of My Government-Run Health Care Plan.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>When our Government is spoken of as some menacing, threatening foreign entity, it ignores the fact that in our democracy, Government is us. We, the people, hold our--[<i>applause</i>]--we, the people, hold in our hands the power to choose our leaders and change our laws and shape our own destiny.<p>Government's the police officers who are protecting our communities and the service men and women who are defending us abroad. Government is the roads you drove in on and the speed limits that kept you safe. Government is what ensures that mines adhere to safety standards and that oil spills are cleaned up by the companies that caused them. Government is this extraordinary public university, a place that's doing lifesaving research and catalyzing economic growth and graduating students who will change the world around them in ways big and small.<p>The truth is, the debate we've had for decades now between more government and less government, it doesn't really fit the times in which we live. We know that too much government can stifle competition and deprive us of choice and burden us with debt. But we've also clearly seen the dangers of too little government, like when a lack of accountability on Wall Street nearly leads to the collapse of our entire economy.<p>So, class of 2010, what we should be asking is not whether we need \\"big government\\" or a \\"small government,\\" but how we can create a smarter and better government. Because in an era of iPods and TiVo, where we have more choices than ever before--even though I can't really work a lot of these things--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but I have 23-year-olds who do it for me--[<i>Laughter</i>]--government shouldn't try to dictate your lives, but it should give you the tools you need to succeed. Government shouldn't try to guarantee results, but it should guarantee a shot at opportunity for every American who's willing to work hard.<p>So yes, we can and should debate the role of government in our lives. But remember, as you are asked to meet the challenges of our time, remember that the ability for us to adapt our Government to the needs of the age has helped make our democracy work since its inception.<p>Now, the second way to keep our democracy healthy is to maintain a basic level of civility in our public debate. These arguments we're having over government and health care and war and taxes, these are serious arguments. They should arouse people's passions, and it's important for everybody to join in the debate with all the vigor that the maintenance of a free people requires.<p>But we can't expect to solve our problems if all we do is tear each other down. You can disagree with a certain policy without demonizing the person who espouses it. You can question somebody's views and their judgment without questioning their motives or their patriotism. Throwing around phrases like \\"socialists\\" and \\"Soviet-style takeover\\" and \\"fascist\\" and \\"rightwing nut\\"--[laughter]--that may grab headlines, but it also has the effect of comparing our Government, our political opponents, to authoritarian, even murderous regimes.<p>Now, we've seen this kind of politics in the past. It's been practiced by both fringes of the ideological spectrum, by the left and the right, since our Nation's birth. But it's starting to creep into the center of our discourse. And the problem with it is not the hurt feelings or the bruised egos of the public officials who are criticized. Remember, they signed up for it. Michelle always reminds me of that. [<i>Laughter</i>] The problem is that this kind of vilification and over-the-top rhetoric closes the door to the possibility of compromise. It undermines democratic deliberation. It prevents learning, since, after all, why should we listen to a \\"fascist\\" or a \\"socialist\\" or a \\"rightwing nut\\" or a \\"leftwing nut\\"? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It makes it nearly impossible for people who have legitimate but bridgeable differences to sit down at the same table and hash things out. It robs us of a rational and serious debate, the one we need to have about the very real and very big challenges facing this Nation. It coarsens our culture, and at its worst, it can send signals to the most extreme elements of our society that perhaps violence is a justifiable response.<p>So what do we do? As I found out after a year in the White House, changing this type of politics is not easy. And part of what civility requires is that we recall the simple lesson most of us learned from our parents: Treat others as you would like to be treated, with courtesy and respect. But civility in this age also requires something more than just asking if we can't just all get along.<p>Today's 24/7 echo chamber amplifies the most inflammatory sound bites louder and faster than ever before. And it's also, however, given us unprecedented choice. Whereas most Americans used to get their news from the same three networks over dinner or a few influential papers on Sunday morning, we now have the option to get our information from any number of blogs or web sites or cable news shows. And this can have both a good and bad development for democracy. For if we choose only to expose ourselves to opinions and viewpoints that are in line with our own, studies suggest that we become more polarized, more set in our ways. That will only reinforce and even deepen the political divides in this country.<p>But if we choose to actively seek out information that challenges our assumptions and our beliefs, perhaps we can begin to understand where the people who disagree with us are coming from.<p>Now, this requires us to agree on a certain set of facts to debate from. That's why we need a vibrant and thriving news business that is separate from opinion makers and talking heads. That's why we need an educated citizenry that values hard evidence and not just assertion. As Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan famously once said, \\"Everybody is entitled to his own opinion, but not his own facts.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Still, if you're somebody who only reads the editorial page of the New York Times, try glancing at the page of the Wall Street Journal once in a while. If you're a fan of Glenn Beck or Rush Limbaugh, try reading a few columns on the Huffington Post web site. It may make your blood boil, your mind may not be changed, but the practice of listening to opposing views is essential for effective citizenship. It is essential for our democracy.<p>And so too is the practice of engaging in different experiences with different kinds of people. I look out at this class, and I realize, for 4 years at Michigan, you have been exposed to diverse thinkers and scholars, professors and students. Don't narrow that broad intellectual exposure just because you're leaving here. Instead, seek to expand it. If you grew up in a big city, spend some time with somebody who grew up in a rural town. If you find yourself only hanging around with people of your own race or ethnicity or religion, include people in your circle who have different backgrounds and life experiences. You'll learn what it's like to walk in somebody else's shoes, and in the process, you will help to make this democracy work.<p>Which brings me to the last ingredient in a functioning democracy, one that's perhaps most basic and has already been mentioned, and that is participation.<p>Class of 2010, I understand that one effect of today's poisonous political climate is to push people away from participation in public life. If all you see when you turn on the TV is name-calling, if all you hear about is how special interest lobbying and partisanship prevented Washington from getting something done, then you might think to yourself, what's the point of getting involved?<p>Here's the point: When we don't pay close attention to the decisions made by our leaders, when we fail to educate ourselves about the major issues of the day, when we choose not to make our voices and opinions heard, that's when democracy breaks down. That's when power is abused. That's when the most extreme voices in our society fill the void that we leave. That's when powerful interests and their lobbyists are most able to buy access and influence in the corridors of power, because none of us are there to speak up and stop them.<p>Participation in public life doesn't mean that you all have to run for public office, though we could certainly use some fresh faces in Washington. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it does mean that you should pay attention and contribute in any way that you can. Stay informed. Write letters or make phone calls on behalf of an issue that you care about. If electoral politics isn't your thing, continue the tradition so many of you started here at Michigan, and find a way to serve your community and your country, an act that will help you stay connected to your fellow citizens and improve the lives of those around you.<p>You know, it was 50 years ago that a young candidate for President came here to Michigan and delivered a speech that inspired one of the most successful service projects in American history. And as John F. Kennedy described the ideals behind what would become the Peace Corps, he issued a challenge to the students who had assembled in Ann Arbor on that October night: \\"On your willingness to contribute part of your life to this country,\\" he said, \\"will depend the answer whether a free society can compete. I think it can,\\" he said.<p>This democracy we have is a precious thing. For all the arguments and all the doubts and all the cynicism that's out there today, we should never forget that as Americans, we enjoy more freedoms and opportunities than citizens in any other nation on Earth. We are free to speak our mind and worship as we please. We are free to choose our leaders and criticize them if they let us down. We have the chance to get an education and work hard and give our children a better life.<p>None of this came easy. None of this was preordained. The men and women who sat in your chairs 10 years ago and 50 years ago and 100 years ago, they made America possible through their toil and their endurance and their imagination and their faith. Their success and America's success was never a given. And there is no guarantee that the graduates who will sit in these same seats 10 years from now or 50 years from now or 100 years from now will enjoy the same freedoms and opportunities that you do. You too will have to strive. You too will have to push the boundaries of what seems possible. For the truth is, our Nation's destiny has never been certain.<p>What is certain, what has always been certain, is the ability to shape that destiny. That is what makes us different. That is what sets us apart. That is what makes us Americans, our ability at the end of the day to look past all our differences and all of our disagreements and still forge a common future. And that task is now in your hands, as is the answer to the question posed at this university half a century ago about whether a free society can still compete.<p>If you are willing, as past generations were willing, to contribute part of your life to the life of this country, then I, like President Kennedy, believe we can, because I believe in you.<p>Congratulations on your graduation, 2010. May God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"122" "\"<i>Attempted Terrorist Attack in New York City</i><p>Good afternoon, everybody. First, let me say a few words about the incident in New York City. I want to commend the work of the NYPD, the New York Fire Department, and the FBI, which responded swiftly and aggressively to a dangerous situation. And I also want to commend the vigilant citizens who noticed the suspicious activity and reported it to the authorities.<p>I just got off the phone on the way down here with Mayor Bloomberg to make sure that State and Federal officials are coordinating effectively. Since last night, my national security team's been taking every step necessary to ensure that our State and local partners have the full support and cooperation of the Federal Government. We're going to do what's necessary to protect the American people, to determine who's behind this potentially deadly act, and to see that justice is done. And I'm going to continue to monitor the situation closely and do what it takes, at home and abroad, to safeguard the security of the American people.<p><i>Gulf of Mexico Oil Spill Relief Efforts</i><p>Now, we just finished a meeting with Admiral Thad Allen, our national incident commander for this spill, as well as Coast Guard personnel who are leading the response to this crisis. And they gave me an update on our efforts to stop the BP oil spill and mitigate the damage.<p>By the way, I just want to point out, I was told there was drizzling out here. [<i>Laughter</i>] Is this Louisiana drizzle right here? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>They gave me a sense of how this spill is moving. It is now about 9 miles off the coast of southeastern Louisiana. And by the way, we had the Governor of Louisiana, Bobby Jindal, as well as parish presidents who were taking part in this meeting because we want to emphasize the importance of coordinating between local, State, and Federal officials throughout this process.<p>Now, I think the American people are now aware--certainly, the folks down in the Gulf are aware--that we're dealing with a massive and potentially unprecedented environmental disaster. The oil that is still leaking from the well could seriously damage the economy and the environment of our Gulf States, and it could extend for a long time. It could jeopardize the livelihoods of thousands of Americans who call this place home.<p>And that's why the Federal Government has launched and coordinated an all-hands-on-deck, relentless response to this crisis from day one. After the explosion on the drilling rig, it began with an aggressive search and rescue effort to evacuate 115 people, including 3 badly injured. And my thoughts and prayers go out to the family of the 11 workers who have not yet--who have not been found.<p>When the drill unit sank on Thursday, we immediately and intensely investigated by remotely operated vehicles the entire 5,000 feet of pipe that's on the floor of the ocean. In that process, three leaks were identified, the most recent coming just last Wednesday evening. As Admiral Allen and Secretary Napolitano have made clear, we've made preparations from day one to stage equipment for a worst-case scenario. We immediately set up command center operations here in the Gulf and coordinated with all State and local governments. And the third breach was discovered on Wednesday.<p>We already had by that time in position more than 70 vessels and hundreds of thousands of feet of boom. And I dispatched the Secretaries of the Interior and Homeland Security, the Administrator of the EPA, Lisa Jackson, who is here, my Assistant for Energy and Climate Change Policy, and the Administrator of NOAA to the Gulf Coast to ensure that we are doing whatever is required to respond to this event.<p>So I want to emphasize, from day one we have prepared and planned for the worst, even as we hoped for the best. And while we have prepared and reacted aggressively, I'm not going to rest--and none of the gentlemen and women who are here are going to rest--or be satisfied until the leak is stopped at the source, the oil on the Gulf is contained and cleaned up, and the people of this region are able to go back to their lives and their livelihoods.<p>Now, currently, the most advanced technology available is being used to try and stop a leak that is more than 5,000 feet under the surface. Because this leak is unique and unprecedented, it could take many days to stop. And that's why we're also using every resource available to stop the oil from coming ashore and mitigating the damage it could cause. And much of the discussion here at the center was focused on if we and when we have to deal with these mitigation efforts. Thus far, as you can tell, the weather has not been as cooperative as we'd like on this front. But we're going to continue to push forward.<p>I also want to stress that we are working closely with the Gulf States and local communities to help every American affected by this crisis. So let me be clear: BP is responsible for this leak; BP will be paying the bill. But as President of the United States, I'm going to spare no effort to respond to this crisis for as long as it continues. And we will spare no resource to clean up whatever damage is caused. And while there will be time to fully investigate what happened on that rig and hold responsible parties accountable, our focus now is on a fully coordinated, relentless response effort to stop the leak and prevent more damage to the Gulf.<p>I want to thank the thousands of Americans who've been working around the clock to stop this crisis, whether it's the brave men and women of our military or the local officials who call the Gulf home. They are doing everything in their power to mitigate this disaster, prevent damage to our environment, and help our fellow citizens.<p>And during this visit, I am hoping to have the opportunity to speak with some of the individuals who are directly affected by the disaster. I've heard already that people are, understandably, frustrated and frightened, especially because the people of this region have been through worse disasters than anybody should have to bear. But every American affected by this spill should know this: Your Government will do whatever it takes, for as long as it takes, to stop this crisis.<p>This is one of the richest and most beautiful ecosystems on the planet, and for centuries, its residents have enjoyed and made a living off the fish that swim in these waters and the wildlife that inhabit these shores. This is also the heartbeat of the region's economic life. And we're going to do everything in our power to protect our natural resources, compensate those who have been harmed, rebuild what has been damaged, and help this region persevere like it has done so many times before. That's a commitment I'm making as President of the United States, and I know that everybody who works for the Federal Government feels the exact same way.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"123" "\"<i>The President.</i> All right. Hello, everybody. Please have a seat. Welcome to the White House, and congratulations on winning your seventh straight Commander in Chief's Trophy. Does this ever get old? No.<p>Now, I do have to warn you, I consulted with the White House counsel, and according to the 22d Amendment, you're only allowed to come back here one more time--[<i>Laughter</i>]--before it's somebody else's turn. But we are honored to have all of you here today.<p>I want to start by acknowledging a few people who are with us. Of course, I want to thank your Superintendent, Vice Admiral Jeffrey Fowler, for being here and the outstanding work that he does. I also want to recognize the Secretary of the Navy, Ray Mabus, who is with us and is doing an outstanding job as Secretary of the Navy.<p>I want to welcome Lieutenant Commander Wesley Brown, class of 1949, back to the White House. Here he is, right here. Wesley was the Academy's first African American graduate. So we are extremely honored to have you here today, sir. Thank you.<p>Finally, I obviously want to congratulate Coach Ken--a fellow Hawaiian, I should point out--on winning another--having another great season, a winning season in Annapolis.<p>Now, I know it's an understatement to say that this program has been pretty successful over the years. You've been to a bowl game every year since 2003. You've pulled off seven straight wins against Air Force, eight against Navy.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Army.<p><i>The President.</i> Or against Army, excuse me. [<i>Laughter</i>] Excuse me. It would be hard for Navy to beat Navy. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>That's even more impressive, Coach Ken says, because the Army-Navy game isn't just one of the biggest rivalries in college football; it's one of the biggest rivalries in sports, period.<p>But last season was special from the very beginning. In your first game, you gave the Buckeyes a run for their money in front of 105,000 fans. You beat Notre Dame for the second time in 3 years, proving once again that even though your linemen are going up against guys who are 40 or 50 pounds heavier than they are, the Midshipmen can still run with the big dogs.<p>Speaking of running, I want to congratulate Ricky Dobbs for setting the NCAA rushing record for touchdowns by a quarterback this season with 27. Where's Ricky? Where is he? The previous record was held by a guy named Tebow, so that's not an easy feat. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, I also understand Ricky has announced for the Presidency--[<i>Laughter</i>]--in the year 2040. I know people are announcing early these days--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but, Ricky, that's a bit much. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it does mean that when Navy comes back for the Commander in Chief's Trophy 30 years from now, you might hear a speech from this guy. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>This team wouldn't be the same without your captains, Osei Asante and Ross Pospisil. And so--where are those guys? Osei, Ross, where are you? Congratulations. Beside their leadership on the field, I was incredibly proud to hear about the toy drive that Ross organized last year. The team raised $1,700 and bought, wrapped, and delivered toys to four needy families, and you guys did it in the middle of a blizzard. So we are very proud of you for that. And I want to thank all of you guys for your compassion and your generosity.<p>In the end, it's the willingness to put others above yourselves that sets this team and all the service academies apart. Your days are packed with morning inspections and a full load of classes, football practice, and military duties. And oftentimes, you're lucky if you can get a few minutes to yourselves before studying into the night.<p>But you do it because each of you has a higher calling: to serve your country in a time of war. As Ross says: \\"We are always going to be remembered for what we have done on the football field. That's all well and good. But we want to make a difference outside Bancroft Hall and outside the Academy walls.\\" And that, I think, is the kind of ethic that makes us all so proud.<p>In a few short weeks, 32 of you will have that chance when you become officers in the United States Navy and Marine Corps. Last year, I was honored to attend the Academy commencement and see firsthand the incredible spirit that drives every midshipman at Annapolis--in addition to getting two chest bumps. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's true.<p>Wherever you go, you'll remember the brothers standing with you today. And you'll remember the lessons that you learned at the Academy and as a member of this team. And you'll know what it takes to go through fire and emerge a better man and a better leader.<p>So I want you to know that I have no greater honor and no greater responsibility than serving as your Commander in Chief. And I promise you that this country will stand with you, from the moment you put on the uniform to the moment you take it off, as you devote your lives to freedom's cause.<p>God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much. Coach.<p><i>[At this point, Ken Niumatalolo, head coach of the U.S. Naval Academy football team, delivered brief remarks, after which the President was presented with a team jersey and commemorative ring.]</i>\" "
"124" "\"<i>Attempted Terrorist Attack in New York City</i><p>Thank you. Please be--please have a seat. Thank you so much. Ron, thank you for the introduction and your leadership. <p>Before I begin, I hope you don't mind, I indicated to Jim Owen that I want to give the American people a brief update on the investigation into the attempted terrorist attack in Times Square. A suspect is now in custody and is being questioned. The American people can be assured that the FBI and their partners in this process have all the tools and experience they need to learn everything we can, and that includes what, if any, connection this individual has to terrorist groups, and it includes collecting critical intelligence as we work to disrupt any future attacks. Justice will be done, and we will continue to do everything in our power to protect the American people.<p>Attorney General Eric Holder and other members of my national security team are going to be providing more details, but let me say this: This incident is another sobering reminder of the times in which we live. Around the world and here at home, there are those who would attack our citizens and who would slaughter innocent men, women, and children in pursuit of their murderous agenda. They will stop at nothing to kill and disrupt our way of life. But once again, an attempted attack has been--failed.<p>It has failed because ordinary citizens were vigilant and reported suspicious activity to the authorities. It failed because these authorities--local, State, and Federal--acted quickly and did what they're trained to do. I've had the opportunity to personally thank some of the citizens and law enforcement officers whose quick thinking may have saved hundreds of lives. And this suspect has been apprehended because of close and effective coordination at every level, including our Joint Terrorism Task Force and U.S. Customs and Border Protection.<p>Finally, New Yorkers have reminded us once again of how to live with their heads held high. Now, we know that the aim of those who try to carry out these attacks is to force us to live in fear and thereby amplifying the effects of their attacks, even those that fail. But as Americans and as a nation, we will not be terrorized. We will not cower in fear. We will not be intimidated. We will be vigilant, and we will work together. And we will protect and defend the country we love to ensure a safe and prosperous future for our people. That's what I intend to do as President, and that's what we will do as a nation.<p>Of course, expanding prosperity is what you work for at the Business Council, so I'm pleased to have this opportunity to meet with you. It has been a little more than a year since I last spoke to the members of this organization. And over the past year, I've appreciated the advice offered by many of the leaders in this room as we've grappled with a set of very difficult economic challenges.<p>I am here today to reiterate the importance of this partnership and the importance of seeking common ground. I recognize we're not going to agree on every single item, but as I indicated to a group of your members last night, my door is always open. For ultimately, I believe the success of the American economy depends not on the efforts of government, but on the innovation and enterprise of America's businesses. And it will be America's businesses that help us emerge from this period of economic crisis and economic turmoil.<p>Now, the fact is, these have been a tough 2 years for our country. I don't need to tell you that. At the height of the recession, countless businesses had to shut their doors. Trillions of dollars in savings were lost, forcing seniors to postpone retirement and young people to forgo college, entrepreneurs to give up on starting up a company. Many businesses that remained standing had to let people go. And some of you had to make some painful decisions. And more than 8 million men and women lost their jobs during the course of the downturn.<p>Just about every day, I hear from some of these people, people who are out of work. I hear from them through letters that I receive each night or in town halls that I've held across America. Every once in a while, I hear from children seeking to make sense of what's happening in their families, of the sadness and uncertainty that they don't fully understand. And it's a reminder that what has happened is not just an economic problem, it is a human tragedy. It's for this reason that my administration has maintained a relentless focus on reviving the economy and job growth. And in order to deal with this crisis, we've had to make a number of difficult decisions, some of which are very unpopular.<p>But as many of you have reported, today, we're beginning to see some hopeful signs. When I last spoke to members of the Business Council, soon after taking office, the economy was losing an average of 750,000 jobs each month. Today, America is adding jobs again. Many of the businesses in this room have resumed hiring, which is welcome news. Last year, the economy was in freefall. Today, the economy is growing again. In fact, we've seen the fastest turnaround in growth in nearly three decades. And while we had been seeing a steady decline in manufacturing, we learned yesterday that manufacturing expanded in April for the ninth consecutive month and at the fastest pace in nearly 6 years.<p>Now, by no stretch of the imagination can we declare victory. Not until the millions of our neighbors who are looking for work can find work. Not until incomes and economic security are actually increasing for middle class families, many who saw their income and wages flatline even during boom times in the nineties and--over the last decade, after the nineties, rather. And not until we face the weaknesses in our economy that preceded this recession, problems that have been allowed to fester for decades.<p>We've been reminded of late that we can also face at any time a sudden and costly crisis that can harm our economy. One of the discussions that we had last night was around the BP oil spill, which is going to affect the lives and livelihoods of people all along the Gulf Coast, from the fishing industry to the tourism industry. We are committed to preventing as much of the economic damage as possible by working to contain the impact of this potentially devastating spill. In addition, wherever possible, I would like to see the people most affected by the disaster employed in helping in the cleanup. And we will continue to explore every possible option to create jobs and support local economies in the Gulf, while continuing to monitor any potential effects on the national economy. But obviously, this is going to be a significant challenge, and we are going to be working overtime to make sure that we mitigate its impacts.<p>More broadly, spurring job creation and economic expansion continues to be our number-one domestic priority. That's why, as I've said since the very beginning of my administration, we can't just rebuild the economy to where it was, we're going to have to rebuild it stronger than before. We've got to rebuild it on a new foundation of lasting growth. We have to tackle structural problems--from education to energy, from our financial system to our health care system, from our trade imbalance to our fiscal imbalance--that didn't just lead to 2 years of recession, but a decade of economic insecurity for middle class families.<p>Now, there's a legitimate question about what the Government's role can and should be in bringing about this new foundation for growth. And if you turn on cable news, you might run into folks with some strong feelings, and also some misleading claims, about the view of my administration on the subject. What has guided me throughout the last year and a half, what has informed the decisions I've made is a fundamental belief in markets that are free and open to all who are willing to work hard and pursue their talents.<p>I believe businesses like yours are what drive growth and create the conditions in which families and small businesses can thrive. And I believe America's greatest strength has always been society--that it's a society that values and rewards the ingenuity of people. That doesn't relieve Government of its responsibility to help foster sustained economic growth and to ensure that our markets are functioning freely. Government can't light a spark in the mind of an engineer, but it can help an engineering student get loans to pay her tuition. Government will seldom be the source of new and innovative products, but it can invest in basic research that isn't necessarily profitable in the near term, but that holds vast potential in the long term. Government can build the infrastructure that allows products and services to reach customers. Government can create incentives--in clean energy, for example--that promote innovation and exports. These things are public goods that no business, no individual is going to provide on their own, but that create a favorable environment in which everybody--companies across the country--can open and expand.<p>And that's why as part of this new foundation that we seek to build, we're investing in education, because our economic success depends on making sure people have the skills to match their talents. So we launched a national competition last year to improve our schools based on a simple idea: Instead of funding the status quo, we'll only invest in reform. We've recently announced the first winners in what we're calling this Race to the Top. And across America, it's making a difference, as States are implementing reforms to raise student achievement, to improve education in math and science, and to turn around failing schools that steal the future of too many young Americans.<p>As part of this effort, I've promised to speak at a high school commencement every year to highlight schools that are encouraging excellence and preparing their students for college and careers. And today, in fact, after a vote to narrow down the finalists on our web site, whitehouse.gov, we announced that I'm going to be speaking to graduates of Kalamazoo Central High School in Kalamazoo, Michigan. So those of you based in Michigan, you should be pleased. Go Giants! That's--[<i>Laughter</i>]--we're looking forward to talking to those young people.<p>We've also set this goal: America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020. And we're making progress towards meeting that. Congress passed legislation that will make college more affordable by ending unnecessary taxpayer subsidies that go to financial intermediaries for student loans. The bill also includes one of the most significant investments in community colleges in history, because community colleges are a career pathway for the children of so many working families. And last night, during our discussion, one of the things--a theme that continually came up was the fact that there are a lot of skilled jobs out there that don't necessarily require a 4-year college degree, but they're not being filled because we haven't done a good enough job on just basic math--high school math skills, for example. We see our investment in the community colleges as a potential way to bridge that, even as we're working on improving K through 12 outcomes.<p>We are seeing rising enrollment in both 2- and 4-year schools across America. We want to make sure that those folks who are enrolling are getting the best education possible so they can serve effectively as part of your workforce.<p>Next, we've tackled what's been an undeniable drag on our economy, and that's the cost of health care. And I appreciate the willingness of many of the leaders in this room, including Ron and Angela and some folks that I spoke to yesterday, to work with us and advise us on this issue. I believe that the passage of this legislation is good for America's businesses. In fact, just 2 weeks ago, 4 million small-business owners found a postcard from the IRS in their mailboxes. And it was actually one of those rare moments in which something from the IRS was a welcome discovery. Because of the reforms that were passed, millions of small-business owners are eligible for a health care tax cut this year, worth perhaps tens of thousands of dollars, to help afford the coverage they provide to their employees.<p>Businesses will also be eligible for additional relief for providing insurance to retirees who are not yet eligible for Medicare. A lot of the companies in this room can apply for this assistance starting this June. It used to be, if you worked for a big company, when you retired, you could count on having health insurance until you were eligible for Medicare. But one of the consequences of skyrocketing health care costs is that the proportion of large firms providing insurance to its retirees has been cut in half over the past two decades. So these folks are often unable to find affordable coverage on the individual market. So this is going to be a welcome reform for many businesses that are trying to do the right thing by their retirees and for the retirees themselves. And it will provide a bridge to when health exchanges come on line in a few years.<p>Now, we're only at the beginning. Many of the provisions in the health care bill have yet to be implemented. I'm pleased to say that--though, that already many insurance companies are voluntarily accelerating implementation of this law. Many insurance companies have decided to allow parents, for example, to add their young-adult children to their policies now, instead of waiting until next fall. Some firms have rolled back exorbitant planned rate increases. And others have stopped the practice of rescission, where people are dropped from their coverage after they get sick. These steps are all greatly appreciated. They're the right thing to do. We will hold these companies accountable to their word and to the law, not to be vindictive, but to fulfill our responsibilities to the American people. But I think that we've seen a spirit of cooperation over the last several weeks that I'm very happy about.<p>Now, even as we seek to improve the skills of our workforce and reduce the crushing burden of health care costs on businesses and families, this alone is not going to be enough to drive the 21st-century global economy. We need to ensure that our economy is fostering and rewarding innovation. And that's why we're building the infrastructure of tomorrow, investing in expanded broadband access and health information technology, clean energy facilities, first--the first high-speed rail network in America.<p>That's why we've set a goal of devoting more than 3 percent of our GDP to research and development, an amount that exceeds the level achieved even at the height of the space race. And we've also proposed making the research and experimentation tax credit permanent, a tax credit that helps companies like yours afford the high costs of developing new technologies and new products, because ultimately, the key to our long-term prosperity is going to be sparking even greater innovation than we've already seen.<p>And that's why in my State of the Union Address, I set a goal of doubling our exports over the next 5 years to increase--an increase that would support 2 million jobs. And to help meet this goal, we launched the National Export Initiative, where the Federal Government will significantly ramp up its advocacy on behalf of U.S. exporters. We are substantially expanding the trade financing available to exporters, including small and medium-sized companies. And while always keeping our security needs in mind, we're going to reform our export controls to eliminate unnecessary barriers. So in sectors where we have a huge competitive and technological advantage, we're going to be able to send more of those products to markets overseas. And we're going to pursue a more strategic and aggressive effort to open up new markets for our goods.<p>Now, we also have to recognize that the long-term economic health of our country depends on addressing the fiscal health of our Government. And I know that's going to be a significant topic of discussion today. We continue to face not only the consequences of an economic and fiscal crisis, we also face a fiscal emergency that has built up over years. We have a structural deficit that is unsustainable. The day I walked in the door, the deficit stood at $1.3 trillion, with projected deficits of $8 trillion over the next 10 years. So even as we've made massive investments to rebuild the economy in the short term, we're going to continue to do what's necessary to spur job creation and economic growth, but we also have to rein in these deficits in the long run.<p>And that's why I insisted health reform not add to our national debt. In fact, it's expected to bring down the deficit by as much as $1 trillion over the next two decades. We've also restored what's called the pay-as-you-go rule so that Congress can't spend a dollar on either new tax cuts or new spending unless it saves a dollar elsewhere. We've gone through the budget line by line, cutting waste. And I've proposed a freeze in Government spending for 3 years. My budget also ends loopholes and tax giveaways for oil and gas companies, as well as tax breaks for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans, just because we can't afford them. And finally, I've appointed a bipartisan fiscal commission to take a hard look at the growing gap between what the Government spends and what the Government raises in revenue.<p>Now, I understand that some of you got a briefing on this issue in preparation for today's meeting. I think you understand the choices are going to be tough. But we are making--we are determined to make these tough choices. We're determined to put our Nation on a stronger fiscal footing. Because in the end, we need an economy that's powered less by what we borrow and consume and more by what we produce and what we build. I believe that's essential. My administration believes it's essential. And we're going to need to work with you to help get to where we need to be.<p>Now, none of these steps will matter if our financial system remains vulnerable to another crisis like the one that we've just been through. As we've learned so painfully in recent years, Government has an obligation to set basic, commonsense rules in the marketplace. This is not a hindrance, it's essential to the functionings of the market. In the absence of these rules, it becomes more attractive for some to game the system than to compete and innovate honestly within it. And this erodes trust in our markets. It makes our economy less attractive to investors from around the world. And at worst, it can put the entire financial system in jeopardy, which serves no one.<p>So that's why I'm working to pass a set of reforms to hold Wall Street accountable and protect consumers. And I want to be clear: The reforms we've proposed are in no way designed to hamstring businesses. These are changes to make sure that our markets are working in a way that is open and transparent and inoculated against the kind of massive, dangerous risks that nearly brought the whole financial sector down. And that's in the interests of every business here and in the interest of the economy as a whole.<p>Now, I--you're going to be hearing from my Treasury Secretary, Tim Geithner, who will speak to these issues in greater detail. But in brief, these reforms would achieve three things.<p>First, they'd create what we did not have before, and that is a way to protect the financial system, the broader economy, and American taxpayers in the event that a large financial firm collapses. Now, what we call this resolution authority will ensure that taxpayers are never again on the hook because a firm is deemed too big to fail.<p>Second, these reforms would bring new transparency to our financial markets. Part of what led to this crisis was that firms like AIG made huge and risky bets, using derivatives and other complicated financial instruments in ways that defied accountability or even common sense.<p>Now, we believe that there is a legitimate role for these financial products in our economy. They can help allay risk. They can help spur investment. And there are a lot of companies that use these instruments to legitimate ends, managing exposure to fluctuating prices or currencies. But the position of my administration on derivatives from the beginning has been simple: We can't have a $600 trillion market operating in the dark. We want to ensure that the bulk of these trades take place on an open exchange and the rest take place in the full light of day and in full view of those charged with oversight.<p>The third thing that this reform will accomplish is to enact the strongest consumer financial protections ever. This financial crisis wasn't just the result of decisions made on Wall Street, it was the result of decisions made around kitchen tables all across America by folks who took on mortgages and credit cards and auto loans. And while too many Americans took on financial obligations that they knew they couldn't afford, millions of others were, frankly, duped. They didn't know what they were getting into. They were misled by deceptive terms and conditions buried in the fine print. And this didn't just affect these families, it hurt the entire economy.<p>That's why we need to give consumers more protection in our financial system. With a dedicated agency setting ground rules and looking out for ordinary people in our financial system, we're going to be able to empower consumers with clear information when they're making financial decisions. And that way, instead of competing to offer confusing products, consumers will benefit from companies that are competing the old-fashioned way, by offering better products. And I believe that unless your business model depends on bilking people, there is little to fear from these new rules. It is just going to be able to empower consumers to know what they're getting into.<p>Finally, we give investors more say and more sway in the financial system. These Wall Street reforms will give shareholders a voice with respect to salaries and bonuses awarded to top executives, addressing a concern that has grown as a result of this crisis.<p>So that's what reform will look like. I'm pleased that the filibuster was dropped in the Senate and that Members on the other side of the aisle agreed to allow a debate. We expect a vigorous debate with amendments on both sides. But make no mistake: We cannot allow these reforms to be watered down. And for those of you in the financial industry whose companies may be employing lobbyists seeking to weaken this bill, I want to urge you, as I said on Wall Street a couple weeks ago, to join us rather than to fight us.<p>That doesn't mean that there aren't going to be legitimate differences on the details of what is a complicated piece of legislation. But in its broad parameters, this proposal is a commonsense, reasonable, nonideological approach to target the root problems that we've seen in our financial sector. And I believe these reforms are not only in the interests of the broader economy, they are in the interests of the financial industry as well. Because reform will not only safeguard our system against crises, it will also make our system stronger and more competitive, instilling confidence here at home and across the globe. And I want America's financial sector to continue to be the most trusted and the most respected in the world. That requires reform.<p>And this brings me to a final point. We face some very big challenges right now. The only way we're going to get through them, the only way we ever have, is if we align the interests of workers and businesses and Government around a common purpose. At a time of such economic anxiety, it's tempting and, frankly, sometimes easier to turn against one another. So politicians can rail against Wall Street or against each other. Businesses can fault Capitol Hill. And all of this back and forth makes for easy talking points, it makes for good political theater, but it doesn't solve our problems. It doesn't move us forward. It just traps us in the same debates that have held us back for a very long time. It prevents us from tackling the challenges that we've been putting off for decades.<p>I don't believe we can afford that kind of politics anymore. Not now. I believe that we are in this together. I believe that we will succeed or we'll falter as one people. But I am confident that if we can rise above these failures of the past, then we're not only going to recover, but we're going to emerge stronger than before. And because of the caliber of the leaders and businesses represented in this room, because of the ingenuity of our entrepreneurs, because of the drive and skill and talents of our people, I believe, and I know you believe, that our best days are still ahead of us.<p>So yes, these have been a very difficult 2 years. But the storm is receding, and the skies are brightening, and America is poised to lead the world once again toward new horizons. You're going to be a part of that process, and I thank you for your leadership.<p>Thank you. May God bless America.\" "
"125" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. Danny Akaka, aloha. [<i>Laughter</i>] Since the 9/11 attacks more than 8 years ago, the United States has been a nation at war. In this time, millions of Americans have worn the uniform. More than a million have served in Afghanistan and Iraq. Many have risked their lives; many have given their lives. All are the very embodiment of service and patriotism. And as a grateful nation, humbled by their service, we can never honor these American heroes or their families enough.<p>Along with their loved ones, we give thanks every time our men and women in uniform return home. But we're forever mindful that our obligations to our troops don't end on the battlefield. Just as we have a responsibility to train and equip them when we send them into harm's way, we have a responsibility to take care of them when they come home. <p>As Michelle and Dr. Biden have reminded us in all their visits to military bases and communities, our obligations must include a national commitment to inspiring military families, the spouses and children who sacrifice as well.<p>We have a responsibility to veterans like Ted Wade, who joins us here today with his wonderful wife Sarah. We are so proud of both of them. Six years ago, Sergeant Wade was serving in the 82d Airborne Division in Iraq when his Humvee was struck by an IED, an improvised explosive device. He lost much of his right arm and suffered multiple injuries, including severe traumatic brain injury. He was in a coma for more than 2 months, and doctors said it was doubtful that he would survive. <p>But he did survive, thanks to the care he received over many months and years, thanks to Ted's indomitable spirit, and thanks to the incredible support from Sarah, who has been at his side during every step of a long and very difficult journey. As I've said many times, our Nation's commitment to our veterans and their families--to patriots like Ted and Sarah--is a sacred trust, and upholding that trust is a moral obligation.<p>Since taking office, my administration, in partnership with many of the veterans' organizations who are here today, has worked to make sure that America fulfills this obligation. We've dramatically increased funding for veterans' health care, including our wounded warriors, especially those with the signature wounds of today's wars: posttraumatic stress and traumatic brain injury. Under Secretary Ric Shinseki's outstanding leadership, we're building a 21st-century VA, including budget reform to ensure predictable funding, and a historic increase in the VA budget. <p>But as we all know, keeping faith with our veterans and their families is work that is never truly finished. As a nation, as the beneficiaries of their service, there's always more we can do and more that we must do. And that's what we're doing today, as I sign this important legislation, the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act.<p>With this legislation, we're expanding mental health counseling and services for our veterans from Afghanistan and Iraq, including our National Guardsmen and reservists. We're authorizing the VA to utilize hospitals and clinics outside the VA system to serve more wounded warriors like Ted with traumatic brain injury. <p>We're increasing support to veterans in rural areas, with the transportation and housing they need to reach VA hospitals and clinics. We're expanding and improving health care for our women's veterans, to meet their unique needs, including maternity care for newborn children. And we'll launch a pilot program to provide child care for veterans receiving intensive medical care. <p>We're eliminating copays for veterans who are catastrophically disabled. And we're expanding support to homeless veterans, because in the United States of America, no one who has served this Nation in uniform should ever be living on the streets.<p>Finally, this legislation marks a major step forward in America's commitment to families and caregivers who tend to our wounded warriors every day. They're spouses like Sarah. They're parents once again caring for their sons and daughters. Sometimes they're children helping to take care of their mom or dad. <p>These caregivers put their own lives on hold, their own careers and dreams aside, to care for a loved one. They do it every day, often around the clock. As Sarah can tell you, it's hard physically and it's hard emotionally. It's certainly hard financially. And these tireless caregivers shouldn't have to do it alone. As of today, they'll be getting more of the help that they need.<p>If you're like Sarah, and caring for a severely injured veteran from Afghanistan or Iraq, you'll receive a stipend and other assistance, including lodging when you travel for your loved one's treatment. If you need training to provide specialized services, you'll get it. If you need counseling, you'll receive it. If you don't have health insurance, it will be provided. And if you need a break, it will be arranged, up to 30 days of respite care each year.<p>So today is a victory for all the veterans' organizations who fought for this legislation. It's a tribute to those who led the fight in Congress, including Senator and World War II vet Danny Akaka and Senator Richard Burr, and in the House, Representatives Mike Michaud and Bob Filner. And I thank all the Members of Congress who are joining us here today.<p>Most of all, today is a victory for veterans like Ted and caregivers like Sarah, who, by the way, has become a passionate and very effective voice on behalf of wounded warriors and their families. Testifying before Congress, she said of her husband, \\"Just like he needed a team in the military to accomplish the mission, he needs a team at home in the longer war.\\"<p>So to Ted and to Sarah, to all our veterans and your families, with this legislation we're building a stronger team here at home that you need, now and for the long road to recovery. And that's why I'm very much looking forward to signing this legislation. Thank you.\" "
"126" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. <p><i>Audience member. Viva</i> Obama!<p><i>The President.Viva!</i> [<i>Laughter</i>] Good evening, everyone. <i>Buenas noches</i>. Michelle and I are so honored to welcome you to the White House. And you all brought outstanding weather, so we thank you for that. [<i>Laughter</i>] Thank you. I know that a lot of you would rather be watching tonight's game, the Spurs against <i>los</i> Suns from Phoenix.<p>Tonight's another one of our great events here at the White House celebrating Latino culture in America, including our concert some of you might have attended that we had during Hispanic Heritage Month on the South Lawn, <i>Fiesta Latina</i>. And Malia and Sasha will probably never forget playing drums with Sheila E. [<i>Laughter</i>] Michelle, on the other hand, would prefer to forget the sight of me trying to dance with Thalia. [<i>Laughter</i>] I didn't think I was that bad. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The First Lady.</i> You were okay. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> But there will be no--[<i>Laughter</i>]--there will be no repeat performances tonight.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Aww. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> We gather to mark a day that's become as celebrated here in the United States as it is in Mexico. And we're honored to be joined by Mexico's Interior Secretary, Fernando Gomez Mont, and his lovely wife Gloria. Please give them a big round of applause. It's good to see you again. And a great friend to me and the United States, Ambassador Arturo Sarukhan and his wonderful wife Veronica, who are also here; it's good to see you again.<p>Now, the events of this date in history are well known, how nearly 150 years ago, at the Battle of Puebla, a band of Mexican patriots faced off against a massive European army and won a victory that inspires the world to this day. Less well known is that General Zaragoza, who led those patriots, was born in what is now the town of Goliad in Texas. In fact, you can go there today. <p><i>Audience member. </i>[<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President. </i>Are you from there?<p><i>Audience member.</i> Yes.<p><i>The President.</i> You can visit his birthplace. It's a historic landmark, includes a 10-foot tall statue of the general, presented by the people of Mexico and preserved by the people of the United States.<p>So the glory of this day is shared by both of our countries. And so is the pride in the lasting contributions that Hispanics have made to America throughout our history, including the men and women who join us here tonight.<p>We're joined by dedicated Members of Congress and members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, as well as some of their staffs. This includes Senator Bob Menendez; hey, Bob. Representative Xavier Becerra, where's Xavier? There he is, back there. Chairwoman Nydia Velazquez, where's Nydia?<p>We're joined by outstanding members of my Cabinet, including Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis. Hilda! As well as Secretary of Homeland Security Napolitano is here. And although she's down--although he's down on the Gulf helping to lead our response to the oil spill, I want to acknowledge my outstanding Interior Secretary, Ken Salazar.<p>We're joined by Hispanic Americans serving at every level of my Government. And I'm proud that we've nominated more Latinos to senior positions than any administration in history, not just because they're Latino, but because they're the best people for the job. And I should note that many of those appointments are Latinas, wise Latinas, undoubtedly. And although she's not here tonight, I think we should give a little round of applause to our first Latina on the Supreme Court, Sonia Sotomayor.<p>We're also joined by leaders from every segment of American society. And I especially want to welcome those of you serving on the commission to explore the creation of a new museum in Washington to celebrate the history of Latinos in America. And I look forward to seeing the results of the commission's hard work and to the day when we open the doors on a new National Museum of the American Latino.<p>Tonight's performers are a wonderful example of how Latin culture's shaped and strengthened the fabric of America. So I want to say thank you to Maru and the Montero Dance Company, along with Javier Cortes. Thank you very much. Before I came out, I was listening to you guys inside. [<i>Laughter</i>] You sounded really good.<p>Now, by celebrating the story of Hispanics in America, we're really celebrating the larger story of America. After all, the dreams of Mexican Americans and all Latinos are the same dreams as any other American. It's why, in the face of unprecedented economic crises, we took bold action to get our economy growing again, creating jobs again, and laying the foundation for lasting prosperity. That's good for all Americans, including Hispanics, among whom the unemployment rate remains unacceptably high and who are ready to go back to work.<p>It's why, after nearly a century, we passed historic health care reform, with the help of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. And we're grateful to them. That's good for all Americans. It's good for all Americans, including the millions of Latinos who will finally get the coverage they lack today, as well as the Latino small-business owners who will finally be able to provide coverage for their employees. And that allows them to join the children of legal immigrants, who are finally able to get health care through the SCHIP program, something that we did very early on in my administration.<p>It's why we've made college more affordable, why we're reforming education. And that's good for all children, including Latinos, who, instead of having the highest dropout rate, deserve every chance to achieve their God-given potential.<p>So today reminds us that America's diversity is America's strength. That's why I spoke out against the recently passed law in Arizona. Make no mistake: Our immigration system is broken. And after so many years in which Washington has failed to meet its responsibilities, Americans are right to be frustrated, including folks along border States. But the answer isn't to undermine fundamental principles that define us as a nation. We can't start singling out people because of who they look like or how they talk or how they dress. We can't turn law-abiding American citizens and law-abiding immigrants into subjects of suspicion and abuse. We can't divide the American people that way. That's not the answer. That's not who we are as the United States of America.<p>And that's why I've instructed my administration to closely monitor the new law in Arizona, to examine the civil rights and other implications that it may have. That's why we have to close the door on this kind of misconceived action by meeting our obligations here in Washington.<p>So I want to say it again, just in case anybody's confused: The way to fix our broken immigration system is through commonsense, comprehensive immigration reform. And that means responsibility from our Government to secure our borders, something we have done and will continue to do. It means responsibility from businesses that break the law by undermining American workers and exploiting undocumented workers. They've got to be held accountable. It means responsibility from people who are living here illegally. They've got to admit that they broke the law and pay taxes and pay a penalty and learn English and get right before the law and then get in line and earn their citizenship.<p>Comprehensive reform, that's how we're going to solve this problem. And I know there's been some commentary over the last week since I talked about this difficult issue. Well, is this politically smart to do? Can you get Republican votes? Look, of course, it's going to be tough; that's the truth. Anybody who tells you it's going to be easy or that I can wave a magic wand and make it happen hasn't been paying attention to how this town works. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We need bipartisan support. But it can be done, and it needs to be done. So I was pleased to see a strong proposal for comprehensive reform presented in the Senate last week, and I was pleased that it was based on a bipartisan framework. I want to begin work this year, and I want Democrats and Republicans to work with me, because we've got to stay true to who we are, a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants.<p>That's the spirit that I saw in some remarkable men and women that I recently hosted right here in the Rose Garden. They came from more than a dozen countries. And even though they weren't yet citizens, they had enlisted in the United States military. And one woman was named Perla Ramos, and she was born and raised in Mexico. She came to the United States shortly after 9/11. Her husband was a U.S. marine, and she said, \\"A passion for the military grew inside me.\\"<p>In time, she joined herself, enlisting in the Navy. And she said, \\"I take pride in our flag and the history that forged this great Nation and the history we write day by day.\\" And as Perla's Commander in Chief, I took great pride in helping to swear her in, a daughter of Mexico and one of our newest American citizens. So she continues a great tradition of Mexican Americans serving in our military, someone in whom both our nations can take great pride.<p>So today I want us to remember the United States and Mexico are not simply neighbors bound by geography and history; we're two societies that are woven together by millions of family and friends, by common interests and a shared future. Those are bonds that are unbreakable. They're bonds of an aspirational community: you and your mothers and fathers and brothers and sisters who struggled and sacrificed to realize the American Dream. They're also bonds of commerce and trade that sustain millions of jobs, both in Mexico and in the United States.<p>They're bonds that are represented in the trust and respect that I have for President Calderon, as we work together to create opportunity and prosperity for our peoples and confront the drug cartels and violence that threaten both our countries. It's the warmth that Michelle felt on her recent trip to Mexico, her first solo trip as First Lady. And it's the friendship and cooperation that we'll deepen when we host President Calderon and First Lady Margarita Zavala for their state visit and dinner in a couple of weeks.<p>That's the spirit that all of you are putting on display today. So thank you for living it in your own lives. Thank you for sharing it with us tonight.<p>Have a wonderful party. You can be as noisy as you want. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The First Lady.</i> We can hear you.<p><i>The President.</i> We can hear you, though. [<i>Laughter</i>] If it goes past a certain hour, we'll kick you out. [<i>Laughter</i>] All right? <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"127" "\"All right. Good morning, everybody. On what seems like a daily basis, we're barraged with statistics and forecasts and reports and data related to the health of the economy. But from the first days of this administration, amidst the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, I've said that the truest measure of progress would be whether or not we were creating jobs. That's what matters in people's lives. What matters is whether someone who needs a job can find work, whether people can provide for their families and save for the future and achieve some measure of economic security.<p>Everything we've done has been with this goal in mind. And today I'm happy to report that we received some very encouraging news. In April, the economy added 290,000 jobs, with the vast majority, approximately 230,000, coming from the private sector. This is the largest monthly increase in 4 years. And we created 121,000 more jobs in February and March than previously estimated, which means we've now seen job growth for 4 months in a row. <p>These numbers are particularly heartening when you consider where we were a year ago, with an economy in freefall. At the height of the downturn, around the time that I took office, we were losing an average of 750,000 jobs per month.<p>So this news comes on the heels of a report last week that the overall output of our economy, our GDP, is increasing. We now know that the economy has been growing for the better part of a year. And this steady growth is starting to give businesses the confidence to expand and to hire new people.<p>I should also note that the unemployment rate ticked up slightly from 9.7 to 9.9. Given the strength of these job numbers, this may seem contradictory, but this increase is largely a reflection of the fact that workers who had dropped out of the workforce entirely are now seeing jobs again and--are now seeking jobs again, encouraged by better prospects.<p>Now, I want to emphasize, the economic crisis we've faced has inflicted a lot of damage on families and businesses across our country, and it's going to take time to repair and rebuild. Over the course of this recession, more than 8 million jobs were lost. So there are a lot of people out there who are still experiencing real hardship. And we've got to be mindful that today's job numbers, while welcome, leave us with a lot of work to do. It's going to take time to achieve the strong and sustained job growth that is necessary. And of course, long before this recession hit, for a decade, middle class families had been experiencing a sense of declining economic security.<p>So yes, we've got a ways to go. But we've also come a very long way. And we can see that the difficult and, at times, unpopular steps that we've taken over the past year are making a difference. Productivity is up. The hours people are working are up. Both are signs the company may be hiring more workers in the months to come. We saw the largest increase in manufacturing employment since 1998. And we can see the benefits of our Recovery Act in the strong employment reports from construction and other sectors, where we've made key investments in creating and saving jobs.<p>Of course, there are limits to what the Government can do. The true engine of job growth in this country will always be the private sector. That's why we are very pleased to see the strong employment growth on the private sector side.<p>What Government can do is help create the conditions for companies to hire again. What it can do is build the infrastructure and offer the incentives that will allow small businesses to add workers, that will help entrepreneurs take a chance on an idea, that will lead manufacturers to set up shop not overseas, but right here in United States of America.<p>And that's what we've been doing. Right now a series of tax incentives and other steps to promote hiring are taking effect. Because of a bill I signed into law a few weeks ago, businesses are now eligible for tax cuts for hiring unemployed workers. Companies are also able to write off more of their investments in new equipment. And we're spurring additional investments in school renovation, clean energy projects, and road construction, which will create jobs while laying a new foundation for lasting growth.<p>In addition, as part of health reform, 4 million small businesses recently received a postcard in their mailbox telling them that they're eligible for a health care tax cut this year. It's worth perhaps tens of thousands of dollars to each of these companies, and it will provide welcome relief to small-business owners, who too often have to choose between health care and hiring.<p>So that's what's already come on line. But we still have more to do. In my State of the Union Address, I called for a $30 billion small-business lending fund, which would help increase the flow of credit to small companies that were hit hard by the decline in lending that followed the financial crisis. And, obviously, small businesses are a major source of job creation.<p>This morning we sent draft legislation to Congress on this fund, which now includes a new State small-business credit initiative. This State initiative, which was designed with the help of Governors and Members of both the House and the Senate, will help expand lending for small businesses and manufacturers at a time when budget shortfalls are leading States to cut back on vitally important lending programs.<p>In addition, with State and local governments facing huge budget gaps, we're seeing layoffs of teachers, police officers, firefighters, and other essential public servants, which not only harms the economy, but also the community and the economy as a whole. So we are working with Congress to find ways to keep our teachers in the classrooms, the police officers on the beat, and firefighters on call.<p>A few months ago, I also proposed giving people rebates to upgrade the energy efficiencies of their home. This will not only save families money, it will create jobs in hard-hit construction and manufacturing sectors, since things like windows and insulation are overwhelmingly made in the United States of America. I was gratified to see a bipartisan vote to pass this proposal, called Home Star, in the House of Representatives yesterday. I'm calling on the Senate to act as well. And I'm urging Congress to expand the clean energy manufacturing tax credit, which is helping create jobs across America building wind turbines and solar panels.<p>Even as we take these steps to increase hiring in the short and long run, we're also mindful of other economic factors that can emerge. So I want to speak to the unusual market activity that took place yesterday on Wall Street. The regulatory authorities are evaluating this closely, with a concern for protecting investors and preventing this from happening again. And they will make findings of their review public, along with recommendations for appropriate action.<p>I also spoke this morning with German Chancellor Merkel regarding economic and financial developments in Europe. We agreed on the importance of a strong policy response by the affected countries and a strong financial response from the international community. I made clear that the United States supports these efforts and will continue to cooperate with European authorities and the IMF during this critical period.<p>So this week's job numbers come as a relief to Americans who found a job, but it offers, obviously, little comfort to those who are still out of work. So to those who are out there still looking, I give you my word that I'm going to keep fighting every single day to create jobs and opportunities for people. Every one of my team that's standing alongside me here has the same sense of mission. We're not going to rest until we've put this difficult chapter behind us. And I won't rest until you, and millions of your neighbors caught up in these storms, are able to find a good job and reach a brighter day.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"128" "\"It's now been a little over a month since I signed health insurance reform into law. And while it will take some time to fully implement this law, reform is already delivering real benefits to millions of Americans. Already, we're seeing a health care system that holds insurance companies more accountable and gives consumers more control.<p>Two weeks ago, 4 million small-business owners and organizations found a postcard in their mailbox informing them that they could be eligible for a health care tax cut this year, a tax cut potentially worth tens of thousands of dollars, a tax cut that will help millions provide coverage to their employees.<p>Starting in June, businesses will get even more relief for providing coverage to retirees who are not yet eligible for Medicare. And a little over a month from now, on June 15, senior citizens who fall into the prescription drug coverage gap known as the doughnut hole will start receiving a $250 rebate to help them afford their medication.<p>Aside from providing real, tangible benefits to the American people, the new health care law has also begun to end the worst practices of insurance companies. For too long, we've been held hostage to an insurance industry that jacks up premiums and drops coverage as they please. But those days are finally coming to an end.<p>After our administration demanded that Anthem BlueCross justify a 39-percent premium increase on Californians, the company admitted the error and backed off its plan. And this week, our Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius, wrote a letter to all States urging them to investigate other rate hikes and stop insurance companies from gaming the system. To help States achieve this goal, we've set up a new Office of Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight and will provide grants to States with the best oversight programs.<p>In the next month, we'll also be putting in place a new patient's bill of rights. It'll provide simple and clear information to consumers about their choices and their rights. It will set up an appeals process to enforce those rights. And it will prohibit insurance companies from limiting a patient's access to their preferred primary care provider, ob-gyn, or emergency room care.<p>We're holding insurance companies accountable in other ways as well. As of September, the new health care law prohibits insurance companies from dropping people's coverage when they get sick and need it most. But when we found out that an insurance company was systematically dropping the coverage of women diagnosed with breast cancer, my administration called on them to put an end to this practice immediately. Two weeks ago, the entire insurance industry announced that it would comply with the new law early and stop the perverse practice of dropping people's coverage when they get sick.<p>On Monday, we'll also be announcing the new rule that allows young adults without insurance to stay on their parent's plan until they're 26 years old. Even though insurance companies have until September to comply with this rule, we've asked them to do so immediately to avoid coverage gaps for new college graduates and other young adults. This also makes good business sense for insurance companies, and we're pleased that most have agreed. Now we need employers to do the same, and we're willing to work with them to make this transition possible. These changes mean that starting this spring, when young adults graduate from college, many who do not have health care coverage will be able to stay on their parents' insurance for a few more years. And you can check healthreform.gov to find a list of all the insurance carriers who have agreed to participate right away.<p>I've said before that implementing health insurance reform won't happen overnight, and it will require some tweaks and changes along the way. Ultimately, we'll have a system that provides more control for consumers, more accountability for insurance companies, and more affordable choices for uninsured Americans. But already, we're seeing how reform is improving the lives of millions of Americans. Already, we are watching small businesses learn that they will soon pay less for health care. We are seeing retirees realize they'll be able to keep their coverage and seniors realize they'll be able to afford their prescriptions. We're seeing consumers get a break from unfair rate hikes and patients get the care they need when they need it and young adults getting the security of knowing that they can start off life with one less cost to worry about. At long last, this is what health care reform is achieving. This is what change looks like. And this is the promise we will keep as we continue to make this law a reality in the months and years to come.<p>Thanks so much.\" "
"129" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you, Hampton. Thank you, class of 2010. Please, everybody, please have a seat.<p><i>Audience member.</i> I love you, Obama!<p><i>The President.</i> I love you back. That's why I'm here. I love you guys.<p>Good morning, everybody.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Good morning.<p><i>The President.</i> To all the mothers in the house: As somebody who is surrounded by women in the White House--[<i>Laughter</i>]--grew up surrounded by women, let me take a moment just to say thank you for all that you put up with each and every day. We are so grateful to you, and it is fitting to have such a beautiful day when we celebrate all our mothers.<p>Thank you to Hampton for allowing me to share this special occasion. To all the dignitaries who are here, the trustees, the alumni, parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles, cousins----<p><i>Audience member.</i> Woo!<p><i>The President. </i>That's a cousin over there. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, before we get started, I just want to say, I'm excited the battle of the real HU will be taking place in Washington this year. [<i>Laughter</i>] You know I am not going to pick sides. [<i>Laughter</i>] But my understanding is it's been 13 years since the Pirates lost. As one Hampton alum on my staff put it, the last time Howard beat Hampton, the Fugees were still together. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Let me also say a word about President Harvey, a man who bleeds Hampton blue. In a single generation, Hampton has transformed from a small Black college into a world-class research institution. And that transformation has come through the efforts of many people, but it has come through President Harvey's efforts in particular, and I want to commend him for his outstanding leadership as well as his great friendship to me.<p>Most of all, I want to congratulate all of you, the class of 2010. I gather that none of you walked across Ogden Circle. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Audience members. </i>We did!<p><i>The President. </i>You did? Okay. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>You know, we meet here today, as graduating classes have met for generations, not far from where it all began, near that old oak tree off Emancipation Drive. I know my University 101. [<i>Laughter</i>] There, beneath its branches, by what was then a Union garrison, about 20 students gathered on September 17, 1861. Taught by a free citizen, in defiance of Virginia law, the students were escaped slaves from nearby plantations who had fled to the fort seeking asylum.<p>And after the war's end, a retired Union general sought to enshrine that legacy of learning. So with a collection from church groups, Civil War veterans, and a choir that toured Europe, Hampton Normal and Agricultural Institute was founded here, by the Chesapeake, a home by the sea.<p>Now, that story is no doubt familiar to many of you. But it's worth reflecting on why it happened, why so many people went to such trouble to found Hampton and all our Historically Black Colleges and Universities. The founders of these institutions knew, of course, that inequality would persist long into the future. They were not naive. They recognized that barriers in our laws and in our hearts wouldn't vanish overnight.<p>But they also recognized the larger truth, a distinctly American truth. They recognized, class of 2010, that the right education might allow those barriers to be overcome, might allow our God-given potential to be fulfilled. They recognized, as Frederick Douglass once put it, that \\"education . . . means emancipation.\\" They recognized that education is how America and its people might fulfill our promise. That recognition, that truth--that an education can fortify us to rise above any barrier, to meet any test--is reflected again and again throughout our history.<p>In the midst of civil war, we set aside land grants for schools like Hampton to teach farmers and factory workers the skills of an industrializing nation. At the close of World War II, we made it possible for returning GIs to attend college, building and broadening our great middle class. At the cold war's dawn, we set up area studies centers on our campuses to prepare graduates to understand and address the global threats of a nuclear age.<p>So education is what has always allowed us to meet the challenges of a changing world. And Hampton, that has never been more true than it is today. This class is graduating at a time of great difficulty for America and for the world. You're entering a job market in an era of heightened international competition, with an economy that's still rebounding from the worst crisis since the Great Depression. You're accepting your degrees as America still wages two wars, wars that many in your generation have been fighting.<p>And meanwhile, you're coming of age in a 24/7 media environment that bombards us with all kinds of content and exposes us to all kinds of arguments, some of which don't always rank that high on the truth meter. And with iPods and iPads and Xboxes and PlayStations--none of which I know how to work--[<i>Laughter</i>]--information becomes a distraction, a diversion, a form of entertainment, rather than a tool of empowerment, rather than the means of emancipation. So all of this is not only putting pressure on you, it's putting new pressure on our country and on our democracy.<p>Class of 2010, this is a period of breathtaking change, like few others in our history. We can't stop these changes, but we can channel them, we can shape them, we can adapt to them. And education is what can allow us to do so. It can fortify you, as it did earlier generations, to meet the tests of your own time.<p>And first and foremost, your education can fortify you against the uncertainties of a 21st-century economy. In the 19th century, folks could get by with a few basic skills, whether they learned them in a school like Hampton or picked them up along the way. As long as you were willing to work, for much of the 20th century, a high school diploma was a ticket into a solid middle class life. That is no longer the case.<p>Jobs today often require at least a bachelor's degree, and that degree is even more important in tough times like these. In fact, the unemployment rate for folks who've never gone to college is over twice as high as for folks with a college degree or more.<p>Now, the good news is you're already ahead of the curve. All those checks you or your parents wrote to Hampton will pay off. [<i>Laughter</i>] You're in a strong position to outcompete workers around the world. But I don't have to tell you that too many folks back home aren't as well prepared. Too many young people, just like you, are not as well prepared. By any number of different yardsticks, African Americans are being outperformed by their white classmates, as are Hispanic Americans. Students in well-off areas are outperforming students in poorer rural or urban communities, no matter what skin color.<p>Globally, it's not even close. In 8th grade science and math, for example, American students are ranked about 10th overall compared to top performing countries. But African Americans are ranked behind more than 20 nations, lower than nearly every other developed country.<p>So all of us have a responsibility, as Americans, to change this, to offer every single child in this country an education that will make them competitive in our knowledge economy. That is our obligation as a nation.<p>But I have to say, class of 2010, all of you have a separate responsibility: to be role models for your brothers and sisters, to be mentors in your communities, and when the time comes, to pass that sense of an education's value down to your children, a sense of personal responsibility and self-respect, to pass down a work ethic and an intrinsic sense of excellence that made it possible for you to be here today.<p>So allowing you to compete in the global economy is the first way your education can prepare you. But it can also prepare you as citizens. With so many voices clamoring for attention on blogs and on cable, on talk radio, it can be difficult at times to sift through it all, to know what to believe, to figure out who's telling the truth and who's not. Let's face it: Even some of the craziest claims can quickly gain traction. I've had some experience--[<i>Laughter</i>]--in that regard.<p>Fortunately, you will be well positioned to navigate this terrain. Your education has honed your research abilities, sharpened your analytical powers, given you a context for understanding the world. Those skills will come in handy.<p>But the goal was always to teach you something more. Over the past 4 years, you've argued both sides of a debate. You've read novels and histories that take different cuts at life.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Amen!<p><i>The President.</i> You've discovered--see, I got a little \\"Amen\\" there, somebody--[<i>Laughter</i>]--you've discovered interests you didn't know you had. You've made friends who didn't grow up the same way you did. You've tried things you'd never done before, including some things we won't talk about in front of your parents. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>All of this, I hope, has had the effect of opening your mind, of helping you understand what it's like to walk in somebody else's shoes. But now that your minds have been opened, it's up to you to keep them that way. It will be up to you to open minds that remain closed that you meet along the way. That, after all, is the elemental test of any democracy, whether people with differing points of view can learn from each other and work with each other and find a way forward together.<p>And I'd add one further observation. Just as your education can fortify you, it can also fortify our Nation as a whole. More and more, America's economic preeminence, our ability to outcompete other countries, will be shaped not just in our boardrooms, not just on our factory floors, but in our classrooms and our schools, at universities like Hampton. It will be determined by how well all of us, and especially our parents, educate our sons and daughters.<p>What's at stake is more than our ability to outcompete other nations, it's our ability to make democracy work in our own Nation. You know, years after he left office, decades after he penned the Declaration of Independence, Thomas Jefferson sat down, a few hours' drive from here, in Monticello, and wrote a letter to a longtime legislator, urging him to do more on education. And Jefferson gave one principal reason, the one, perhaps, he found most compelling. \\"If a nation expects to be ignorant and free,\\" he wrote, \\"it expects what never was and never will be.\\"<p>What Jefferson recognized, like the rest of that gifted founding generation, was that in the long run, their improbable experiment called America wouldn't work if its citizens were uninformed, if its citizens were apathetic, if its citizens checked out and left democracy who those--to those who didn't have the best interests of all the people at heart. It could only work if each of us stayed informed and engaged, if we held our Government accountable, if we fulfilled the obligations of citizenship.<p>The success of their experiment, they understood, depended on the participation of its people, the participation of Americans like all of you, the participation of all those who have ever sought to perfect our Union.<p>I had a great honor of delivering a tribute to one of those Americans last week, an American named Dorothy Height. And as you probably know, Dr. Height passed away the other week at the age of 98. One of the speakers at this memorial was her nephew who was 88. And I said that's a sign of a full life when your nephew is 88. Dr. Height had been on the firing line for every fight, from lynching to desegregation to the battle for health care reform. She was with Eleanor Roosevelt, and she was with Michelle Obama. She lived a singular life, one of the giants upon whose shoulders I stand. But she started out just like you, understanding that to make something of herself, she needed a college degree.<p>So she applied to Barnard College, and she got in. Except, when she showed up, they discovered she wasn't White, as they had believed. And they had already given their two slots for African Americans to other individuals. Those slots--two--had already been filled. But Dr. Height was not discouraged. She was not deterred. She stood up, straight-backed, and with Barnard's acceptance letter in hand, she marched down to New York University and said, \\"Let me in.\\" And she was admitted right away.<p>I want all of you to think about this, class of 2010, because you've gone through some hardships, undoubtedly, in arriving to where you are today. There have been some hard days and hard exams, and you've felt put upon. And undoubtedly, you will face other challenges in the future.<p>But I want you to think about Ms. Dorothy Height, a Black woman in 1929 refusing to be denied her dream of a college education, refusing to be denied her rights, refusing to be denied her dignity, refusing to be denied her place in America, her piece of America's promise, refusing to let any barriers of injustice or ignorance or inequality or unfairness stand in her way. That refusal to accept a lesser fate, that insistence on a better life, that, ultimately, is the secret not only of African American survival and success, it has been the secret of America's survival and success.<p>So yes, an education can fortify us to meet the tests of our economy, the tests of our citizenship, and the tests of our times. But what ultimately makes us American, quintessentially American, is something that can't be taught: a stubborn insistence on pursuing our dreams.<p>It's the same insistence that led a band of patriots to overthrow an empire, that fired the passions of Union troops to free the slaves and Union veterans to found schools like Hampton, that led foot soldiers the same age as you to brave firehoses on the streets of Birmingham and billy clubs on a bridge in Selma, that led generation after generation of Americans to toil away quietly, your parents and grandparents and great-grandparents and great-great-grandparents, without complaint, in the hopes of a better life for their children and grandchildren.<p>That is what makes us who we are. A dream of brighter days ahead, a faith in things not seen, a belief that here in this country, we are the authors of our own destiny. That is what Hampton is all about. And it now falls to you, the class of 2010, to write the next great chapter in America's story, to meet the tests of your own time, to take up the ongoing work of fulfilling our founding promise. I'm looking forward to watching.<p>Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"130" "\"Well, everybody, look, I know you folks are busy, but I just wanted to come by and say thank you. I was telling the mayor and the commissioner that the work that the NYPD does in coordination with State, local, and Federal officials when it comes to counterterrorism is a model for the country. It has been for some time. And I don't think I need to tell you that given the potential for attack everywhere in the country, we've got a lot to learn from what is taking place here.<p>Number one, you guys do a great job coordinating with other law enforcement. Number two, you are just professional and exhibit excellence at all times when carrying out your job. Number three, and what we saw in Times Square, is you know how to get the community involved, and raising community awareness is absolutely critical. And as a consequence, you have saved an awful lot of lives.<p>And so my main message to you is that the country is proud of you. I know your mayor and your commissioner are proud of you. Your President is proud of you. And we want to make sure that we continue to work with you to get the resources that are needed for you to continue to be effective and to make sure that Federal agencies are consistently working with you with--working on all cylinders, because we want to make sure that you are getting the support you need to protect this great city.\" "
"131" "\"Thank you so much. Everybody, please have a seat. It is good to be back in New York City. Love New York City.<p>I want to thank, first of all, Congressman Chris Van Hollen, who has one of the tougher jobs around. Let's face it: Whenever you are the chairman of the DCCC, the demands on your time, in addition to being a Member of Congress, all your committee assignments, and then you also have to go out there and help campaign for everybody, it is a tough job. And Chris is handling it with unbelievable class. And we are so grateful to him. Thank you, Chris.<p>To Congressman Steve Israel, thank you for the outstanding work that you've done as chair of recruiting. To all the distinguished Members of Congress, including the dean of the New York delegation, Charlie Rangel, and everybody else who is here, thank you for not only helping to organize the event tonight, but also for your incredible dedication and courage during the course of the past year and a half.<p>It is good to be back in New York City, and it is good to be following Nancy Pelosi. [<i>Laughter</i>] New York is a tough town, but Nancy Pelosi, that's one tough lady. [<i>Laughter</i>] That is one tough lady. And she's so elegant, even as she's ripping your heart out--[<i>Laughter</i>]--if you mess with her.<p>You need to be tough to put up with all the criticism and griping that she deals with on a daily basis. And that's from the Democrats. [<i>Laughter</i>] But her toughness, her extraordinary leadership, is why she's not just going to go down in history as the first woman Speaker, she is going to go down as one of the greatest Speakers of all time. She has been unbelievable in her leadership in Congress.<p>Now, I also want to thank all of you, not just for your financial contributions, but for your time, your energy, your faith that America can move forward in the right direction. Your support has made an incredible difference, because 16 months ago, when we took office, we knew this wouldn't be easy. At least I hope you knew, because I told you. [<i>Laughter</i>] If you didn't know, you weren't paying attention at my Inauguration Address. [<i>Laughter</i>] Remember that? Washington, couple million people, really cold? [<i>Laughter</i>] We came in here with a whole host of challenges in our inbox, challenges the likes of which we hadn't seen in this country for decades.<p>Abroad, we were confronting a war in Iraq that needed to come to a responsible end and a war in Afghanistan that demanded greater attention and focus and a host of new threats and new dangers and new opportunities in a new world.<p>And here at home, we were facing a financial crisis that had the potential to plunge us into another great depression. We had a deficit crisis saddling our children with a mountain of debt, an economic crisis that was pounding families and small businesses all across the country, a lot of families who had already endured an awful lot during the previous decade. And even though we didn't cause these crises, we took the responsibility to end them.<p>That's why we asked the American people for the chance to lead in the first place. That's why Nancy Pelosi and all the Members of Congress here, the reason they ran wasn't to put off problems, but to solve problems. That was the reason I ran for President. And that meant we had to make some tough decisions.<p>Trust me, when I walked into the door of the Oval Office and found a $1.3 trillion deficit after the previous administration had inherited a surplus, the last thing I wanted to do was spend money on a recovery package or become involved in the auto industry or prevent the collapse of Wall Street banks, particularly those whose irresponsibility had helped to cause this crisis. That wasn't on my campaign to-do list. You don't remember me campaigning on those items. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And they certainly weren't popular. We knew that. Sometimes these folks--I listen to these pundits, and they're saying, aw, the President's made this decision and his--these are unpopular decisions. I've got pollsters. [<i>Laughter</i>] I know when what we're about to do is politically unpopular. [<i>Laughter</i>] But what I also knew was that if we wanted to break the back of our recession and get our economy moving again, then the steps we took were absolutely necessary. And while we still have a long road ahead of us, we're beginning to see signs of progress all across America--all across America.<p>The economy that was shrinking a year ago, it's growing today. The economy that was bleeding jobs at a historic pace a year ago--750,000 jobs a month when I came in--now we're creating jobs again. Our economic heartbeat keeps growing stronger. These are good things, even if our friends on the other side of the aisle fall all over themselves to argue otherwise.<p>But here's the thing: The steady progress we're seeing, it didn't happen by accident. We're starting to see in public opinion surveys that people start thinking that the economy's getting better, but there seems to be a disconnect as to why it's getting better. The reason the economy's getting better is because Nancy Pelosi and every Democrat here embraced the responsibility to lead. It happened because they embraced the responsibility to stand up to special interests, stand up even against the prevailing political winds, stand up for the American people's interests. It happened because we embraced the responsibility to finally take on problems that Washington had talked about for years, sometimes decades, and put off over and over and over again. That's what this Congress has been doing. And it hasn't been easy. These guys have taken more tough votes in the last 16 months than Congress had taken in the previous 16 years. And that's the truth.<p>Think about it. For years, Washington had talked about how credit card companies were ripping off American families. Well, this was the Congress that passed the credit card bill of rights. For years, Washington talked about protecting our kids from tobacco companies. This was the Congress that stepped up and delivered and put a stop to those practices.<p>For years, Washington had talked about making sure our veterans got the care and benefits that was promised them. This was the Congress that increased funding for our veterans by more than we had done in a generation and guaranteed that it would arrive on time every year.<p>For years, Washington had talked about fixing the student loan system that favored financial interests over students and families. This was the Congress that finally made it happen. Over $60 billion of funding that is now going to students to help them go to school happened because of the courageous votes that were taken by these Members of Congress.<p>For years, Washington talked about the need to transition to a clean and independent energy future. This was the Congress that made the biggest investment in clean energy in our history. And that investment is already reopening factories and rehiring workers to build wind turbines and solar panels and effectively create an advanced battery industry right here in America.<p>For nearly half--for nearly a century, we had been talking about the need for health insurance reform in America. And this was the Congress that delivered it for the American people.<p>So I want everyone in this room to be clear--I'm glad I got pictures with you, it was nice to schmooze with you a little bit, but the bottom line is, is that I could not have gotten done any of the things we got done had it not been for this team right here. And they did it despite all the gridlock, despite all the partisanship. This has been one of the most productive legislative sessions in history, in the midst of crisis.<p>If we just stopped now, in fact, if we had stopped last year, it would have already been one of the most productive legislative sessions in history. And that's tempting, stopping. [<i>Laughter</i>] Everybody's kind of pooped, but--particularly because it would've been nice to get a little help from the other side of the aisle, just once in a while. You would have thought at a time of historic crisis that Republican leaders would have been more willing to help us find a way out of this mess, particularly since they created the mess. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We all have a stake in cleaning it up. We're not Democrats or Republicans first; we're Americans first. I tell the story about--you know, sometimes you got a feeling Nancy and I are sitting--Charlie and Steve, everybody--Jerry, we're--got our mops and our brooms out, we're cleaning stuff out, and they're sitting there saying, \\"Hold the broom better.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"That's not how you mop.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Don't tell me how to mop. Pick up a mop. [<i>Laughter</i>] Do some work on behalf of the American people to solve some of these problems. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But that wasn't their strategy; it was not their strategy from day one. And I'm not making this up. This is public record. They've said in interviews: \\"We made a political decision. We stood nothing to gain from cooperating. We knew things were going to be bad. And we figured, if we didn't do anything and if it didn't work out so well, maybe the other side would take the blame.\\"<p>They've done their best to gum up the works, to make things look broken, to say no to every single thing. That was the attitude they had when it came to pulling our economy out of a crisis. That was the attitude they had when it came to making sure that families and businesses finally got the security of health care in this country. That's been the attitude on any number of challenges that we faced. Their basic attitude's been, \\"If Democrats lose, we win.\\"<p>So after they drove the car into the ditch, made it as difficult as possible for us to pull it back, now they want the keys back. [<i>Laughter</i>] No! [<i>Laughter</i>] You can't drive. We don't want to have to go back into the ditch. We just got the car out. We just got the car out. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Look, I just came from Buffalo. I spent some time with workers and families; they're still facing very tough economic times. A couple weeks ago, I spent time with folks in the Midwest. I've been trying to make it a habit of getting out of Washington as often as the job allows. And when I do, you know what's fascinating? None of the people you meet--and I'm not just seeing folks who have signed up to see me. We're stopping in diners, and we're talking to folks on the streets and on the farm, and they don't care which party puts points on the board. They're not talking about who's positioned better for November. They're not keeping track of what's going on with the red team and the blue team. And they're not watching cable network news. They just want to know that somebody is looking out for them in Washington, that somebody's working hard. They want to see progress. They expect us to respond to our challenges with the same sense of urgency that they feel in their own lives. That's all they're looking for. They want to know that we're trying hard and that we've got their interests in mind.<p>And what I believe is when we win--we win when the American people win, that good policy is good politics. People wonder sometimes why it is that I stay calm. I stay calm because if I feel like I'm making the best decision possible that's good for the American people, then ultimately the American people are going to figure that out. And Nancy Pelosi and this caucus has the same attitude, because if they didn't, we would have made a whole bunch of different decisions.<p>And the American people are going to have a clear choice when they head into the polls in November. They're going to have a choice about whether they want somebody who has the courage to stand up in a time of need or would prefer somebody who sits on the sidelines and tries to cast blame. They're going to have a choice about whether you're going to make decisions that strengthen our country for the long term or that just serve your short-term political purposes. The American people will have a choice about whether or not we're going to keep rebuilding America that is stronger and more prosperous and more competitive than before, and that means making some tough choices now for our children and our grandchildren, or going back to the policies that got us into this mess in the first place.<p>And I am proud that for the past year and a half, under the leadership of the folks sitting in this room, the Democratic Party has taken the right path. It's cut taxes for 95 percent of America's working families, cut taxes for small businesses, for making college more affordable, for families buying their first home. Not just to reward those at the top, but instead to give a little bit of lift to folks on the bottom at a time when they were really in trouble. That's what Democrats were for, and the other side was against it.<p>We took on the special interests and fixed the broken student loan system that gave tens of billions of dollars to financial systems, unnecessary middlemen, and we put that money to work helping students all across America go to college and get the skills they need to win the race in this 21st-century economy. That's what Democrats are for. You know what? The other side, it was against it. <p>We thought it was unfair to deny health insurance to Americans with preexisting conditions. We thought it was wrong to let hard-working families go bankrupt because somebody in their family gets sick. And so we did something about it that no Congress had done in American history. That's what we were for, and the other side was against it.<p>We fought for the principle that all of us ought to have a sense of security when it comes to our health care. And I truly believe that, and so does everybody in this room. And now they are talking about repealing it if they take over in November. They'd actually tell uninsured Americans with preexisting conditions, you know what, it's a mistake to ensure that you get coverage. They'd tell seniors, you know what, give back that help that you're getting when it comes to paying for your prescription drugs. They'd tell millions of small-business owners who today qualify for new tax credits to help them cover their workers and the millions of young Americans who can now stay on their parent's plan until they turn 26 years old, you know what, tough luck, you're on your own.<p>I'm not going to let that happen, Nancy's not going to let that happen, and I'm confident, as long as we're able to get our message out, with your help, the American people aren't going to let that happen.<p>Now, I'm not saying Democrats and Republicans ought to agree on everything. There are going to be some things we don't see eye to eye on, and a good, serious debate is good for our democracy. That's what this is all about. But the fact is, the problems that we face are too great for us to be playing politics all the time. And all of us, Democrats and Republicans, need to come together to solve problems. And that is what Nancy Pelosi and the Democratic Caucus has done. They have not played politics.<p>And now--[<i>applause</i>]--and frankly, that is not always politically convenient. We're engaged in a debate right now about commonsense Wall Street reform. Now, I was in Wall Street just a few weeks ago, and I said, I believe in the power of the free market; I believe in a strong financial system. When it's working right, our financial institutions are an enormous source of strength and dynamism in our economy. It helps families buy homes and businesses grow and ideas to take flight. There are a lot of good people who work in the financial industry who do things the right way. It's in our best interest to make sure those firms are strong and healthy.<p>But when these institutions operate irresponsibly, they don't just threaten themselves. As we've seen, they threaten the entire economy, along with the dreams of millions of Americans who worked so hard to make a life for themselves.<p>So we need reform that would ensure they operate in a honest, fair, open way. And we'll see who can stand up to the lobbyists and special interests who are trying to weaken this reform, even as we speak. We'll see who wants to get it done. Because all of us, Democrats and Republicans, have a responsibility to make sure the American people don't have to endure a crisis like this ever again.<p>All of us are going to have to tackle our exploding deficits. And I got to say, Washington, it's got a short-term memory, so people don't remember that it wasn't that long ago, under a Democratic President, that America enjoyed the hard-won budget surpluses. And yet it only took a few years of Republican Congresses, these same budget hawks, being in charge to turn that surplus into a massive deficit, passing a tax cut for the richest Americans, creating an expensive, new entitlement program, and authorizing two wars without paying for a single dime of it. And now suddenly we're in charge, and they say, \\"Hey, where did this deficit come from?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Well, we will help clean up that mess too. That's why I've gone through our budget line by line to cut what we don't need so we can pay for what we do need. That's why I set up a bipartisan fiscal commission to look at our structural deficit, our long-term deficit, set a clear goal to cut our deficit in half over the next 3 years, because I don't want to kick our problems down the road. I don't want our children to have to deal with it.<p>And that's what all this comes down to. That's what Democrats have been about over the course of this last year and a half: What kind of future are we going to build and leave for the next generation? And I know this is a party fundraiser, this may be blasphemy to say so, but all of us has to ask ourselves one question: What is more important, doing what is easy to get through the next election or doing what's right for the next generation?<p>And the Democratic Party this year has answered that question. We chose to lead. We chose to make tough decisions. We chose not to spend all our time looking at the polls.<p>I remember the conversation Nancy and I had about health care at the beginning of the debate. And I told her, I said, I want to get this done, even if it meant that I was going to be a one-term President. I think it's that important. And Nancy--when everybody got all nervous after Massachusetts, she said, you know what, we're still going to get it done.<p>And we did what was necessary to rescue our economy. We've done what's necessary to resuscitate our economy and to rebuild it on a new foundation of growth and to turn this country around and point it in the right direction.<p>And yes, we're going to take some lumps. But we can now see the contours of what's a more prosperous, more secure future for America, where new jobs and new industries in areas like clean energy and clean tech come back to within our borders, and you've got a highly trained, highly educated workforce that can compete for those jobs with any other workers in the world; and where more families and businesses are free to chase their dreams backed up by the security of health care; and where the future of the American Dream is once again within the reach of every American; and we've got a Government that works and is competent and has restored science to its rightful place and believes in civil liberties, and we have some folks on the Supreme Court who believe in the Constitution.<p>I--[<i>applause</i>]--that is the future that was--is within our sight. We've gone through a stormy time. And I know sometimes it's made you guys a little seasick--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but right now the waters are calming, right there at the horizon, we can see our destination. So now's not the time to lose heart. Now's not the time to get complacent. Now's the time to remind ourselves of what America's all about and make sure we are working as hard as we can to return Democrats to the House of Representatives.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. Thank you.\" "
"132" "\"Good morning, everybody. Please have a seat. Well, it is wonderful to see all of you. To Tom, to Attorney General Holder, and to the outstanding officers standing behind me, as well as their families, welcome to the Rose Garden. It is my privilege to welcome the TOP COPS back to the White House, men and women who stand as shining examples of the bravery, persistence, and good judgment that so many members of our law enforcement community display each and every day.<p>I think that Eric Holder has done an outstanding job at Justice Department, but part of the reason he's here is because one of his key jobs is supporting local law enforcement. And he truly appreciates the extraordinary service that local law enforcement does each and every day.<p>We also have a couple Members of Congress here who I want to recognize, Representative Tim Ryan and Senator Max Baucus, who have been extremely supportive of local law enforcement efforts.<p>To Tommy Nee and the other officers and board members from the National Association of Police Organizations, thank you for coming and thanks for the great work that you do every day.<p>And finally, I want to congratulate this year's TOP COPS and their families. I think it's fair to say that the folks behind me never imagined they would be here today. If you asked them, these officers would say they were just professionals doing their jobs as best they could. And they'll tell you that there are thousands of law enforcement officers in every corner of this Nation who are just as brave, just as dedicated, and just as capable as they are and who would do the same thing if given the opportunity.<p>And that's all true. But that's exactly what makes these officers and all of our men and women in uniform real heroes. It's the ability to put on a badge and go to work knowing that danger could be waiting right around the corner. It's the understanding that the next call could be the one that changes everything. And it's the knowledge that, at any moment, they could be called upon to stop a robbery, to participate in a high-speed chase, or to save a life.<p>Some people haven't faced their moment yet. But whether it's by chance or by the hand of fate, these officers were tested. And when the moment came, they did what they were trained to do. The men and women here today have jumped into cars to rescue victims held at knifepoint. They've pulled trapped children from a burning car seconds before it was engulfed in flames. They've leapt in front of hijacked buses, faced armed suspects, led 6-hour manhunts through the dark, and saved countless lives by risking their own.<p>And in the moments when these officers were under fire or choking on smoke, they weren't thinking about themselves. They weren't thinking about the medals or commendations. I'm pretty sure they weren't thinking about being honored at the White House. Instead, they were focused on their partners, on the face of the child who was in harm's way, on the victim and the innocent bystander who desperately needed their help.<p>And that's why we honor them. Because while these officers may think of themselves as ordinary, as just another sheriff or trooper or patrolman doing their job, their actions were extraordinary. And for that we owe them our undying gratitude.<p>But honoring TOP COPS means doing more than just saying thank you. It means supporting our entire law enforcement community so that no matter what the challenges we face in the months and years ahead, our men and women in uniform will be prepared to answer the call.<p>And that's why, from the very beginning, my administration has been dedicated to giving State and local law enforcement the resources they need to get the job done. So far, $3.5 billion of the Recovery Act has gone to support local law enforcement, $1 billion for the COPS program alone. That money has helped to create or preserve almost 4,700 law enforcement jobs for 3 years and made progress towards our goal of putting 50,000 new police officers on the street.<p>Next year's budget would more than double the previous request for the COPS program. And at a time when our Nation is emerging from the worst economic recession in generations, we'll maintain strong funding for Justice Assistance Grants, known as the Byrne/JAG grants, and bulletproof vests to keep our communities and our men and women in uniform safe.<p>We'll make sure you continue to have the resources and support that you need, because we've seen the results of that work. In the first half of 2009, crime fell to the lowest level since the 1960s. Homicides dropped by 10 percent. Car thefts were down nearly 20 percent. And property crimes declined by over 6 percent.<p>Much of this is due to the men and women and their counterparts all across the country that are doing outstanding work. But it's also a reflection of the role that ordinary Americans are playing, taking back their neighborhoods from violent gangs and open-air drug markets, educating their children, being vigilant.<p>Of course, the most recent example and most visible example of this partnership between citizens and police happened 2 weeks ago in Times Square. Alerted by two street vendors that smoke was coming out of a suspicious vehicle, NYPD Officer Wayne Rhatigan immediately realized the potential danger and, along with other officers on the scene, helped clear the area quickly and safely. The NYPD's elite bomb squad unit then spent over 5 hours defusing the device. And just 2 days after the attempted terrorist attack, thanks to the outstanding work of local, State, and Federal officials, a suspect was in custody.<p>And yesterday I had the privilege of visiting the NYPD Real Time Crime Center and meeting Officer Rhatigan and other officers whose quick thinking and cooperation may have saved hundreds of lives. Like the folks behind me, they succeeded because they were well trained, they were vigilant, and they were ready.<p>So being a hero isn't always easy. As Officer Ryan Jacobsen, who is being honored here today, said of his own experience, \\"It's one of those things in your life you can never prepare for fully and that you hope never happens again.\\"<p>So we are incredibly proud of the courage that all of you have shown in the conditions that we can only imagine. It's a distinction that none of you asked for, but all of you accepted. And I promise that we will stand by you and everyone who wears the badge as you continue to keep us safe.<p>So thank you all. Tom, thanks for the outstanding work.\" "
"133" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. I just finished meeting with some of my Cabinet and administration officials about the ongoing efforts to stop the BP oil spill. And I want to give the American people an update on these efforts, but I also want to underscore the seriousness and urgency of this crisis.<p>The potential devastation to the Gulf Coast, its economy, and its people require us to continue our relentless efforts to stop the leak and contain the damage. There's already been a loss of life, damage to our coastline, to fish and wildlife, and to the livelihoods of everyone from fishermen to restaurant and hotel owners. I saw firsthand the anger and frustration felt by our neighbors in the Gulf. And let me tell you, it is an anger and frustration that I share as President. And I'm not going to rest or be satisfied until the leak is stopped at the source, the oil in the Gulf is contained and cleaned up, and the people of the Gulf are able to go back to their lives and their livelihoods.<p>Now, the most important order of business is to stop the leak. I know there have been varying reports over the last few days about how large the leak is, but since no one can get down there in person, we know there is a level of uncertainty. But as Admiral Thad Allen said today, our mobilization and response efforts have always been geared toward the possibility of a catastrophic event. And what really matters is this: There's oil leaking, and we need to stop it, and we need to stop it as soon as possible. With that source being 5,000 feet under the ocean's surface, this has been extremely difficult. But scientists and engineers are currently using the best, most advanced technology that exists to try to stop the flow of oil as quickly as possible.<p>Our second task has been to contain the spill and protect the Gulf Coast and the people who live there. We are using every available resource to stop the oil from coming ashore. Over 1 million feet of barrier boom have been deployed to hold the oil back. Hundreds of thousands of gallons of dispersant have helped to break up the oil, and about 4 million gallons of oily water have been recovered. Thirteen thousand people have been mobilized to protect the shoreline and its wildlife, as has the National Guard.<p>This week, we also sent to Congress legislation that would provide us with the additional resources to mitigate the damage caused by this spill. And I ask for prompt action on this legislation. Now, it would help with cleanup efforts, it would provide unemployment assistance and job training to folks whose jobs are affected by this crisis, and it would help with the region's economic recovery. That's why this legislation is important.<p>It would also help ensure that companies like BP that are responsible for oil spills are the ones that pay for the harm caused by these oil spills, not the taxpayers. This is in addition to the low-interest loans that we've made available to small businesses that are suffering financial losses from the spill.<p>Let me also say, by the way, a word here about BP and the other companies involved in this mess. I know BP has committed to pay for the response effort, and we will hold them to their obligation. I have to say, though, I did not appreciate what I considered to be a ridiculous spectacle during the congressional hearings into this matter. You had executives of BP and Transocean and Halliburton falling over each other to point the finger of blame at somebody else. The American people could not have been impressed with that display, and I certainly wasn't.<p>I understand that there are legal and financial issues involved, and a full investigation will tell us exactly what happened. But it is pretty clear that the system failed and it failed badly. And for that, there is enough responsibility to go around. And all parties should be willing to accept it.<p>That includes, by the way, the Federal Government. For too long, for a decade or more, there has been a cozy relationship between the oil companies and the Federal agency that permits them to drill. It seems as if permits were too often issued based on little more than assurances of safety from the oil companies. That cannot and will not happen anymore. To borrow an old phrase, we will trust, but we will verify.<p>Now, from the day he took office as Interior Secretary, Ken Salazar has recognized these problems, and he's worked to solve them. Oftentimes, he has been slammed by the industry, suggesting that somehow these necessary reforms would impede economic growth. Well, as I just told Ken, we are going to keep on going to do what needs to be done.<p>And so I've asked Secretary Salazar to conduct a top-to-bottom reform of the Minerals Management Service. This week, he announced that the part of the agency which permits oil and gas drilling and collects royalties will be separated from the part of the agency in charge of inspecting the safety of oil rigs and platforms and enforcing the law. That way, there's no conflict of interest, real or perceived.<p>We've also ordered immediate inspections of all deepwater operations in the Gulf of Mexico. And we've announced that no permits for drilling new wells will go forward until the 30-day safety and environmental review that I requested is completed. We're also closing the loophole that has allowed some oil companies to bypass some critical environmental reviews, and today we're announcing a new examination of the environmental procedures for oil and gas exploration and development.<p>Now, as I've said before, domestic oil drilling continues to be one part of an overall energy strategy that now includes more clean, renewable energy and energy efficiency than at any other time in our history. But it's absolutely essential that going forward we put in place every necessary safeguard and protection so that a tragedy like this oil spill does not happen again. This is a responsibility that all of us share. The oil companies share it; the manufacturers of this equipment share it; the agencies in the Federal Government in charge of oversight share that responsibility. I will not tolerate more finger-pointing or irresponsibility.<p>The people of the Gulf Coast need our help, and they deserve nothing less than for us to stand up and do whatever is necessary to stop this spill, prevent further damage, and compensate all those who've been harmed already. That's our job.<p>It's also our job to make sure this kind of mess doesn't happen again. It's a job we've been doing. It's a job we will keep doing until the well is capped and the spill is cleaned up and all claims are paid.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"134" "\"On Thursday, I paid a visit to a small business in Buffalo, New York, a town that's been hard hit in recent decades. I heard from folks about the struggles they've been facing for longer than they care to remember. And I talked with them about what my administration is doing to help our families, our small businesses, and our economy rebound from this recession.<p>Jump-starting job creation in the private sector and fostering a climate that encourages businesses to hire again is vitally important, and I'll continue working hard to make sure that happens. But my responsibility as President isn't just to help our economy rebound from this recession; it's to make sure an economic crisis like the one that helped trigger this recession never happens again.<p>That's what Wall Street reform will help us do. In recent weeks, there's been a lot of back and forth about the reform bill currently making its way through Congress. There's been a lot of discussion about technical aspects of the bill and a lot of heated and, frankly, sometimes misleading rhetoric coming from opponents of reform.<p>All of this has helped obscure what reform would actually mean for you, the American people. So I just wanted to take a few minutes to talk about why every American has a stake in Wall Street reform.<p>First and foremost, you have a stake in it if you've ever been treated unfairly by a credit card company, misled by pages and pages of fine print, or ended up paying fees and penalties you'd never heard of before. And you have a stake in it if you've ever tried to take out a home loan, a car loan, or a student loan, and been targeted by the predatory practices of unscrupulous lenders.<p>The Wall Street reform bill in Congress represents the strongest consumer financial protections in history. You'll be empowered with the clear and concise information you need to make the choices that are best for you. We'll help stop predatory practices and curb unscrupulous lenders, helping secure your family's financial future. That's why families have a stake in it. <p>And our community banks also have a stake in reform. These are banks we count on to provide the capital that lets our small businesses hire and grow. The way the system is currently set up, these banks are at a disadvantage because while they are often playing by the rules, many of their less scrupulous competitors are not. So what reform will do is help level the playing field by making sure all our lenders, not just community banks, are subject to tough oversight. That's good news for our community banks, which is why we've received letters from some of these banks in support of reform.<p>What's true for our community banks is also true for small-business men and women like the ones I met in Buffalo. These small businesses were some of the worst victims of the excessive risk-taking on Wall Street that led to this crisis. Their credit dried up. They had to let people go. Some even shut their doors altogether. And unless we put in place real safeguards, we could see it happen all over again.<p>That's why Wall Street reform is so important. With reform, we'll make our financial system more transparent by bringing the kinds of complex, backroom deals that helped trigger this crisis into the light of day. We'll prevent banks from taking on so much risk that could collapse and threaten our whole economy. And we'll give shareholders more of a say on pay to help change the perverse incentives that encouraged reckless risk-taking in the first place. Put simply, Wall Street reform will bring greater security to folks on Main Street.<p>The stories I heard in Buffalo this week were a reminder that despite the progress we've made, we need to keep working hard so we can build on that progress and rebound from this recession in the short term. But even as we do, we also need to lay a new foundation for growth and shared prosperity over the long term.<p>Next week, we have a chance to help lay a cornerstone in that foundation. The reform bill being debated in the Senate will not solve every problem in our financial system; no bill could. But what this strong bill will do is important, and I urge the Senate to pass it as soon as possible so we can secure America's economic future in the 21st century.\" "
"135" "\"Thank you, Chuck, for that warm introduction and for your outstanding leadership as national president of the Fraternal Order of Police. I also want to commend the entire Fraternal Order of Police and all its leaders, including Jim Pasco, for the work you do on behalf of America's peace officers. Let me also recognize FOP Auxiliary President Beverly Crump, members of the FOP Auxiliary, Members of Congress and my administration, including Attorney General Eric Holder, and distinguished guests who are here today.<p>To the survivors of fallen law enforcement officers, our hearts go out to you for your loss. The husbands and wives, mothers and fathers you loved, they protected us all. And all Americans are grateful for the lives that they gave in the line of duty.<p>To the active duty law enforcement officers who traveled from all over the country to be here, let me simply say, thank you. Thank you for the service you are rendering to our Nation, and thank you for the sacrifices you are making on behalf of our people.<p>Every day in America, families go about their lives. They wake up, sit down for breakfast, send their kids off to school, then they head into the office or onto the factory floor. And after putting in a honest day's work, they return home, ready to do it all over again in the morning.<p>We often take it for granted, this cycle of life. We know, of course, that chance can change everything overnight. But we also rely on a certain order in our lives, a certain sense of security that lets us sleep safely in our beds and walk around our neighborhoods free from fear and go about our daily lives without being the victims of crime.<p>That sense of security doesn't come on its own. What makes it possible, what makes freedom possible, are the law enforcement officers that we honor today. It's men and women like so many of you. It's anyone who's ever put on a uniform or worn a badge in the name of law, in the name of order, in the name of protecting and defending the United States of America.<p>What led you to live such a life? What leads a person to put on that uniform, to wear that badge, to enter the law enforcement profession? Part of it, of course, is what leads any of us to pursue a profession, a responsibility to provide for our wives and our husbands, to give our children and grandchildren a better life. For some, there's also a family legacy to honor, a proud inheritance an officer may aspire to uphold.<p>But there's also another reason, a higher calling that led the men and women we honor today, like so many of you, to become peace officers, a calling to serve our neighbors, a calling to serve our neighborhoods, a calling to live a life in service of others.<p>It's a calling that carries immense risk. You don't know what dangers you'll confront each time you put on that uniform or step outside in plain clothes. Whether you're a beat patrolman or a road deputy, you don't know what the next dispatch will bring. All you know is your duty to keep us safe, to keep our communities safe, to keep America safe. It is a duty you fulfill every single day.<p>Today we honor Americans who lost their lives in pursuit of that duty, in pursuit of that calling. We honor Traffic Sergeant Mark Dunakin, a 17-year veteran of Oakland's Police Department. \\"A big teddy bear,\\" his friends called him, who loved his Buckeyes and Steelers. The kind of guy you could always count on to get you to do the right thing. Mark was killed on March 21, 2009, during a traffic stop at 74th Avenue and MacArthur Boulevard. And he leaves behind his wife Angela and three children.<p>We honor Deputy Burt Lopez, a 6-year veteran of Okaloosa County Sheriff Office in Florida. Big-hearted, Burt once delayed serving a minor warrant until a Sunday so that the defendant, a father of six, could earn one more day's pay for his family. On April 25, 2009, Burt and Deputy Skip York were killed attempting to arrest a domestic assault suspect they had tracked down at a gun club in Crestville [Crestview]*. Burt is survived by his wife Michelle and five children.<p>We honor Trooper Joshua Miller, a veteran of both the Pennsylvania State Police and the United States Marine Corps. Josh, it's been said, was a trooper's trooper. The only thing he loved more than stopping drunk drivers and hunting was spending time with his wife Angela and their three daughters. His face lit up when you mentioned them. Josh was killed on June 7, 2009, during an operation that ultimately rescued a 9-year-old boy who'd been kidnaped by his father.<p>We honor these Americans and each of the law enforcement officers who lost their lives in the line of duty last year. Each loved, each is missed, each is among America's finest. These men and women join nearly 19,000 Americans who've made such a sacrifice since Deputy Isaac Smith was shot investigating a disturbance at a New York tavern in 1792. Such a sacrifice, such an honor roll, is what makes it possible for us to go on about our lives, to pursue our dreams, to enjoy America's freedoms.<p>It is an honor roll engraved in stone not far from here, at the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial. Guarding over the park and the memories of Americans memorialized there are four bronze lions. Beneath one is a verse from the Book of Proverbs I impart to you as a prayer: \\"The wicked flee when no man pursueth; but the righteous are as bold as a lion.\\"<p>May God's face shine upon the lions that we have lost, may He watch over the ones that guard us still, and may He bless now and forever the United States of America.\" "
"136" "\"<i>The President.</i> Well, hello, everybody. I am very proud to be able to sign the Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act, a piece of legislation that sends a strong signal about our core values when it comes to the freedom of the press.<p>All around the world there are enormously courageous journalists and bloggers who, at great risk to themselves, are trying to shine a light on the critical issues that the people of their countries face, who are the frontlines against tyranny and oppression. And obviously, the loss of Daniel Pearl was one of those moments that captured the world's imagination, because it reminded us of how valuable a free press is and it reminded us that there are those who would go to any length in order to silence journalists around the world.<p>What this act does is it sends a strong message from the United States Government and from the State Department that we are paying attention to how other governments are operating when it comes to the press. It has the State Department each year chronicling how press freedom is operating, as one component of our human rights assessment, but it also looks at countries that are--governments that are specifically condoning or facilitating this kind of press repression, singles them out and subjects them to the gaze of world opinion in ways that I think are extraordinarily important.<p>Oftentimes without this kind of attention, countries and governments feel that they can operate against the press with impunity. And we want to send a message that they can't.<p>So this legislation, in a very modest way, I think, puts us clearly on the side of journalistic freedom. I want to thank Adam Schiff in the House and Senator Chris Dodd in the Senate for their leadership. And I particularly want to thank the Pearl family, who have been so outspoken and so courageous in sending a clear message that despite Daniel's death, his vision of a well-informed citizenry that is able to make choices and hold governments accountable, that that legacy lives on.<p>So we are very grateful to them. I'm grateful to the legislative leaders who helped to pass this. It is something that I intend to make sure our State Department carries out with vigor. And with that, I'm going to sign the bill.<p><i>[At this point, the President signed the bill.]</i><p><i>The President. </i>There you go. Thank you, everybody. Appreciate it.<p><i>Oil Spill in the Gulf of Mexico</i><p><i>Q.</i> Mr. President, speaking of press freedom, could you answer a couple of questions on BP?<p><i>The President.</i> You're certainly free to ask them, Chip [Chip Reid, CBS News].<p><i>Iran</i><p><i>Q.</i> Will you answer them? How about a question on Iran?<p><i>The President.</i> We won't be answering--I'm not doing a press conference today, but we'll be seeing you guys during the course of this week. Okay?<p>Thank you.\" "
"137" "\"Hello, everybody. Please have a seat. Well, welcome to the White House, everybody. Congratulations to the UConn Huskies on your second straight undefeated season and your second straight NCAA championship. I want to point out this team has not lost a game since I was elected President. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm just saying. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I want to acknowledge a few UConn fans who've made the trek from the other side of Pennsylvania Avenue. We've got Senators Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman in the house, and Congressmen John Larson and Joe Courtney are here as well.<p>Now, when this team came to the White House last year, I was just pointing out to Maya, we went out back--I've got a little court--we shot a little bit. I'm not going to say who won. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I noticed then there were people who were saying, you know, these Huskies, they've got a little too much swagger, because they said that they'd be back in 2010. They said that at the time. I'm not sure anybody believed them. I believed them, listening to them, and that confidence was well deserved.<p>This team has had an unbelievable run. I think most of you know the statistics: 7 of the last 16 NCAA titles, 6 undefeated regular seasons, 4 undefeated championship seasons.<p>And last year, Coach Geno promised you guys would go 40-0 this year. It's not your fault that he can't do math very well; there were only 39 games. [<i>Laughter</i>] So, Coach, you can't win 40 if there are only 39 games. But 39-0--[<i>Laughter</i>]--is pretty good. These women beat their own NCAA record to become the first women's basketball team in history to win 78 games in a row over the past 2 years, which is just a staggering achievement.<p>And I was telling them Michelle and I work out in the morning. We've got a little gym here in the White House. And we just watch \\"SportsCenter.\\" I know you'll be surprised that we don't watch the news shows. [<i>Laughter</i>] But this is really true. During the entire season, I just kept on repeating, and I truly believed, this was the best team in all of sports, any sport, any gender, by far. And it was just something that made us all very proud.<p>I want to point out that Coach Geno's teams have had a 100-percent graduation rate over the past 25 years. And that's true again this year, because these players work as hard in the classroom as they do on the court. I want to congratulate the seniors that graduated last week. If I'm not mistaken, number-one WNBA draft pick Tina Charles is going to be graduating--Jacquie Fernandes, Meghan Gardler, Kalana Greene, and Kaili McLaren. Give them all a big round of applause. <p>Congratulations to Tina for winning the Naismith Trophy as player of the year, for graduating as UConn's alltime scoring leader. I do have to say, though, Maya has her sights set on that record. [<i>Laughter</i>] She's coming after it. And, Maya, congratulations on being named the Final Four's most valuable--most outstanding player. When you consider that Maya says she approaches her academics as she does her basketball, it's no surprise that she was named first team Academic All-American for the third year in a row. That is worth an applause.<p>So obviously, this team was under enormous pressure this season. Everyone was watching and waiting for them to stumble, figuring out--figuring there was no way for them to go undefeated again. When your toughest test came in this year's national championship game--you trailed the longest that you had all year--you came out swinging in the second half and brought that championship home yet again to the Storrs community that loves and believes in you so deeply.<p>And when you're at home in Storrs, you apply the same winning attitude off the court. You read with elementary children, spend time with cancer patients. Today you brought that sense of service to Washington, visiting wounded warriors in Walter Reed, and I know they were thrilled to see you.<p>Whether it's winning a national championship, balancing practice with schoolwork, or serving others, these young women made it all look easy, despite the fact that we all know they put in enormous amounts of work. It's that perseverance and dedication and that will to succeed that makes them so special.<p>And that's why every single one of these young women sets a terrific example for girls and women today, as athletes, as scholars, and as leaders. And I think, Coach, you have just been an extraordinary leader, and I think all of us are extremely proud of the example that you've set.<p>So, as your President, I commend you for setting that example. As the father of two tall girls--[<i>Laughter</i>]--who are also very cute and--[<i>Laughter</i>]--also do great work in the classroom, I'm just so glad that they've got all of you to look up to, and I thank you for it. I will say, I will be very impressed if you make it here a third time in a row. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Congratulations to all of you. Give them a big round of applause.\" "
"138" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, hello, hello. Hey! It's good to see you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Everybody, please have a seat. <p>Let me first of all just say thank you to some people who are doing outstanding work, beginning with somebody who I think is one of the best Governors we've got in this country and just a great guy, give it up for Ted Strickland, your Governor. You've got a outstanding young mayor, Mayor Jay Williams. The mayor of Girard, Jim Melfi, is here as well; Secretary of State Jennifer Brunner; and three terrific Members of Congress: Tim Ryan, Charlie Wilson, John Boccieri. Give them all a big round of applause.<p>It is good to be back in Ohio, and it is good to be back in Mahoning Valley. I appreciate the chance to tour this unbelievable facility. You know, sometimes when you're President, you get kind of jaded. You know, you've seen a lot of stuff, you go through these factories. This one, when you walk through, is just unbelievable. It's like off of a movie set. And so it was exciting to see, but what was especially exciting was to see all the people who are working here and to see the work that you're doing here.<p>So I saw the 85-ton electric arc furnace. I didn't see any evidence, but I know that you're building Iron Man's suits somewhere in here. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I appreciate the time that I've had to spend with all of you, partly because it's just nice to get out of Washington. Washington's a wonderful place, beautiful, nice monuments. I have this nice home office, live right above the store, so I don't have a commute. But sometimes in Washington, everybody's spending all their time arguing about politics, and you lose track of the folks who sent you there in the first place. And so it's important for me to meet you directly and hear your concerns and your hopes and your dreams. And I've been trying to make a habit out of doing this. About once a week, I try to take a trip like this just to talk to folks who are working in various parts of our economy and to find out what's going on in communities. And obviously, the issue that's front and center on everybody's minds is the state of our economy.<p>In the 2 years I was running for President, I wasn't any stranger to this State. These guys know I came here an awful lot. And I saw firsthand what years of failed policies had done to working families, and I saw how hard these guys were working to put Ohio back to work. And the Mahoning Valley is a place that doesn't need an economist to tell you when a recession begins or when a recession ends, because plenty of folks here have known their own private recessions for 10, 20, 30 years. Now, they may not have seen one like the one we just had, with an unemployment rate here that's at 14 percent and families having a tougher time than they'd ever imagined. And a lot of people--let's just be blunt--aren't always real impressed when a Governor or a President comes swooping in and talking about the economy, because the only headline they want to see is the headline that says \\"You're Hired.\\"<p>But I do want to talk about a piece of encouraging news for a change--something concrete, not just a lot of talk--because for a lot of the last 2 years, you didn't always get a lot of good news.<p>A year ago, we took significant action to jump-start economic growth and job creation. That action included making investments in sectors with the greatest potential for private sector job growth, areas like clean energy and infrastructure.<p>And one of those investments is going towards revitalizing the site right next door, preparing it for new construction, and building a rail spur that connects to the Norfolk Southern line that runs through town. So as a result of this investment, V&M STAR's parent company decided to invest $650 million of its own money--its own money to build a new 1-million-square-foot mill right here in Youngstown, the largest industrial plant built in the valley since GM built its plant over in Lordstown in the 1960s. Think about that: biggest investment since the 1960s--50 years. So right here, in the heart of the old steel corridor, where some never thought we'd see an investment like this again, they're placing a bet on American manufacturing and on this community.<p>And that bet's going to pay off for 400 construction jobs once they break ground this summer, 350 new manufacturing jobs once the mill comes on line, which doubles the current workforce. And as everybody here knows, every time a new factory or plant opens or expands in America, it doesn't just employ the people who are working at the plant; everybody here, suddenly, they've got a little more money to go buy lunch somewhere or buy a computer for their kids or do something else. And so the--it becomes an economic lifeline for the whole community, capable of supporting hundreds, even thousands of jobs indirectly. And so that's a success story that all of you are part of.<p>Now, I don't want to suggest that this one plant and the jobs it'll create are going to make the difference for the entire community. I mean, it took us decades to get to where we are; it's going to take some time to get to the point where we need to be. But just think about where we were a year ago: Our economy was collapsing, our businesses were losing 750,000 jobs every month, economists across the spectrum were warning very seriously of the possibility of another great depression. And all of this was on top of one of the toughest decades for America's middle class that we've ever seen.<p>So that was the situation just a year ago. Everybody's got a--kind of a selective memory here, but nobody was sure whether the economy was going to hold up. So we had to make a choice: We could sit back, do nothing, make a bunch of excuses, play politics, and watch America's decline, or we could stand up and fight for our future.<p>And I ran for President, Youngstown, because I believe that we're at a defining moment in our history. And if we're going to keep the American Dream alive--not just for us, but for the next generation--then we couldn't just sit back and put off solving these big problems. We had to tackle them head on.<p>Job one was rescuing our economy. And that required some steps that were, frankly, unpopular, steps like stabilizing a financial system that was on the brink of collapse and intervening in an auto industry that was on the brink of extinction. I knew those steps would be unpopular. Even in Ohio, even in Michigan, even in automaking States, if you polled, people said, \\"Don't do anything about the auto companies.\\" And I knew, politics being what it is, that some people would try to score political points off our decisions.<p>But I think it's fair to say--any fairminded person would say that if we hadn't acted, more people in the valley, more people in Ohio, more people across America would be out of work today. And I mean, I can just give you a very concrete example: The GM plant over in Lordstown would not be there, because GM would have liquidated.<p>Instead, GM's paying back its debts, turned a profit for the first time in 3 years, and a third shift is about to come back to work in Lordstown, putting that plant at maximum capacity--[<i>applause</i>]--right next door. And by the way, it was in part because of the decisions that these three guys made in Congress. That's not easy. They've been knocked around; they got lumps all over the backs of their heads--some on top. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it was the right thing to do. <p>Today my administration is announcing a landmark agreement to help dozens of communities like Youngstown revitalize and redevelop old, shuttered GM facilities, preparing them for new industries and new jobs and new opportunity.<p>These steps were the right thing to do. And it was the right thing to do to give tax relief to small businesses and working families right in the middle of this enormous recession; 4.5 million working families in Ohio alone got tax breaks. Most of you guys didn't know it, didn't notice it in your paycheck. We didn't go around advertising it. But each paycheck was a little bit bigger because of the steps that we took, and that meant that you could recirculate that money into the economy and keep demand up, which helped avert a depression. That was the right thing to do. <p>It was the right thing to do to give loans to small businesses to keep their doors open. More than 2,400 right here in Ohio got small-business loans because of the Recovery Act, because of the work that these guys did. <p>It was the right thing to do to extend unemployment benefits and make COBRA cheaper for people caught up in the recession until they could get back on their feet. There's probably not a single person here who doesn't know somebody who either got unemployment benefits or used COBRA to make sure they could keep health insurance for their families when they lost their job. That was the right thing to do. <p>It was the right thing to do to help Governors like Ted avoid massive cuts to Medicaid and layoffs to teachers and police officers. <p>And it was the right thing to do to invest in this town's infrastructure. We put all of that stuff in the recovery package because it was the right thing to do.<p>Now, we've got a long way to go before this recovery is felt in the lives of our neighbors and in all the communities that have lost so much ground in this recession and in years before. <p>But despite that sobering reality, despite all the naysayers in Washington, who are always looking for the cloud in every silver lining, the fact is, our economy's growing again. Last month, we gained 290,000 jobs. So think about this: We gained more jobs last month than any time in 4 years. And it was the fourth month in a row that we've added jobs, and almost all those jobs are in the private sector. Everybody talks about Government was doing this, Government was doing that. No, what we did was we encouraged the private sector, gave them the funding, the financing, the support, the infrastructure support in order to invest and get the economy moving again. <p>And last month also brought the largest increase in manufacturing employment since 1998--1998, because I believe in manufacturing, and I believe in manufacturing right here in the United States of America. We can compete against anybody. Youngstown can compete against anybody--got the best workers. There's no reason why we can't compete with anybody if you guys have the support that you need.<p>And you know what? I think those critics who have been trying to badmouth these efforts, they know it's working. These folks who opposed us every step of the way, predicting nothing but failure, they know it's working, because--this always puts a smile on my face--even as they've tried to score political points attacking these Members of Congress, a lot of them go home and then they claim credit for the very things they voted against. They'll show up at the--to cut the ribbons. They'll put out a press release. They'll send the mailings touting the very projects that they were opposing in Washington. They're trying to have it both ways.<p>I know that's hard to imagine in politics, that a politician might try to have it both ways, but here's the fact: If the \\"just say no\\" crowd had won out, if we had done things the way they wanted to go, we'd be in a deeper world of hurt than we are right now. Families wouldn't have seen those tax cuts. Small businesses wouldn't have gotten those loans or those health care tax credits that they're now eligible for. Insurance companies would still be deciding who they want to cover and when they want to cover them and dropping your health care coverage whenever they felt like it. <p>The steady progress we're beginning to see across America would not exist, and neither would the plant that you're about to build. So I invite anybody who thinks we shouldn't have taken those actions that we took last year, or made those investments, to come to Youngstown and explain to us why that plant shouldn't be built. <p>Come talk to Ted Strickland and the mayor. Come tell us why companies like this in towns like Youngstown shouldn't be given every chance to expand and add new jobs. Tell us why small businesses shouldn't receive tax credits so they can help purchase health insurance for their employees. Explain why seniors shouldn't get help paying for their medications when they hit that gap called the doughnut hole. Explain why we should tell families that children with preexisting conditions aren't going to be able to get health insurance because we decided that insurance companies should be able to do whatever they wanted. <p>They need to explain why they would be nothing to make--doing nothing to solve some of these problems that have been plaguing America for years now, decades.<p>So I'm here to say, that's not how we deal with crisis. That's not what America's about. We did not become the greatest economic power that the world has ever known by avoiding problems. The United States of America does not play for second place. We step up, we face our challenges, we compete, and we win. And that's something we should all agree on. <p>But everybody should be able to agree on that. For all the things we've gotten done, despite the unified, determined opposition of one party, imagine how much further we could have gotten if I'd gotten a little help, if people decided to step up. It doesn't mean they have to agree with me on everything, but step up, take responsibility, don't just play political games. <p><i>Audience member</i>. Thank you, Mr. President.<p><i>The President</i>. You're welcome.<p><i>Audience member</i>. We got your back.<p><i>The President</i>. I truly--it is not too late to work together, not when there's so much progress to make, so many more success stories like this one to write. Because we're not Democrats first or Republicans first, we are Americans first. That's what we're about. <p>So I know it's still tough. I know a lot of times the future still feels uncertain. And I'm not going to stand here and pretend that things are back to normal or even close to where they need to be. I read too many letters each night from people who are hurting, who are still out of work. So I know things are still tough out there.<p>But I will tell you one thing: It's people like you, people in towns like Youngstown all across America that I'm thinking about every single day when I go to the Oval Office. I ran for office to make sure not just you, but your kids and your grandkids have a shot at the American Dream, because I wouldn't be in office if somebody hadn't worked hard to give me a shot at the American Dream. I didn't come from money. I didn't come from a powerful family. I got a name nobody could pronounce. [<i>Laughter</i>] But somebody gave me a shot. Somebody made an investment in me. <p>That's why I ran for President. That's why I wake up every morning insisting to everybody who works for me that we're not going to rest until the future brightens for middle class Americans all across this country, hard-working people. And I'm absolutely convinced that the steps that we're taking are going to help us bring about a better future for America. <p>I believe that seeking new markets for our exports is the right thing to do and that enforcing the rules of free and fair trade is the right thing to do for our workers and for our companies. I believe that investing in a clean energy economy to create good jobs of the future, building pipe for natural gas, but also building windmills and steel--and turbines and advanced batteries for the new generation of electric cars, that's the right thing to do for our economy and for our environment. I believe that raising standards in our schools and making college more affordable and upgrading our community colleges is the right thing to do so that every child has a chance to live out their dreams. I believe that reforming our health care system to crack down on the worst practices of the insurance companies and giving everybody a decent shot at getting health insurance is the right thing to do. And trying to control costs on premiums is the right thing to do. It's the right thing to do for families, and it's the right thing to do for businesses. <p>So we're going to keep up every effort to rebuild our economy and restore some security for the middle class, a middle class forged in plants just like this one, so that places like Youngstown don't just survive year after year, but they are thriving year after year. And as long as I have the privilege of being your President, I'm going to keep fighting for a future that is brighter for this community and for Ohio and for the United States of America, the country that we love. <p>God bless you. God bless all the work here. God bless the United States of America. Appreciate you.\" "
"139" "\"<i>The President</i>. Good morning.<p><i>Audience members</i>. Good morning. <p><i>The President</i>. <i>Buenos dias</i>.<p><i>Audience members</i>. <i>Buenos dias</i>.<p><i>The President</i>. On behalf of Michelle, myself, and the American people, it is my great honor to welcome our neighbor, friend, and partner, President Calderon, along with First Lady Margarita Zavala and members of the Mexican delegation. Welcome to the United States. <i>Bienvenidos</i>. <p>President Calderon was the first foreign leader that I met after my election. And this visit is an opportunity to return the extraordinary warmth and hospitality that the President, the First Lady, and the people of Mexico have shown me during my visits to Mexico, as well as to Michelle during her first solo international trip as First Lady. <p>Mr. President, it is fitting that your visit comes during this year of celebration, the bicentennial of Mexican independence and the centennial of the Mexican revolution. And you and the Mexican people draw strength from your proud past to forge your future. We recall the words of the great Octavio Paz, who said, \\"Between tradition and modernity, there is a bridge.\\" With this visit, we can also strengthen the many bridges that bind our two nations. <p>The United States and Mexico are not simply neighbors bound by geography and history; we are, by choice, friends and partners. We are bound by our business partners, workers, and tourists who fuel our prosperity, by our students and educators who broaden our horizons, and by our men and women in uniform who serve and sacrifice to keep us safe. <p>In the United States, we're also proud of another bond: the ties of family. Mexican American families have been here for centuries, as well as those who continue to--our proud tradition as a nation of immigrants, all of whom strengthen our American family and who join us today. <p>Mr. President, working together, we have built upon these bridges. We forged a new era of cooperation and partnership between our countries based on mutual interest, mutual respect, and mutual responsibility. And with your visit, we can advance our partnership even further. <p>Together, we can help create jobs and prosperity for our people. We can ensure that our common border is secure, modern, and efficient, including immigration that is orderly and safe. We can stand firm and deepen our cooperation against the drug cartels that threaten our people. And given Mexico's global leadership, we can stand together for the opportunity and security of all people, in our hemisphere and beyond. <p>Finally, Mr. President, your visit speaks to a truth of our time, in North America and the world. In the 21st century, we are defined not by our borders, but by our bonds. So I say to you and to the Mexican people, let us stand together. Let us face the future together. Let us work together. <i>Trabajemos juntos</i>.<p>President Calderon, Senora Zavala, welcome to the United States.\" "
"140" "\"<i>President Obama.</i> Michelle and I are extraordinarily honored as we host you, but most importantly as we host President Calderon and First Lady Margarita Zavala. Yes, I'm sorry, please be seated. We welcome them and the Mexican delegation for our second state dinner here at the White House--tonight <i>la Casa Blanca</i>. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>In our visit to Mexico, the President and First Lady have treated me and Michelle to a celebration of Mexico's rich heritage, including the stunning Anthropology Museum and some wonderful mariachi. Tonight we celebrate the bonds we share as neighbors and as friends.<p>We celebrate all that Mexico and its ancient civilizations have given the world throughout history, advances in architecture and astronomy, mathematics and medicine, and of course, some very good food--[<i>Laughter</i>]--including the \\"food of the gods,\\" chocolate. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>As Mexico marks the bicentennial of its independence and the centennial of its revolution, we celebrate a proud people who have defined their own destiny, with patriots like Hidalgo and Juarez and giants in the arts and literature and science and, like the United States, a pretty good soccer team. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We celebrate all that Mexican Americans have contributed to the United States, leaders in every segment of our society, including many of the guests who are here tonight, and a culture that treasures family and faith. Indeed, America is enriched by <i>el sabor de Mexico</i>.<p>And we celebrate the partnership between our two countries. Mr. President, I must say it again: In the fight for your country's future, you've shown extraordinary courage, extraordinary bravery, and you and the Mexican people have a full and committed partner in the United States.<p>As we look to the future, I'm reminded of all the young people who've become part of our visits: the children in Mexico City waving American and Mexican flags; the students who shared their dreams with Michelle; and some very excited kids that, along with Michelle and Margarita, did a little exercise today. [<i>Laughter</i>] Each of those children has a dream. And yet we know that in life, it's not enough to want your dream. As the extraordinary writer Octavio Paz wrote in one of his poems, you must \\"deserve your dream.\\"<p>And so, Mr. President, I propose a toast to the dreams of our children. Together, may we realize those dreams, and together, may we deserve them by going forward in partnership and respect.<p>Cheers. <i>Salud</i>.<p><i>[At this point, President Obama offered a toast.]</i><p><i>President Calderon.</i> So good evening. Your Excellency, Mr. Barack Obama, President of the United States of America, Mrs. Michelle Obama, ladies and gentlemen, I thank President Barack Obama and Michelle and also to the people from the United States of America for your invitation and the generous hospitality with which we have been welcomed during this visit.<p>Your courtesy, Mr. President, as that that we have received from the First Lady, honor the great friendship and partnership that brings our people together.<p>Today I have once again seen that we share the hope to turn this relationship between the people from the United States of America and the people from Mexico into an example of how much can be achieved among neighbors when working together under the guidance of common ideals such as peace, security, prosperity, freedom, and democracy.<p>Today we promote the agreements and the actions of cooperation that our countries need in order to face the new challenges to benefit fully of the enormous advantages as a result of being neighbors and the long borderline that unites us. Today, Mexico and the United States are immersed in a new stage of cooperation, and we based our efforts in the principles of shared responsibility, mutual respect, and trust.<p>We fully understand that our joint work has a direct impact in both populations in its well-being and happiness. We are neighbors, we are partners, we are allies, and we are also friends.<p>I have said this, and allow me to repeat it: We work with the certainty of what is good for the United States of America is good for Mexico, and if we understand this, at the same time, what is good for Mexico is good for the United States.<p>I would like to congratulate the people of the United States of America for having a President like President Barack Obama, with his leadership, which is also very positive and good for us, and at the same time, also congratulate you, Mr. President, for having a wife and a First Lady like Michelle Obama.<p>Thank you for your hospitality and your friendship.<p><i>[President Calderon continued in English, as follows.]</i><p>Mr. President, I like the phrase of Octavio Paz that one must deserve their dreams--or his dreams. I don't know if you and me deserve of dreams, but I know that both of you--both of us have dreams. Those dreams are related with our people, and we fight every day in order to deserve those dreams. And we will reach them.<p><i>[President Calderon continued in Spanish, and his remarks were translated as follows.]</i><p>I ask you now to raise your glasses in a toast for the happiness of both our great nations.<p><i>[President Calderon offered a toast.]</i>\" "
"141" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. I want to say a few words about the vote on financial reform in the Senate today. <p>I've said many times that the recession we're emerging from was primarily caused by a lack of responsibility and accountability from Wall Street to Washington. It's part of the reason our economy nearly collapsed. It's what led to countless home foreclosures, the failure of community banks and small businesses, and a cascade of job losses that have left millions of Americans out of work. And that's why I made passage of Wall Street reform one of my top priorities as President, so that a crisis like this does not happen again. <p>Over the last year, the financial industry has repeatedly tried to end this reform with hordes of lobbyists and millions of dollars in ads. And when they couldn't kill it, they tried to water it down with special interest loopholes and carve-outs aimed at undermining real change. <p>Today I think it's fair to say that these efforts have failed. Today Democrats and a handful of Republicans in the Senate have voted to break the filibuster and allow a final debate and vote on financial reform, reform that will protect consumers, protect our economy, and hold Wall Street accountable. <p>I want to thank Senator Chris Dodd and Majority Leader Reid for their leadership on this legislation, as well as all the Senators who put partisan posturing aside in allowing a vote on this important reform. And I want to thank every American who kept the pressure on Washington to change a system that worked better for banks on Wall Street than it did for families on Main Street. <p>Now, we've still got some work to do. Soon we're going to have a final vote in the Senate, and then the House and the Senate will have to iron out the differences between the two bills. And there's no doubt that during that time, the financial industry and their lobbyists will keep on fighting. But I will ensure that we arrive at a final product that is both effective and responsible, one that holds Wall Street to high standards of accountability and secures financial stability, while preserving the strength and crucial functions of a financial industry that is central to our prosperity and our ability to innovate and compete in a global economy. <p>Our goal is not to punish the banks, but to protect the larger economy and the American people from the kind of upheavals that we've seen in the past few years. And today's action was a major step forward in achieving that goal.<p>Because of Wall Street reform, we'll soon have in place the strongest consumer protections in history. If you've ever applied for a credit card, a student loan, or a mortgage, you know the feeling of signing your name to pages of barely understandable fine print. It's a big step for most families, but one that's often filled with unnecessary confusion and apprehension. As a result, many Americans are simply duped into hidden fees and loans that they can't afford by companies that know exactly what they're doing. <p>Those days will soon end. From now on, every consumer will be empowered with the clear and concise information that you need to make final--financial decisions that are best for you. This bill will crack down on predatory practices and unscrupulous mortgage lenders. It will enforce the new credit card law we passed banning unfair rate hikes and ensure that folks aren't unwittingly caught by overdraft fees when they sign up for a checking account. It will give students who take out college loans information and make sure lenders don't cheat the system. And it will ensure that every American receives a free credit score if they are denied a loan or insurance because of that score. <p>Because of financial reform, the American people will never again be asked to foot the bill for Wall Street's mistakes. There will be no more taxpayer-funded bailouts, period. If a large financial institution should ever fail, we will have the tools to wind it down without endangering the broader economy. And there will be new rules to prevent financial institutions from becoming too big to fail in the first place so that we don't have another AIG. <p>Because of reform, the kinds of complex, backroom deals that helped trigger the financial crisis will finally be brought to the light of day. And from now on, shareholders will have greater say on the pay of CEOs and other executives so that they can reward success instead of failure and help change the perverse incentives that encouraged so much reckless risk-taking in the first place. <p>So in short, Wall Street reform will bring greater security to folks on Main Street, to families who are looking to buy their first car or their first home, to taxpayers who shouldn't have to pay for somebody else's irresponsibility, to small businesses and community banks who play by the rules, and to shareholders and investors who want to see their companies grow and thrive.<p>But let me stress that this is not a zero-sum game where Wall Street loses and Main Street wins. As we've learned, in today's economy, we're all connected. When the economy prospers, we all win. When the financial sector operates under sound rules of the road to ensure fairness and stability, we all win. Every American has an interest in a healthy financial sector. But for that reason, it's also imperative that those in Wall Street boardrooms and on trading floors be held accountable for the decisions that they make. For behind every dollar traded or leveraged on Wall Street, there is a family looking to buy a house, pay for an education, open a business, or save for retirement.<p>And the reform I sign will not stifle the power of the free market, it will simply bring predictable, responsible, sensible rules into the marketplace. Unless your business model is based on bilking your customers and skirting the law, you should have nothing to fear from this legislation. <p>As we continue to emerge from this recession, this reform is one important step that will strengthen our economy. And despite the ups and downs associated with a recovery, that economy is getting stronger by the day. It's an economy that's growing again. Last month, we added jobs, the fourth straight month of job growth and the largest increase in 4 years. And we're working closely with our G-20 partners around the world to ensure that growth is balanced and sustained. <p>I also said when I took office that we can't simply rebuild this economy on the same pile of sand, on maxed-out credit cards or housing bubbles or reckless risk-taking on Wall Street. We're going to have to build it on a firmer, stronger foundation for economic growth. That's why we invested in renewable energies that currently have the potential of creating new jobs all across America. That's why we're reforming our education system so that our workers can compete on the global stage. That's why we passed health care reform that will lower costs for families and businesses. And that's why we're about to pass financial regulatory reform to protect consumers and ensure that we don't have another crisis caused by the irresponsibility of a few. <p>Along with the steps we're taking to spur innovation and encourage hiring and rein in our deficits, that is how we will ultimately build an economy that is stronger and more prosperous than it was before. <p>Thanks very much, everybody.\" "
"142" "\"Good morning, everybody. Everybody, please have a seat. It is wonderful to have you all here. Welcome to the White House. <p>I want to introduce some of the folks who are on stage who have been integral in making today possible. You've already heard about the wonderful team here at the White House: Carol Browner, Ray LaHood, and Lisa Jackson. But in addition, we have on stage a number of people who were absolutely critical: Martin Daum, the CEO of Daimler Trucks; Mr. Anthony Dunkley, who is a driver for Waste Management; Mr. G. Tommy Hodges, chairman of the board, American Trucking Association; Mr. Alan Reuther, legislative director for the UAW; Mr. Dennis Slagle, CEO of Volvo; Mr. Tim Solso, CEO of Cummins; and Mr. Daniel Ustian, CEO of Navistar. Please give them a big round of applause.<p>We also have with us some legislative leaders who have been champions of not only the auto industry, but also the environmental movement, and I want to thank them for being here: One of the deans of the House of Representatives, Representative John Dingell, please give him a big round of applause; Representative Ed Markey is here from Massachusetts; Representative Chris Van Hollen is here; and Representative Henry Waxman. <p>Now, it was 1 year ago today that I stood here in the Rose Garden on a similarly beautiful day with some of the same folks to announce a historic agreement to help break America's dependence on oil, to protect the planet that we'll leave to our children, and to spur jobs and growth in the industries of the future. It was an agreement--the first of its kind--to raise the fuel efficiency and reduce the greenhouse pollution for cars and light trucks sold in the United States of America. <p>A lot of people thought such an agreement was impossible. After all, for decades, we had made little headway in improving the fuel efficiency of our cars. We'd hear a lot of urgent talk in Washington when oil prices went up, then we'd see politicians rush to the local gas stations--I remember going to gas stations--holding press conferences, announcing new legislation. But the impetus for action would fade when gas prices started to go back down. Meanwhile, progress was mired in a lot of old arguments traded across entrenched political divides: left versus right, management versus labor, business leaders versus environmental advocates. <p>But what we showed here 1 year ago today is that we could do something different. We proved that these were false choices. We brought together all the stakeholders, including former adversaries, to support a policy that would benefit consumers, workers, and the auto industry, while strengthening the economy and protecting the planet. One year later, we're beginning to see results. Instead of fighting higher standards, auto manufacturers are engaged in a race to meet them. And over the next 5 years, we expect fuel efficiency standards in cars and light trucks to reach an average of 35.5 miles per gallon. <p>As a result, everybody wins. The typical driver will save roughly $3,000 over the life of the vehicle. We'll reduce our dependence on oil by 1.8 billion barrels and cut nearly a billion tons of greenhouse gas emissions. This is the equivalent of taking 50 million cars off the road, lowering pollution while making our economy more secure. And by setting a single standard in place, rather than a tangle of overlapping and uncertain rules, auto companies will have the clear incentive to develop more efficient vehicles. This in turn will foster innovation and growth in a host of new industries.<p>So that's what we set in motion 1 year ago. And today we're going even further, proposing the development of a national standard for medium and heavy-duty trucks, just as we did for cars and light trucks. In a few moments, I'm going to sign a Presidential memorandum, coordinated by my chief energy adviser, Carol Browner. It directs my administration, under the leadership of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson, to develop a standard to improve fuel efficiency and reduce harmful emissions for trucks, starting with the model year 2014. <p>This is the first time we'll have such a standard. And as a sign of the broad support behind this plan, we are joined by the representatives from more than a dozen car and truck manufacturers, as well as fleet operators, autoworkers, labor leaders, environmental groups, and officials from California and other States.<p>This is going to bring down the costs for transportating--for transporting goods, serving businesses and consumers alike. It will reduce pollution, given that freight vehicles produce roughly one-fifth of the greenhouse gas emissions related to transportation. We estimate, for example, that we can increase fuel economy by as much as 25 percent in tractor-trailers using technologies that already exist today. And just like the rule concerning cars, this standard will spur growth in the clean energy sector.<p>We know how important that is. We know that our dependence on foreign oil endangers our security and our economy. We know that climate change poses a threat to our way of life; in fact, we're already seeing some of the profound and costly impacts. And the disaster in the Gulf only underscores that even as we pursue domestic production to reduce our reliance on imported oil, our long-term security depends on the development of alternative sources of fuel and new transportation technologies.<p>But we also know that our economic future depends on our leadership in the industries of the future. Around the globe, countries are seeking an advantage in the global marketplace by investing in new ways of producing and saving energy. From China to Germany, these countries recognize that the nation that leads in the clean energy economy will lead the global economy. And I want America to be that nation.<p>And that's why, when we fashioned the Recovery Act to get our economy moving again, we emphasized clean energy. Today, we're supporting the development of advanced battery technologies. We're doubling the capacity to generate renewable electricity. We're building a stronger, smarter electric grid, which will be essential to powering the millions of plug-in hybrids, and cars and trucks that we hope to see on the roads. It's estimated that through these investments, we'll create or save more than 700,000 jobs. And these investments will help businesses develop new technologies that vehicle makers can use to meet higher fuel efficiency standards.<p>In addition, the standard we set last year for cars and light trucks runs through 2016. I'm proposing we start developing right now a new and higher standard to take effect beginning 2017, so that we can make more and more progress in the years to come.<p>Through the directive I'm signing, we're also going to work with public and private sectors to develop the advanced infrastructure that will be necessary for plug-in hybrids and electric vehicles. And we're going to continue to work to diversify our fuel mix, including biofuels, natural gas, and other cleaner sources of energy. I believe that it's possible, in the next 20 years, for vehicles to use half the fuel and produce half the pollution that they do today. But that's only going to happen if we are willing to do what's necessary for the sake of our economy, our security, and our environment.<p>Today's announcement is an essential part of our energy strategy, but it's not a substitute for other necessary steps to ensure our leadership in a new clean energy economy. I'm heartened by the good work that's been done by Senator Kerry and Lieberman on a comprehensive energy and climate bill to reduce our dependence on foreign oil, to prevent the worst consequences of climate change, and foster the millions of new jobs that are possible if we rise to this challenge. And this follows the passage of comprehensive legislation through the House last June.<p>So as I've said before, I intend to work with members of both parties to pass a bill this year. In the meantime, I'm going to take every sensible, responsible action that I can use--that I can take using my authority as President to move our country in the right direction. That's what we've done today. That's what we're going to continue to do in the days, weeks, and months ahead.<p>So thank you very much for being here, everybody. And I'm going to now sign this memorandum.\" "
"143" "\"<i>The President</i>. Thank you. Please be seated. Thank you very much. Good morning. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Good morning.<p><i>The President</i>. It is wonderful to be back at the United States Military Academy, the oldest continuously occupied military post in America, as we commission the newest officers in the United States Army. <p>Thank you, General Hagenbeck, for your introduction, on a day that holds special meaning for you and the dean, General Finnegan. Both of you first came to West Point in the class of 1971 and went on to inspire soldiers under your command. You've led this Academy to a well-observed recognition: best college in America. And today you're both looking forward to a well-deserved retirement from the Army. General Hagenbeck and Judy, General Finnegan and Joan, we thank you for 39 years of remarkable service to the Army and to America. <p>To the Commandant, General Rapp, the Academy staff and faculty, most of whom are veterans, thank you for your service and for inspiring these cadets to become the \\"leaders of character\\" they are today. Let me also acknowledge the presence of General Shinseki, Secretary McHugh, the Members of Congress who are with us here today, including two former soldiers this Academy knows well, Senator Jack Reed and Congressman Patrick Murphy. <p>To all the families here, especially all the moms and dads, this day is a tribute to you as well. The decision to come to West Point was made by your sons and daughters, but it was you who instilled in them a spirit of service that has led them to this hallowed place in a time of war. So on behalf of the American people, thank you for your example, and thank you for your patriotism. <p>To the United States Corps of Cadets, and most of all, the class of 2010: It is a singular honor to serve as your Commander in Chief. As your Superintendent indicated, under our constitutional system, my power as President is wisely limited. But there are some areas where my power is absolute. And so, as your Commander in Chief, I hereby absolve all cadets who are on restriction for minor conduct offenses. I will leave the definition of \\"minor\\"--[<i>Laughter</i>]--to those who know better. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Class of 2010, today is your day, a day to celebrate all that you've achieved, in the finest tradition of the soldier-scholar, and to look forward to the important service that lies ahead. <p>You have pushed yourself through the agony of Beast Barracks, the weeks of training in rain and mud, and, I'm told, more inspections and drills than perhaps any class before you. Along the way, I'm sure you faced a few moments when you asked yourself: \\"What am I doing here?\\" I have those moments sometimes. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>You've trained for the complexities of today's missions, knowing that success will be measured not merely by performance on the battlefield, but also by your understanding of the cultures and traditions and languages in the place where you serve.<p>You've reached out across borders, with more international experience than any class in academy history. You've not only attended foreign academies to forge new friendships, you've welcomed into your ranks cadets from nearly a dozen countries. <p>You've challenged yourselves intellectually in the sciences and the humanities, in history and technology. You've achieved a standard of academic excellence that is without question, tying the record for the most postgraduate scholarships of any class in West Point history. <p>This includes your number one overall cadet and your valedictorian, Liz Betterbed and Alex Rosenberg. And by the way, this is the first time in Academy history where your two top awards have been earned by female candidates. This underscores a fact that I've seen in the faces of our troops from Baghdad to Bagram: In the 21st century, our women in uniform play an indispensable role in our national defense. And time and again, they have proven themselves to be role models for our daughters and our sons, as students and as soldiers and as leaders in the United States Armed Forces.<p>And the faces in this stadium show a simple truth: America's Army represents the full breadth of America's experience. You come from every corner of our country, from privilege and from poverty, from cities and small towns. You worship all of the great religions that enrich the life of our people. You include the vast diversity of race and ethnicity that is fundamental to our Nation's strength.<p>There is, however, one thing that sets you apart. Here in these quiet hills, you've come together to prepare for the most difficult test of our time. You signed up knowing your service would send you into harm's way, and you did so long after the first drums of war were sounded. In you we see the commitment of our country and timeless virtues that have served our Nation well. <p>We see your sense of duty, including those who have earned their right shoulder patch, their right shoulder combat patches, like the soldier who suffered a grenade wound in Iraq, yet still helped his fellow soldiers to evacuate, your First Captain of the Corps of Cadets, Tyler Gordy.<p>We see your sense of honor, in your respect for tradition, knowing that you join a long gray line that stretches through the centuries, and in your reverence for each other, as when the corps stands in silence every time a former cadet makes the ultimate sacrifice for our Nation. Indeed, today we honor the 78 graduates of this academy who have given their lives for our freedom and our security in Iraq and Afghanistan.<p>And we see your love of country, a devotion to America captured in the motto you chose as a class, a motto which will guide your lives of service: \\"Loyal 'Til the End.\\"<p>Duty, honor, love of country; everything you have learned here, all that you've achieved here, has prepared you for today when you raise your right hand, when you take that oath, when your loved one or mentor pins those gold bars on your shoulders, when you become, at long last, commissioned officers in the United States Army. <p>This is the ninth consecutive commencement that has taken place at West Point with our Nation at war. This time of war began in Afghanistan, a place that may seem as far away from this peaceful bend in the Hudson River as anywhere on Earth. The war began only because our own cities and civilians were attacked by violent extremists who plotted from a distant place, and it continues only because that plotting persists to this day. <p>For many years, our focus was on Iraq. And year after year, our troops faced a set of challenges there that were as daunting as they were complex. A lesser Army might have seen its spirit broken. But the American military is more resilient than that. Our troops adapted, they persisted, they partnered with coalition and Iraqi counterparts, and through their competence and creativity and courage, we are poised to end our combat mission in Iraq this summer.<p>Even as we transition to an Iraqi lead and bring our troops home, our commitment to the Iraqi people endures. We will continue to advise and assist Iraqi security forces, who are already responsible for security in most of the country. And a strong American civilian presence will help Iraqis forge political and economic progress. This will not be a simple task, but this is what success looks like: an Iraq that provides no haven to terrorists, a democratic Iraq that is sovereign and stable and self-reliant. <p>And as we end the war in Iraq, though, we are pressing forward in Afghanistan. Six months ago, I came to West Point to announce a new strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan. And I stand here humbled by the knowledge that many of you will soon be serving in harm's way. I assure you, you will go with the full support of a proud and grateful nation. <p>We face a tough fight in Afghanistan. Any insurgency that is confronted with a direct challenge will turn to new tactics. And from Marja to Kandahar, that is what the Taliban has done through assassination and indiscriminate killing and intimidation. Moreover, any country that has known decades of war will be tested in finding political solutions to its problems and providing governance that can sustain progress and serve the needs of its people. <p>So this war has changed over the last 9 years, but it's no less important than it was in those days after 9/11. We toppled the Taliban regime, now we must break the momentum of a Taliban insurgency and train Afghan security forces. We have supported the election of a sovereign government, now we must strengthen its capacities. We've brought hope to the Afghan people, now we must see that their country does not fall prey to our common enemies. Cadets, there will be difficult days ahead. We will adapt, we will persist, and I have no doubt that together with our Afghan and international partners, we will succeed in Afghanistan.<p>Now even as we fight the wars in front of us, we also have to see the horizon beyond these wars, because unlike a terrorist whose goal is to destroy, our future will be defined by what we build. We have to see that horizon and to get there we must pursue a strategy of national renewal and global leadership. We have to build the sources of America's strength and influence and shape a world that's more peaceful and more prosperous. <p>Time and again, Americans have risen to meet and to shape moments of change. This is one of those moments, an era of economic transformation and individual empowerment, of ancient hatreds and new dangers, of emerging powers and new global challenges. And we're going to need all of you to help meet these challenges. You've answered the call. You, and all who wear America's uniform, remain the cornerstone of our national defense, the anchor of global security. And through a period when too many of our institutions have acted irresponsibly, the American military has set a standard of service and sacrifice that is as great as any in this Nation's history.<p>Now the rest of us must do our part. And to do so, we must first recognize that our strength and influence abroad begins with steps we take at home. We must educate our children to compete in an age where knowledge is capital and the marketplace is global. We must develop clean energy that can power new industry and unbind us from foreign oil and preserve our planet. We have to pursue science and research that unlocks wonders as unforeseen to us today as the microchip and the surface of the Moon were a century ago. <p>Simply put, American innovation must be the foundation of American power, because at no time in human history has a nation of diminished economic vitality maintained its military and political primacy. And so that means that the civilians among us, as parents and community leaders, elected officials, business leaders, we have a role to play. We cannot simply leave it to those in uniform to defend this country; we have to make sure that America is building on its strengths.<p>As we build these economic sources of our strength, the second thing we must do is build and integrate the capabilities that can advance our interests and the common interests of human beings around the world. America's Armed Forces are adapting to changing times, but your efforts have to be complemented. We will need the renewed engagement of our diplomats, from grand capitals to dangerous outposts. We need development experts who can support Afghan agriculture and help Africans build the capacity to feed themselves. We need intelligence agencies that work seamlessly with their counterparts to unravel plots that run from the mountains of Pakistan to the streets of our cities. We need law enforcement that can strengthen judicial systems abroad and protect us here at home. And we need first-responders who can act swiftly in the event of earthquakes and storms and disease. <p>The burdens of this century cannot fall on our soldiers alone. It also cannot fall on American shoulders alone. Our adversaries would like to see America sap its strength by overextending our power. And in the past, we've always had the foresight to avoid acting alone. We were part of the most powerful wartime coalition in human history through World War II. We stitched together a community of free nations and institutions to endure and ultimately prevail during a cold war. <p>Yes, we are clear eyed about the shortfalls of our international system. But America has not succeeded by stepping out of the currents of cooperation; we have succeeded by steering those currents in the direction of liberty and justice, so nations thrive by meeting their responsibilities and face consequences when they don't. <p>So we have to shape an international order that can meet the challenges of our generation. We will be steadfast in strengthening those old alliances that have served us so well, including those who will serve by your side in Afghanistan and around the globe. As influence extends to more countries and capitals, we also have to build new partnerships and shape stronger international standards and institutions. <p>This engagement is not an end in itself. The international order we seek is one that can resolve the challenges of our times: countering violent extremism and insurgency, stopping the spread of nuclear weapons and securing nuclear materials, combating a changing climate and sustaining global growth, helping countries feed themselves and care for their sick, preventing conflict and healing wounds. If we are successful in these tasks, that will lessen conflicts around the world. It will be supportive of our efforts by our military to secure our country.<p>More than anything else, though, our success will be claimed by who we are as a country. This is more important than ever, given the nature of the challenges that we face. Our campaign to disrupt, dismantle, and to defeat Al Qaida is part of an international effort that is necessary and just. <p>But this is a different kind of war. There will be no simple moment of surrender to mark the journey's end, no armistice, no banner headline. Though we have had more success in eliminating Al Qaida leaders in recent months than in recent years, they will continue to recruit and plot and exploit our open society. We see that in bombs that go off in Kabul and Karachi. We see it in attempts to blow up an airliner over Detroit or an SUV in Times Square, even as these failed attacks show that pressure on networks like Al Qaida is forcing them to rely on terrorists with less time and space to train. We see the potential duration of this struggle in Al Qaida's gross distortions of Islam, their disrespect for human life, and their attempt to prey upon fear and hatred and prejudice. <p>So the threat will not go away soon, but let's be clear: Al Qaida and its affiliates are small men on the wrong side of history. They lead no nation; they lead no religion. We need not give in to fear every time a terrorist tries to scare us. We should not discard our freedoms because extremists try to exploit them. We cannot succumb to division because others try to drive us apart. We are the United States of America. [<i>applause</i>] We are the United States of America, and we have repaired our Union and faced down fascism and outlasted communism. We've gone through turmoil, we've gone through civil war, and we have come out stronger, and we will do so once more. <p>And I know this to be true because I see the strength and resilience of the American people. Terrorists want to scare us, New Yorkers just go about their lives unafraid. Extremists want a war between America and Islam, but Muslims are part of our national life, including those who serve in our United States Army. Adversaries want to divide us, but we are united by our support for you, soldiers who send a clear message that this country is both the land of the free and the home of the brave. <p>You know, in an age of instant access to information, a lot of cynicism in the news, it's easy to lose perspective in a flood of pictures and the swirl of political debate. Power and influence can seem to ebb and flow. Wars and grand plans can be deemed won or lost day to day, even hour to hour. As we experience the immediacy of the image of a suffering child or the boasts of a prideful dictator, it's easy to give in to the belief sometimes that human progress has stalled, that events are beyond our control, that change is not possible. <p>But this Nation was founded upon a different notion. We believe \\"that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.\\" And that truth has bound us together, a nation populated by people from around the globe, enduring hardship and achieving greatness as one people. And that belief is as true today as it was 200 years ago. It is a belief that has been claimed by people of every race and religion in every region of the world. Can anybody doubt that this belief will be any less true, any less powerful, 2 years, two decades, or even two centuries from now? <p>And so a fundamental part of our strategy for our security has to be America's support for those universal rights that formed the creed of our founding. And we will promote these values above all by living them, through our fidelity to the rule of law and our Constitution, even when it's hard, even when we're being attacked, even when we're in the midst of war. <p>And we will commit ourselves to forever pursuing a more perfect Union. Together with our friends and allies, America will always seek a world that extends these rights so that when an individual is being silenced, we aim to be her voice. Where ideas are suppressed, we provide space for open debate. Where democratic institutions take hold, we add a wind at their back. When humanitarian disaster strikes, we extend a hand. Where human dignity is denied, America opposes poverty and is a source of opportunity. That is who we are. That is what we do. <p>We do so with no illusions. We understand change doesn't come quick. We understand that neither America nor any nation can dictate every outcome beyond its borders. We know that a world of mortal men and women will never be rid of oppression or evil. What we can do, what we must do, is work and reach and fight for the world that we seek, all of us, those in uniform and those who are not. <p>And in preparing for today, I turned to the world--to the words of Oliver Wendell Holmes. And reflecting on his Civil War experience, he said, and I quote: \\"To fight out a war you must believe in something and want something with all your might. So must you do to carry anything else to an end worth reaching.\\" Holmes went on, \\"More than that, you must be willing to commit yourself to a course, perhaps a long and hard one, without being able to foresee exactly where you will come out.\\"<p>America does not fight for the sake of fighting. We abhor war. As one who has never experienced the field of battle--and I say that with humility, knowing, as General MacArthur said, \\"the soldier, above all others, prays for peace\\"--we fight because we must. We fight to keep our families and communities safe. We fight for the security of our allies and partners, because America believes that we will be safer when our friends are safer, that we will be stronger when the world is more just. <p>So, cadets, a long and hard road awaits you. You go abroad because your service is fundamental to our security back home. You go abroad as representatives of the values that this country was founded upon. And when you inevitably face setbacks, when the fighting is fierce or a village elder is fearful, when the end that you are seeking seems uncertain, think back to West Point. <p>Here, in this peaceful part of the world, you have drilled and you have studied and come of age in the footsteps of great men and women, Americans who faced times of trial, and who even in victory could not have foreseen the America they helped to build, the world they helped to shape. <p>George Washington was able to free a band of patriots from the rule of an empire, but he could not have foreseen his country growing to include 50 States connecting two oceans. <p>Grant was able to save a Union and see the slaves freed, but he could not have foreseen just how much his country would extend full rights and opportunities to citizens of every color. <p>Eisenhower was able to see Germany surrender and a former enemy grow into an ally, but he could not have foreseen the Berlin Wall coming down without a shot being fired. <p>Today, it is your generation that has borne a heavy burden: soldiers, graduates of this Academy like John Meyer and Greg Ambrosia, who have braved enemy fire, protected their units, carried out their missions, earned the commendation of this Army and of a grateful nation.<p>From the birth of our existence, America has had a faith in the future, a belief that where we're going is better than where we've been, even when the path ahead is uncertain. To fulfill that promise, generations of Americans have built upon the foundation of our forefathers, finding opportunity, fighting injustice, forging a more perfect Union. Our achievement would not be possible without the long gray line that has sacrificed for duty, for honor, for country.<p>And years from now when you return here, when for you the shadows have grown longer, I have no doubt that you will have added your name to the book of history. I have no doubt that we will have prevailed in the struggles of our times. I have no doubt that your legacy will be an America that has emerged stronger and a world that is more just, because we are Americans, and our destiny is never written for us, it is written by us, and we are ready to lead once more. <p>Thank you. May God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"144" "\"One month ago this week, BP's Deepwater Horizon drilling rig exploded off Louisiana's coast, killing 11 people and rupturing an underwater pipe. The resulting oil spill has not only dealt an economic blow to Americans across the Gulf Coast, it also represents an environmental disaster.<p>In response, we're drawing on America's best minds and using the world's best technology to stop the leak. We've deployed over 1,100 vessels, about 24,000 personnel, and more than 2 million total feet of boom to help contain it. And we're doing all we can to assist struggling fishermen and the small businesses and communities that depend on them.<p>Folks on the Gulf Coast and across America are rightly demanding swift action to clean up BP's mess and end this ordeal. But they're also demanding to know how this happened in the first place and how we can make sure it never happens again. That's what I'd like to spend a few minutes talking with you about. <p>First and foremost, what led to this disaster was a breakdown of responsibility on the part of BP and perhaps others, including Transocean and Halliburton. And we'll continue to hold the relevant companies accountable not only for being forthcoming and transparent about the facts surrounding the leak but for shutting it down, repairing the damage it does, and repaying Americans who've suffered a financial loss. <p>But even as we continue to hold BP accountable, we also need to hold Washington accountable. Now, this catastrophe is unprecedented in its nature, and it presents a host of new challenges we're working to address. But the question is what lessons we can learn from this disaster to make sure it never happens again. <p>If the laws on our books are inadequate to prevent such an oil spill or if we didn't enforce those laws, I want to know it. I want to know what worked and what didn't work in our response to the disaster and where oversight of the oil and gas industry broke down. We know, for example, that a cozy relationship between oil and gas companies and the agencies that regulate them has long been a source of concern. <p>Secretary of Interior Ken Salazar has taken steps to address this problem, steps that build on reforms he's been implementing since he took office. But we need to do a lot more to protect the health and safety of our people, to safeguard the quality of our air and water, and to preserve the natural beauty and bounty of America. <p>In recent weeks, we've taken a number of immediate measures to prevent another spill. We've ordered inspections of all deepwater operations in the Gulf of Mexico. We've announced that no permits for drilling new wells will go forward until the 30-day safety and environmental review I requested is complete. And I've called on Congress to pass a bill that would provide critical funds and tools to respond to this spill and better prepare us to confront any future spills.<p>But we also need to take a comprehensive look at how the oil and gas industry operates and how we regulate them. That's why on Friday, I signed an Executive order establishing the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling. While there are a number of ongoing investigations, including an independent review by the National Academy of Engineering, the purpose of this Commission is to consider both the root causes of the disaster and offer options on what safety and environmental precautions we need to take to prevent a similar disaster from happening again. This Commission, I'd note, is similar to one proposed by Congresswoman Capps and Senator Whitehouse.<p>And I've asked Democrat Bob Graham and Republican Bill Reilly to cochair this Commission. Bob served two terms as Florida's Governor and represented Florida as a United States Senator for almost two decades. During that time, he earned a reputation as a champion of the environment, leading the most extensive environmental protection effort in the State's history. <p>Bill Reilly is chairman emeritus of the board of the World Wildlife Fund, and he also is deeply knowledgeable about the oil and gas industry. During the Presidency of George H.W. Bush, Bill was Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and his tenure encompassed the Exxon <i>Valdez</i> disaster. <p>I can't think of two people who will bring greater experience or better judgment to the task at hand. In the days to come, I'll appoint five other distinguished Americans, including scientists, engineers, and environmental advocates, to join them on the Commission. And I'm directing them to report back in 6 months with recommendations on how we can prevent and mitigate the impact of any future spills that result from offshore drilling.<p>One of the reasons I ran for President was to put America on the path to energy independence, and I've not wavered from that commitment. To achieve that goal, we must pursue clean energy and energy efficiency, and we've taken significant steps to do so. And we must also pursue domestic sources of oil and gas. Because it represents 30 percent of our oil production, the Gulf of Mexico can play an important part in securing our energy future. But we can only pursue offshore oil drilling if we have assurances that a disaster like the BP oil spill will not happen again. This Commission will, I hope, help provide those assurances so we can continue to seek a secure energy future for the United States of America. <p>Thanks so much.\" "
"145" "\"<i>The President. </i>Thank you. Thank you so much. It is wonderful to see all of you. Some of you back for the second time. Some of you work for me, so you're here all the time. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I want to, before I start off, acknowledge that we've got just some outstanding Members of Congress who are always fighting the good fight for the AAPI community. It starts at the top, though, and I want to give a huge welcome and big round of applause for somebody who will go down as one of the greatest Speakers in our history, Speaker Nancy Pelosi.<p>I want to thank Father Vien for his introduction. He's led Mary Queen of Vietnam Church in Louisiana through some pretty hard days. After Katrina, he served not only as a spiritual advisor, but also as a community organizer, making sure his parishioners got the help that they needed. In fact, shortly after returning to New Orleans, when much of the city was dark, he convinced the utility company to divert electricity to the neighborhood around his church. So nobody messes with Father Vien. [<i>Laughter</i>] He tends to get what he wants.<p>Today, as communities in the Gulf face new hardships as the result of this ongoing oil spill, he's once more taken up the cause of his community. He's advocating on behalf of the many Vietnamese and Cambodian Americans and others who make their living shrimping and fishing. And I want him to know that we are going to be tireless in working to do everything we can to support the community and everybody whose livelihoods have been imperiled down in the region.<p>I want to not only thank all the Members of Congress who are here, I think Ric Shinseki may be here. Has he made it yet? He may be late. Give Ric Shinseki a round of applause anyway because he's doing a great job as our Secretary of Veterans Affairs. <p>I want to thank DJ Rekha, who's been spinning a little East Room Bhangra for everybody, mixing a hip-hop beat with the sounds of her heritage--[<i>Laughter</i>]--making a uniquely American sound that may not have been heard in the White House before. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But you know, that speaks to the promise of this country, a nation that welcomes contributions from all peoples, all colors, all creeds. We draw strength from the rich tradition that everybody can call America home, because we all came from somewhere else, except for the first Americans. <i>E pluribus unum</i>: Out of many, one. And there's no better example of this than the communities that are represented in this room. <p>Your role in America's story has not always been given its due, and many Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have known tremendous unfairness and injustice during our history. But we also know that generations of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders helped to build this country, defend this country, and make America what it is today, from the Chinese laborers who scaled cliffs and laid ties to connect our coasts by rail to the members of the 442d Regimental Combat Team who fought and bled overseas while their families were interned back home, from the hundreds of thousands who bore hardship and sacrifice on the journey to Angel Island a century ago to the more than 16 million Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders whose talents and efforts strengthen our economy and protect our security and enliven our communities each and every day. And obviously, this is personal for me, since you need to look no further than my family--my sister Maya and brother-in-law Konrad and my two mischievous nieces--[<i>Laughter</i>]--Suhaila and Savita--to know that that is part of America's past, but is also going to be part of America's future.<p>And for this reason, we are here today to celebrate these contributions. But we're also holding this event because I want to make sure that we are hearing from you so that Government does its part on your behalf, just as you're doing your part on America's behalf.<p>And that's why I signed an Executive order to reestablish the White House Initiative on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. It's chaired by my Commerce Secretary, Gary Locke, and my Education Secretary, Arne Duncan. Are they here? There's Arne. It's easier to spot Arne than Gary. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's why we're always welcoming your input, from meetings with Sikh Americans to Native Hawaiians. The goal is to make sure that our Government is successfully working to address disparities in health care, in education, and economic opportunity that exists within various AAPI communities.<p>Sometimes these disparities don't get the attention they deserve. People get lumped into one category, and obviously, so many Asian Americans are doing so well that the fact of disparity is lost and forgotten. But as you know, beneath the label of AAPI are dozens of communities, and each is facing their own unique challenges. And that's part of what this education effort within Government is all about: to make sure we're not making generalizations, but rather, we're thinking in very particular terms about how we can help to give everyone in this country the opportunity they deserve.<p>I'm also going to fight, have been fighting, and will keep on fighting for a comprehensive immigration reform that respects our Nation's heritage. We have to respect our heritage as a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants. And that means that everybody is going to have to take responsibility. Government has a responsibility to secure the border and enforce laws. Washington has an obligation to set clear, commonsense rules, including rules that no longer punish and divide families that are doing the right thing and following the law. That's why addressing the backlogs problem in our immigration system is an important part of reform. Business has to be held accountable when they exploit undocumented workers. Individuals who are here illegally, they have to take responsibility by paying a fine and back taxes and learning English and going to the back of the line so that they take a legal path towards citizenship.<p>These are the essential elements of comprehensive reform, and I'm going to work with members of both parties to get it done. It may not be the easiest thing to do politically, but I also know that it is the right thing to do for our country.<p>In addition, we've sought to honor AAPI heritage, commemorating Hmong New Year, marking----<p><i>Audience member.</i> [<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Good to see you. [<i>Laughter</i>] I know, I remember you. [<i>Laughter</i>] How's your kid? She's doing good? <p><i>Audience member.</i> [<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Good, good, good. [<i>Laughter</i>] Didn't know we were going to have that little colloquy, but-- [<i>Laughter</i>] .<p>We've marked Diwali in the White House, which was--[<i>applause</i>]. And with my appointments and nominations, I've worked to make sure that we've gotten a Government that is reflective of all America, including Americans of Asian descent and Pacific Islanders.<p>But I think it's also important to stress that while you confront some specific challenges to AAPI communities, everybody here understands that nobody is immune from the problems that our country is confronted with as a whole.<p>As small-business owners, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders know how important it is that we continue to spur growth after a long and brutal recession. As parents, everybody here is concerned about the quality of our education system and making college more affordable and accessible. As Americans, we want to make sure that we're giving our children the same opportunities that were given to us. And you know that it's up to each generation of Americans to pass on that legacy, to make sure that America is living up to its promise, a place where all things are possible if you're willing to put in a lot of hard work.<p>Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have helped to fulfill that promise for generations now. And because of the leadership of all of you in this room and people all across the country, I'm confident that that will continue into this century.<p>So thank you so much, everybody, for being here. God bless you. God bless America. Thank you.\" "
"146" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, hello, everyone! How's it going, California?<p><i>Audience member</i>. Love you!<p><i>The President</i>. Love you back. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is a good-looking crowd.<p><i>Sen. Boxer</i>. I know. That's Nancy's granddaughter, Isabella--Nancy Pelosi.<p><i>The President</i>. Well, she's just precious, and I know her pretty well. [<i>Laughter</i>] Hey, Mom, how are you?<p>Well, it is so nice to see everybody. Thank you for the wonderful welcome and the genuine San Francisco weather. [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, I wouldn't want to come here and it was all sunny and bright. [<i>Laughter</i>] No, no, that's not the way it's supposed to work.<p><i>Audience member</i>. You rock, Barack!<p><i>The President</i>. Thank you.<p>We just flew in today from Washington, and I have to say that we've got a lot on our plate right now, so I don't travel for just anybody. But when it comes to Barbara Boxer, I'm a lot like many of you, which is, if she calls and she says, \\"I need some help,\\" then we're going to give her some help because she has helped millions of Californians and millions of Americans all across the country. And we're going to make sure that Barbara Boxer is in office for an awful long time to come, whether Stew likes it or not.<p>I was talking to Stew in the back, and you know, when you're a Senator, an elected official, right around this time of year, you basically become a widow or a widower--[<i>Laughter</i>]--until your spouse is finished with their race. But Stew has been so supportive because he knows the value of what Barbara does each and every day.<p>Now, let's face it, this has been as tough a year and a half as any year and a half in our history since the 1930s. When I came into office, when I was sworn in, we were on the brink of what many economists thought might be another great depression. At minimum, we knew we were going to have the worst recession since the Great Depression. We were losing 750,000 jobs per month. The economy had contracted 6 1/2 percent. I had wrapped like a gift--a welcoming gift for me--a $1.3 trillion deficit. <p>And so we had to act quickly. And that meant that right away we had to make sure that we put in place mechanisms to put people back to work, to get the economy growing again. We had to cut taxes for small businesses and for individuals so that they would boost demand in the economy that was caving. It meant that we had to make sure that unemployment insurance and COBRA was in place so that people would have some safety net under them when they lost a job through no means of their own, through no fault of their own.<p>But it also meant that we had to make investments so that we would create a foundation for long-term growth in this country. See, we couldn't keep on doing the same things we had been doing. It wasn't good enough just to go back to the status quo ante. We couldn't have a situation in which growth was premised on everybody maxing out on their credit cards and taking out home equity loans and getting deeper and deeper into debt and wild speculation on the financial markets.<p>What we had to do was to go back to basics and think about what has made America great. Well, one of the things that has always made America great is innovation. And so through our Recovery Act, we made the largest investment in clean energy in our history. And we made the largest investment in science. And while we were making all those investments in research and development, we also elevated science once again. And we said we would make decisions on stem cell research and other issues based on what science tells us. And so we had an innovation agenda.<p>Then we had an agenda with respect to making sure that we made the health care system more efficient. And so even before we got into the health care bill, we invested in information technology so that when you go to the doctor, you don't have to take five tests. We're just going to take one test, and then you're going to e-mail the five tests to everybody else. And by the way, you won't get charged for five tests, or Medicaid or Medicare won't get charged for five tests.<p>And we thought about how could we restore an auto industry that was on the brink. But again, we couldn't go back to the status quo. So what we did was we said, you know what, we're going to make sure that GM and Chrysler aren't liquidated, but we're going to make sure that we invest in advanced battery technologies and hybrid technologies so that we can start seeing a future of plug-in hybrids that get 150 miles a gallon so that we can start breaking our dependence on foreign oil.<p>And we said, you know, part of the innovation economy is making sure every child in America has a decent education, which meant we made the largest investment in education in our history, not only at the K-12 level, but also at the community college level and at the university level. <p>And then we said, you know, we--if we're going to innovate and grow, we've got to have great infrastructure. And so we passed the largest investment in infrastructure since Eisenhower built the Interstate Highway System.<p>And we said, if we're going to cut taxes, let's make sure we cut taxes for the right folks. And so as a consequence, we passed the most progressive tax cut in our history to make sure that people who really needed it got the benefits.<p>Now, California, I want you to understand we did all that in the first month. [<i>Laughter</i>] That was in the first month. And in the first couple of months, we had already provided 4 million more children health care under the children's health insurance bill. We had already passed legislation to make sure that a basic principle that women, if they're working on the job, should get paid the same for doing the work that a man's doing.<p>In the first 6 months, we had already made sure that tobacco companies couldn't market to our kids and the toughest credit card regulations in our history and legislation to prevent housing fraud. We did that in the first 6 months.<p>But that wasn't enough to start building this new foundation for our economy. So we just kept on going. And as Barbara mentioned, we ended up doing something that seven Congresses and seven Presidents have failed to do--had failed to do for a century, and that is, start providing basic security for all Americans when it comes to their health care, because in a country this wealthy, no person should go bankrupt because they get sick, no child should go unattended if they've got a chronic illness. That is a basic principle of America. And by the way, it turns out that by making these changes, we can actually make the health care system more efficient and drive down costs and drive down premiums and help small businesses.<p>Now, we decided that's still not enough in order to make the changes that are necessary. And so we said, we're never going to have the situation again where taxpayers are forced to choose between the entire economy collapsing or having to bail out a bunch of folks who've been irresponsible. So we decided we had to create a financial regulatory structure that continues to affirm the power of the free market, that recognizes that financial institutions have to be there to be able to finance small businesses and individuals buying homes and cars. And that's all good. That's part of what makes America so creative and so dynamic. That drives our growth. But there got to be basic rules of the road so consumers aren't getting cheated, so people aren't missing the fine print and suddenly find themselves way overextended, so that you don't have financial instruments that can blow the entire economy apart.<p>And so after the last--over the last several months, after we finished with health care, we've tackled financial regulatory reform. We've now passed it through the House. We've now passed it through the Senate. And we are going to pass it through Congress. And then I'm going to sign that bill to make sure that we don't have taxpayer bailouts for irresponsible behavior in our financial sector.<p>All right, so that's not a bad 18 months' work. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's pretty good. But here's the thing: I couldn't have done that by myself. I mean, one of the things you learn as President is because you've got this title and, you know, there's the plane and the helicopter and all that stuff--[<i>Laughter</i>]--that people expect you to solve problems. And when things go wrong, they're definitely going to blame you. If things go right, occasionally you might get the credit.<p>But the truth is, is that in order for us to succeed in bringing about the kind of America where everybody has opportunity, where our economy is growing and innovative and more stable, where our children are getting a good education, where we've got a sound health care system, where we've got an actual energy agenda, I can't do that by myself. I've got to have strong allies. I've got to have people with passion. I've got to have people who are willing to fight for what's right. I've got to have people who always have the voices of their constituents in their ear and understand and remember, no matter how long they've been in Washington, who it is that they're fighting for.<p>And nobody is a better example of that than Barbara Boxer, which is why you are here today. On every fight that needed to be fought, Barbara was there, standing right there next to me, and sometimes we were in a foxhole together--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and shots are being fired. That's just a figure of speech. I don't want the Secret Service--[<i>Laughter</i>]--getting excited.<p>But Barbara's always there. She's been there for you. She's been there for California. She's been there for me. And now----<p><i>Audience member</i>. You've got a Boxer in your corner.<p><i>The President</i>. We've got a Boxer in our corner. That's a good one. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So now we've got to be there for her, because the truth is, our work is not yet done. You know, I actually visited the Republican caucus today, and it was a very warm and cuddly meeting. [<i>Laughter</i>] But the truth is, I want the country to come together in dealing with some big problems that we've still got. And Barbara wants the same thing.<p>And here's what I told them. I'm not going to get into all the details of the meeting because they wanted the meeting closed. We had a meeting that was open with the Republican caucus on the House side, and I had a lot of fun there. So--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but basically, I said, we've done some good work. Unfortunately, sometimes we haven't gotten a lot of help from the other side of the aisle, but we still are hopeful that you are willing to put party below what needs to be done for the American people.<p>And here are some areas where we know we've got to make progress. We know we still have to make progress on energy. This situation in the Gulf is heartbreaking. And the day that it was reported to me that this riser and the drilling situation had blown, I said to my team, we've got to put every bit of energy, time, all the resources we've got, to make sure that we deal with this.<p>And we've now got over a thousand people from the Federal Government deployed down there. We are doing everything we can to contain the damage. But the fact of the matter is, is that not only do we have to revisit how these oil companies are operating, to make sure that they're operating in a safe and effective way, but we've also still got this overarching issue, even if you hadn't seen the catastrophe down in the Gulf, the reason that folks are now having to go down a mile deep into the ocean and then another mile drilling into the ground below that is because the easy oilfields and oil wells are gone, or they're starting to diminish.<p>And what does that tell us? That tells us that we've got to have a long-term energy strategy in this country, that we've got to start cultivating solar and wind and biodiesel. And we've got to increase energy efficiency across our economy in our buildings and in our automobiles.<p>And we've got to also make sure that----<p><i>[At this point, there was a brief disruption.]</i><p>Oops. [<i>Laughter</i>] You don't agree? <p>And we've got to make sure that as these technologies develop, the Government's not creating these technologies, but it's supporting them, because that's how the railroads got built and that's how the Internet got developed, was--there was some measure of Government support.<p>And we've got to stop subsidizing those industries that are not going to lead us to the future. Now--[<i>applause</i>]--so I said to the Republicans, join with me. There's been some good work done by John Kerry and Joe Lieberman and Lindsey Graham. Let's go; let's not wait. Let's show the American people that in the midst of this crisis, all of us are opening our eyes to what's necessary to fulfill the promise to our children and our grandchildren.<p>And then I talked about immigration reform, another area where there are a lot of passions right now. And I said to them, look, I disagree with this Arizona law. I think it's a bad idea. But I also said, I understand the frustration of folks in Arizona. I understand they're feeling that somehow the Federal Government can't control the border effectively, and I'm willing to work with my Republican colleagues to create a stronger border here in California, New Mexico, and in Arizona. I think everybody understands that that's an important investment to make.<p>And I told them, if we actually want to solve the problem, as opposed to just score political points, then we can't just have one leg of the stool. We've got to make sure that we're dealing with employers who are dealing in unscrupulous ways with undocumented workers. We've got--[<i>applause</i>]--and for the millions of folks who are already here, we've got to say to them, you've got to take responsibility. You broke the law; you've got to pay a fine. You've got to pay your back taxes. You've got to learn English. You've got to go to the back of the line, but here's a pathway whereby you can get right with our community and contribute to the larger American project.<p>Those are issues that we're going to have some legitimate differences on. Some of those differences were expressed in the Republican caucus. And I expressed my opinions as well. But you know what? If you talk to most Americans on these issues, they're not thinking Republican, they're not thinking Democrat, they're not thinking liberal, they're not thinking conservative. They're thinking, what's common sense, what's decent, what's right, what does the science say, what do the facts say, what will work, what won't work? Solve the problem.<p>And that's what I'm prepared to do. And that's what Barbara Boxer's always stood for. And that's why it's so important that you're here tonight, because that's the kind of politics that is going to create a better future for California, that's the kind of politics that's going to create a better future for the Nation. And that's why I know that you are going to make sure that Barbara Boxer gets another 6 years in the United States Senate.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"147" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. Everybody, please have a seat.<p>It is wonderful to see all of you. Welcome to the White House. I want to acknowledge a couple folks before we get started. First of all, we've got some special guests who are here from wonderful States. They are doing great work. We're very, very proud of them, Michigan Governor Jennifer Granholm and Wisconsin Governor Jim Doyle. Please give them a big round of applause. Stand up, guys, so everybody can see you. [<i>applause</i>]<p>On the stage with me, we've got some--the reason we're here--people who have helped to live out the American Dream and created jobs. And we are extraordinarily proud of them. We've got Trapper Clark and Thomas Sturtevant right over here. We've got Charles Reid right down here. And we've got Tamara Marquez Nugent. These are the outstanding winners of this award, and you're going to be hearing more about them. I also want to introduce somebody who I'm very proud of, who's doing just a great job as our SBA Administrator, Karen Mills. Please give her a round of applause. [<i>applause</i>]<p>And we've got some wonderful Members of Congress who are here--I love them all dearly. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we're going to talk about the role a Congress can play in doing the work that needs to be done right now.<p>This is the beginning of National Small Business Week, which every President has recognized since John F. Kennedy started the tradition in 1963. With us are some of the most successful, most hard-working entrepreneurs from across America. Each of you has distinguished yourselves as the small-business owner of the year in your State or your region. Later today a national winner will be announced. But all of you should be extremely proud of what you've accomplished this year. I know that I'm extremely proud of what you've accomplished.<p>Being a successful small-business person isn't just about collecting a profit or outperforming your competition. It's about contributing to the success of this country's economy. It's about contributing to your country's continued growth and prosperity. And it's about securing your piece of the American Dream and helping your employees and your suppliers and all the people you work with secure their piece of the American Dream.<p>What's always distinguished us as a nation is a belief that it's a place where anybody with a good idea and a willingness to work can succeed. It's the belief that has brought millions of people to our shores and carried us through even the toughest economic times.<p>It's how small businesses begin. Maybe somebody finally decides to take a chance on his dream; maybe a worker decides it's time to become her own boss; either way, these entrepreneurial pioneers embody the spirit of possibility, the tireless work ethic, and the simple hope for something better that lies at the heart of the American ideal.<p>Some of you have opened mom-and-pop stores that have led to America's biggest, most successful companies. Some have launched technology companies, software and IT services that have redefined the marketplace. You collectively create two out of every three jobs here in the United States of America--two out of every three jobs. And that's why small businesses aren't just the backbone of this economy; you're also the driving force behind this recovery.<p>The problem is, is that small-business owners have also been the hardest hit by this recession. From the middle of 2007 through the end of 2008, small businesses lost 2.4 million jobs. And because banks shrunk from lending in the midst of the financial crisis, it's been difficult for small-business owners to take out the loans they need to open up shop or to expand. For those who do own a small business, it's hard to finance inventories, make payrolls, or to do that additional work that could make your business grow.<p>Now, Government can't create jobs, but it can help create the conditions for small businesses to grow and to thrive and to hire more workers. Government can't guarantee a company's success, but it can knock down the barriers that prevent small-business owners from getting loans or investing in the future. And that's why so much of our economic agenda has been focused on America's small businesses.<p>Last year, we enacted seven tax cuts for America's small businesses, as well as Making Work Pay tax credits that go to the vast majority of small-business owners. So far, the Recovery Act has supported over 64,000 loans to small businesses, more than $27 billion in new lending. More than 1,200 banks and credit unions that had stopped making SBA loans when the financial crisis hit are lending again today, and more than $8 billion in Federal Recovery Act contracts are now going to small businesses.<p>So right now a series of additional tax incentives and other steps to promote hiring are taking effect. Because of a bill I signed into law a few months ago, businesses are now eligible for tax cuts when they hire unemployed workers. Companies are also able to write off more of their investments in new equipment. And as part of the health reform package, 4 million small-business owners recently received a postcard in their mailboxes telling them that they could be eligible for a health care tax credit this year. It's worth perhaps tens of thousands of dollars to your companies. And it will provide welcome relief to small-business owners, who--I know you guys understand--all too often have to choose between hiring or keeping your health care for yourselves and your workers.<p>I also want to say a few words about what the SBA has been doing to help those workers and business owners who've been affected by the oil spill in the Gulf Coast. From the very beginning of this disaster, the SBA has acted quickly to assist fishermen and fishing-dependent small businesses. They're offering low-interest loans and deferrals of existing loans. And while small businesses are encouraged to file claims with BP, these loans and deferrals can provide much needed temporary assistance.<p>So all of these steps have made a real difference in the lives of people who own and work at small businesses all across America, and that includes all of you who are here with us today.<p>I just met with Trapper and Tom, who are the State of Maine's small-business owners of the year. Karen assures me that the reason they're on stage is not because they're from Maine, her home State. [<i>Laughter</i>] They started a company that manufactures aluminum trailers about 4 years ago with 20 employees. They've grown rapidly over the last few years, and that growth has been supported by a Recovery Act loan from the Small Business Administration. They got some of their fees waived. And today, they have 85 employees, are planning to add another 15 by the end of this year, and hope to add another 30 by the end of 2011.<p>Frank and Donna Masley are here. They are Delaware's small-business owners of the year. Where are they? There they are, right there. Congratulations.<p>Ten years ago, they launched a glove-making business to provide flexibility and protection for our men and women in uniform. When they won a contract to supply gloves for soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan in 2009, they received a Recovery Act loan through the SBA and saved thousands on fees. It was that loan that allowed Frank and Donna to rehire some employees who had been laid off during this recession, and today, their business is growing and thriving once more.<p>So many people who are here today have stories just like this. Their success isn't the result of a heavy-handed government. It's the result of a government that lent a helping hand, that complements the sheer grit and determination of America's small-business owners. And I believe we need to do even more to give these men and women a boost.<p>So that's why I'm calling on Congress to pass small-business jobs--a small-business jobs package as soon as possible. This legislation should ensure that creditworthy small-business owners can get the capital they need to expand and create jobs. It should include needed tax relief, like our proposal to completely eliminate capital gains taxes for those making key long-term investments in small businesses. It should include expansions of vital Small Business Administration loan programs that are needed now more than ever. And it should include two important lending initiatives that I recently sent to Congress.<p>The first initiative is the $30 billion small-business lending fund I called for in my State of the Union Address. This fund would target only small community and neighborhood banks, and it would help these institutions increase lending to small businesses. The second initiative is a new State small-business credit program that we recently proposed, working with Governors like Governor Doyle and Governor Granholm. It's an initiative that will help expand private lending for small businesses and manufacturers at a time when budget shortfalls are leading States to cut back on vitally important lending programs.<p>Now, I'm very pleased that elements of this small-business jobs package have already passed the House Financial Services Committee last week, and I know that the Senate is working on the issue as well. I urge both Chambers to act on these proposals as soon as possible.<p>This shouldn't be a partisan issue. This is not a Republican issue or a Democratic issue. This should not be an issue about big government versus small government. This is an issue that involves putting government on the side of small-business owners, who create most of the jobs in this country. It's about giving them tax credits and loans and tax cuts so they can keep growing and keep hiring. It's about unleashing the great power of our economy and the ingenuity of our people.<p>And when you have a chance to talk to Charles and you find out what he's been doing in Michigan, creating a business that is expanding, working with restaurants and other institutions on their designs; when you think about somebody like Tamara, who started her own business after her husband, I believe, actually had to take disability, and she's now growing and hiring employees, getting into a business that historically has been male dominated, the moving business; when you hear their stories, you can't help but be inspired. And you realize that there are thousands of people all across America who, despite the odds, despite the naysayers, are going out there and making their dreams happen.<p>So that's what today should be about and that's what this package in Congress should be about, unleashing the great power of our economy and the ingenuity of our people. In so many ways, each of you today have shown that ingenuity as you've successfully navigated your companies through an extraordinarily difficult time, the toughest time that we've seen since the Great Depression. You should be proud of that achievement and know that as you continue that journey, you're always going to have a fierce advocate in your President and in your SBA Administrator and in your Government.<p>So thank you very much, everybody. Congratulations.\" "
"148" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, California! Thank you. You doing a little dance? Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Oh, thank you. Now, it is good to be back. But I resent I didn't get a chance to hear the choir sing. [<i>Laughter</i>] I was up somewhere. They were working me hard, and I could have used a little lift of the spirit there. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, fortunately, if I'm not mistaken, I recognize Reverend Williams, being here. I know he's sitting right in front. And I recognize this choir because I saw you guys a while back when I was here. So I have heard them in the past. To the Glide Methodist Church Choir, thank you so much. Reverend Williams, thank you. To musician Brett Dennen, thank you very much for helping out here. <p><i>Audience member.</i> [<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Uh-oh, down--yes, if you've got a chair, go ahead and use it. Feel free. Feel free. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It is wonderful to be back in California. It's also wonderful to be back in the home district of one of the greatest Speakers in the history of the House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi. <p>And it's good to be here in the home State of my friend, somebody who has been fighting the good fight for this State for so many years, and then you look at her and you realize she started when she was 12--[<i>Laughter</i>]--your outstanding Senator, Barbara Boxer. <p>I talked to Stew, Barbara's husband, beforehand, and he told me that Barbara has not changed a bit since she first went to Congress--as beautiful as ever. The only difference is she was actually 5'10\\"--[<i>Laughter</i>]--when she went there----<p><i>Sen. Boxer.</i> That's true.<p><i>The President.</i> ----and just got worn down. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Sen. Boxer</i>. Worn down, but strong as ever. <p><i>The President</i>. But that's okay, I didn't have any gray hair when I went there. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Sen. Boxer</i>. Mr. President, mine turned blonde.<p><i>The President</i>. Right, yours turned blonde. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, it is one of the great privileges of having been a Senator that I had a chance to work alongside Barbara. California has been a leader in promoting hybrids and compact cars and cleaner-burning fuels. And appropriately, you've got Senator Barbara Boxer, a subcompact Senator--[<i>Laughter</i>]--with a seemingly inexhaustible source of energy. [<i>Laughter</i>] And she already talked about how deeply she cares about the environment, about her work to pursue a clean energy future. And that work has never been more important than it is now. But I also want you to understand, this is a woman with extraordinarily deep passion to fight for all of you on a whole range of issues. <p><i>Audience member</i>. [<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President</i>. Absolutely. [<i>Laughter</i>] Barbara is somebody who hasn't forgotten why she went to Washington. She remembers the people of California, the stories she's heard, the people she's talked to: the woman without health insurance, the child who is in a substandard school, the guy who's lost his job.<p>That's what she's passionate about--especially right now--fighting for jobs, jobs right here in California, jobs with good wages, jobs with good benefits. She's passionate for fighting for California's families and making sure that everybody here has got a fair shake, that if they're willing to work hard, that they can reach for that American Dream. <p>And that's what I want to talk to you about tonight, because reviving our economy remains the central challenge that we're facing today. I don't have to tell you folks here in California. This State has been hit as hard as any State with economic troubles over the past few years. And jobs have been lost in heartbreaking numbers up and down the coast. Housing crisis hit the State with a vengeance. Budget problems have put a further strain on people here at a time when they really need help, and that forces the State government to make painful choices about where to spend, where to save. <p>The challenges here reflect challenges that are facing people all across America. I'm trying to get out of Washington once a week. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's good for me. I mean, there are good things about Washington. I've got no commute--[<i>Laughter</i>]--which I know you'll appreciate here in California. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it's good to get out of town, and you talk to everybody, you see the letters that are being sent, and I'm reminded, first of all, of what we confronted when we got here, when we got into office. Seven hundred and fifty thousand jobs per month being lost--750,000. The economy was contracting at 6.5 percent that quarter that I was sworn in, the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.<p>Now, you've heard that said before, but think about that. Think about that. This is the worst economic crisis that many of the people in this room have seen in their lifetimes. And the fact is, is that a lot of folks didn't know what to do. And there were some economists who said that we may be falling over a precipice: The banking sector had completely locked up, no credit was flowing, and we might end up seeing a global depression that rivaled what happened in the 1930s.<p>And so we had to act quickly. We had to act fast. And unfortunately, we didn't have all the tools that we needed to act fast because you had a previous Congress and a previous administration that had left a $1.3 trillion deficit, wrapped up in a bow, that turned surpluses into deficits as a consequence of a whole host of irresponsible policies. <p>These problems that we confronted didn't come out of nowhere. They didn't just happen. There was a consequence of policies that had been in place for years, that Barbara's opponents, that the other party had promoted. And so we had to move fast, and that's what we did.<p>On day one, we took the reins, and we said, we are going to make sure that we don't slip into a great depression. And we are----<p><i>Audience member</i>. Move faster on \\"don't ask, don't tell\\"!<p><i>Audience members</i>. Boo!<p><i>The President</i>. It's good to see you again.<p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can!<p><i>The President</i>. Thank you. <p>I have to say, you know, I saw this guy down in L.A.--[<i>Laughter</i>]--at a Barbara Boxer event about a month and a half ago. And I would--two points I want to make. Number one, he should--I hate to say this, but he really should, like, buy a ticket to--if he wants to demonstrate--buy a ticket to a guy who doesn't support his point of view. [<i>Laughter</i>] And then you can yell as much as you want there. <p>The other point is, maybe he didn't read the newspapers--[laughter]--because we are working with Congress as we speak to roll back \\"don't ask, don't tell.\\" I actually think he does read the newspapers because he wasn't as--his heart didn't seem in it. [<i>Laughter</i>] He said, do it faster. It's like, come on, man, I'm dealing with Congress here. [<i>Laughter</i>] It takes a little bit of time. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Where was I? [<i>Laughter</i>] I was going down memory lane. [<i>Laughter</i>] So we ended up initiating a series of steps: the largest investment in clean energy in our history, restoring the primacy of science and investing in research and development, the largest investment in infrastructure since Eisenhower built the interstate railway system, the largest investment in education by the Federal Government in our history, the most progressive tax cut in our history to restore a sense of fairness to our tax system, help for States so that they didn't have to lay off teachers and firefighters and police officers, including right here in California. Talk to Governor Schwarzenegger if you don't believe the kinds of help that was involved. And we did all this in the first month--the first month.<p>And just as an aside, we passed legislation to make sure that 4 million kids could get health insurance that didn't have it before. We passed the Lilly Ledbetter law that put forward the basic principle that an equal's day--that a day's work should get an equal day's pay, regardless of whether it's a man or a woman who is doing the work. Made sure tobacco companies couldn't market to kids. Made sure that we have the toughest credit card antifraud provisions that we had seen, anti-housing fraud provisions, biggest national service investment, all that we did in the first few months. <p>Now--and that was before we got to health care to make sure that every American had the chance to get decent health care and people weren't going bankrupt when they got sick. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Thank you.<p><i>The President</i>. You're welcome. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Thank you.<p><i>The President</i>. You're welcome. It's nice to feel appreciated once in a while. [<i>applause</i>] Thank you.<p>So now, here's the thing, though----<p><i>Audience member</i>. We love you, Obama!<p><i>The President</i>. I love you back. But here's the thing, California: We've still got work to do. Because of those folks that I talked about--unemployment in California and all across the country is still unacceptably high. People are still losing their homes. Folks are still seeing premium increases on their health care. And we've got some big issues that Congress hasn't yet tackled in the way that we know they have to be tackled if we want a better future for our kids and our grandkids.<p>Now, some of you heard I went to the Republican caucus today. It was a warm and cuddly meeting. [<i>Laughter</i>] The last time I appeared, it was before the House Republican caucus, and we agreed to let the press in on that one; this one, not so much. [<i>Laughter</i>] And--but I wanted to talk to them about the fact that as busy as people have been, as hard as we've been working, we've got more work to do. And everybody knows it in their gut. Everybody knows that we are at an inflection point in our history, that we've got a choice between going back to the same status quo--except the status quo won't work any more. We're not going to be able to run an economy based on maxing out your credit cards and taking out home equity loans and running up debt and the financial sector getting exorbitant profits based on a bunch of financial shenanigans.<p>We know that if we want to build a real future in an economy this competitive, with China and India and Brazil and other countries on the rise, that we're going to have to go back to basics. We've got to fix our education system. We've got to make sure that every young person in America has a chance to go to college. We've got to make sure--and by the way, you may have missed it during the health care debate, but we added billions of dollars in funding to student loans by cutting out the financial middlemen. That was just--that didn't even get front-page news. We've got to strengthen our community colleges. We're going to have work to do implementing our health care bill. And we've also got some critical issues that all of us have in mind right now. And I'm going to mention two--and I mentioned these to the Republican caucus. <p>Said the first is energy. Now, there's not a person here who has just felt that sense of despair in watching the broadcasts about the oil spill down in the Gulf. Nobody is more upset than me, because ultimately, like any President, when this happens on your watch, then every day you are thinking, how does this get solved?<p>And so we've sent over a thousand people down to the Gulf--boom, equipment, legal advisers, helping fishermen who have lost their livelihoods as a consequence of this. And we are now having to do a thoroughgoing review to see how it is that oil companies can say that they know how to handle these problems when it turns out actually that they don't. And that's a responsibility of Government. <p>But we also have to face a broader fact. There's a reason why those folks are out there drilling a mile down in the water, and then when they hit ground a mile down, they have to go another mile down to get oil. That's an expensive proposition; it's a dangerous proposition; it's a risky proposition. Why are we doing it? Well, we're doing it because we have not made a transition to a new energy future. <p>And we've been putting it off for decade after decade after decade. And it is about time that we said to ourselves that we're ready to make a change on behalf of the future of our children and our grandchildren. And it won't happen overnight. It won't happen tomorrow. It won't happen next week. But if we start investing in clean energy technology and solar and wind and biodiesel, if we invest in hybrid plug-ins that can get 150 miles a gallon, if we start making our buildings more efficient, and if we start finally saying to ourselves, we can't just let everybody pollute for free, if we follow science and we follow some commonsense principles, then, look, oil is still going to be in the energy mix. We're not going to eliminate that completely, but we are going to, over time, transition to ourselves, and we will become more energy efficient, which will be good for our national security, it will be good for our economy, it will be good for our environment, it will be good for our future. <p>And by the way, we can create millions of jobs right here in the United States of America investing in a new clean energy future. And I told the Republicans, I am ready to work with you right now to get this done. <p>Second issue is immigration. Now, folks are out there looking at the Arizona law, and it's divided the country. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Boo!<p><i>The President</i>. Now, I've been very clear. I think the Arizona law was a mistake. And my Justice Department is looking very carefully at the nature of this law. <p>But I understand the frustrations of folks in Arizona. The fact of the matter is, is that for decades, we keep on talking about solving the problems of the border and we don't. Truth of the matter is, is that you've got hundreds of thousands of undocumented workers coming over the border, and that gets people stressed. You've got employers who are exploiting undocumented workers all across America, actively recruiting them and often taking advantage of them when they get here.<p>So there is a whole bunch of work that has to be done. But we can't solve the problem by playing politics. We can't solve the problem by demagoguing the issue. <p>And so what I told my Republican colleagues is, look, I'll be there with you in terms of securing the border. That's part of my responsibility as Commander in Chief and as President. But you've got to meet me on solving the problem long term. It's not enough to just talk about National Guard down at the border. You've got to talk about how are we going to hold employers accountable and how are we going to take the folks who are living in the shadows right now and say to them, you've got a responsibility, you'll have to pay a fine, you'll have to pay back taxes, you'll have to learn English, but we are going to give you a pathway in order for you to be a part of this community legally. That is something we've got to work on together.<p>Now, California, the last thing I said to my Republican colleagues was, you don't even have to meet me halfway. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'll bring most Democrats on these issues. I'm just looking for 8 or 10 of you--[<i>Laughter</i>]--you know? I mean, the time--the day has passed when I expected this to be a full partnership. I mean, it's just--[<i>Laughter</i>]--you know, I understand the strategy of sitting on the sidelines. And let's face it: Politically, it hasn't been bad for them. It made a lot of people forget how we got into this mess in the first place, just sitting there and saying no to everything.<p><i>Sen. Boxer.</i> [<i>inaudible</i>]<p>The President. Well, Barbara points out--I've said this before--you know, folks--here you got folks driving a car in the ditch, and then we're out there in the mud pulling the car out of the ditch, and they're sitting there comfortable, drinking on a Slurpee or something--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and saying, \\"You know, you're not pulling the car out of the ditch fast enough.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"You're not doing that the right way. When you put your shoulder behind, you got to lean into it.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So then we finally get the car out of the ditch, and they want the keys back. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Audience members. </i>No!<p><i>The President. </i>Say, no, you can't have the keys. You can't--you don't know how to drive. You can't have the keys. Can't have them. If you want to get in, we'll give you a ride. [<i>Laughter</i>] But we're not going to let you drive. <p><i>Audience member</i>. No keys. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President</i>. No keys. No, you don't get the keys back. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But here's my point, look--and then after the meeting, we got some of the usual stuff about, well, he talks about bipartisanship, but we don't really see partisanship in the financial regulatory bill, you know, it just passed with mostly Democratic votes, few Republican votes to break the filibuster. <p>Look, understand this about bipartisanship: I have a track record in my legislative career of working with folks across the aisle. And I also, by the way, am sympathetic to the fact that it's hard for Republicans to work with me right now because there are members of their base who, if somebody even smiles at me, they think, you're a traitor. [<i>Laughter</i>] You smiled at Obama. [<i>Laughter</i>] You're nice to him. You were polite. And if you're rude to Obama, we can raise money. [<i>Laughter</i>] So the incentive structure right now for cooperation within the Republican Party is not real strong. So I'm sympathetic to that.<p>But when we talk about bipartisanship, what we mean is, is that there's going to be some negotiation, and, no, the Republicans aren't going to get their way on everything. And there are going to be some times where we disagree. And when we disagree, if we're not doing everything the way they want and they say, I'm going to take my ball and go home, and I won't vote for anything, that's not a failure of bipartisanship on our part. There's got to be some give on the other side, particularly when you drove the car into the ditch. <p>You know, we can't just go back to business as usual. So on immigration, meet me a quarter of the way. [<i>Laughter</i>] We'll deal with border security issues, and I'll be serious about it. And by the way, sometimes I'll get attacked in my own base, right. Because sometimes some of the things I've done, some of you guys aren't happy with. <p>But what I said to them today was, if I'm willing to make decisions that aren't always comfortable for me politically, I need you to make some decisions that aren't always comfortable for you politically. <p>And if they're willing to do that, we can get immigration reform done. And it needs to be done, comprehensive immigration reform. And if they are willing to do it, we can get an energy package that puts us on the path to a clean energy future. <p>So I remain hopeful. Remember hope? <p><i>Audience members. </i>Yeah!<p><i>The President. </i>I know it's been 18 tough months. And I know I've got more gray hair. [<i>Laughter</i>] I know some folks say, \\"Well, you know, he's not as cool as he was.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] When they had all the posters around and everything--now I've got a Hitler mustache on the posters. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's quite a change. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>You know, my approval ratings kind of start sinking. And some people are just not entirely satisfied. \\"You know what? The health care bill wasn't everything I wanted. It's the biggest deal since Medicare, but you know\\"--[<i>Laughter</i>]--\\"it wasn't everything I wanted.\\"<p>Look, I understand that, but remember what the campaign was about: hope, change. People weren't paying attention to me when I said, change is hard. People--a lot of folks, they just missed that part. [<i>Laughter</i>] They were like, hope, change--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and they thought, nice swearing-in, you got Bruce Springsteen singing. [<i>Laughter</i>] Everybody is feeling good. This is going to happen fast. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Well, no. If it was easy, it would've happened before. If it was easy, we would have put in place mileage standards on cars 30 years ago, 40 years ago, 50 years ago--on trucks. We didn't do it because it's hard. <p>And it's hard not just because of the special interests, although they're there, but it's also hard because, you know what, everybody gets kind of comfortable with the devil they know. And change can be scary. And people can be frightened. And issues can be demagogued. And the talking head media debate can get everybody confused and cynical and feeling like, you know what, nothing is changing.<p>The fact of the matter is, over the last year and a half, we have moved this country in powerful ways. And the reason we've been able to do it is because I've had a partner, Barbara Boxer of California, who has fought with me and marched with me and held hands with me. And if you want to see that change happen for the next 18 months and the next 18 months after that and the next 18 months after that, well, then doggone it, reelect Barbara Boxer to be your United States Senator.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless America.\" "
"149" "\"Hello, everybody. Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat. It is wonderful to be here and to see all of you here today. And I would be remiss if I did not note the presence of your Governor, give him a big round of applause, Arnold Schwarzenegger. All right, I'm just going to go ahead and mention our district attorney, Kamala Harris, who's here.<p>It is great to be in Fremont, good to be back in northern California. I was reminiscing a little bit. Michelle and I took our honeymoon in Napa Valley. That was almost 17 years ago when we drove down the Pacific Coast Highway, and so I was fantasizing about going and renting a car. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I was told that would cause a stir--[<i>Laughter</i>]--so next time.<p>But it's wonderful to be here in northern California. It is always nice to get out of Washington a little bit. Now, don't get me wrong, the Capital is a beautiful place, nice monuments. I have no commute--[<i>Laughter</i>]--which very few people in California can say is true for them.<p>But the truth of the matter is, is that when you're in Washington, a lot of times all you're thinking about or all that's being talked about is politics--who's up, who's down, the contest between the parties--instead of people remembering why it is that they aspired to go into politics in the first place. We end up getting caught up in the moment instead of what is important for the future.<p>So I try to visit places like this about once a week, hear from folks as often as possible who are actually doing the extraordinary work of building up America. And I appreciated the chance to tour your plant and to see the incredible, cutting-edge solar panels that you're manufacturing, but also the process that goes into the manufacturing of these solar panels. And it is just a testament to American ingenuity and dynamism and the fact that we continue to have the best universities in the world, the best technology in the world, and most importantly, the best workers in the world. And you guys all represent that. So thank you very much for that.<p>And while I'm at it, I also want to give some credit to those guys in the back who have been building this facility so that we can put more people back to work and build more solar panels to send all across the country. Thank you for the great work that you guys are doing. <p>Now, it's fitting that this technology is being pioneered here in California. Where else, right? For generations, this part of the country has embodied the entrepreneurial spirit that has always defined America's success: People heading west.<p>It was here where weary but hopeful travelers came with pickaxes in search of a fortune. It was here that tinkerers and engineers turned a sleepy valley into a center of innovation and industry. It's here that companies like Solyndra are leading the way toward a brighter and more prosperous future.<p>And you're doing so at a time of real challenge for America. I don't have to tell you that. The Governor doesn't have to tell you that. California was hit as hard as any State by the home mortgage crisis and the economic storms that followed. Even this high-tech corridor wasn't immune. Foreclosures skyrocketed; home values fell. Businesses slowed, from family restaurants to Fortune 500 companies. Fremont lost thousands of jobs as the NUMMI auto plant slowed production and shut down, and that hurt not only autoworkers but local businesses and parts suppliers.<p>Many in this community are still reeling from the effects of the recession, and that followed a decade of struggle and growing economic insecurity for a lot of middle class families. The truth is, even though the economy is growing and adding jobs again, it's going to take a while to create the favorable conditions for communities like this one to rebound and to flourish. But what was clear when I walked through the Oval Office door, at a time of maximum peril in our economy, when economists were warning we might be going into a great depression and the financial system might be on the verge of collapse, what was clear was that even though it might be difficult and even though some of the things we had to do might not be politically popular, we had to act. We couldn't accept a future that was marked by decline.<p>And that's why we took a series of steps to stop what was nothing short of an economic freefall. We passed a series of tax cuts to put more money in the pockets of working families right away, including more than 12 million families in California. We increased the Pell grant, which brought 4 million additional dollars--$4 million of additional aid to students right here in Fremont. We backed loans to small businesses, including 20 million to companies in this community alone.<p>We also provided relief for those hardest hit, who not only needed help but would most likely use the relief to generate more economic activity. So we extended unemployment benefits for more than 3 million California residents and made COBRA cheaper for people who'd lost their jobs so they could keep their health care for their families. We provided $250 in relief to more than 5 million California seniors, many whose life savings had taken a big hit in the financial crisis. And we provided emergency assistance to our Governors to prevent teachers and police officers and firefighters from being laid off as a result of State budget shortfalls. At a time when California is facing a fiscal crisis, we know that this has saved the jobs of tens of thousands of educators and other needed public servants just in this State. And what was true in California was true all across the country.<p>But our goal in dealing with this economic crisis wasn't just about bringing an end to the recession. We said to ourselves, we've got to build a new foundation for lasting growth. We can't have an economy that's just built on maxing out on credit cards and home equity loans and complex financial instruments that are generating big bonuses but can potentially bring an entire economy down.<p>So we recognized that we've got to go back to basics. We've got to go back to making things. We've got to go back to exports. We've got to go back to innovation. And we recognized that there was only so much Government could do. The true engine of economic growth will always be companies like Solyndra, will always be America's businesses. But that doesn't mean the Government can just sit on the sidelines. Government still has the responsibility to help create the conditions in which students can gain an education so they can work at Solyndra and entrepreneurs can get financing so they can start a company and new industries can take hold.<p>So that's why, even as we've cut taxes and provided emergency relief over the past year, we also invested in basic research, in broadband networks, in rebuilding roads and bridges, in health information technology, and in clean energy. Because not only would this spur hiring by businesses, it would create jobs in sectors with incredible potential to propel our economy for years, for decades to come. There is no better example than energy.<p>We all know the price we pay as a country as a result of how we produce and use--and yes, waste--energy today. We've been talking about it for decades, since the gas shortages of the 1970s. Our dependence on foreign oil endangers our security and our economy. Climate change poses a threat to our way of life; in fact, we're already beginning to see its profound and costly impact. And the spill in the Gulf, which is just heartbreaking, only underscores the necessity of seeking alternative fuel sources. We're not going to transition out of oil next year or 10 years from now, but think about it: Part of what's happening in the Gulf is that oil companies are drilling a mile underwater before they hit ground and then a mile below that before they hit oil.<p>With the increased risks, the increased costs, it gives you a sense of where we're going. We're not going to be able to sustain this kind of fossil fuel use. This planet can't sustain it. And think about when China and India--where consumers there are starting to buy cars and use energy the way we are. So we've known that we've had to shift in a fundamental way, and that's true for all of us.<p>Now, earlier today I spoke to Energy Secretary Steven Chu, who, as you know, is a Nobel Prize-winning physicist. And he's been on the scene in the Gulf, deeply involved in our efforts to bring this crisis to an end. And we discussed today's attempt to stop the leak through what's known as the top kill, plugging the well with densely packed mud to prevent any more oil from escaping. If it's successful--and there are no guarantees--it should greatly reduce or eliminate the flow of oil now streaming into the Gulf from the sea floor. And if it's not, there are other approaches that may be viable.<p>And as work continues in the next couple of months to complete relief wells, my administration is intensively engaged with scientists and engineers to explore all alternative options, and we're going to bring every resource necessary to put a stop to this thing. But a lot of damage has been done already: livelihoods destroyed, landscapes scarred, wildlife affected, lives have been lost. Our thoughts and prayers are very much with the people along the Gulf Coast.<p>And then let me reiterate: We will not rest until this well is shut, the environment is repaired, and the cleanup is complete. And I look forward to returning there on Friday to review the efforts currently underway and lend my support to the region.<p>But even as we are dealing with this immediate crisis, we've got to remember that the risks our current dependence on oil holds for our environment and our coastal communities is not the only cost involved in our dependence on these fossil fuels. Around the world, from China to Germany, our competitors are waging a historic effort to lead in developing new energy technologies. There are factories like this being built in China, factories like this being built in Germany. Nobody is playing for second place. These countries recognize that the nation that leads the clean energy economy is likely to lead the global economy. And if we fail to recognize that same imperative, we risk falling behind. We risk falling behind.<p>Fifteen years ago, the United States produced 40 percent of the world's solar panels--40 percent. That was just 15 years ago. By 2008, our share had fallen to just over 5 percent. I don't know about you, but I'm not prepared to cede American leadership in this industry, because I'm not prepared to cede America's leadership in the global economy.<p>So that's why we've placed a big emphasis on clean energy. It's the right thing to do with our--for our environment, it's the right thing to do for our national security, but it's also the right thing to do for our economy.<p>And we can see the positive impacts right here at Solyndra. Less than a year ago, we were standing on what was an empty lot. But through the Recovery Act, this company received a loan to expand its operations. This new factory is the result of those loans.<p>Since the project broke ground last fall, more than 3,000 construction workers have been employed building this plant. Across the country, workers in 22 States are manufacturing the supplies for this project. Workers in a dozen States are building the advanced manufacturing equipment that will power this new facility. When it's completed in a few months, Solyndra expects to hire a thousand workers to manufacture solar panels and sell them across America and around the world.<p>And this in turn will generate business for companies throughout our country who will create jobs supplying this factory with parts and materials. So there's a ripple effect. It's not just localized to this area.<p>Meanwhile, down the road, we're seeing some other welcome signs. I know the closure of the NUMMI plant was devastating to this community and thousands of jobs were lost. And it was all the more painful and heartbreaking because the factory had been held up as an example of how America could lead in manufacturing.<p>But thanks to loans through the Department of Energy, which helped provide Tesla Motors with the financial wherewithal to expand, that shuttered plant is soon going to reopen. And once again it will be a symbol of promise, an example of what's possible here in America.<p>Tesla is joining with Toyota in a venture to put a thousand skilled workers back to work manufacturing an all-electric car. And this is only the beginning. We're investing in advanced battery technologies to power plug-in hybrid cars. In fact, today in Tennessee, there's a groundbreaking for an advanced battery manufacturing facility that will generate hundreds of jobs. And it was made possible by loans through the Department of Energy, as well as tax credits and grants to increase demand for these vehicles.<p>We used to account for about 2 percent of advanced battery technologies for cars. We're expecting, in the next couple of years, to get up to 20, 30, maybe even 40 percent, building our market share right here in the United States of America.<p>We're investing in an advanced electricity grid--and Governor Schwarzenegger and I were just talking about this before we came out, because this has been a big priority for him--that will be more efficient and better able to harness renewable energy sources. We're providing grants to build wind farms and install these solar panels, helping us double our ability to generate renewable energy. We're expanding our capacity in biofuels to reduce our dependence on oil. We've helped forge one historic agreement--and are on track to produce a second--to dramatically increase the fuel efficiency of America's cars and trucks. So we are making progress. It's progress that's going to produce jobs, that's going to help secure our future. <p>But we've still got more work to do, and that's why I'm going to keep fighting to pass comprehensive energy and climate legislation in Washington. We're going to try to get it done this year, because what we want to do is create incentives that will fully unleash the potential for jobs and growth in this sector.<p>So already we're seeing the results of the steps we've taken. As I said, before the Recovery Act, we had the capacity to make less than 2 percent of the world's advanced vehicle batteries. In the next 5 years, we'll make 40 percent of these batteries here in the United States. Before the Recovery Act, we could build just 5 percent of the world's solar panels. In the next few years, we're going to double our share to more than 10 percent.<p>Here at this site, Solyndra expects to make enough solar panels each year to generate 500 megawatts of electricity. And over the lifetime of this expanded facility, that could be like replacing as many as eight coal-fired power plants. It's also worth noting, to achieve this doubling of our share of solar capacity, we actually need to make four times as many solar panels because other countries are adding capacity too. Nobody in this race is standing still.<p>So these steps are helping to safeguard our environment. They're helping to lower our dependence on oil. At a time when people are struggling and looking for work, these steps are helping to strengthen our economy and create jobs. And we all know how important that is, because times here in California are still tough. It's going to take time to replace the millions of jobs we lost in this recession. <p>Unemployment remains high, even though the economy is growing and has started adding hundreds of thousands of jobs each month. So it took years to dig our way into this hole; we're not going to dig our way out overnight. But what you are proving here--all of you, collectively--is that as difficult as it will be, as far as we've got to go, we will recover. We will rebuild. We will emerge from this period of turmoil stronger than ever before. <p>That's not all. You're also proving something more. Every day that you build this expanded facility, as you fill orders for solar panels to ship around the world, you're demonstrating that the promise of clean energy isn't just an article of faith, not anymore. It's not some abstract possibility for science fiction movies or a distant future, for 10 years down the road or 20 years down the road. It's happening right now. The future is here. We're poised to transform the ways we power our homes and our cars and our businesses. And we're poised to lead our competitors in the development of new technologies and products and businesses. And we are poised to generate countless new jobs, good-paying, middle class jobs right here in the United States of America. <p>That's the promise of clean energy. And thanks to the men and women here today and the innovators and the workers all across America, it's a promise that we've already begun to fulfill. <p>So thank you very much. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"150" "\"Thank you so much. It is wonderful to see all of you, and I am proud to welcome you to the first ever event held at the White House to honor Jewish American Heritage Month. <p>This is a pretty fancy group here, pretty distinguished group. We've got Senators and Representatives. We've got Supreme Court Justices and successful entrepreneurs, rabbinical scholars, Olympic athletes, and Sandy Koufax. Sandy and I actually have something in common: We are both lefties. [<i>Laughter</i>] He can't pitch on Yom Kippur; I can't pitch. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I'm looking forward to the reading by Rabbi Alysa Stanton, the performance by Regina Spektor.<p>I know that my Chief of Staff, Rahm Emanuel, wanted to be here, but as some of you know, he is in Israel for the Bar Mitzvah of his son, and which is----<p>The diversity of talents and accomplishments represented in this room underscores the vast contributions that Jewish Americans have made to this country. Of course, it's impossible to separate the achievements of Jewish Americans from the struggles of Jewish people around the world. Even before we were a nation, we were a sanctuary for Jews seeking to live without the specter of violence or exile. That's what drew a band of 23 Jewish refugees to a place called New Amsterdam more than 350 years ago. That's what brought Jewish immigrants, fleeing pogroms, on a long journey to America in the last turn of the century. And that's what led Holocaust survivors and Jews trapped behind the Iron Curtain to travel to these shores to rebuild their lives.<p>As Jews sought freedom and opportunity in America, these waves of immigrants and generations that followed have helped to make America what it is--richer, stronger, more prosperous--from the discoveries of Jonas Salk to the pioneering work of Albert Einstein; from the music of Irving Berlin to the poetry of Emma Lazarus. And then there are the countless names that we don't know--the teachers, the small business owners, the doctors and nurses, the people who seek only to live honestly and faithfully, and to give their children more than they had. Jewish Americans have always been a critical part of the American story.<p>These contributions have not always been embraced. Jewish communities have at times faced hardship and hostility--right here in the United States of America--a reminder that we have to respond, at all times, swiftly and firmly whenever bigotry rears its ugly head. But no matter what the obstacles, Jewish Americans have endured, learning from each other, leaning on each other, true to their faith, leaning on the values that have been associated for so long with Jewish history: a sense of community, a sense of moral purpose, and an ethic of responsibility.<p>So it's heartening to know that these are the enduring values of a history marked by so much tragedy--not cynicism or despair, not callous indifference. Every person in this room knows somebody--perhaps a mother or father, an aunt, an uncle, perhaps yourself--who exemplifies this heritage. Every person in this room stands at the end of an unbroken chain of perseverance, of a conviction that a better future is possible. That doesn't just offer a lesson to Jewish Americans, it offers a lesson to all Americans. And ultimately, that is what we are celebrating today.<p>Yes, Jewish Americans have garnered success in industry and in government, as we can see by the guests gathered here today. Yes, Jews have helped to pioneer incredible advances in science and medicine, across countless fields. But the contributions of the Jewish community to America run deeper. As a product of history and faith, Jewish Americans have helped to open our eyes to injustice, to people in need, and to the simple idea that we ought to recognize ourselves in the struggles of our fellow men and women.<p>That's what's led Jewish advocates to fight for women's equality and workers' rights. That's what led rabbis to preach against racism from the <i>bimah</i> and to lead congregants on marches and protests to stop segregation. And that is what helped lead America to recognize and support Israel as a Jewish homeland and a beacon for democratic values, beginning mere minutes after its independence was declared. In fact, we have the original statement by President Harry Truman on display here today.<p>So what we are called upon to do now is to continue to live up to those values as a nation, to continue to uphold the principle of <i>tikkun olam</i>, our obligation to \\"repair the world.\\" Here at home, at a time of continuing struggle for millions of families, it is incumbent upon us to remain focused not only on rebuilding our economy, but rebuilding it stronger than before. And I'd note that our efforts are bolstered by the work of so many Jewish organizations that help the sick and educate our children and provide assistance to seniors and others in need.<p>But our responsibility doesn't end at the water's edge. That's why my administration is renewing American leadership around the world, strengthening old alliances and forging new ones, defending universal values while ensuring that we uphold our values here at home. In fact, it's our common values that leads us to stand with allies and friends, including the State of Israel. That's why, even as we never waver in pursuing peace----<p><i>[At this point, a pager went off in the audience.]</i><p>That happens to me all the time. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>That is why, even as we never waver in pursuing peace between Israelis, Palestinians, and Arabs, our bond with Israel is unbreakable. It is the bond of two peoples that share a commitment to a common set of ideals: opportunity, democracy, and freedom.<p>Those ideals are what have drawn generations to these shores. Those ideals are what have allowed Jewish immigrants to seek a better life in America, while enriching the life of our country. And those ideals are what you and all Jewish Americans continue to help us uphold each and every day.<p>So thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"151" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. Please have a seat. Welcome to the White House. Welcome to the Rose Garden. You know, when I woke up this morning and I saw a few hundred students camping out on my lawn--[<i>Laughter</i>]--I remembered that today is Duke day. [<i>Laughter</i>] Congratulations to the 2010 Men's NCAA basketball national champions, the Bluke--[<i>Laughter</i>]--the Duke Blue Devils. Give them a big round of applause.<p>Now, we've got some big Duke fans here today. My outstanding Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Ric Shinseki, is here. He got a graduate degree from Duke, and both he and Coach K are proud graduates of West Point. They missed each other by 1 year.<p>We've got some members of the North Carolina congressional delegation who are here. We've also got some proud Duke alumni serving in Congress. Representative Shelley Moore Capito is a alum. Representative David Price has been a professor at Duke since 1973. And Under Secretary of Energy Dr. Kristina Johnson is here, and she was the dean of the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke for 8 years. So you can give them all a big round of applause.<p>The Archivist of the United States, David Ferriero is here. And he once ran the Duke library system; today, he takes care of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence. [<i>Laughter</i>] North Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper and Durham Mayor Bill Bell are here as well. Give them a big round of applause.<p>Now, I know that all of you remember last year, when I filled out my bracket--[<i>Laughter</i>]--I picked North Carolina to win it all. It wasn't anything personal. [<i>Laughter</i>] Just trying to win some money. [<i>Laughter</i>] I was right. Coach K wasn't too happy. He basically told me to stick it. [<i>Laughter</i>] Or stick to my day job, is what he said. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And then this year, he went out with all these guys and he won so he could come to the White House and crow about it. [<i>Laughter</i>] Payback is sweet, isn't it, Coach? Congratulations on your fourth national championship at Duke.<p>Obviously, it's not a smart thing to bet against Coach K. This is a guy who has 868 wins, 12 ACC championships, 11 Final Fours, 4 NCAA championships, a couple of Olympic gold medals for men's basketball, including in 2008, when he brought the gold back to where it belongs: the USA. And congratulation to Coach K's lovely wife Mickie--Mrs. K--who's been with him for all of it. So we are very grateful to them.<p>Now, some of you may know that my assistant, Reggie Love, used to play for Coach K at Duke. Reggie played on the 2001 national championship team, and he was a team captain in 2005. In fact, Reggie was so excited to see his old coach today that I had to make him come out and run some sprint drills--[<i>Laughter</i>]--just to calm him down.<p>And then Coach and I were both discussing--I play with Reggie now, and when Reggie was playing, Coach said, don't shoot. [<i>Laughter</i>] And when he's on my team, I say to Reggie, don't shoot. [<i>Laughter</i>] So things haven't changed that much. [<i>Laughter</i>] Go down in the post. Rebound. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I also want to congratulate the assistant coaches, Chris Collins, Nate James, Steve Wojciechowski--I'll just call him \\"Wojo,\\" like everybody else--all of whom were once captains on Coach K's teams as well.<p>And congratulations to all the players, especially the seniors: Jordan Davidson, Jon Scheyer--my homeboy from the Chicago area, Lance Thomas, and Brian Zoubek. It's really been a 4-year journey for these guys. And each year, they've gotten better together. When they were freshmen, they lost in the first round of the tournament. As sophomores, they made it to the second round. As juniors, they made it to the Sweet 16. And this year, they won it all. That's the kind of progress that you want to see in your college career.<p>Jon Scheyer, Kyle Singler, and Nolan Smith were the top-scoring trio in the NCAA this year. And I should also mention that I--when I was running for President, we did a campaign event in Medford, Oregon, in the gym where Singler grew up. So I was the second most famous person to ever show up in Medford. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's true.<p>I understand that Zoubek is unique in Duke history: the only player that Coach K ever allowed to grow a beard. [<i>Laughter</i>] Talk about somebody who's overcome a lot, who powered through setbacks and injuries to set a new Duke record for most offensive rebounds in a single season this year, including some critical boards in the title game.<p>And it was, as everybody here knows, a incredible tournament from start to finish, one of the most exciting tournaments any of us have ever seen. The championship game against Butler--the most watched championship game in more than 10 years--was everything fans hoped it would be. It came down to the final possession. And these guys hung in there and won it all.<p>I know that Coach K has said that this is as close a team as he's ever had, a bunch of throwback guys who hustle and work and have fun together. And they play by his--one of his philosophies, which is \\"think of a hand.\\" If you attach--if you attack with your hand open, as five fingers individually, you're more likely to break a finger. But if you bring them together and make a fist, you can really pound somebody. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's very subtle, Coach K. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, there is a softer side of these guys too. Coach K is an integral part of the Durham community in so many ways, whether it's helping change the odds for underprivileged kids through the Emily K Center he founded and named after his mom or just buying pizza for the Cameron Crazies who camp outside for days at a time. His players participate in the Read With the Blue Devils program and visit patients at the Children's Hospital in Durham, giving as much as they can to the Duke community that gives so much to them.<p>And seeing as how Coach is a proud graduate of West Point and a former Army basketball player under Bobby Knight, they're going to the Pentagon after this to thank some of the folks who bravely and selflessly serve our country day in and day out.<p>So congratulations, Coach K. Congratulations to the team. And good luck next year. I suspect that you're going to try to bust my bracket once again. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I may not make the same mistake twice. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>[At this point, the President was presented with a framed team jersey.]</i><p><i>The President.</i> Oh, look at this. That's nice! Now, you know, Reggie's going to make me hang this in the Oval Office. Take down Lincoln or something. [<i>Laughter</i>] \" "
"152" "\"This weekend, as we celebrate Memorial Day, families across America will gather in backyards and front porches, fire up the barbecue, kick back with friends, and spend time with people they care about. That's as it should be. But I also hope that as you do so, you'll take some time to reflect on what Memorial Day is all about, on why we set this day aside as a time of national remembrance. <p>It's fitting every day to pay tribute to the men and women who wear the uniform of the United States of America. Still, there are certain days that have been set aside for all of us to do so. Veterans Day is one such day, when we are called to honor Americans who've fought under our country's flag. <p>Our calling on Memorial Day is different. On this day, we honor not just those who've worn this country's uniform, but the men and women who've died in its service, who've laid down their lives in defense of their fellow citizens, who've given their last full measure of devotion to protect the United States of America. These are the men and women I'll be honoring this weekend, and I know many of you are doing the same.<p>There are any number of reasons America emerged from its humble beginnings as a cluster of colonies to become the most prosperous, most powerful nation on Earth. There is the hard work, the resilience, the character of our people. There is the ingenuity and enterprising spirit of our entrepreneurs and innovators. There are the ideals of opportunity, equality, and freedom that have not only inspired our people to perfect our own Union, but inspired others to perfect theirs as well. <p>But from the very start, there was something more: a steadfast commitment to serve, to fight, and if necessary, to die to preserve America and advance the ideals we cherish. It's a commitment witnessed at each defining moment along the journey of this country. It's what led a ragtag militia to face British soldiers at Lexington and Concord. It's what led young men, in a country divided half slave and half free, to take up arms to save our Union. It's what led patriots in each generation to sacrifice their own lives to secure the life of our Nation, from the trenches of World War I to the battles of World War II, from Inchon and Khe Sanh to Mosul and Marja. <p>That commitment, that willingness to lay down their lives so we might inherit the blessings of this Nation, is what we honor today. But on this Memorial Day, as on every day, we're called to honor their ultimate sacrifice with more than words. We're called to honor them with deeds. <p>We're called to honor them by doing our part for the loved ones our fallen heroes have left behind and looking after our military families, by making sure the men and women serving this country around the world have the support they need to achieve their mission and come home safely, by making sure veterans have the care and assistance they need, in short, by serving all those who have ever worn the uniform of this country--and their families--as well as they have served us.<p>On April 25, 1866, about a year after the Civil War ended, a group of women visited a cemetery in Columbus, Mississippi, to place flowers by the graves of Confederate soldiers who had fallen at Shiloh. As they did, they noticed other graves nearby belonging to Union dead. But no one had come to visit those graves or place a flower there. So they decided to lay a few stems for those men too, in recognition not of a fallen Confederate or a fallen Union soldier, but a fallen American. <p>A few years later, an organization of Civil War veterans established what became Memorial Day, selecting a date that coincided with the time when flowers were in bloom. So this weekend, as we commemorate Memorial Day, I ask you to hold all our fallen heroes in your hearts and, if you can, lay a flower where they have come to rest.\" "
"153" "\"Hello, everybody. First of all, I want to just say thank you to Colonel Steve Shepro, who's just done such great work for us and for me over the last several months, several years. I know he's about to be transferred, and I just to want to say to him and Helen and Jack how much we appreciate everything that they do.<p>To Major General Darrell Jones, our commander as--of Air Force District of Washington, as well as Holly and Stuart, and to all of you and all the men, women, and families of the Joint Base at Andrews, good evening. It is wonderful to see all of you on this solemn and special day. <p>In the life of our Nation, there are few more sacred places than our national cemeteries, around the world, at Arlington, and our national cemeteries across the country. As some of you know, earlier today I was honored to join the Memorial Day ceremony at the Abraham Lincoln National Cemetery in Elwood, Illinois. Unfortunately, some extraordinary storms moved in, and for the safety of all involved, the ceremony was canceled. <p>But while the storm was raging outside, I was fortunate to meet with some of the families, friends, and veterans who had come to honor loved ones who had given their lives in service of this Nation. Later, I was privileged to visit with families of our wounded warriors as they battle to recover from the wounds of war. And I wanted to stop by here because I fly in all the time but sometimes don't get a chance to meet so many of you individually, to say thank you for your service, and recognize that long chain of valor and service that you are a part of. <p>The families that I met with know in their hearts what every American must never forget. At its core, the nobility and the majesty of Memorial Day can be found in the story of ordinary Americans who've become extraordinary for the most simple of reasons: They loved their country so deeply, so profoundly that they were willing to give their lives to keep it safe and free. <p>In another time, they might have led a life of comfort and ease, but a revolution needed to be won or a Union needed to be preserved or our harbor was bombed or our country was attacked on a clear September morning. So they answered their country's call. They stepped forward. They raised their hand. They took an oath, just as all of you did, and they earned a title that would define them for the rest of their lives, as a soldier, a sailor, an airman, a marine, a coast guardsman.<p>In the letters that they wrote home, they spoke of the horrors of war and the bravery it summoned, how they endured the slaughter of the trenches and the chaos of beach landings, the bitter cold of a Korean winter or the endless heat of a Vietnam jungle.<p>Today we can imagine what it must have been like for all those they fought to save when American forces finally came into view. A country was liberated. A Holocaust was over. A town was rid of insurgents. A village was finally free from the terror of violent extremists.<p>But had you asked any troop--any of those troops in the past, they would have likely told you the same thing: Yes, we fought for freedom; yes, we fought for that flag; but most of all, we fought for each other, to bring our buddies home, to keep our families safe. And that's what they did, to their last breath. <p>This is what we honor today: the lives they led, the service they rendered, the sacrifice that they made for us. In this time of war, we pay special tribute to the thousands of Americans who have given their lives during the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and who have earned their place among the greatest of generations. And though our heart aches in their absence, we find comfort in knowing that their legacy shines bright on the people they loved, America's Gold Star families. <p>Their legacy lives on in the pride of their parents, like the mother who wrote to me about her son, Specialist Stephan Mace, who gave his life in Afghanistan. She told me, \\"I just want you to know what kind of hero he was.\\" To all those moms and dads, you instilled in your sons and daughters the values and virtues that led them to service. And to you, every American here, every American around the country owes a debt of profound gratitude.<p>Their legacy lives on in the love of their spouses, the wives and husbands who gave to our Nation the person they cherished most in the world. To all those spouses, you have sacrificed in ways most Americans can't even begin to imagine, but as you summon the strength to carry on each day, know that you're not alone and that America will always be at your side.<p>Their legacy lives on in their beautiful children. To all those sons and daughters, we say as one Nation: Your moms and dads gave their lives so you could live yours. America will be there for you as well, as you grow into the men and women your parents knew you could be. <p>Their legacy lives on in those who fought alongside them, our veterans who came home, you, our troops, who are still in harm's way. Just as you keep alive the memory of your fallen friends, America must keep its commitment to you. And that means providing the support to our troops and families when they need it and the health care and benefits that our veterans deserve. This is our sacred trust to all who serve, and the--upholding that trust is a moral obligation. <p>And finally, on this day of remembrance, I say to every American, the legacy of these fallen soldiers, these fallen heroes lives on in each of us. The security that lets us live in peace, the prosperity that allows us to pursue our dreams, the freedom that we cherish, these were earned by the blood and the sacrifice of patriots who went before. And now it falls on us to preserve that inheritance for all who follow.<p>They proclaimed our unalienable rights, so let us speak out for the dignity of every human being and the rights that are universal. They saved the Union, so let us never stop working to perfect it. They defeated fascism and laid the foundation for decades of prosperity, so let us renew the sources of American strength and innovation at home. They forged alliances that won a long cold war, so let us build the partnership for a just and lasting peace.<p>And today, our forces are fighting and dying once more, in faraway lands, to keep our homeland safe. Some of you have come from overseas deployments; some of you are about to go. Let us make sure that all of us are worthy of your sacrifice and of the sacrifices who have fallen. Let us go forward as they do, with the confidence and the resolve, the resilience and the unity that's always defined us as a people and shaped us as a nation and made America a beacon of hope to the world.<p>So may God bless our fallen heroes. May He comfort their families. May God bless all of you, and may God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"154" "\"Good morning, everybody. I just met with these two gentlemen, former Senator Bob Graham of Florida and former EPA Administrator Bill Reilly. They will lead the national commission on the BP oil spill in the Gulf, which is now the greatest environmental disaster of its kind in our history. Their job, along with the other members of the Commission, will be to thoroughly examine the spill and its causes so that we never face such a catastrophe again.<p>At the same time, we're continuing our efforts on all fronts to contain the damage from this disaster and extend to the people of the Gulf the help they need to confront this ordeal. We've already mounted the largest cleanup effort in the Nation's history and continue to monitor, minute to minute, the efforts to halt or capture the flow of oil from the wrecked BP well. Until the well is stopped, we'll multiply our efforts to meet the growing threat and to address the widespread and unbelievably painful losses experienced by the people along the Gulf Coast. What's being threatened, what's being lost isn't just the source of income, but a way of life, not just fishable waters, but a national treasure.<p>There are now more than 20,000 men and women in the region working around the clock to contain and clean up the oil. We've authorized more than 17,000 National Guard members to respond across 4 States. More than 1,700 vessels are currently aiding in the response. And we'll ensure that any and all responsible means of containing this leak are pursued as we await the completion of the two relief wells. I've also directed Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and Admiral Thad Allen, who is the national incident commander, to triple the manpower in those places where oil has hit shore or is within 24 hours of impact.<p>The economic response continues as well. We've ordered BP to pay economic injury claims, and we will make sure they deliver. The Small Business Administration has stepped in to help businesses by approving loans and allowing deferrals of existing loan payments. We've stationed doctors and scientists across the region to look out for people's health and monitor any ill effects felt by cleanup workers and residents. And we will absolutely continue to hold BP and any other responsible parties accountable for financial losses borne by the people in the region.<p>But our responsibility doesn't end there. We have an obligation to investigate what went wrong and to determine what reforms are needed so that we never have to experience a crisis like this again. If the laws on our books are insufficient to prevent such a spill, the laws must change. If oversight was inadequate to enforce these laws, oversight has to be reformed. If our laws were broken, leading to this death and destruction, my solemn pledge is that we will bring those responsible to justice on behalf of the victims of this catastrophe and the people of the Gulf region.<p>Now, when Interior Secretary Ken Salazar took office, for example, he found a Minerals and Management Services agency that had been plagued by corruption for years, corruption that was underscored by a recent Inspector General's report that uncovered appalling activity that took place before last year. Secretary Salazar immediately took steps to clean up that corruption. But this oil spill has made clear that more reforms are needed. For years, there's been a far too cozy relationship between oil companies and the agencies that regulate them. That's why we've decided to separate the people who permit offshore leases, who collect revenues, and who regulate the safety of drilling.<p>In addition, we've placed a 6-month moratorium on drilling new deepwater oil and gas wells in the Outer Continental Shelf. And now that a 30-day safety and environmental review is complete, we're making a series of changes. The review recommended aggressive new operating standards and requirements for offshore energy companies, which we will put in place. And I've also called on Congress to pass a bill to provide critical resources to respond to this spill and better prepare us for any spills in the future.<p>Now, all that has to do with dealing with the crisis at hand, but it's critical that we take a comprehensive look at how the oil and gas industry operates and how our Government oversees those operations. That's why I signed an Executive order establishing this national Commission. And I'm extraordinarily pleased that Bob Graham and Bill Reilly have agreed to be its Cochairs.<p>Bob served two terms as Florida's Governor, represented Florida in the Senate for almost two decades. And during that time, he earned a reputation as a champion of the environment, leading the most extensive environmental protection effort in the State's history. Bill is chairman emeritus of the board of the World Wildlife Fund and is also deeply knowledgeable of the oil and gas industry. He also was EPA Administrator during the first Bush administration, serving during the Exxon <i>Valdez</i> disaster.<p>So I can't think of two people who will bring greater experience or judgment to this task. I personally want to thank both of them for taking on this arduous assignment, for demonstrating a great sense of duty to this country.<p>Very soon I'll appoint five other distinguished Americans, including leaders in science and engineering, to join them. And they'll work alongside other ongoing reviews, including an independent examination by the National Academy of Engineers. And I've authorized the Commission to hold public hearings and to request information from Government, from non-for-profit organizations, and from experts in the oil and gas industry both at home and abroad, as well as from relevant companies, including BP, Transocean, Halliburton, and others.<p>I just said in our meeting, in doing this work, they have my full support to follow the facts wherever they may lead, without fear or favor. And I'm directing them to report back in 6 months with options for how we can prevent and mitigate the impact of any future spills that result from offshore drilling.<p>Now, as a result of this disaster, lives have been lost, businesses have been decimated, communities that had already known great hardship now face the specter of sudden and painful economic dislocations, untold damage is being done to the environment, damage that could last for decades. We owe all those who've been harmed, as well as future generations, a full and vigorous accounting of the events that led to what has now become the worst oil spill in U.S. history. Only then can we be assured that deepwater drilling can take place safely. Only then can we accept further development of these resources as we transition to a clean energy economy. Only then can we be confident that we've done what's necessary to prevent history from repeating itself.<p>All right. Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"155" "\"Thank you. Please, everybody, have a seat. The show's not over. [<i>Laughter</i>] To all the tremendous artists from all the genres and backgrounds who've joined us tonight to pay tribute to the one and only Sir Paul McCartney, thank you so much. Stevie Wonder, the Jonas Brothers, Faith Hill, Emmylou Harris, Lang Lang, Herbie Hancock, Elvis Costello, Jack White, Corinne Bailey Rae, David Grohl, and the funnyman, Jerry Seinfeld, give it up for them.<p>We also want to thank the Gershwin family, as well as the Library of Congress and Dr. James Billington, as well as PBS for helping to put this together. Dr. Billington has done extraordinary work at the Library of Congress, and his deep commitment to preserving America's cultural heritage for future generations is something that we all treasure.<p>We have a number of Members of Congress, number of dignitaries here tonight. I want to make special mention of our outstanding Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi. You will not find a bigger supporter of the arts than Nancy Pelosi, and so we're grateful for that.<p>Even as we gather here tonight to present this annual award for extraordinary contributions to American music and culture--that's right, we stole you, Paul--[<i>Laughter</i>]--it goes without saying that this has been a very difficult time. We've gone through a difficult year and a half, and right now our thoughts and our prayers are with friends in another part of the country that is so rich in musical heritage, the people of the Gulf Coast, who are dealing with something that we simply have not seen before. And it's heartbreaking. And we reaffirm, I think, together, our commitment to see to it that their lives and their communities are made whole again.<p>But part of what gets us through tough times is music, the arts, the ability to capture that essential kernel of ourselves, that part of us that sings even when times are hard. And it's fitting that the Library has chosen to present this year's Gershwin Prize for Popular Song to a man whose father played Gershwin compositions for him on the piano, a man who grew up to become the most successful songwriter in history, Sir Paul McCartney.<p>Now, by its very definition, popular music is fleeting. Rarely is it composed with an eye towards standing the test of time. Rarer still does it actually achieve that distinction. And that's what makes Paul's career so legendary.<p>It's hard to believe that it's been nearly half a century since four lads from Liverpool first landed on our shores and changed everything overnight. And I have to share this story. While we were sitting here, I learned that the bass that Paul was playing onstage is the same bass that he played at \\"The Ed Sullivan Show,\\" which he told me it cost him 30 pounds. He says he suspects it's worth a little more now. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But the Beatles, they weren't the first rock stars. They'd be the first to say that others had opened that door for them. But they blew the walls down for everybody else. In a few short years, they had changed the way that we listened to music, thought about music, and performed music forever. They helped to lay the soundtrack for an entire generation, an era of endless possibility and of great change.<p>And over the four decades since, Paul McCartney has not let up, touring the world with the band Wings or on his own, rocking everything from small halls to Super Bowls. He's composed hundreds of songs over the years, with John Lennon, with others, or on his own. Nearly 200 of those songs made the charts--think about that--and stayed on the charts for a cumulative total of 32 years. [<i>Laughter</i>] And his gifts have touched billions of lives.<p>As he later confessed of the Beatles' first appearance on \\"The Ed Sullivan Show,\\" where he carried that bass out--that one evening that changed everything--Paul said, \\"Luckily, we didn't know what America was. We just knew our dream of it, or we probably would have been too intimidated.\\"<p>Tonight it is my distinct pleasure to present America's highest award for popular music on behalf of a grateful nation--grateful that a young Englishman shared his dreams with us--Sir Paul McCartney.\" "
"156" "\"Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. Thank you very much. <p>Let me begin by thanking Dr. Jared Cohon and the entire Carnegie Mellon community for welcoming me once again and for the terrific work that he and the administration, faculty, and staff do here each and every day.<p>I also want to acknowledge your outstanding mayor, who doesn't look any older than the last time I saw him, Mayor Luke Ravenstahl. There he is right there. <p>It is great to be back at Carnegie Mellon and in the beautiful city of Pittsburgh. I love visiting a good sports town. Last year, I stole Dan Rooney--[<i>Laughter</i>]--to serve as my Ambassador to Ireland. To make it up, I invited both the Steelers and the Penguins to the White House to celebrate their championships. Now, seeing how the Blackhawks are headed to Philly tonight with a 2-0 lead in the Stanley Cup finals, I'm just glad that we're on this side of the State. [<i>Laughter</i>] I noticed that a couple people said they were rooting for the Blackhawks, which tells me something about the rivalry between Pittsburgh and Philly.<p>Of course, we meet here at an incredibly difficult time for America. Among other things, it's a time when the worst environmental disaster of its kind in our Nation's history is threatening the Gulf Coast and the people who live there. Right now stopping this oil spill and containing its damage is necessarily the top priority not just of my administration, but, I think, of the entire country. And we're waging this battle every minute of every day. <p>But at the same time, we're continuing our efforts to recover and rebuild from an economic disaster that has touched the lives of nearly every American. And that's what I want to talk about today: the state of our economy, the future we must seize, and the path we chose to get there.<p>It has now been a little over 16 months since I took office amid one of the worst economic storms in our history. And to navigate that storm, my administration was forced to take some dramatic and unpopular steps. And these steps have succeeded in breaking the freefall. We're again moving in the right direction. <p>An economy that was shrinking at an alarming rate when I became President has now been growing for three consecutive quarters. After losing an average of 750,000 jobs a month during the winter of last year, we've now added jobs for 5 of the last 6 months, and we expect to see strong job growth in Friday's report. The taxpayer money it cost to shore up the financial sector and the auto industry, that's being repaid. And both GM and Chrysler are adding shifts and operating at a profit. So despite temporary setbacks, uncertain world events, and the resulting up and downs of the market, this economy is getting stronger by the day. <p>Now, that doesn't mean this recession is by any means over for the millions of Americans who are still looking for a job or a way to pay the bills--not by a long shot. The devastation created by the deepest downturn since the Great Depression has hit people and communities across our country very hard. And it's not going to be a real recovery until people can feel it in their own lives. <p>In the immediate future, this means doing whatever is necessary to keep the recovery going and to spur job growth. But in the long term, it means recognizing that for a lot of middle class families--for entire communities, in some case--a sense of economic security has been missing since long before the recession began. <p>Over the last decade, these families saw their incomes decline. They saw the cost of things like health care and college tuition reach record highs. They lived through a so-called economic expansion that generated slower job growth than at any prior expansion since World War II. Some people have called the last 10 years the \\"lost decade.\\"<p>So the anxiety that's out there today isn't new. The recession has certainly made it worse, but that feeling of not being in control of your own economic future, that sense that the American Dream might slowly be slipping away, that's been around for some time now. And for better or for worse, our generation of Americans has been buffeted by tremendous forces of economic change. Long gone are the days when a high school diploma could guarantee a job at a local factory, not when so many of those factories have moved overseas. Pittsburgh, a city that once was defined by the steel industry, knows this better than just about anybody. And today, the ability of jobs and entire industries to relocate where there's skilled workers and an Internet connection has forced America to compete like never before. <p>From China to India to Europe, other nations have already realized this. They're putting a greater emphasis on math and science and demanding more from their students. Some countries are building high-speed railroads and expanding broadband access. They're making serious investments in technology and clean energy because they want to win the competition for those jobs. <p>So we can't afford to stand pat while the world races by. The United States of America did not become the most prosperous nation on Earth by sheer luck or happenstance. We got here because each time a generation of Americans has faced a changing world, we have changed with it. We have not feared our future, we have shaped it. America does not stand still, we move forward. <p>And that's why I've said that as we emerge from this recession, we can't afford to return to the precrisis status quo. We can't go back to an economy that was too dependent on bubbles and debt and financial speculation. We can't accept economic growth that leaves the middle class owing more and making less. We have to build a new and stronger foundation for growth and prosperity, and that's exactly what we've been doing for the last 16 months. <p>It's a foundation based on investments in our people and their future; investments in the skills and education we need to compete; investments in a 21st-century infrastructure for America, from high-speed railroads to high-speed Internet; investments in research and technology, like clean energy, that can lead to new jobs and new exports and new industries. <p>This new foundation's also based on reforms that will make our economy stronger and our businesses more competitive, reforms that will make health care cheaper, our financial system more secure, and our Government less burdened with debt. <p>In a global economy, we can't pursue this agenda in a vacuum. At the height of the financial crisis, the coordinated action we took with the nations of the G-20 prevented a global depression and helped restore worldwide growth. And as we've recently witnessed in Europe, economic difficulties in one part of the world can affect everybody else. And that's why we have to keep on working with the nations of the G-20 to pursue more balanced growth. That's why we need to coordinate financial reform with other nations so that we avoid a global race to the bottom. It's why we need to open new markets and meet the goal of my National Export Initiative to double our exports over the next 5 years. And it's why we need to ensure that our competitors play fair and our agreements are enforced. This too is part of building a new foundation. <p>Now, some of you may have noticed that we have been building this foundation without much help from our friends in the other party. From our efforts to rescue the economy to health insurance reform to financial reform, most have sat on the sidelines and shouted from the bleachers. They said no to tax cuts for small businesses, no to tax credits for college tuition, no to investments in clean energy. They said no to protecting patients from insurance companies and consumers from big banks. <p>And some of this, of course, is just politics. Before I was even inaugurated, the congressional leaders of the other party got together and made a calculation that if I failed, they'd win. So when I went to meet with them about the need for a Recovery Act, in the midst of crisis, they announced they were against it before I even arrived at the meeting. Before we even had a health care bill, a Republican Senator actually said: \\"If we're able to stop Obama on this, it will be his Waterloo. It will break him.\\" So those weren't very hopeful signs.<p>But to be fair, a good deal of the other party's opposition to our agenda has also been rooted in their sincere and fundamental belief about the role of government. It's a belief that government has little or no role to play in helping this Nation meet our collective challenges. It's an agenda that basically offers two answers to every problem we face: more tax breaks for the wealthy and fewer rules for corporations. <p>The last administration called this recycled idea the ownership society. But what it essentially means is that everyone is on their own. No matter how hard you work, if your paycheck isn't enough to pay for college or health care or childcare, well, you're on your own. If misfortune causes you to lose your job or your home, you're on your own. And if you're a Wall Street bank or an insurance company or an oil company, you pretty much get to play by your own rules, regardless of the consequences for everybody else.<p>Now, I've never believed that government has all the answers. Government cannot and should not replace businesses as the true engine of growth and job creation. Government can't instill good values and a sense of responsibility in our children. That's a parent's job. Too much government can deprive us of choice and burden us with debt. Poorly designed regulations can choke off competition and the capital that businesses need to thrive. <p>I understand these arguments. And it's reflected in my policies. After all, one-third of the Recovery Act we designed was made up of tax cuts for families and small businesses. And when you think back to the health care debate, despite calls for a single-payer, Government-run health care plan, we passed reform that maintains our system of private health insurance. <p>But I also understand that throughout our Nation's history, we have balanced the threat of overreaching government against the dangers of an unfettered market. We've provided a basic safety net, because any one of us might experience hardship at some time in our lives and may need some help getting back on our feet. And we've recognized that there have been times when only government has been able to do what individuals couldn't do and corporations wouldn't do. <p>That's how we have railroads and highways, public schools and police forces. That's how we've made possible scientific research that has led to medical breakthroughs like the vaccine for Hepatitis B and technological wonders like GPS. That's how we have Social Security and a minimum wage and laws to protect the food we eat and the water we drink and the air that we breathe. That's how we have rules to ensure that mines are safe and, yes, that oil companies pay for the spills that they cause. <p>Now, there have always been those who've said no to such protections, no to such investments. There were accusations that Social Security would lead to socialism and that Medicare was a Government takeover. There were bankers who claimed the creation of Federal deposit insurance would destroy the industry. And there were automakers who argued that installing seatbelts was unnecessary and unaffordable. There were skeptics who thought that cleaning our water and our air would bankrupt our entire economy. And all of these claims proved false. All of these reforms led to greater security and greater prosperity for our people and our economy. <p>So what was true then is true today. As November approaches, leaders in the other party will campaign furiously on the same economic arguments they've been making for decades. Fortunately, we don't have to look back too many years to see how their agenda turns out. For much of the last 10 years, we've tried it their way. They gave us tax cuts that weren't paid for to millionaires who didn't need them. They gutted regulations and put industry insiders in charge of industry oversight. They shortchanged investments in clean energy and education, in research and technology. And despite all their current moralizing about the need to curb spending, this is the same crowd who took the record $237 billion surplus that President Clinton left them and turned it into a record $1.3 trillion deficit.<p>So we know where those ideas lead us. And now we have a choice as a nation. We can return to the failed economic policies of the past, or we can keep building a stronger future. We can go backward, or we can keep moving forward. And I don't know about you, but I want to move forward. I think America wants to move forward.<p>Now, the first step in building a new foundation that allows us to move forward has been to address the costs and risks that have made our economy less competitive: outdated regulations, crushing health care costs, and a growing debt.<p>To start with, we can't compete as a nation if the irresponsibility of a few folks on Wall Street can bring our entire economy to its knees. That's why we're on the verge of passing the most sweeping financial reform since the Great Depression. It's a reform that will help prevent another AIG. It will end taxpayer-funded bank bailouts. It contains the strongest consumer protections in history, protections that will empower Americans with the clear and concise information they need before signing up for a credit card or taking out a mortgage. <p>Now, financial reform will not guard against every instance of greed and irresponsibility on Wall Street. But it will enshrine a new principle in our financial system: From now on, instead of competing to see who can come up with the cleverest scheme to make the quickest buck, financial institutions will compete to see who can make the better product and the better service. And that's a competition that benefits Wall Street and Main Street. That's why we need to get this legislation done. It's why we can't afford to go back; we have to move forward. <p>We also know we can't compete in a global economy if our citizens are forced to spend more and more of their income on medical bills, if our businesses are forced to choose between health care and hiring, if State and Federal budgets are weighed down with skyrocketing health care costs. That's why we finally passed health insurance reform. <p>Now, let's be clear: The costs of health care are not going to come down overnight just because legislation passed. And in an ever-changing industry like health care, we're going to continuously need to apply more cost-cutting measures as the years go by. But once this reform is in full effect, middle class families will pay less for their health care and the worst practices of the insurance industry will end. People with preexisting medical conditions will no longer be excluded from coverage. People who become seriously ill will no longer be thrown off their coverage for reasons contrived by the insurance company. Taxpayers will no longer have to pay--in the form of higher premiums--for trips to the ER by uninsured Americans. Businesses will get help with their health care costs. In fact, small businesses are already learning they're eligible for tax credits to cover their workers this year. And with less waste and greater efficiency in the system, this reform will do more to bring down the deficit than any step we have taken in more than a decade. <p>The other party has staked their claim this November on repealing these health insurance reforms instead of making them work. They want to go back; we need to move forward. <p>Making health care more cost efficient is critical, because it's also true we can't be competitive as a nation if we remain dragged down by our growing debt. Now, let me talk about debt just for a second. <p>By the time I took office, we had a 1-year deficit of over $1 trillion and projected deficits of $8 trillion over the next decade. Most of this was the result of not paying for two major tax cuts skewed to the wealthy and a worthy but expensive prescription drug program that wasn't paid for. I always find it interesting that the same people who participated in these decisions are the ones who now charge our administration with fiscal irresponsibility. <p>And the truth is, if I had taken office in ordinary times, I would have liked nothing more than to start bringing down the deficits that they created. But we took office amid a crisis, and the effects of the recession put a $3 trillion hole in our budget before I even walked through the door. Additionally, the steps that we had to take to save the economy from depression temporarily added more to the deficit, by about $1 trillion. Of course, if we had spiraled into a depression, our deficits and debt levels would be much worse. <p>Now, the economy is still fragile, so we can't put on the brakes too quickly. We have to do what it takes to ensure a strong recovery. A growing economy will unquestionably improve our fiscal health, as will the steps we take in the short term to put Americans back to work. <p>And that's why I signed a bill that will provide tax cuts for small businesses that hire unemployed workers. That's why I've urged Congress to pass a small-business lending fund so that small businesses can get the credit they need to create jobs and grow. That's why I believe it's critical we extend unemployment insurance for several more months so that Americans who've been laid off through no fault of their own get the support they need to provide for their families and can maintain their health insurance until they're rehired. And we have to work with State and local governments to make sure they have the resources to prevent likely layoffs of hundreds of thousands of public school teachers across the country over the next few months. <p>But as we look ahead, we can't lose sight of the urgent need to get our fiscal house in order. There are four key components to putting our budget on a sustainable path. Maintaining economic growth is number one. Health care reform is number two. The third component is the belt-tightening steps I've already outlined to reduce our deficit by $1 trillion. <p>Starting in 2011, we will enact a 3-year freeze on all discretionary spending outside of national security, something that was never enacted in the last administration. We will allow the tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans to expire. We've gone through the budget line by line and identified more than 120 programs for elimination. We've restored a simple budgeting rule that every family and business understands called pay as you go. And we will charge the largest Wall Street firms a fee to repay the American people for rescuing them during the financial crisis, a fee that will bring down the deficit by $90 billion over the next decade. By the way, that $90 billion represents about one-eighth of the amount these banks will pay out in bonuses over the same period of time.<p>Now, finally, the fourth component in improving our fiscal health is the bipartisan fiscal commission that I've established that will provide a specific set of solutions by the fall to deal with our medium- and long-term deficit. And I have to warn you, this will not be easy. I know that some like to make the argument that if we would just eliminate pork barrel projects and foreign aid, we could eliminate our deficit. Turns out, such spending makes up just 3 percent of our deficit. You combine all foreign aid and all earmarks, that's 3 percent of our budget. So meeting the deficit challenge will require some very difficult decisions about the largely popular programs that make up the other 97 percent. It means we'll have to sort through our priorities and figure out what programs that we can do without. <p>On this point, I strongly agree with my friends in the other party. What I don't agree with is the notion that we should also sacrifice critical investments in our people and our future. You know, if you're a family who's tightening your belt, you will definitely sacrifice going out to dinner, but you're not going to sacrifice saving for your child's college education. It's precisely our investments in education and innovation that will make America more competitive in the 21st century. And we can't go back; we've got to move forward. <p>That's why I've made education reform a top priority, because countries that outeducate us today will outcompete us tomorrow. And so we want every citizen to have the skills and training they need in a global economy, from the day that you're born through whatever career you may choose. <p>Last year, we launched a national competition to improve our schools based on a simple idea: Instead of funding the status quo, we will only invest in reform, reform that raises student achievement, that inspires students to excel in math and science, and turns around failing schools that steal the future of too many young Americans. <p>And to achieve my goal of ensuring America once more has the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020, we passed a law that will make college more affordable by ending the unnecessary taxpayer subsidies that go to financial institutions for student loans. That means we're saving billions of dollars that will go directly to students, including students right here at Carnegie Mellon. It's a bill that will also revitalize our community colleges, which are a career pathway to the children of so many working families. <p>In addition to training our workers for the jobs of the future, we're also investing in the innovation that will create those jobs here in America, the research, the technology, the infrastructure that will secure our economic future. Right now, as we speak, the Recovery Act is putting Americans to work building a 21st-century America. There's no reason China should have the fastest trains or that rural Pennsylvania should be without high-speed Internet access. We've got to make those investments. From the first railroads to the Interstate Highway System, this Nation has always been built to compete. So we're going to invest and are investing right now in new infrastructure, expanding broadband, health information technology, advanced manufacturing facilities, America's first high-speed rail network. And we're also investing in the ideas and technologies that will lead to new jobs and entire new industries. <p>Consider what we've done with clean energy. The tax credits and loan guarantees in the Recovery Act alone will lead to 720,000 clean energy jobs in America by 2012--720,000. I'll give you one example. The United States used to make less than 2 percent of the world's advanced batteries for hybrid cars. By 2015, because of the investments that we made, we'll have enough capacity to make up to 40 percent of these batteries. <p>Now, this brings me to an issue that's on everybody's minds right now, namely, what kind of energy future can ensure our long-term prosperity? The catastrophe unfolding in the Gulf right now may prove to be a result of human error or of corporations taking dangerous shortcuts to compromise safety or a combination of both. And I've launched a national commission so that the American people will have answers on exactly what happened. But we have to acknowledge that there are inherent risks to drilling 4 miles beneath the surface of the Earth, and these are risks that are bound to increase the harder oil extraction becomes. We also have to acknowledge that an America run solely on fossil fuels should not be the vision we have for our children and our grandchildren. <p>We consume more than 20 percent of the world's oil, but have less than 2 percent of the world's oil reserves. So without a major change in our energy policy, our dependence on oil means that we will continue to send billions of dollars of our hard-earned wealth to other countries every month, including countries in dangerous and unstable regions. In other words, our continued dependence on fossil fuels will jeopardize our national security, it will smother our planet, and it will continue to put our economy and our environment at risk. <p>Now, I understand that we can't end our dependence on fossil fuels overnight. That's why I supported a careful plan of offshore oil production as one part of our overall energy strategy. But we can pursue such production only if it's safe and only if it's used as a short-term solution while we transition to a clean energy economy. <p>And the time has come to aggressively accelerate that transition. The time has come, once and for all, for this Nation to fully embrace a clean energy future. Now, that means continuing our unprecedented effort to make everything from our homes and businesses to our cars and trucks more energy efficient. It means tapping into our natural gas reserves and moving ahead with our plan to expand our Nation's fleet of nuclear powerplants. It means rolling back billions of dollars of tax breaks to oil companies so we can prioritize investments in clean energy research and development. <p>But the only way the transition to clean energy will ultimately succeed is if the private sector is fully invested in this future, if capital comes off the sidelines and the ingenuity of our entrepreneurs is unleashed. And the only way to do that is by finally putting a price on carbon pollution. <p>Now, many businesses have already embraced this idea because it provides a level of certainty about the future. And for those that face transition costs, we can help them adjust. But if we refuse to take into account the full costs of our fossil fuel addiction, if we don't factor in the environmental costs and the national security costs and the true economic costs, we will have missed our best chance to seize a clean energy future.<p>The House of Representatives has already passed a comprehensive energy and climate bill, and there is currently a plan in the Senate, a plan that was developed with ideas from Democrats and Republicans, that would achieve the same goal. And, Pittsburgh, I want you to know, the votes may not be there right now, but I intend to find them in the coming months. I will continue to make the case for a clean energy future wherever and whenever I can. I will work with anyone to get this done, and we will get it done. The next generation will not be held hostage to energy sources from the last century. We are not going to move backwards; we are going to move forward. <p>Now, this overarching principle that we must invest in and embrace the innovation and technology of the future and not the past, that applies beyond our energy policy. That's why we've decided to devote more than 3 percent of our GDP to research and development, to spur the discovery of services and products and businesses that we have yet to imagine. <p>We've proposed making the research and experimentation tax credit permanent, a tax credit that helps businesses afford the high costs of developing new technologies and new products. Last year, we made the largest investment in basic research funding in history. <p>The possibilities of where this research might lead are endless. Imagine a new treatment that kills cancer cells but leaves healthy ones untouched, regenerative medicine that ends the agonizing wait for an organ transplant. Imagine a lightweight vest for soldiers and police officers that can stop armor-piercing bullets, educational software that's as effective and engaging as a personal tutor, intelligent prosthetics that can enable a wounded veteran to play the piano again. And now imagine all the workers and small-business owners and consumers who would benefit from these discoveries. <p>We can't know for certain what the future will bring. We can't guess with 100 percent accuracy what industries and innovations will next shape our world. I'm sure there were times when this city couldn't imagine life without steel mills and heavy smog that filled these streets. And when that industry shrank and so many jobs were lost, who could have guessed that Pittsburgh would fare better than many other rust belt cities and reemerge as a center for technology and green jobs, health care and education? Who would have thought that the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center's logo would one day adorn the U.S. Steel Tower or that this institute, Carnegie Mellon, would be the region's largest employer? All of this came to be because as a community, you prepared and adapted and invested in a better future, even if you weren't always sure what that future would look like. <p>And that's what America does. That's what we've always done. The interests of the status quo will always have the most vocal and powerful defenders at every level of government. There will always be lobbyists for the banks or the insurance industry that doesn't want more regulation or the corporation that would prefer to see more tax breaks instead of more investments in infrastructure or education. And let's face it: A lot of us find the prospect of change scary, even when we know the status quo isn't working for us. <p>But there's no natural lobby for the clean energy company that may start a few years from now. There's no natural lobby for the research that may lead to a lifesaving medical breakthrough. There's no natural lobby for the student who may not be able to afford a college education, but if they got one, could end up making discoveries that would transform America and the world. <p>It's our job as a nation to advocate on behalf of the America that we hope for, to make decisions that will benefit the next generation, even if it's not always popular, even if we can't always see those benefits in the short term. We make decisions like this on behalf of our own children every single day. And while it's harder to do with an entire country as large and diverse as ours, it's no less important. <p>The role of government has never been to plan every detail or dictate every outcome. At its best, government has simply knocked away barriers to opportunity and laid the foundation for a better future. Our people, with all their drive and ingenuity, always end up building the rest. And if we can do that again, if we can continue building that foundation and making those hard decisions on behalf of the next generation, I have no doubt that we will leave our children the America that we all hope for. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"157" "\"Good evening, everyone. I appreciate the opportunity to send my wishes as you celebrate the unbreakable bonds between the United States and the Republic of Korea. This year, of course, holds special meaning for us all.<p>We recall that it was exactly 60 years ago, on another June day, when the Communist armies poured across the 38th Parallel and threatened the very survival of the Republic of Korea.<p>We honor all those who rallied to her defense, the fallen whose names are etched in sacred memorials, and veterans like General Paik who join you tonight.<p>We salute the resolve of the people of the Republic of Korea, who, from the ruins of war, built an economic miracle, a vibrant democracy, a society where a child could grow up to be Secretary-General of the United Nations, and a nation that is now a regional and global leader.<p>We thank all those who have stood with the Republic of Korea to keep her safe and strong, especially our Korean American friends, the Korea Society, and generations of Americans in uniform, including my friend, General Colin Powell.<p>Most of all, we reaffirm the enduring alliance between our countries, an alliance rooted in shared sacrifice, common values, mutual interest, and mutual respect, an alliance that is stronger than ever. And, as we have seen in recent weeks, our alliance is needed more than ever.<p>The attack on the navy vessel <i>Cheonan</i> was an unprovoked act of aggression by North Korea. As I have told President Lee, I and the American people offer our deepest condolences, especially to the families of the 46 sailors who were lost.<p>To our friends from the Republic of Korea who join you tonight, I say this: You and President Lee have shown extraordinary patience and self-restraint. You have shown the world what true strength and confidence looks like. And you have the full support of your friend and ally, the United States of America.<p>In the days ahead, our Governments will continue to consult closely, and I look forward to meeting with President Lee this month in Toronto. Together, we will ensure our readiness and deter aggression. We will work with allies and partners to hold North Korea accountable, including at the United Nations Security Council, making it clear that security and respect for North Korea will never come through aggression, but only by upholding its obligations. And as I said during my visit to Seoul and Osan last fall, the commitment of the United States to the security and defense of the Republic of Korea will never waver.<p>Going forward, we will pursue our shared vision of our alliance for the 21st century. As the host of the G-20 summit in November and the nuclear security summit in 2 years, the Republic of Korea will continue to assume its rightful place as a leader on the world stage.<p>And every step of the way, our two nations will be guided by the same sense of solidarity and shared sacrifice that has defined us for 60 years: <i>Katchi kapshida</i>--we go together. We go together in these difficult days, and we will continue to go together in the months and years to come.<p>Thank you, and have a wonderful evening.\" "
"158" "\"<i>The President</i>. Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone. <i>Namaste</i>. <p><i>Audience members.Namaste</i>.<p><i>The President</i>. I want to thank Secretary Clinton for your outstanding leadership. And I want to thank Minister Krishna for both the kind words and the incredible work that you've put in to trying to strengthen even more and deepen even more the relationship between the two largest democracies in the world. <p>Secretary Clinton, I think as you may be aware, is a great admirer of India, and I know the sentiment is shared in return. In fact, I'm told that one of the Secretary's favorite restaurants in Delhi added a new item to the menu--[<i>Laughter</i>]--the \\"Hillary Platter.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] This is true. Now, what does it have, chapati? Is it----<p><i>Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton</i>. It's got all kinds of things. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Audience member</i>. Mr. President, you must try it when you go to India.<p><i>The President</i>. I will try this in India. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, it's been said--and Hillary alluded to this--that there are two kinds of people in the world: those who do the work and those who take the credit. There's a corollary to the saying: Try to be in the first group because there's much less competition. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's a lot less crowded. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Well, Prime Minister Singh and I are very proud to take credit for our two nations forging an unprecedented partnership through this strategic dialogue. But tonight I wanted to come by and express my gratitude to all of you, not only Secretary Clinton and Minister Krishna, but also everybody in attendance, who are actually doing the hard work of advancing the goals that Prime Minister Singh and I set forward in our bilateral meetings. I want to not only thank Minister Rao--Minister Krishna, but I also want to thank Secretary Rao and members of the Indian delegation; our two wonderful Ambassadors, Meera Shankar--where'd she go?--there she is--as well as my great friend, Tim Roemer; and leaders from across my administration. <p>And I want to thank everybody who's here from India and the United States who works every day to bring our countries even closer together, leaders in business, in civil society, academia, faith groups, especially our many friends from our very strong, very proud, very vibrant Indian American community.<p>I was just telling Minister Krishna that right before I came here, I was congratulating the National Spelling Bee champion, who was a young--Indian American young lady. And her parents could not have been prouder. And it just was a wonderful reminder of how strong the bonds between our two countries are.<p>Michelle and I were honored to welcome Prime Minister Singh and Mrs. Kaur to the White House for the very first official state visit of my Presidency. It was a state visit that demonstrated that our relations with India are at the highest of priorities for my administration and for me, personally, as President of the United States.<p>I said then that India is a leader in Asia and around the world. It's a rising power and a responsible global power. That's why I firmly believe that the relationship between the United States and India will be a defining partnership in the 21st century. <p>The new National Security Strategy that I released last week makes this absolutely clear: A fundamental pillar of America's comprehensive engagement with the world involves deepening our cooperation with 21st-century centers of influence, and that includes India.<p>Moreover, the relationship between the United States and India is fundamentally unique because, as our strategy explains, we share common interests, but we also share common values as the world's two largest democracies and as countries that are rich in diversity, with deep and close connections among our people. <p>In other words, the United States values our partnership not because of where India is on a map, but because of what we share and where we can go together. India is indispensable to the future that we seek, a future of security and prosperity for all nations. That's why a third of my Cabinet has already visited India, not only for the chapatis. [<i>Laughter</i>] That is why officials from across my administration are part of this strategic dialogue. That's why I want to thank you for the progress that we've made together since Prime Minister Singh's visit.<p>We're deepening our economic cooperation on finance and investment and the trade that creates jobs in both of our countries. And I look forward to working with Prime Minister Singh and our fellow G-20 partners this month in Toronto as we work to foster economic growth that is both balanced and sustained. <p>With our agreement on fuel reprocessing, we're moving ahead with our civil nuclear agreement. We're expanding our green partnership to promote green buildings, energy efficiency, and the sustainable development that creates jobs and reduces poverty. And as we strive to implement our Copenhagen commitments, we'll be working together to ensure a successful climate conference in Mexico later this year.<p>We're cooperating more closely than ever before against transnational threats. This includes, as Minister Krishna alluded to, making progress for the Afghan people and preventing terrorism, whether it's in Manhattan or in Mumbai. It includes securing vulnerable nuclear materials, a goal we advanced at our Nuclear Security Summit, where I thanked Prime Minister Singh for committing India to building a new center of excellence for nuclear energy and security. And our efforts include a stronger global nonproliferation regime where all nations live up to their obligations. <p>We're broadening partnerships between our people, especially in science, technology, and global health. More students are taking advantage of our expanded Fulbright-Nehru program. We're working to expand ties between our universities and community colleges. And we're partnering on agriculture and research to reduce global hunger and to share India's incredible progress with other countries.<p>Finally, as global partners, we're going to sustain this momentum at the highest levels. During his state visit, the Prime Minister graciously invited me and my family to visit India this year, and I happily accepted. And as I confirmed to him when we spoke last week, I'm delighted to announce tonight that I plan to visit India in early November, so--[<i>applause</i>]. I look forward to advancing our partnership, to experiencing all that India and its people and its incredible ancient culture have to offer--and I intend to create an \\"Obama Platter.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Audience member.</i> [<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Yes. As I look ahead to my visit, I've got another quote that matches up pretty well with Mark Twain's. This is a scholar from Europe who traveled to India more than a century ago, and he said, \\"Whatever sphere of the human mind you may select for your special study, whether it be language, or religion, or mythology, or philosophy, whether it be law or customs, primitive art or science, you have to go to India.\\" Because, he said, \\"some of the most valuable and instructive material of the history of man are treasured up in India and India only.\\" <p>So when it comes to the sphere of our work--building a future of greater prosperity, opportunity, and security for our people--there is no doubt: I have to go to India. [<i>Laughter</i>] But even more, I am proud to go to India, and I look forward to the history that we will make together, progress that will be treasured not just by this generation, but by generations to come.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"159" "\"Hello, everybody. Please have a seat. Well, welcome to the White House. And congratulations on winning your first MLS Cup championship and for bringing the State of Utah its first professional sports title in almost 40 years. That's a pretty big deal. You can give them a round of applause for that again. <p>I want to acknowledge the Senator from the great State of Utah, Senator Bennett, who is here. He is incredibly proud of this team--too tall to play soccer. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I want to congratulate Dave Checketts for his leadership and for dedicating his career to expanding the world of professional sports. And, of course, I want to congratulate the players and coaches from Real Salt Lake. <p>I know that this team had a pretty unlikely journey to get here. You qualified for the playoffs on the last day of the season with a losing record. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's cutting it a little close, guys. [<i>Laughter</i>] You beat your biggest rival, took down the defending champions on your way to the title game. And with the cup on the line, you held two of the game's biggest stars scoreless in regulation and went on to win in a shootout, all of which goes to show that in Major League Soccer, there's no such thing as a foregone conclusion. <p>Now, you did it because, in the words of Coach Kreis--and I have to say this is one of the rare coaches that I see in these events who I think might be able to still play--[<i>Laughter</i>]--he looks very fit. [<i>Laughter</i>] But Coach Kreis said, \\"We believe in each other as much as everybody disbelieved in us.\\" For this group, the team really is the star. This is a team that shows up every day, puts in an honest effort no matter what the critics say or how steep the odds. And last season, that attitude paid off.<p>For a group that prides itself on unity, I'm a little hesitant to acknowledge any individuals. But there are a few people who did an exceptional job of helping this team go all the way.<p>I want to congratulate Robbie Findley for becoming Salt Lake's alltime leading scorer and for being named to this year's World Cup roster. So give Robbie a big round of applause. Where is he?<p><i>Team member.</i> South Africa.<p><i>The President.</i> He's already left. I just realized I met Robbie last week, when the World Cup team was here. I thought he might be stopping by. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We are incredibly proud, obviously, of everyone who's going to be representing our country this month. Joe Biden will be leading the American delegation to the World Cup, and the rest of us are going to be cheering them on here at home. <p>But it is because of the efforts of Robbie and the rest of the folks here today that soccer continues to get more popular every year in the United States. And as the father of soccer-playing daughters, I can tell you that it shows no signs of slowing down.<p>I want to recognize Nick Rimando for being named MVP of the championship game and for being such a force in goal for this team. And, of course, I want to congratulate Coach Kreis for becoming the youngest MLS manager ever to win the cup--just 2 years after retiring--see, I wasn't wrong--[<i>Laughter</i>]--just 2 years after retiring as the third leading scorer in league history--and for doing it with such a diverse group of players. <p>This team includes members from Argentina, Armenia, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Haiti, Holland, Jamaica, and the United States. And so besides overcoming language and cultural barriers, this is also a team that understands their responsibilities aren't limited to the soccer field or even our own borders.<p>And that's why yesterday afternoon they put on a clinic to teach local kids some soccer skills, while also raising awareness about the threat of malaria around the globe. They helped educate young people about the importance of preventing disease and how we can do our part to help the less fortunate, even if they live thousands of miles away.<p>So congratulations to all of you for an outstanding season, for the championship. To everybody back in Salt Lake, cherish your team. And best of luck this season. All right?\" "
"160" "\"<i>The President</i>. Good morning, everybody.<p><i>Audience members</i>. Good morning.<p><i>The President</i>. Well, let me just--please, everybody, have a seat. Have a seat. The--it is wonderful to be here. And I want to make a couple of quick acknowledgments. This guy behind me, you may know him--[<i>Laughter</i>]--he's the Vice President of the United States, Joe Biden. You got Maryland's Lieutenant Governor, Anthony Brown, is here; got the mayor of Hyattsville, William Gardiner. And of course we've got to acknowledge the big man here--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and he is big--[<i>Laughter</i>]--owner of K. Neal International, Stephen Neal.<p>Now, I want to thank K. Neal for having us here today, giving us a quick tour and having us look at all these trucks. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is a business that has been selling commercial trucks for over 40 years. This company employs workers from all over the greater Washington area. After 2 years of recession that caused so much pain in so many communities, this is also an example of a company that is starting to see business pick up again. <p>I was talking to Stephen, and he told me that rental and lease sales have improved, that there's a pent-up demand out there for new equipment, and you've added workers over the last few months. And Stephen said if things keep on going well, he'll add more in the months ahead.<p>Now, we're hearing more and more stories like that all across America. A lot of businesses were hit hard during this downturn, but they're starting to hire again. Workers who were laid off, they're starting to get their jobs back. Companies that were almost forced to close their doors are making plans to expand and invest in new equipment. <p>And this progress is reflected in the monthly jobs reports that we get each month. We received one today. In May, the economy added 431,000 jobs. Now, this is the fifth month in a row that we've seen job gains. And while we recognize that our recovery is still in its early stages and that there are going to be ups and downs in the months ahead--things never go completely in a smooth line--this report is a sign that our economy is getting stronger by the day.<p>Now, I want to emphasize that most of the jobs this month that we're seeing in the statistics represent workers who've been hired to complete the 2010 census. Now, these--so these are temporary jobs that are only going to last until the fall, and that may be reflected in future jobs reports. But even if you put those temporary jobs aside, there's no doubt that we saw another month of private sector job growth. And that is obviously critical, because when businesses are hiring again, people start spending again. That in turn gives businesses more and more incentive to grow.<p>Now, this doesn't mean that the recession is over for the millions of Americans who are still out of work or the millions more who are still struggling to make ends meet. No words, no statistics can take away the pain and the anxiety that a family feels because of this downturn. That can only be relieved with a steady paycheck and the security that a steady job brings.<p>What these numbers do mean, though, is that we're moving in the right direction. The economic policies that we put in place are working. An economy that was shrinking at a scary rate when I was sworn in as President has now been growing for three consecutive quarters. We were losing 750,000 jobs a month during the winter of last year. We've now added jobs for 6 out of the last 7 months. <p>The taxpayer money it cost to shore up the financial sector and the auto industry is being repaid. I know it was unpopular, but it was the right thing to do. And both GM and Chrysler are adding shifts and operating at a profit, which nobody would have imagined just a year ago. <p>The question now is, how do we keep this momentum going? How do we keep adding jobs, raising incomes? How do we keep growing not just our economy, but growing our middle class? <p>Now, in the short term, we have to keep creating the conditions for companies like K. Neal to succeed, to keep growing, to keep hiring. Because of a bill I signed into law a few months ago, businesses are now eligible for tax cuts for hiring unemployed workers. Companies are also able to write off more of their investments in new equipment. And as part of health reform, 4 million small businesses recently received a postcard in their mailbox telling them that they will be eligible for health care tax cuts this year and that those tax cuts could be worth tens of thousands of dollars to those companies. <p>I've also urged Congress to cut more taxes for small businesses and pass a small-business lending fund so that small businesses can get the incentives and the credit that they need to create jobs and grow. I believe it's absolutely critical that we extend unemployment insurance for several more months so that Americans who've been laid off, through no fault of their own, get the support they need to provide for their families and they can maintain their health insurance until they're rehired. And we should provide further support so that States are not cutting back on jobs and vital services, as well as incentives to create clean energy jobs. <p>Now, in the long run--all that's in the short term. That's still part of the emergency effort to help build the economy and grow it coming out of the recession. But in the long run, we need to invest in the technologies and innovation that will lead to the jobs and industries of tomorrow. <p>So I want to introduce to you to everybody who's here--we've got Dan Ustian, who is the president of Navistar. Dan, stand up. Now, Navistar is a company that sometimes does business with K. Neal International. And for months, Navistar's Indiana manufacturing plant has been working on an electric delivery truck that's fueled entirely by plug-in power. In fact, I visited the plant before it had produced its very first truck. And my understanding, Dan, is----<p><i>Daniel C. Ustian</i>. We're ready to go.<p><i>The President</i>. We're ready to go. Thanks to the investments that we made in the Recovery Act, it just delivered its first truck a few weeks ago. Now, this is a plant that gave jobs to unemployed factory workers, and they're now part of a cutting-edge industry that will create even more jobs and businesses in the months and years ahead. <p>That's what the future can look like. If we keep on making investments in research and development, in technology and clean energy, products and industries that we haven't even imagined yet can find a home right here in the United States of America. And if we provide our citizens with the education and training they need to do these jobs, we're again going to see rising incomes and a growing middle class. That's what we can do to make this economy stronger, rebuild it even stronger than it was before.<p>And I have to say that Joe Biden oversaw the execution of our Recovery Act and hasn't gotten a lot of credit for it, but it has been scandal free; the money has been spent on time. <p>I was just talking to Stephen, and as he indicated, what the Recovery Act did was to help--during a bad winter, during a tough time--helped him to keep that business, if not growing, then at least stable. And it helped him keep folks on the job that otherwise might have lost their jobs. And Joe deserves a lot of credit for that, so give Joe Biden a big round of applause. [<i>applause</i>]<p><i>Vice President Joe Biden.</i> Thank you.<p><i>The President</i>. By the way, Joe says he used to be able to drive some of these trucks. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Vice President Biden</i>. That's true. Had my shoulder--[<i>inaudible</i>].<p><i>The President</i>. But I would suggest he not--not to lend him a car right--that was a long time ago. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Vice President Biden</i>. Hey, man.<p><i>The President</i>. Now, let me tell you what we can't do. We can't go backwards. What we can't do is go back--now that we're starting to climb out of this hole that was dug for us, we can't go back to the very same policies that failed us in the last decade, the same policies that led us into that hole. <p>Think about it. We've already tried scaling back our investments in clean energy and education and innovation so that we could give tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans and the biggest corporations, and that didn't work. We already tried putting industry insiders in charge of oversight. Didn't work. We already tried stripping away rules and regulations that kept Wall Street banks and oil companies in bounds. We let them play by their own rules instead, and it didn't work. <p>So we already know where these ideas led us. And we're going to have a choice as a nation moving forward. We're going to be able to return, if we want, to the failed economic policies of the past, policies that gave us record deficits and declining incomes and sluggish job growth even before the recession, policies that led, in fact, to us almost going into a depression. We can take that road again, or we can decide we want to move forward. We can keep building a stronger economy. We can keep pursuing the policies that have started to create jobs again, policies that invest in companies like K. Neal, policies that invest in companies like Navistar, policies that invest in our people and in our future.<p>So I don't know about you, I don't want to go backwards. I want to move forward. And I believe that the American people want to move forward as well. This economy hasn't returned to prosperity yet, but we're heading in the right direction. There are going to be some ups and downs. There are going to be some months where people start worrying that maybe we're not out of the hole yet. But if we remain determined, if we stick to it, if we stay the course of investing in our people and businesses like K. Neal that are the heart and soul of America, then I'm absolutely positive we can succeed. And with your help, with the hard work and ingenuity of workers and entrepreneurs like the ones at this company, I'm absolutely positive we're going to have a brighter future. <p>So thanks for the great work you do. Thanks to Joe Biden for the great work that he does. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"161" "\"I'm speaking to you from Caminada Bay in Grand Isle, Louisiana, one of the first places to feel the devastation wrought by the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. While I was here, at Camardelle's Live Bait shop, I met with a group of local residents and small-business owners, folks like Floyd Lasseigne, a fourth-generation oyster fisherman. This is the time of year when he ordinarily earns a lot of his income, but his oyster bed along the north side of Grand Isle has likely been destroyed by the spill.<p>Terry Vegas has a similar story. He quit the eighth grade to become a shrimper with his grandfather. Ever since, he's earned his living during shrimping season, working long, grueling days so that he could earn enough money to support himself year round. But today, the waters where he's spent his years are closed. And every day, as the spill worsens, he loses hope that he'll be able to return to the life he built. \\"You can put a price on a lost season,\\" he's said, \\"but not a lost heritage.\\"<p>The effects of the spill reach beyond the shoreline. I spoke with Patti Rigaud. For 30 years, she's owned a small convenience store, a store opened by her father. She depends on the sales generated by tourism each summer. But this year, most of the boats that would line these docks are nowhere to be seen. Dudley Gaspard, who owns the Sand Dollar Marina and Hotel, has been hit hard as well. Normally this time of year, rooms are filling up and tackle is flying off the shelves. But he too has been devastated by the decline in tourism and the suspension of fishing in the waters off the Louisiana coast.<p>Their stories are familiar to many in Grand Isle and throughout the Gulf region. Often, families have been here for generations, earning a living and making a life that's tied to the water, that's tied to the magnificent coasts and the natural bounty of this place. Here, this spill has not just damaged livelihoods, it's upended whole communities. And the fury people feel is not just about the money they've lost. They've been through tough times before. It's about the wrenching recognition that this time their lives may never be the same.<p>These folks work hard. They meet their responsibilities. But now, because of a manmade catastrophe, one that's not their fault and beyond their control, their lives have been thrown into turmoil. It's brutally unfair. It's wrong. And what I told these men and women, and what I have said since the beginning of this disaster, is that I'm going to stand with the people of the Gulf Coast until they are made whole.<p>That's why from the beginning, we mobilized on every front to contain and clean up this spill. I've authorized the deployment of 17,000 National Guard troops to aid in the response. More than 20,000 people are currently working around the clock to protect waters and coastlines. We've convened hundreds of top scientists and engineers from around the world. More than 1,900 vessels are in the Gulf assisting in the cleanup. And more than 4.3 million feet of boom have been deployed, with another 2.9 million feet of boom available, enough to stretch over 1,300 miles. And 17 staging areas are in place across Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida to rapidly defend sensitive shorelines. In short, this is the largest response to an environmental disaster of its kind in the history of the country.<p>We've also ordered BP to pay economic injury claims, and we will make sure they pay every single dime owed to the people along the Gulf Coast. The Small Business Administration has stepped in to help businesses by approving loans and allowing deferrals of existing loan payments. And this week, the Federal Government sent BP a preliminary bill for $69 million to pay back American taxpayers for some of the costs of the response so far.<p>In addition, after an emergency safety review, we're putting in place aggressive new operating standards for offshore drilling. And I've appointed a bipartisan commission to look into the causes of this spill. If laws are inadequate, laws will be changed. If oversight was lacking, it will be strengthened. And if laws were broken, those responsible will be brought to justice.<p>Now, over the last few days, BP has placed a cap over the well, and it appears they're making some progress in trying to pump oil to the surface to keep it from leaking into the water. But as has been the case since the beginning of this crisis, we're prepared for the worst, even if we hope that BP's efforts bring better news than we've received before. We also know that regardless of the outcome of this attempt, there will still be some slippage [spillage]* until the relief wells are completed. And there will continue to be a massive cleanup ahead of us.<p>These are hard times in Louisiana and across the Gulf Coast, an area that's seen more than its fair share of trouble. But what I've seen are communities absolutely determined to fight through this disaster as they have before, to preserve not just a way to make a living, but a way of life.<p>And we will fight alongside them, until the awful damage that has been done is reversed, people are back on their feet, and the great natural bounty of the Gulf Coast is restored.<p>Thank you.\" "
"162" "\"Please, have a seat. Well, Michelle and I are just thrilled to be part of this spectacular evening. To the performers who lent their voices to this celebration, to the honored guests, to everyone who helped make tonight such a success, I want to say thank you.<p>I also want to thank the staff and supporters of Ford's Theatre for creating a place where education and the arts can thrive, and where the legacy of our Nation's greatest President will be preserved for generations. <p>And I especially want to thank the members of one of our Nation's most hallowed fraternities, the men who were recipients of the Medal of Honor. Please give them another round of applause. To each of those men, I want you to know your heroism is unquestioned. Your stories are inspirational. Your actions above and beyond the call of duty have earned the admiration of a grateful nation. And we are incredibly honored that you could join us here tonight. <p>It's that kind of heroism that has always defined what this Nation is all about. After all, it was exactly 234 years ago that a group of patriots--farmers and merchants, lawyers, physicians--pledged their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor to an improbable experiment called America. They risked everything in the name of a few simple ideas: freedom, equality, and the right to pursue our full measure of happiness.<p>And even though the odds of success were not great, even though they were opposed by a powerful and far-reaching empire, these Framers had the courage to take the first steps towards what would become the greatest democracy that the world has ever known.<p>It was a spirit that would echo through time and space, to an Illinois rail-splitter who vowed that a government of the people, by the people, and for the people shall not perish from the Earth; to a young preacher who believed that, even if he didn't get there with us, we would reach the promised land; and across an ocean, to generations of South Africans who rose up in search of the same inalienable rights that had been put to paper in this country so many years ago.<p>As a lawyer fighting for the rights of Black South Africans in the age of apartheid, Albie Sachs was thrown in jail without charge and was nearly killed when a bomb took part of his arm and the sight of one eye. Despite that fact, Albie knew he was part of something bigger than himself, and after returning from exile, he helped shape South Africa's Constitution, and held a spot on its nation's Constitutional Court for 15 years.<p>And then there's Archbishop Desmond Tutu. As a crusader for freedom, a spiritual leader, and chair of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, and a respected statesman, he has become a symbol of kindness and hope far beyond the borders of his native land. Through it all, he has been guided by the belief that, in his words, \\"My humanity is bound up in yours, and we can only be human together.\\"<p>There are few people more deserving of the Lincoln Medal, an honor bestowed on those who exemplify the singular focus, dedication, and generosity of spirit of our 16th President. And as we celebrate Independence Day, there are few better examples of how the spirit of our Founding Fathers did more than just create a nation, it inspired people in every corner of the globe yearning to be free.<p>So I want to congratulate tonight's honorees, and I thank all of you for being part of this extraordinary celebration. We thank all the talent who performed here today. We thank all the supporters of the Ford's Theatre. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"163" "\"Hello, everybody. It is a pleasure to welcome all of you to the White House. I'm going to be very brief because I know you're all looking forward to heading down the street a little bit later for a wonderful night--and Michelle just mentioned--and the women are wearing heels. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>That's why I want to take a moment to thank all the performers for taking time out of their busy schedules to share their gifts with us and be part of this wonderful event. I also want to thank the Cabinet officials and Members of Congress who are with us, including Senator Reid. Thank you all for coming and for your support of this wonderful institution. <p>Tonight is about celebrating the great work at Ford Theatre, what it's done to preserve the legacy of our 16th President and highlight the importance of the arts and education in our own lives and in the life of our Nation. <p>In many ways, it's impossible to separate the history of America from the history of its music and its spoken word. Soldiers have sung as they marched to war and raised their voices again while laying a brother to rest. Lyrics on a page and voices on a stage have helped connect us across generations and across cultures, backgrounds, and faiths. Our greatest leaders, including Lincoln himself, have drawn inspiration and courage from the arts. And on a personal level, they help each of us express the joys and hardships of life while bringing us closer to each other.<p>This is especially true during moments of trial, and we have had a lot of trials over the past year and a half. Right now we've got brothers and sisters in the Gulf Coast who are going through an incredibly difficult time in the face of a disaster unlike any that we've ever seen of late. I want to emphasize again that we're going to do everything we can in the weeks and months and years ahead to make things right. And I know everybody here feels the same way.<p>But tonight we will celebrate not only music and song and performances, but we're also going to be celebrating the incredible legacy of the Ford's Theatre, celebrating some award recipients who are extraordinarily worthy and have done so much to help not just people in this country but all around the world.<p>So on behalf of Michelle and our entire family, I want to say how grateful I am that all of you are here. Thank you for support the theatre. We are looking forward to a wonderful evening. Good night.\" "
"164" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you, everybody. Please be seated. Hello, Giants. It is good to be here, and congratulations class of 2010. I am honored to be part of this special occasion.<p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you!<p><i>The President.</i> And I love you back. Let me acknowledge your extraordinary Governor, Jennifer Granholm. Superintendent Rice, thank you for your inspiring words. Your mayor, Bobby Hopewell, who I understand is a proud Kalamazoo graduate himself.<p>Thanks to Principal Washington for--not just for the warm introduction, but for his enthusiasm and his energy and his leadership and his nice singing voice. [<i>Laughter</i>] Thank you to all the trustees, to the alumni, to the parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles, cousins, everybody who's been a part of this extraordinary place.<p>And I want to recognize our student speakers. Cindy, who embodies the best of our traditions in this country--arrived 3 or 4 years ago, Cindy did, and graduates as the valedictorian--this is what is continually replenishing the energy and the dynamism and the innovation of this country, and we could not be prouder of you. Thank you. And to Simon, I'm glad that, according to the Constitution, you can't run till you're 35. [<i>Laughter</i>] So I'll be long gone by then. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it gives me great confidence to know that we've got such incredible young leaders who are going to be remaking the world in so many different ways.<p>Now, recently, an article from your local paper, the Kalamazoo Gazette, was brought to my attention. And it ran just after this school had been chosen as one of the six finalists in our Race to the Top Commencement Challenge. And for those who aren't aware of it, this is a contest to highlight schools that promote academic excellence, personal responsibility, and that best prepare students for college and careers. And this article in the Gazette quoted a young lady named Kelsey Wilson--where is--is Kelsey here? She's right over there? Anyway----<p><i>Audience members.</i> She's here.<p><i>The President.</i> She's over there? Hey, Kelsey. How are you? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So Kelsey was quoted as saying, \\"We're the kind of school that never gets credit for what we do. And our school is amazing.\\" This is what Kelsey said: \\"Our school is amazing.\\"<p>Well, Kelsey, class of 2010, members of the Kalamazoo community, I'm here tonight because after three rounds of competition, with more than a thousand schools, and more than 170,000 votes cast, I know--and America knows--what you've done at Kalamazoo Central. You are amazing! We know. We know. Our amazing Secretary of Education Arne Duncan knows. Folks in Washington know, folks across the country know, and hopefully, after tonight, everybody knows.<p>Now, together as a community, you've embraced the motto of this school district: \\"Every child, every opportunity, every time\\"--every time. \\"Every child, every opportunity, every time,\\" because you believe like I do that every young person, every child, regardless of what they look like, where they come from, how much money their parents have, every child who walks through your schoolhouse doors deserves a quality education. No exceptions.<p>And I'm here tonight because I think that America has a lot to learn from Kalamazoo Central about what makes for a successful school in this new century. You've got educators raising standards and then inspiring their students to meet them. You've got community members who are stepping up as tutors and mentors, as coaches. You got parents who are taking an active interest in their child's education, attending those teacher conferences, yes, turning off the TV once in a while, making sure homework gets done.<p>Arne Duncan is here tonight because these are the values, these are the changes that he's encouraging in every school in this Nation. It's the key to our future.<p>But the most important ingredient is you: students who raised your sights, who aimed high, who invested yourselves in your own success. It's no accident that so many of you have received college admissions letters, class of 2010. That didn't happen by accident. It happened because you worked for it. As the superintendent said, you earned it.<p>So, Kelsey, I agree with you. What you've done here at Kalamazoo Central is amazing. I am proud of you. Your parents are proud of you. Your teachers, your principal, we're all incredibly proud.<p>Now, graduates, all these folks around you, I have to say, though, with the cameras and the beaming smiles, they've worked hard to give you everything you need to pursue your dreams and fulfill your God-given talent. Unfortunately, you can't take them with you when you leave here. [<i>Laughter</i>] No one is going to go follow you around making sure that you're getting to class on time, making sure you're doing your work. Nobody is going to be doing that for you. Going forward, that's all on you. Responsibility for your success is squarely on your shoulders.<p>And the question I have for you today is this: What is each--what are each of you going to do to meet that responsibility?<p>Now, right now you're getting plenty of advice from everybody. Some of it's helpful. [<i>Laughter</i>] And so I hate to pile on with advice. But while I'm here--[<i>Laughter</i>]--what the heck. [<i>Laughter</i>] I figure I should offer a few thoughts based on my own experiences, but also based on my hopes for all of you and for our country in the years ahead.<p>First, understand that your success in life won't be determined just by what's given to you or what happens to you, but by what you do with all that's given to you, what you do with all that happens to you, how hard you try, how far you push yourself, how high you're willing to reach. True excellence only comes with perseverance.<p>This wasn't something I really understood when I was back your age. My father, some of you know, left my family when I was 2 years old. I was raised by a single mom and my grandparents. And sometimes I had a tendency to goof off. As my mother put it, I had a tendency sometimes to act a bit casual about my future. [<i>Laughter</i>] Sometimes I was rebellious. Sometimes I partied a little too much. [<i>applause</i>] Oh, yes, yes--this is a cautionary tale. [<i>Laughter</i>] Don't be cheering when I say that. [<i>Laughter</i>] Studied just enough to get by. I thought hard work, responsibility, that's old-fashioned. That's just people wanting to tell me what to do.<p>But after a few years, after I was living solely on my own and I realized that living solely for my own entertainment wasn't so entertaining anymore, that it wasn't particularly satisfying anymore, that I didn't seem to be making much of a ripple in the world, I started to change my tune. I realized that by refusing to apply myself, there was nothing I could point to that I was proud of that would last.<p>Now, you come of an age in a popular culture that actually reinforces this approach to life. You watch TV, and basically, what it says is you can be rich and successful without much effort; you just have to become a celebrity. [<i>Laughter</i>] If you can achieve some reality TV notoriety, that's better than lasting achievement. We live in a culture that tells you there's a quick fix for every problem and a justification for every selfish desire. And all of you were raised with cell phones and iPods and texting and e-mails, and you're able to call up a fact or a song or a friend with the click of a button. So you're used to instant gratification.<p>But meaningful achievement, lasting success, it doesn't happen in an instant. It's not about luck. It's not about a sudden stroke of genius. It's not usually about talent. It's usually about daily effort, the large choices and the small choices that you make that add up over time. It's about the skills you build and the knowledge you accumulate and the energy you invest in every task, no matter how trivial or menial it may seem at the time.<p>Now, you've got an alum who plays for the Yankees, I hear. He's supposed to be pretty good. Now, Derek Jeter wasn't born playing shortstop for the Yankees. He got there through years of effort. And his high school baseball coach once remarked, \\"I'm surprised he still doesn't have blisters and that I don't have the blisters on my hands from hitting ground balls just for Derek. He always wanted more: 'How about one more turn in the batting cage? Or 25 more ground balls?'\\"<p>Thomas Edison tested more than 6,000 different materials for just one tiny part of the light bulb that he invented. Think about that: six thousand tests. J.K. Rowling's first Harry Potter book was rejected 12 times before it was finally published. Mozart was a musical prodigy, but he practiced for hours each day, accumulating thousands of hours at the piano by the time he was just 6 years old. I understand that your boys' basketball team did pretty good. First State champions for the first time in 59 years. That didn't happen by accident. They put in work. They put in effort.<p>So today, you all have a rare and valuable chance to pursue your own passions, chase your own dreams without incurring a mountain of debt. What an incredible gift. So you've got no excuse for giving anything less than your best effort. No excuses.<p>That's my second piece of advice, very simple: Don't make excuses. Take responsibility not just for your successes, take responsibility where you fall short as well.<p>Now, the truth is, no matter how hard you work, you're not going to ace every class. Well, maybe Cindy will, but-- [<i>Laughter</i>] . But you're not going to ace every class. You're not going to succeed the first time you try something. There are going to be times when you screw up. There will be times where you hurt people you love. There will be times where you make a mistake and you stray from the values that you hold most deeply.<p>And when that happens, it's the easiest thing in the world to start looking around for somebody else to blame. Your professor was too hard; your boss was a jerk; the coaches was playing favorites; your friend just didn't understand. Your wife--oh, no. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm just messing with Michelle right there. [<i>Laughter</i>] That was all in fun. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>No, but this is an easy habit to get into. You see it every day in Washington--every day--folks calling each other names, making all sorts of accusations on television. Everybody is always pointing a finger at somebody else. You notice that?<p>Now, this community could have easily gone down that road. This community could have made excuses: Well, our kids have fewer advantages, our schools have fewer resources, how can we compete? You could have spent years pointing fingers, blaming parents, blaming teachers, blaming the principal, blaming the superintendent, blaming the President. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But that's--class of 2010, I want you to pay attention on this because that's not what happened. Instead, this community was honest with itself about where you were falling short. You resolved to do better, push your kids harder, open their minds wider, expose them to all kinds of ideas and people and experiences.<p>So, graduates, I hope you'll continue those efforts. Don't make excuses. And I hope that wherever you go, you won't narrow the broad intellectual and social exposure you've had here at Kalamazoo Central. Instead, seek to expand it. Don't just hang out with people who look like you or go to the same church you do or share your political views. Broaden your circle to include people with different backgrounds and life experiences. Because that's how you'll end up learning what it's like to walk in somebody else's shoes. That's how you'll come to understand the challenges other people face. And this is not just an academic exercise. It's a way to broaden your ambit of concern and learn to see yourselves in each other.<p>Which brings me to my final piece of advice for today, and that's to give back, to be part of something bigger than yourselves. Hitch your wagon to something that is bigger than yourselves. I know that so many of you have already served your community through efforts like your Stuff the Bus food drives and groups like Activists for Action. And I commend you for that. But I also know that many of you are the first in your family to go to college. And right about now, you may be feeling all the weight of their hopes and expectations coming down on your shoulders.<p>And once you start juggling those classes and activities and that campus job, and you get caught up in your own dreams and your own anxieties and dating--[<i>Laughter</i>]--you may feel like you've got enough on your plate just dealing with your own life. It might be easier to turn the channel when the news disturbs you, to avert your eyes when you pass that homeless man on the street, to tell yourself that other people's problems really aren't your responsibility.<p>But just think about what the consequence of that approach to life would have been if that's how folks had acted here in this community. What if those Kalamazoo Promise donors had said to themselves, \\"Well, you know what, I can pay for my own kid's education; why should I have to pay for somebody else's?\\"<p>Think about the consequences for our country. What if our Founding Fathers had said, \\"You know, colonialism is kind of oppressive, but I'm doing okay, my family's doing all right, why should I spend my summer in Philadelphia arguing about a Constitution?\\"<p>What if those abolitionists, those civil right workers had said: \\"You know, slavery is wrong, segregation is wrong, but it's kind of dangerous to get mixed up in that stuff. I don't have time for all those meetings and marches. I think I'm going to take a pass. I hope it works out, but that's not something I want to do.\\"<p>I want you to think for a minute about the extraordinary men and women who've worn our country's uniform and have given their last full measure of devotion to keep us safe and free. What if they said, \\"I really do love this country, but why should I sacrifice so much for people I've never even met?\\" Young men and women in uniform right now are making those sacrifices. <p>So you and I are here today because those people made a different choice. They chose to step up. They chose to serve. And I hope you will follow their example, because there is work to be done, and your country needs you. We've got an economy to rebuild. We've got children to educate. We've got diseases to cure. We've got threats to face. We've got an oil spill to clean up. We've got clean energy to discover. And it is going to be up to you to meet all of those challenges, to build industries and make discoveries and inspire the next generation. It's going to be up to you to heal the divide that continues to afflict our world.<p>Now, I'm not saying you got to do it here all at once. But as Theodore Roosevelt once put it, I'm asking you to \\"do what you can, with what you've got, where you are.\\" And I can guarantee that wherever your journey takes you, there are going to be children who need mentors and senior citizens who need assistance, folks down on their luck who could use a helping hand.<p>And once you've reached out and formed those connections, you'll find it's a little harder to numb yourself to other people's suffering. It's a little harder to ignore the national debates about the issues that affect their lives and yours. In the end, service binds us to each other and to our communities and our country in a way that nothing else can. It's how we become more fully American.<p>That's the reason those donors created the Kalamazoo Promise in the first place, not for recognition or reward but because of their connection to this community, because their belief in your potential, because their faith that you would use this gift not just to enrich your own lives but the lives of others and the life of the Nation.<p>And I'm told that soon after the Promise was established, a first grader approached the superintendent at the time and declared to her, \\"I'm going to college.\\" First grader. \\"I'm going to college. I don't know what it is, but I'm going.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We may never know those donors' names, but we know how they helped bring this community together and how you've embraced their promise not just as a gift to be appreciated, but a responsibility to be fulfilled. We know how they have helped inspire an entire generation of young people here in Kalamazoo to imagine a different future for themselves.<p>And, graduates, today I'm asking you to pay them back by seeking to have the same kind of impact with your own lives, by pursuing excellence in everything you do, by serving this country that you love. I know that you can do it. After all, you are the Giants, and with the education you've gotten here, there's nothing you can't do.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America. And God bless the class of 2010.\" "
"165" "\"Well, I just completed a meeting with the Cabinet that is directly in charge of dealing with the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. From the beginning, we activated 15 agencies for what is now the largest national response ever to an environmental disaster. And what we wanted to do was make sure that every agency was coordinating and that there was clarity about how we're going to proceed in the coming months.<p>Now, we have gotten reports that have been confirmed by our independent scientists that the top-hat mechanism that was put in place is beginning to capture some of the oil. We are still trying to get a better determination as to how much it's capturing, and we are pushing BP very hard to make sure that all the facilities are available so that as the oil is being captured, it's also being separated properly, that there are receptacles for that oil to go, that we have thought through contingencies in case there is an emergency or a hurricane so that these mechanisms are not disrupted, and that there's a lot of redundancy built in.<p>But here's what we know: Even if we are successful in containing some or much of this oil, we are not going to get this problem completely solved until we actually have the relief well completed, and that is going to take a couple of more months. We also know that there's already a lot of oil that's been released and that there is going to be more oil released no matter how successful this containment effort is. And that's why it's so important for us to continue to put every asset that we have--boom, skimmers, vessels, hiring local folks and local fishermen with their facilities, equipping them with skimmers--getting every asset that we have out there to make sure that we are minimizing the amount of oil that is actually coming to shore.<p>Now, there are a number of other issues that were raised during this meeting that I just want to touch on. Number one, when I was down in the Gulf on Friday, meeting with fishermen and small-business owners, what is clear is that the economic impact of this disaster is going to be substantial and it is going to be ongoing. And as I said on Friday--and I want to repeat--I do not want to see BP nickel-and-diming these businesses that are having a very tough time.<p>Now, we've got the SBA in there helping to provide bridge loans, and we've got the Department of Commerce helping businesses to prepare and document the damages that they're experiencing. But what we also need is BP being quick and responsive to the needs of these local communities. We have individuals who have been assigned specifically to ride herd on BP, to make sure that that's happening. We want the people who are in charge of BP's claims process to be meeting with us on a regular basis. But we are going to insist that that money flows quickly, in a timely basis, so that you don't have a shrimp processor or a fisherman who's going out of business before BP finally makes up its mind as to whether or not it's going to pay out. And that's going to be one of our top priorities, because we know that no matter how successful we are over the next few weeks in some of the containment efforts, the damages are still going to be there.<p>The second thing we talked about quite a bit is the issue of the health of workers who are out there dealing with this spill. So far, we have seen that onshore, we are not seeing huge elevations in toxins in the air or in the water. But that may not be the case out where people are actually doing the work. And we've got to make sure that we are providing all the protections that are necessary. We've put processes in place to make sure that workers out there are getting the equipment and the training they need to protect themselves and their health. But this is something that we're going to have to continue to monitor, because there are a lot of workers out there, and increasingly, we're starting to get individuals who may not be experienced in oil cleanup, because we're trying to get an all-hands-on-deck process. We've got to make sure that they are protected.<p>Obviously, we're also monitoring very carefully the impact to people who are not working out there, and that's where the Environmental Protection Agency is doing constant monitoring of the air and the water quality. And we are also doing testing on the seafood to make sure that toxins aren't being introduced into the overall population.<p>A couple of other points I just want to make. Dr. Lubchenco of NOAA reported on convening a scientific conference to make sure that on issues like the plume that's been reported in the news and other questions about how large is this, what kind of damage do we anticipate, et cetera, that we have full transparency, that the information is out there, that it's subject to scientific review so that nobody has any surprises.<p>And what we're going to continue to strive for is complete transparency in real time so that as we get information, the public as a whole gets information, academics, scientists, researchers get this information in what is going to be a fluid and evolving process.<p>Let me just make one final point, and I think this was something that was emphasized by everybody here, and it's something that I want to say to the American people. This will be contained. It may take some time, and it's going to take a whole lot of effort. There is going to be damage done to the Gulf Coast, and there is going to be economic damages that we've got to make sure BP is responsible for and compensates people for.<p>But the one thing I'm absolutely confident about is that, as we have before, we will get through this crisis. And it--one of the things that I wanted to make sure we understand is that not only are we going to control the damages to the Gulf Coast, but we want to actually use this as an opportunity to reexamine and work with States and local communities to restore the coast in ways that actually enhance the livelihoods and the quality of life for people in that area.<p>It's going to take some time. It's not going to be easy. But this is a resilient ecosystem. These are resilient people down on the Gulf Coast. I had a chance to talk to them, and they've gone through all kinds of stuff over the last 50, 100 years, and they bounce back. And they're going to bounce back this time. They're going to need help from the entire country. They're going to need constant, vigilant attention from this administration. That's what they're going to get.<p>But we are going to be--we are confident that not only are we going to be able to get past this immediate crisis, but we're going to be focusing our attention on making sure that the coast fully recovers and that eventually it comes back even stronger than it was before this crisis.<p>All right? Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"166" "\"Hello, everybody. Well, how's the food? We could not have a more beautiful day for this annual picnic, and we are just thrilled that all of you had a chance to get over. I know that folks were running a little bit late, many of you because of votes. But, you know, the fact of the matter is, is that we have had as tough a year and a half as America has seen in a couple of generations, and that's meant that Congress has had to do more on a whole range of issues.<p>Right now, obviously, we're looking at what's happening in the Gulf with deep concern, and that's going to put more additional pressure on Congress to work with States and the administration to help deal with this tragedy and this crisis.<p>It is important, though, given the incredible sacrifices that so many of you have made and frankly, from my perspective, just as important are the sacrifices that your family makes--you being away, you missing family events--that every once in a while, we have an opportunity to get together and for me to say thank you to you for your incredible devotion to the country, regardless of party, and for both Michelle and I to say to your families how grateful we are for your service, and hopefully, to have a little bit of time for fun and for fellowship and to remind ourselves of what's so important in life.<p>So I'm thrilled to see all the young people here who are here today. And we hope that you have a wonderful time.<p>Band, you guys are great as always. Chefs, I think people are all voting with their mouths around here. I suspect there's not going to be a lot of leftovers. <p>And on behalf of Michelle and myself, we hope that you enjoy the evening, and we are grateful to all of you for being here. <p>So thank you very much.\" "
"167" "\"All right. Good afternoon, everybody. Today the United Nations Security Council voted overwhelmingly to sanction Iran for its continued failure to live up to its obligations. This resolution will put in place the toughest sanctions ever faced by the Iranian Government, and it sends an unmistakable message about the international community's commitment to stopping the spread of nuclear weapons. <p>For years, the Iranian Government has failed to live up to its obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. It has violated its commitments to the International Atomic Energy Agency. It has ignored U.N. Security Council resolutions. And while Iran's leaders hide behind outlandish rhetoric, their actions have been deeply troubling. Indeed, when I took office just over 16 months ago, Iranian intransigence was well established. Iran had gone from zero centrifuges spinning to several thousand, and the international community was divided about how to move forward. <p>Yet this day was not inevitable. We made clear from the beginning of my administration that the United States was prepared to pursue diplomatic solutions to address the concerns over Iranian nuclear programs. I extended the offer of engagement on the basis of mutual interest and mutual respect. And together with the United Kingdom, with Russia, China, and Germany, we sat down with our Iranian counterparts. We offered the opportunity of a better relationship between Iran and the international community, one that reduced Iran's political isolation and increased its economic integration with the rest of the world. In short, we offered the Iranian Government the prospect of a better future for its people, if and only if it lives up to its international obligations. <p>So there is no double standard at play here. We've made it clear, time and again, that we respect Iran's right, like all countries, to access peaceful nuclear energy. That is a right embedded in the NPT, a treaty that has to serve as the safeguard against a world in which more nations acquire the world's most deadly weapons and international law is treated as an empty promise. That NPT treaty was signed by all the parties involved, and it is a treaty that the United States has sought to strengthen from the day I took office, including through our own commitments to reduce America's nuclear arsenal. <p>So let me repeat: We recognize Iran's rights. But with those rights come responsibilities. And time and again, the Iranian Government has failed to meet those responsibilities. Iran concealed a nuclear enrichment facility in Qom that raised serious questions about the nature of its program. Iran further violated its own obligations under U.N. Security Council resolutions to suspend uranium enrichment. Instead, they're enriching up to 20 percent. It has failed to comply fully with IAEA's requirements. Indeed, Iran is the only NPT signatory in the world--the only one--that cannot convince the IAEA that its nuclear program is intended for peaceful purposes. <p>That's why the international community was compelled to impose these serious consequences. These are the most comprehensive sanctions that the Iranian Government has faced. They will impose restrictions on Iran's nuclear activities, its ballistic missile program, and, for the first time, its conventional military. They will put a new framework in place to stop Iranian smuggling and crack down on Iranian banks and financial transactions. They target individuals, entities, and institutions, including those associated with the Revolutionary Guard, that have supported Iran's nuclear program and prospered from illicit activities at the expense of the Iranian people. And we will ensure that these sanctions are vigorously enforced, just as we continue to refine and enforce our own sanctions on Iran alongside our friends and our allies. <p>The strong resolution that was passed today benefited from strong international support. In voting for it, we were joined by nations from Asia, Africa, Europe, and Latin America, including Russia and China. And these sanctions show the united view of the international community that a nuclear arms race in the Middle East is in nobody's interest and that nations must be held accountable for challenging the global nonproliferation regime. The Iranian Government must understand that true security will not come through the pursuit of nuclear weapons. True security will come through adherence to international law and the demonstration of its peaceful intent.<p>We know that the Iranian Government will not change its behavior overnight, but today's vote demonstrates the growing costs that will come with Iranian intransigence. Now, I want to be clear: These sanctions do not close the door on diplomacy. Iran continues to have the opportunity to take a different and better path. I would like nothing more than to reach the day when the Iranian Government fulfills its international obligations, a day when these sanctions are lifted, previous sanctions are lifted, and the Iranian people can finally fulfill the greatness of the Iranian nation. <p>Indeed, these sanctions are not directed at the Iranian people. As I said in Cairo, for decades, the Iranian Government has defined itself in opposition to my country. But faced with the opportunity to find a new way forward, one that would benefit its own people, the Iranian Government has chosen instead to remain a prisoner of the past. <p>Saturday will mark 1 year from the day that an election captivated the attention of the world, an event that should have been remembered for how the Iranian people participated with remarkable enthusiasm, but will instead be remembered for how the Iranian Government brutally suppressed dissent and murdered the innocent, including a young woman left to die in the street.<p>Actions do have consequences, and today the Iranian Government will face some of those consequences. Because whether it is threatening the nuclear nonproliferation regime or the human rights of its own citizens or the stability of its own neighbors by supporting terrorism, the Iranian Government continues to demonstrate that its own unjust actions are a threat to justice everywhere. <p>I want and hope for the people of Iran that the Government of Iran will make a different choice. It can make a different choice and pursue a course that will reaffirm the NPT as the basis of global nonproliferation and disarmament, a course that will advance Iran's own security and prosperity and the peace of the wider world. Today's sanctions are yet another signal that if the Iranian Government continues to undermine the NPT and the peace that it protects, then Iran will find itself more isolated, less prosperous, and less secure. <p>Thank you.\" "
"168" "\"Well, I want to thank all these leaders for engaging in a very substantive conversation, and I'm going to be relatively brief in summarizing it. Obviously, at the top of our list was our continued response to the crisis in the Gulf and what's happening with the oil spill. We gave them an update on all the measures that are being taken, the single largest national response in United States history to an environmental disaster. But we had a frank conversation about the fact that the laws that have been in place have not been adequate for a crisis of this magnitude. The Oil Pollution Act was passed at a time when people didn't envision drilling 4 miles under the sea for oil.<p>And so it's going to be important that--based on facts, based on experts, based on a thorough examination of what went wrong here and where things have gone right, but also where things have gone wrong--that we update the laws to make sure that the people in the Gulf, the fishermen, the hotel owners, families who are dependent for their livelihoods in the Gulf, that they are all made whole and that we are in a much better position to respond to any such crisis in the future. So that was a prominent part of the discussion, and I was pleased to see bipartisan agreement that we have to deal with that in an aggressive, forward-leaning way.<p>Even as we deal with that crisis, we've still got an economy that's on the mend, but there are a lot of people out there who are still out of work. There are a lot of families who are still struggling to pay the bills. And so a major part of our discussion was how could we continue to build on the progress that's been made in the economy and, in particular, how can we make sure that has an impact on job growth and the day-to-day improvements that people are seeing in their own lives.<p>A couple of things that we discussed was passing the package of tax extenders and unemployment insurance and so forth that is important to give families confidence that they're going to be able to get back on their feet, but also give businesses confidence in terms of what their tax structure is going to look like going forward.<p>A prominent area that we want to see movement on, hopefully in this work period, is on small businesses. They are the primary drivers of jobs in our economy. We are still seeing problems for small businesses when it comes to being able to obtain loans to expand or hire new people or just maintain their inventories. And so we've got a package of measures that have been worked on, on a bipartisan basis, that would help in terms of capitalizing small firms, that would eliminate capital gains taxes for startups and small businesses. Those measures need to be put in place. We need to get that done because the work of repairing this economy is not complete.<p>We think that it is important, during this work period, to finish the financial regulatory bill. The financial markets, I think, deserve certainty, but more importantly, in my mind, consumers and the American people deserve to know that there's a regulatory framework that is in place that protects consumers, investors, ordinary folks, and assures taxpayers that they never again are put in a position where they've got to bail out somebody because of their irresponsible acts.<p>And we also think that it's important to complete a supplemental, a package that ensures that our young men and women who are in uniform fighting in Afghanistan get all the support that they need.<p>So we're going to have a busy agenda going forward. There are some immediate things that we have to deal with. There are also some medium- and long-term issues that we've discussed that have to be dealt with. The one that was prominent was the issue of how we deal with debt and deficits. And there were actually some very constructive conversations around the table about ways that we could start making significant progress, not necessarily even waiting for the financial commission on some steps. For example, I've already called for a 3-year freeze on discretionary spending. There was a good conversation among the leadership in terms of how we adhere to that number. And there were some other creative suggestions, both from Republican and Democrats, about further progress that we could make on that front.<p>In that same category of thinking about the next generation, I want to close by just talking about my personal belief that we have to move on an energy agenda that is forward looking, that creates jobs, that assures that we are leaders in solar and wind and biodiesel, that recognizes that we are going to be reliant on fossil fuels for many years to come, that we are going to still be using oil, and we're still going to be using other fossil fuels, but that we have to start planning now and putting the infrastructure in place now, putting the research and development in place now so that we end up being leaders in our energy future.<p>I'm actually going to have a group of CEOs this afternoon who've come in from a wide range of different industries, people from Bill Gates of Microsoft to the former chairman of DuPont, who have come up with a series of recommendations about how we need to move much more aggressively on the energy agenda.<p>And although, obviously, our immediate task is to deal with a crisis that is affecting millions of people down in the Gulf, we can't keep our eye off the importance of having an energy policy that meets the needs of the next generation and ensures that the United States is the leader when it comes to energy policy. We are not yet that leader, and that's what I want us to do. And so I very much appreciate all the leaders here today who have been very constructive in wanting to explore how we can move that forward.<p>All right. Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"169" "\"Good morning, everybody. I just finished a meeting with these small-business owners and a few of their workers. And we talked about some of the economic challenges facing these folks. And we talked about the ways that our government can make it easier for smaller firms to hire and to grow.<p>These men and women know how important it is because historically, small businesses have created roughly two out of every three new jobs in our country. And to replace the millions of jobs lost in the recession, we're going to need to make sure that small companies are able to open up and expand and add names to their payroll. Small businesses will help lead this economic recovery. And that's why we will continue to stand by them.<p>But ensuring that small businesses can thrive is about more than just economic success. It's also about who we are as a people. It's about a nation where anybody who's got a good idea and a willingness to work hard can succeed. That's the central promise of America. It's that promise that has drawn millions of people to our shores. It's what drives workers to become their own bosses. It's what propels some basement inventor to bring a new concept to market.<p>That's what led two guys, Bobby Pancake and Steve Wheat--their real names--who are here today, to take a chance and try their hand at actually running restaurants. Obviously, they'd have to be restaurateurs, named Pancake and Wheat. They worked for a restaurant chain for years, but they decided to leave the corporate offices and open up their own franchises. In fact, Bobby and Steve told me they recently opened up their sixth location. And Terry Haney, the general manager of one of their locations, is also here.<p>This same promise of being able to build your own dreams and be your own boss led Prachee--Prachee Devadas to come to this country, become a citizen, and open up what's become a successful technology services company. Prachee told me that when she started, she had just one employee. Today, she employs more than a hundred people, including her husband Anand, who is here today.<p>So the fact is that small businesses all across the country are hiring people, making a difference in their communities, giving back to their communities, but they've also been especially hard hit by the recession. From the middle of 2007 to the end of 2008, small businesses lost 2.4 million jobs. And because banks shrunk from lending in the midst of this financial crisis, it's been particularly difficult for small-business owners to take out loans to open up shop or expand. It's been hard to finance inventories and payroll and new equipment.<p>Now, I've said before and I'll repeat, Government can't guarantee success for these companies, but it can knock down barriers that prevent owners from getting loans. Government can't create private sector jobs, but it can create the conditions for small businesses like these to grow and to hire more people. That's what's guided much of our economic agenda.<p>So let me be specific. Last year, we enacted seven tax cuts for America's small businesses--seven tax cuts. So far, the Recovery Act has supported over 68,000 loans to small businesses, which translates into nearly $29 billion in new lending. More than 1,300 banks and credit unions that had not made SBA loans since before the financial crisis are now lending again. More than $8 billion in Federal Recovery Act contracts are now going to small businesses. In fact, Prachee has been able to add 20 part-time and full-time workers because of the Recovery Act.<p>In addition, as a result of a bill I signed into law a few months ago, businesses are now eligible for tax cuts when they hire. When they hire unemployed workers, they're eligible for tax cuts. Companies are also able to write off more of their investments in new equipment. And as part of the health reform package, 4 million small-business owners recently received a postcard in their mailboxes from the IRS, and it was actually good news: It told them that they could be eligible for a health care tax credit this year that could be worth perhaps tens of thousands of dollars to these small businesses.<p>So these and other steps are making a difference. Little more than a year ago, the economy was in freefall. Today, it's growing again. Little more than a year ago, the economy was losing an average of 750,000 jobs per month. It's now been adding jobs for 5 months in a row. But even though we are in the process of digging ourselves out of this recession, we're still in a pretty deep hole. Millions of our family members, our friends, our neighbors are still looking for work; they're still faced with the prospects of long-term unemployment. Credit is still less available than it should be, particularly to small businesses.<p>As small-business owners like Prachee and Bobby and Steve will tell you, we may be recovering but we're not yet recovered. We have to keep moving forward. And that's why I'm urging Congress to swiftly approve a set of tax breaks and lending incentives to spur hiring and growth at small businesses. The legislation that's being debated right now would eliminate capital gains taxes for small investment--for investments in small firms, which will help move capital to these companies across America. It will provide tax relief to small startups to encourage folks to open up businesses as well.<p>To foster more credit, the package would create the small business lending fund I proposed in my State of the Union Address to help underwrite loans through community banks. And we'd create a new State small-business credit initiative because States facing budget shortfalls are scaling back lending to small firms and manufacturers. That's working against our recovery. I'm also urging Congress to expand and extend successful SBA programs--by increasing loan limits, for example--something that could benefit people like Bobby and Steve.<p>In fact, since the start of my administration, we've been hearing from small businesses that want to retain and hire more employees, but they need additional credit. And we've been hearing from small community banks that want to lend more to small businesses, but they need additional capital. So this bill helps fulfill both needs. And to help us create jobs without adding to our deficit, we're making the tough choices to pay for these proposals.<p>So I'm hopeful that the House will pass these measures next week, and that the Senate will follow as soon as possible with both support from Democrats and Republicans. And I'm eager to sign this tax relief and additional lending into law. That's how we can continue to move our economy forward, to continue on the path from recession to recovery, but also ultimately to prosperity.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"170" "\"More than a decade ago, Congress set up a formula that governs how doctors get paid by the Medicare program. The intent was to slow the growth of Medicare costs, but the result was a formula that has proposed cutting payments for America's doctors year after year after year. These are cuts that would not only jeopardize our physicians' pay but our seniors' health care.<p>Since 2003, Congress has acted to prevent these pay cuts from going into effect. These votes were largely bipartisan, and they succeeded when Democrats ran Congress and when Republicans ran Congress, which was most of the time.<p>This year, a majority of Congress is willing to prevent a pay cut of 21 percent, a pay cut that would undoubtedly force some doctors to stop seeing Medicare patients altogether. But this time, some Senate Republicans may even block a vote on this issue. After years of voting to defer these cuts, the other party is now willing to walk away from the needs of our doctors and our seniors.<p>Now, I realize that simply kicking these cuts down the road another year is not a long-term solution to this problem. For years, I've said that a system where doctors are left to wonder if they'll get fairly reimbursed makes absolutely no sense. And I am committed to permanently reforming this Medicare formula in a way that balances fiscal responsibility with the responsibility we have to doctors and seniors. In addition, we're already taking significant steps to slow the growth of Medicare costs through health insurance reform, not by targeting doctors and seniors, but by eliminating 50 percent of the waste, fraud, and abuse in the system by 2012. This not only strengthens Medicare, it saves taxpayer dollars.<p>I'm absolutely willing to take the difficult steps necessary to lower the cost of Medicare and put our budget on a more fiscally sustainable path. But I'm not willing to do that by punishing hard-working physicians or the millions of Americans who count on Medicare. That's just wrong. And that's why in the short term, Congress must act to prevent this pay cut to doctors.<p>If they don't act, doctors will see a 21-percent cut in their Medicare payments this week. This week, doctors will start receiving these lower reimbursements from the Medicare program. That could lead them to stop participating in the Medicare program, and that could lead seniors to lose their doctors.<p>We can't allow this to happen. We have to fix this problem so that our doctors can get paid for the lifesaving services they provide and keep their doors open. We have to fix this problem to keep the promise of Medicare for our seniors so that they get the health care they deserve. So I urge Republicans in the Senate to at least allow a majority of Senators and Congressmen to stop this pay cut. I urge them to stand with America's seniors and America's doctors.<p>Thanks.\" "
"171" "\"<i>[The President's remarks were joined in progress.]</i><p><i>The President</i>. ----the problem is, most of this stuff had been tested with a much smaller amount of oil. And so the amounts of dispersants, for example, were much lower. We really have never seen up to a million----<p><i>Participant. </i>Gallons<p><i>The President. </i>----gallons of dispersant put out there. And so we already provided some waivers, because our attitude was, given the toxicity, given how toxic the oil was already--it's a matter of the lesser of two evils--it was better to go ahead and put that out. And we tested it for safety, and the EPA has been involved in that. <p>But the point I made earlier is the one that I think we have to focus on, and that is that the technologies generally, whether it's dispersants, boom, skimming devices, they really haven't developed much over the last 30, 40 years. We're using the same stuff--the industry is using the same stuff that the industry was using 40 years ago. And we've got to--part of the review that we're doing involves making sure that whether it's private industry or a public-private partnership that people start developing better mechanisms to respond to this kind of disastrous situation<p>But for the press pool, I just want to thank the business owners as well as the mayor and the Governor and first lady for talking to Thad and myself.<p>As you can see, this is a spectacular beach. You've got Missy, who's got a wonderful inn, the Edgewater Inn, and George [Scott]*, he's got a terrific restaurant--what's the name of the restaurant?<p><i>Scott Weinberg</i>. The Blow Fly Inn.<p><i>The President</i>. And Missy was mentioning she has already seen a 40-percent drop in her occupancy since this crisis occurred, partly because of cancellations of large groups that were planning to stay there.<p>It just gives you a sense--and those folks who were going to stay at Missy's would have been eating at George's [Scott's],* so it gives you a sense of the kind of potential economic impact that a crisis like this can have on individual business owners. And obviously, they've got to make payroll, and they've got employees, and it trickles down and has an impact on them as well. <p>So we are going to be working with business owners like this, with Governors and mayors to make sure that they are made whole as a consequence of this crisis. But we also want to make sure that we are in this for the long haul. And the full effects of this may not be known immediately. They may not be known 3 months from now and may not be fully known for another 6 months or a year. And we just want to make sure we've got structure in place so that people like Missy and George [Scott]* are adequately dealt with. That's going to be a top topic of mine when I meet with the BP officials on Wednesday. And so I just want to say how much I appreciate them sharing their stories.<p>All right? Thank you, everybody.\" "
"172" "\"I'm going to make a longer statement later in Alabama, so I--just very quickly, I just want to thank Governor Barbour and the first lady of Mississippi for hosting us; want to thank Governor Jindal for flying in; and we have members of the congressional delegation here in Mississippi, as well as a range of local and State officials.<p>Admiral Allen provided a detailed report about what was being done specifically here in Mississippi and fielded a range of questions and suggestions about how responses can continually improve. One of the things that came out of the--this discussion is how do we make sure that there's effective coordination in terms of skimmers, vessels of opportunity that are out in the water right now. Can we make sure that they are responding as quickly as possible to the oil before it starts getting closer to shore? <p>And there are a range of issues having to do with communications. Are there--do they--some of these smaller vessels have radios on them? Have we done a effective inventory of which ones are large enough and have enough trained personnel that they can actually lay boom or they can engage in skimming? Which ones should be deployed more as sentinels to identify where, in fact, the oil may be coming in? I think there was a very useful conversation. Captain Steve Poulin, who is the local incident commander, had gathered a lot of these suggestions and is going to be moving on them in the days to come. <p>We also talked about claims to make sure that people here in Mississippi, but throughout the region, are going to be adequately compensated for the damages and the losses that they're experiencing right now. There are still problems with them. I think as everybody is aware, I'm going to be meeting with the chairman and other officials from BP on Wednesday. And so we're gathering up facts, stories right now so that we have an absolutely clear understanding about how we can best present to BP the need to make sure that individuals and businesses are dealt with in a fair manner and in a prompt manner. And again, there were suggestions on that front as well. <p>So I just want to thank everybody here that's involved. Folks around the table here have been working 24/7. The Governors, they've been on a constant state of full alert and have been putting in a lot of time and a lot of energy working with Thad Allen to make sure that in dealing with this disaster, we are minimizing the short-term impacts and we're making sure that we've got the resources to fully recover. <p>Last point I'm going to make, and this is something that's been repeatedly emphasized: Here in Mississippi--but it's true in Florida, it's true in Alabama, and it's true in portions of Louisiana--there's still a lot of opportunity for visitors to come down here, a lot of beaches that are not yet affected or will not be affected. And we just want to make sure that people who have travel plans down to the Gulf area remain mindful of that, because if people want to know what can they do to help folks down here, one of the best ways to help is to come down here and enjoy the outstanding hospitality. <p>So all right? And I'll be making longer comments when I get to Alabama this afternoon. Thank you, everybody.\" "
"173" "\"Good evening. As we speak, our Nation faces a multitude of challenges. At home, our top priority is to recover and rebuild from a recession that has touched the lives of nearly every American. Abroad, our brave men and women in uniform are taking the fight to Al Qaida wherever it exists. And tonight I've returned from a trip to the Gulf Coast to speak with you about the battle we're waging against an oil spill that is assaulting our shores and our citizens.<p>On April 20, an explosion ripped through BP Deepwater Horizon drilling rig about 40 miles off the coast of Louisiana. Eleven workers lost their lives; 17 others were injured. And soon, nearly a mile beneath the surface of the ocean, oil began spewing into the water.<p>Because there's never been a leak this size, at this depth, stopping it has tested the limits of human technology. That's why just after the rig sank, I assembled a team of our Nation's best scientists and engineers to tackle this challenge, a team led by Dr. Steven Chu, a Nobel Prize-winning physicist and our Nation's Secretary of Energy. Scientists at our national labs and experts from academia and other oil companies have also provided ideas and advice.<p>As a result of these efforts, we've directed BP to mobilize additional equipment and technology. And in the coming weeks and days, these efforts should capture up to 90 percent of the oil leaking out of the well. This is until the company finishes drilling a relief well later in the summer that's expected to stop the leak completely.<p>Already, this oil spill is the worst environmental disaster America has ever faced. And unlike an earthquake or a hurricane, it's not a single event that does its damage in a matter of minutes or days. The millions of gallons of oil that have spilled into the Gulf of Mexico are more like an epidemic, one that we will be fighting for months and even years.<p>But make no mistake: We will fight this spill with everything we've got for as long as it takes. We will make BP pay for the damage their company has caused. And we will do whatever's necessary to help the Gulf Coast and its people recover from this tragedy.<p>Tonight I'd like to lay out for you what our battle plan is going forward: what we're doing to clean up the oil, what we're doing to help our neighbors in the Gulf, and what we're doing to make sure that a catastrophe like this never happens again.<p>First, the cleanup: From the very beginning of this crisis, the Federal Government has been in charge of the largest environmental cleanup effort in our Nation's history, an effort led by Admiral Thad Allen, who has almost 40 years of experience responding to disasters. We now have nearly 30,000 personnel who are working across 4 States to contain and clean up the oil. Thousands of ships and other vessels are responding in the Gulf. And I've authorized the deployment of over 17,000 National Guard members along the coast. These service men and women are ready to help stop the oil from coming ashore. They are ready to help clean the beaches, train response workers, or even help with processing claims, and I urge the Governors in the affected States to activate these troops as soon as possible.<p>Because of our efforts, millions of gallons of oil have already been removed from the water through burning, skimming, and other collection methods. Over 5 1/2 million feet of boom has been laid across the water to block and absorb the approaching oil. We've approved the construction of new barrier islands in Louisiana to try to stop the oil before it reaches the shore, and we're working with Alabama, Mississippi, and Florida to implement creative approaches to their unique coastlines.<p>As the cleanup continues, we will offer whatever additional resources and assistance our coastal States may need. Now, a mobilization of this speed and magnitude will never be perfect, and new challenges will always arise. I saw and heard evidence of that during this trip. So if something isn't working, we want to hear about it. If there are problems in the operation, we will fix them.<p>But we have to recognize that despite our best efforts, oil has already caused damage to our coastline and its wildlife. And sadly, no matter how effective our response is, there will be more oil and more damage before this siege is done. That's why the second thing we're focused on is the recovery and restoration of the Gulf Coast.<p>You know, for generations, men and women who call this region home have made their living from the water. That living is now in jeopardy. I've talked to shrimpers and fishermen who don't know how they're going to support their families this year. I've seen empty docks and restaurants with fewer customers, even in areas where the beaches are not yet affected. I've talked to owners of shops and hotels who wonder when the tourists might start coming back. The sadness and the anger they feel is not just about the money they've lost, it's about a wrenching anxiety that their way of life may be lost.<p>I refuse to let that happen. Tomorrow I will meet with the chairman of BP and inform him that he is to set aside whatever resources are required to compensate the workers and business owners who have been harmed as a result of his company's recklessness. And this fund will not be controlled by BP. In order to ensure that all legitimate claims are paid out in a fair and timely manner, the account must and will be administered by an independent third party.<p>Beyond compensating the people of the Gulf in the short term, it's also clear we need a long-term plan to restore the unique beauty and bounty of this region. The oil spill represents just the latest blow to a place that's already suffered multiple economic disasters and decades of environmental degradation that has led to disappearing wetlands and habitats. And the region still hasn't recovered from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. That's why we must make a commitment to the Gulf Coast that goes beyond responding to the crisis of the moment.<p>I make that commitment tonight. Earlier I asked Ray Mabus, the Secretary of the Navy, who's also a former Governor of Mississippi and a son of the Gulf Coast, to develop a long-term Gulf Coast restoration plan as soon as possible. The plan will be designed by States, local communities, tribes, fishermen, businesses, conservationists, and other Gulf residents. And BP will pay for the impact this spill has had on the region.<p>The third part of our response plan is the steps we're taking to ensure that a disaster like this does not happen again. A few months ago, I approved a proposal to consider new, limited offshore drilling under the assurance that it would be absolutely safe, that the proper technology would be in place, and the necessary precautions would be taken.<p>That obviously was not the case in the Deepwater Horizon rig, and I want to know why. The American people deserve to know why. The families I met with last week who lost their loved ones in the explosion, these families deserve to know why. And so I've established a national Commission to understand the causes of this disaster and offer recommendations on what additional safety and environmental standards we need to put in place. Already, I've issued a 6-month moratorium on deepwater drilling. I know this creates difficulty for the people who work on these rigs, but for the sake of their safety and for the sake of the entire region, we need to know the facts before we allow deepwater drilling to continue. And while I urge the Commission to complete its work as quickly as possible, I expect them to do that work thoroughly and impartially.<p>And one place we've already begun to take action is at the agency in charge of regulating drilling and issuing permits, known as the Minerals Management Service. Over the last decade, this agency has become emblematic of a failed philosophy that views all regulation with hostility, a philosophy that says corporations should be allowed to play by their own rules and police themselves. At this agency, industry insiders were put in charge of industry oversight. Oil companies showered regulators with gifts and favors and were essentially allowed to conduct their own safety inspections and write their own regulations.<p>And when Ken Salazar became my Secretary of the Interior, one of his very first acts was to clean up the worst of the corruption at this agency. But it's now clear that the problem there ran much deeper and the pace of reform was just too slow. And so Secretary Salazar and I are bringing in new leadership at the agency: Michael Bromwich, who was a tough Federal prosecutor and Inspector General. And his charge over the next few months is to build an organization that acts as the oil industry's watchdog, not its partner.<p>So one of the lessons we've learned from this spill is that we need better regulations, better safety standards, and better enforcement when it comes to offshore drilling. But a larger lesson is that no matter how much we improve our regulation of the industry, drilling for oil these days entails greater risk. After all, oil is a finite resource. We consume more than 20 percent of the world's oil, but have less than 2 percent of the world's oil reserves. And that's part of the reason oil companies are drilling a mile beneath the surface of the ocean, because we're running out of places to drill on land and in shallow water.<p>For decades, we have known the days of cheap and easily accessible oil were numbered. For decades, we've talked and talked about the need to end America's century-long addiction to fossil fuels. And for decades, we have failed to act with the sense of urgency that this challenge requires. Time and again, the path forward has been blocked, not only by oil industry lobbyists, but also by a lack of political courage and candor.<p>The consequences of our inaction are now in plain sight. Countries like China are investing in clean energy jobs and industries that should be right here in America. Each day, we send nearly $1 billion of our wealth to foreign countries for their oil. And today, as we look to the Gulf, we see an entire way of life being threatened by a menacing cloud of black crude.<p>We cannot consign our children to this future. The tragedy unfolding on our coast is the most painful and powerful reminder yet that the time to embrace a clean energy future is now. Now is the moment for this generation to embark on a national mission to unleash America's innovation and seize control of our own destiny.<p>This is not some distant vision for America. The transition away from fossil fuels is going to take some time, but over the last year and a half, we've already taken unprecedented action to jump-start the clean energy industry. As we speak, old factories are reopening to produce wind turbines, people are going back to work installing energy-efficient windows, and small businesses are making solar panels. Consumers are buying more efficient cars and trucks, and families are making their homes more energy efficient. Scientists and researchers are discovering clean energy technologies that someday will lead to entire new industries.<p>Each of us has a part to play in a new future that will benefit all of us. As we recover from this recession, the transition to clean energy has the potential to grow our economy and create millions of jobs, but only if we accelerate that transition, only if we seize the moment, and only if we rally together and act as one Nation: workers and entrepreneurs, scientists and citizens, the public and private sectors.<p>When I was a candidate for this office, I laid out a set of principles that would move our country towards energy independence. Last year, the House of Representatives acted on these principles by passing a strong and comprehensive energy and climate bill, a bill that finally makes clean energy the profitable kind of energy for America's businesses.<p>Now, there are costs associated with this transition, and there are some who believe that we can't afford those costs right now. I say we can't afford not to change how we produce and use energy because long-term costs to our economy, our national security, and our environment are far greater.<p>So I'm happy to look at other ideas and approaches from either party, as long as they seriously tackle our addiction to fossil fuels. Some have suggested raising efficiency standards in our buildings like we did in our cars and trucks. Some believe we should set standards to ensure that more of our electricity comes from wind and solar power. Others wonder why the energy industry only spends a fraction of what the high-tech industry does on research and development and want to rapidly boost our investments in such research and development.<p>All of these approaches have merit and deserve a fair hearing in the months ahead. But the one approach I will not accept is inaction. The one answer I will not settle for is the idea that this challenge is somehow too big and too difficult to meet. You know, the same thing was said about our ability to produce enough planes and tanks in World War II. The same thing was said about our ability to harness the science and technology to land a man safely on the surface of the Moon. And yet time and again, we have refused to settle for the paltry limits of conventional wisdom. Instead, what has defined us as a nation since our founding is the capacity to shape our destiny, our determination to fight for the America we want for our children, even if we're unsure exactly what that looks like, even if we don't yet precisely know how we're going to get there. We know we'll get there. It's a faith in the future that sustains us as a people. It is that same faith that sustains our neighbors in the Gulf right now.<p>Each year, at the beginning of shrimping season, the region's fishermen take part in a tradition that was brought to America long ago by fishing immigrants from Europe. It's called the Blessing of the Fleet, and today, it's a celebration where clergy from different religions gather to say a prayer for the safety and success of the men and women who will soon head out to sea, some for weeks at a time.<p>The ceremony goes on in good times and in bad. It took place after Katrina, and it took place a few weeks ago, at the beginning of the most difficult season these fishermen have ever faced.<p>And still, they came and they prayed. For as a priest and former fisherman once said of the tradition: \\"The blessing is not that God has promised to remove all obstacles and dangers. The blessing is that He is with us always,\\" a blessing that's granted \\"even in the midst of the storm.\\"<p>The oil spill is not the last crisis America will face. This Nation has known hard times before, and we will surely know them again. What sees us through--what has always seen us through--is our strength, our resilience, and our unyielding faith that something better awaits us if we summon the courage to reach for it.<p>Tonight we pray for that courage. We pray for the people of the Gulf. And we pray that a hand may guide us through the storm towards a brighter day. Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"174" "\"Thank you. Well, hello, Pensacola! It is great to be here. I want everybody, first of all, to give a big round of applause to Chief Elison Talabong for leading us in the pledge and singing our national anthem; to Lieutenant Commander Randy Ekstrom for the wonderful invocation.<p>I want to thank your outstanding local leaders for welcoming me here today, including Captains Chris Plummer, Mike Price, and Brad Martin. Give them a big round of applause. And your great senior enlisted leaders, including Master Chief Mike Dollen, give them a big round of applause.<p>I want to thank all the spouses and families who are joining us here today. You hold our military families together, so we honor your service as well.<p>Now, it is great to be here in Pensacola, America's oldest naval air station, the cradle of naval aviation. We've got Navy--all the students of the Naval Air Technical Training Center. We've got Training Wing Six, maybe a few Blue Angels. We've got the United States Marines in the house, maybe a few Air Force and Army too.<p>Now, I don't know how many could be here, because they're out there on the water right now, responding to the spill, but I want to thank all the folks at Coast Guard Station Pensacola for their outstanding work. And I know somebody who is especially proud of them, and that's the former Commandant of the Coast Guard, who postponed his retirement to answer his country's call once more and coordinate the Federal response effort to the spill, and that's Admiral Thad Allen. Please give him a big round of applause.<p>Now, I was just down at the Pensacola Beach Gulf Pier, at the Fish Sandwich Snack Bar. Now, I don't know if any of you ever checked it out. It's a nice spot. We were there with some of Florida's State and local leaders to discuss the situation here. I want to acknowledge the hard work that's being done by the Governor of Florida, Charlie Crist; Florida's Chief Financial Officer, Alex Sink; Senators Bill Nelson, George LeMieux; Representatives who are here today--we got Jeff Miller and Corrine Brown and Ted Deutch. Please give them a big round of applause. We've got Escambia County Commissioner Grover Robinson and Pensacola Mayor Mike Wiggins. Thank you very much for your outstanding efforts.<p>I know all of you join me in thanking these leaders and their communities--because they're your neighbors--for the incredible support that they give all the men and women and your families here in Pensacola. So we're grateful to you.<p>But this is my fourth visit to the Gulf Coast since the start of this spill. Yesterday I was over in Gulfport, Mississippi; Theodore, Alabama; and now Pensacola, assessing the situation, reviewing the response, seeing what needs to be done better and faster, and talking with folks--whether fishermen or small-businesspeople and their families--who are seeing their lives turned upside down by this disaster.<p>Here in Pensacola, the beautiful beaches are still open. The sand is white, and the water is blue. So folks who are looking for a good vacation, they can still come down to Pensacola. People need to know that Pensacola is still open for business. But that doesn't mean that people aren't angry, that doesn't mean that people aren't scared, that doesn't mean that people have concerns about the future. We all have those concerns. And people have every right to be angry. Those plumes of oil are off the coast. The fishing waters are closed. Tar balls have been coming ashore. And everybody is bracing for more.<p>So I'll say today what I've been saying up and down the coast over the last couple of days and over the last month. Yes, this is an unprecedented environmental disaster; it's the worst in our Nation's history. But we're going to continue to meet it with an unprecedented Federal response and recovery effort, the largest in our Nation's history. This is an assault on our shores, and we're going to fight back with everything that we've got.<p>And that includes mobilizing the resources of the greatest military in the world. Now, here at Naval Air Station Pensacola, you've been one of the major staging areas. You've helped to support the response effort. And I thank you for that, and I know the people of Pensacola thank you for that. And all along the Gulf Coast, our men and women in uniform--Active, Guard, and Reserve--from across the country are stepping up and helping out.<p>There are soldiers on the beaches putting out sandbags and building barriers and cleaning up the oil and helping people process their claims for compensation from BP. There are sailors and marines offering their ships and their skimmers and their helicopters and miles of boom. There are airmen overhead, flying in equipment and spraying dispersant. And of course, there are coast guardsmen and women on the cutters, in the air, working around the clock.<p>And when I say this is the largest response of its kind in American history, I mean it. We've got more than 5,000 vessels onsite: skimmers, tugs, barges, dozens of aircraft. More than 27,000 personnel are on the scene, fighting this every day, putting out millions of feet of boom and cleaning the shores.<p>All told, we've authorized the deployment of 17,500 National Guardsmen to respond to this crisis. And so far, only about 1,600 have been activated, and that leaves a lot of guardsmen ready to help. And if our Governors call on them, I know they'll be ready, because they're always ready.<p>So I want the people of this region to know that my administration is going to do whatever it takes, for as long as it takes, to deal with this disaster. That includes the additional actions I announced yesterday to make sure that seafood from the Gulf is safe to eat. It includes steps we've taken to protect the safety of workers involved in the cleanup. It includes the new command structure I announced this morning to make sure States and local communities like Pensacola have the autonomy and the resources that they need to go forward.<p>And that includes something else: Making sure BP pays for the damages that it has caused. Because this isn't just an environmental disaster; for many families and communities, it's an economic disaster. Here in Pensacola and the panhandle, tourism is everything. And when the tourists stay home, it ripples out and hits folks across these communities: the charter boats, the hotels, the restaurants, the roadside stores, the shops, the suppliers, the dive shops. And if your inland waters are contaminated, if the bays and bayous are contaminated, it could be devastating, changing the way of life down here for years to come.<p>And I'm going to speak to the Nation tonight about this. But let me say to the people of Pensacola and the Gulf Coast: I am with you; my administration is with you for the long haul to make sure BP pays for the damage that it has done and to make sure that you are getting the help you need to protect this beautiful coast and to rehabilitate the damaged areas, to revitalize this region, and to make sure that nothing like this ever happens again. That is a commitment I am making to the people of Florida and people all across this Gulf.<p>Now, that spirit of resolve and determination and resilience, that's the same spirit we see in all of you, in the men and women in uniform, the spirit we'll need to meet other challenges of our time. Obviously, the news has been dominated lately by the oil spill, but our Nation is at war, and all of you have stepped forward. You volunteered. You took an oath. You stood tall, and you said, \\"I will serve.\\"<p>And here at Pensacola, you're carrying on the proud tradition of naval aviation that spans a century. Here at the Barrancas National Cemetery, our heroes from yesterday's wars are still inspiring us. And like generations before you, you're no strangers to sacrifice. Our prayers are with the families and friends of the crews that you lost in that training exercise 2 months ago. Today we send out our thoughts and prayers to all the folks from Pensacola on the frontlines at this very moment, including Iraq and Afghanistan. They are making us incredibly proud.<p>And so are you. As naval aviators and naval flight officers, you'll soon earn your \\"Wings of Gold.\\" And many of you will prove yourselves as indispensable aircrews--the mechanics, the engineers, the electricians, the maintenance crews--people's lives depending on what you do each and every day.<p>I know you're looking ahead to your first operational tours, to join the fleet and your squadrons. And within weeks, some of you may find yourselves serving on a carrier deck in the Arabian Sea or working a busy flight line in Afghanistan. And as you begin your careers, as you look ahead to a life of service, I want you to know, on behalf of the American people, that your Nation thanks you, your Nation appreciates you, your Nation will stand with you every step of the way.<p>And as your Commander in Chief, I want you to know something: I will not hesitate to use force to protect the American people or our vital interests, but I will also never risk your lives unless it's absolutely necessary. And if it is necessary, we are going to back you up to the hilt with the strategy and the clear mission and the equipment and the support that you need to get the job done right. That's my promise to every one of you, every man and woman who wears America's uniform.<p>That includes the right strategy in Iraq, where we're partnering with the Iraqi people for their long-term security and prosperity. And thanks to the honor and that heroism of our troops, we are poised to end our combat mission in Iraq this summer, on schedule. <p>As we end the war in Iraq, we're pressing forward in Afghanistan. We're working to break the momentum of the Taliban insurgency and train Afghan security forces, strengthen the capacity of the Afghan Government, and protect the Afghan people.<p>We will disrupt and dismantle and ultimately defeat Al Qaida and its terrorist affiliates. And we will support the aspirations of people around the world as they seek progress and opportunity and prosperity, because that's what we do as Americans.<p>As you meet the missions we ask of you, we're going to make sure you're trained and equipped to succeed. That's why we halted reductions in the Navy. That's why we increased the size of the Marine Corps. That's why we're investing in the capabilities and technologies of tomorrow. And as we come up on the 100th anniversary of naval aviation next year, we're committed to the next generation of aircraft. We're going to keep you the best trained, best led, best equipped military that the world has ever known.<p>Some of that is about technology. But the most important thing in our military is our people, it's all of you. And as you advance through the ranks and start families of your own, we want to be there for your loved ones too. This is one of the defining missions of the First Lady, Michelle Obama. On Sunday, she visited the Navy-Marine Corps team and their families at Camp Pendleton. And they had a tough week, because five outstanding marines from Pendleton gave their lives last week in Afghanistan. And during her visit, Michelle had a message for their families and for all military families: America is going to keep faith with you too.<p>When a loved one goes to war, that family goes to war. That's why we're working to improve family readiness and increase pay and benefits, working to give you more time between deployments, increasing support to help spouses and families deal with the stresses and the separation of war.<p>But this can't be the work of Government alone. As Michelle has been saying, 1 percent of Americans may be fighting our wars, but 100 percent of Americans need to be supporting our men and women and their families in uniform. You guys shouldn't be carrying the entire burden. That's why Michelle is challenging every sector of American society to support our military families, and not just now, with our Nation at war, but at every stage of your lives.<p>So we're improving care for our wounded warriors, especially those with posttraumatic stress and traumatic brain injury. We're funding the post-9/11 GI bill to give you and your families the chance to pursue your dreams. We've made a historic commitment to our veterans with one of the largest percentage increases to the VA budget in the past 30 years.<p>Those are concrete actions we've taken to meet the commitment I have to you and that the American people have to you. Because you've always taken care of America, America needs to take care of you. And that's my main message here today. We're all in this together. In our country, there isn't a military world and a civilian world. We're all Americans. There's not Democrats and Republicans, when you take the long view, we're all Americans. We all rise and fall together. And we all need to do our part to get through the challenges we face as a people.<p>So yes, we're emerging from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Too many folks are still out of work here in Florida and around the country. Yes, we're a nation at war with adversaries who will stop at nothing to strike our homeland and would kill innocent people, women and children, with no compunction. Yes, we're now battling the worst economic--environmental disaster in American history. Any one of these challenges alone would test our country. Confronting them all at once might overwhelm a lesser nation.<p>But look around you. Look at the person standing next to you. You look around and you see the strength and resilience that will carry us through. You look at this installation and the forts that have stood watch over this bay and its people for centuries, through the rise and fall of empires, through a terrible Civil War, and as a nation healed itself, we became a beacon to the world. We've endured.<p>All of these men and women in uniform, all of you represent the same spirit of service and sacrifice as those who've gone before, who defeated fascism, defeated tyranny, prevailed in a long cold war over communism. And now, in our time, you've toppled regimes based on terror and dictatorship, and you've given new hope to millions of people. You've earned your place among the greatest of generations.<p>And look at the people of this city and this region--fishermen who've made their lives on the water, families who've lived here for generations, hard-working folks who've had to endure more than their share--tough economic times and hurricanes and storms that forced so many families and communities to start over from scratch. But they never gave up. They started over, and they rebuilt stronger than before.<p>As Americans, we don't quit. We keep coming. And none of these challenges we're facing are going to be easy. None of them are going to be quick. But make no mistake: The United States of America has gone through tough times before and we always come out stronger. And we will do so again.<p>And this city and this region will recover. It will thrive again. And America's military will prevail in the mission to keep our country safe. And our Nation will endure from these trials stronger than before. That is the history of the United States of America. That is the legacy of our Armed Forces. And I promise you that we will not falter.<p>Past generations have passed on this precious gift to us, and future generations are depending on us. And as I look out on each and every one of your faces, I'm absolutely confident that you will meet that challenge.<p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"175" "\"We just had a very useful discussion. And I want to thank Governor Crist and the congressional delegation as well as our owner here, Mike Pinzone, of this wonderful facility overlooking this beautiful beach. I want to also thank the mayor of Pensacola for his hospitality.<p>What we've done is to try to find out from local business owners, local officials, as well as State officials like Alex Sink and Senator LeMieux and others, how the response can be most effective here, specifically in Florida. And when you look out over this unbelievable beach, one of the things that you can see is that so far, at least, this beach has not been affected. <p>This is a still place that's open for business and welcoming to vacationers, and people can have a wonderful holiday here, and I know the mayor wants to emphasize that. But there are obviously fears about the oil that is offshore. <p>And what we emphasized was that we're going to be doing everything we can, make sure that there are skimmers out, there are booms out, and a response to keep the oil offshore. But even if we do the best possible job on that, what the mayor described, what Mike described as a local business owner here, is that they're still being affected by perceptions, that visitors have dropped off as much as 40 percent in this area, and that has an impact on the entire economy. You saw the same thing yesterday when we were in Alabama and Mississippi.<p>So a couple of things that we've done: Number one, to make sure that there is a nimble and effective local response, Thad Allen has now assigned deputy incident commanders to each of the individual States. So Florida will have its own deputy incident commander, as Mississippi and Alabama do. <p>In addition to the sites in Houma and in Mobile, we're also going to set up an incident management team in Tallahassee, here in Florida. All this is designed to make sure that on the Federal response, we are able to work and make decisions at a local level in response to the suggestions of people who know their communities best and know their waters best. And my expectation is, is that we're going to see a lot of good ideas coming from the local area that we can implement right away, as opposed to waiting until it goes all the way to the top. <p>But the other thing that we're hearing here is the same thing we heard yesterday, which is, businesses need help right now. I'm going to be addressing this, this evening, the issue of how we can make sure that claims to businesses that have been affected are responded to quickly and fairly.<p>I'll be meeting with BP chairmen and officials tomorrow to discuss the stories that I've heard from people like Mike. Mike has put in all the paperwork. In fact, he has documented more than amply the fact that his business has been deeply affected by this crisis, but he hasn't received the compensation that he needs to make sure that his business stays open. <p>And I told Mike--and I want every businessperson here in Florida to know--that I will be their fierce advocate in making sure that they are getting the compensation they need to get through what is going to be a difficult season. But what I described for them is the fact that if we can get through this season, cap this well, mitigate the damage--we're not going to eliminate it completely; there's going to be damage to the shoreline--but if we can reduce it as much as possible, help businesses get through this season, clean it up, by the time we get to next season, there's no reason why this beach behind us is not going to be as beautiful as ever, and Pensacola and other coastline communities across Florida will be thriving as they always have.<p>So the key right now is just to make sure that people like Mike are helped, that they're able to get through what's going to be a tough time. And I've told him and I've told the Governor and all the other Florida officials here that we're not going to go away. We're just going to keep on at this until we are able to not only get back to normal but maybe even get better than it was before this crisis.<p>So I appreciate everybody's input, and we look forward to continuing to work with you on this enormous challenge.<p>All right? Thank you, everybody.\" "
"176" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. I just concluded a constructive meeting with BP's chairman, Carl-Henric Svanberg, and I raised two issues at the meeting. <p>First was the containment of the oil that is still spewing into the Gulf. As I mentioned last night, my administration has directed BP to mobilize additional equipment and technology, and in the coming days and weeks, these efforts should capture up to 90 percent of the oil that is leaking out of the well. <p>Now, that's not good enough. So we will continue to press BP and draw on our best minds and resources to capture the rest of the oil until the company finishes drilling a relief well later in the summer that is expected to stop the leak completely. <p>The second topic revolved around the issue of claims. As I traveled across the Gulf, I heard growing frustration over the pace at which claims had been paid. And I also heard concerns about whether BP will make resources available to cover legitimate claims resulting from this disaster. So this discussion today was essential. <p>Currently, under Federal law, there is a $75 million cap on how much oil companies could, under certain circumstances, be required to pay for economic damages resulting from a spill such as this. That amount obviously would be insufficient. And that's why I'm pleased to announce that BP has agreed to set aside $20 billion to pay claims for damages resulting from this spill. <p>This $20 billion will provide substantial assurance that the claims people and businesses have will be honored. It's also important to emphasize this is not a cap. The people of the Gulf have my commitment that BP will meet its obligations to them. And BP has publicly pledged to make good on the claims that it owes to the people in the Gulf, and so the agreement we reached sets up a financial and legal framework to do it. <p>Another important element is that this $20 billion fund will not be controlled by either BP or by the Government. It will be put in a escrow account, administered by an impartial, independent third party. So if you or your business has suffered an economic loss as a result of this spill, you'll be eligible to file a claim for part of this $20 billion. This fund does not supersede either individuals' rights or States' rights to present claims in court. And BP will also continue to be liable for the environmental disaster it has caused, and we're going to continue to work to make sure that they address it.<p>Additionally, BP voluntarily agreed to establish a $100 million fund to compensate unemployed oil rig workers affected by the closure of the deepwater rigs. <p>We've mutually agreed that Ken Feinberg will run the independent claims process we're putting in place. And there will be a three-person panel to adjudicate claims that are turned down. Every effort will be made to expedite these claims. Ken has long experience in such matters, including running the fund that compensated the victims of 9/11, and I'm confident he will ensure that claims are administered as quickly, as fairly, and as transparently as possible. <p>Now, BP's liabilities for this spill are significant, and they acknowledge that fact. We will continue to hold BP and all other responsible parties accountable. And I'm absolutely confident BP will be able to meet its obligations to the Gulf Coast and to the American people. BP is a strong and viable company, and it is in all of our interests that it remain so. So what this is about is accountability. At the end of the day, that's what every American wants and expects.<p>The structure we're establishing today is an important step towards making the people of the Gulf Coast whole again, but it's not going to turn things around overnight. And I want all Americans to know that I will continue to fight each and every day until the oil is contained, until businesses recover, and until the Gulf Coast bounces back from this tragedy, as I know it will.<p>One last point: During a private conversation with Chairman Svanberg, I emphasized to him that for the families that I met with down in the Gulf, for the small-business owners, for the fishermen, for the shrimpers, this is not just a matter of dollars and cents, that a lot of these folks don't have a cushion. They were coming off Rita and Katrina, coming off the worst economy that this country has seen since the Great Depression, and this season was going to be the season where they were going to be bouncing back. Not only that, but this happened, from their perspective, at the worst possible time, because they're making their entire income for the year in the 3 or 4 months during which folks can take their boats out, people are coming down for tourism.<p>And so I emphasized to the chairman that when he's talking to shareholders, when he is in meetings in his boardroom, to keep in mind those individuals, that they are desperate, that some of them, if they don't get relief quickly, may lose businesses that have been in their families for two or three generations. And the chairman assured me that he would keep them in mind.<p>That's going to be the standard by which I measure BP's responsiveness. I think today was a good start, and it should provide some assurance to some of the small-business owners and individuals down in the Gulf who I was visiting with that BP is going to meet its responsibilities. But I indicated to the chairman that, throughout this process, as we work to make sure that the Gulf is made whole once again, that the standard I'm going to be applying is whether or not those individuals I met with, their family members, those communities that are vulnerable, whether they are uppermost in the minds of all concerned. That's who we're doing this work for.<p>All right? Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"177" "\"Hello, everybody! All right, everybody, have a seat. I got a lot to say here. [<i>Laughter</i>] First of all, I want to just thank Becky Patton for the extraordinary work that she has done on behalf of nurses, on behalf of patients, on behalf of the country. Thank you so much. We are proud of everything that she's done. And her mom's in the house, so thanks, Mom. Good job. Good job with Becky.<p>I want to thank Marla Weston, the CEO of the American Nurses Association. And I also want to acknowledge the presence here of Dr. Mary Wakefield, who is our--[<i>applause</i>]--for those of you who are not familiar, she is the administrator of HRSA and our highest ranking nurse in the administration and is--[<i>applause</i>]--does absolutely great work.<p>Now, I want to tell you, it is an honor to speak to the ANA, representing more than 3 million registered nurses across the country. Part of the reason I'm here is because I promised I was going to come, and I told to Becky that I don't break promises to nurses because you never know when I'm going to need a shot. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I don't want them working that needle all kind of--\\"I can't find the vein.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] So I'm keeping my promises.<p>But it's not just out of fear. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's also because I love nurses. I love nurses. Now, I'm not just saying that because I'm talking to a roomful of nurses. There are representatives from Illinois here in the house, and they will testify, I loved nurses before I got to Washington. And I don't think I'm alone in that, because virtually all of us, at one time or another in our lives, have known the care and the skill that you offer. In hours of need, in moments where people are most vulnerable, most worried, nurses are there, doing difficult and lifesaving work.<p>And you don't just provide clean bandages or an intravenous line. A nurse will hold your hand sometime or offer a voice of calm or that knowing glance that says, things are going to be okay.<p>And when Malia was born, I remember vividly the nurses who took care of Michelle and our new baby. The doctor who delivered is actually one of our best friends, but she was there about 10 minutes. [<i>Laughter</i>] And the nurse was there the whole time tending to this new family of ours. That was a happy day. Now, there was another day, when our youngest daughter, Sasha--she was 3 months old--was diagnosed with meningitis. And it was nurses who walked us through what was happening and who, along with the doctors, helped make sure that Sasha was all right and that her father did not have a breakdown. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So as a father, as a husband, I will forever be in debt to the women and men of your profession. And I know that millions of others feel the same way. America's nurses are the beating heart of our medical system. You're on the frontlines--[<i>applause</i>]--you are on the frontlines of health care in small clinics and in large hospitals, in rural towns and in big cities all across America.<p>And it's because you know our health care system so well that you've been such a fierce advocate for its reform. Because after all, you care for patients who end up in the emergency room or in surgery because they couldn't afford the preventive care that would have made more invasive and costly treatment unnecessary. You are asked not only to take care of patients, you've got to navigate a tangle of rules and forms and paperwork that drive up costs and prevent you from doing the best job possible.<p>You're the ones who see the terror in a parent's eyes when an insurance company bureaucrat has denied coverage for a child's treatment. And you're the ones who have to comfort people who are wracked with worry not only about getting better, but also about paying for health care because they've hit a cap on benefits or their insurance doesn't cover a preexisting condition.<p>So nurses have seen the consequences of our decades-old failure to reform our health care system: the rising costs, the increased uninsured, the mixed up incentives, the overburdened providers, and a complex system that has been working a lot better for insurance companies than it's working for the American people or for providers.<p>And that's why, almost a year ago, nurses from across the country came to the White House to help make the case for reform, for making coverage more affordable and extending coverage to millions without it, for giving doctors and nurses more freedom to help their patients, for providing families and small businesses with more control over their health insurance, and for ending the worst and most abusive practices of the insurance industry.<p>And after a long and tough fight, we succeeded--yes we did--in passing health care reform. Thanks to you. And that reform will make a positive difference in the lives of the American people.<p>Now, this fight wasn't new for the ANA. I understand you were one of the only major health care organizations that supported the creation of Medicare from the start. And I want to recognize one of your leaders--Jo Eleanor Elliott of Colorado, who is here today and was your president back then--for the courage and leadership she showed. Where is she? There you are right there. Give her a big round of applause.<p>So you've been there before, and you were here this time. I want to thank the ANA for advocating for health care reform, for ensuring that the voices of nurses and of patients were heard.<p>Now, already, we're seeing the start of a profound shift as reforms begin to take effect. We're giving ordinary consumers and small businesses more power and protection in the health care system, and we're knocking down barriers that stand between you and the people who you care for.<p>A few weeks ago, 4 million small-business owners and organizations got a postcard in their mailbox from the IRS. Now, usually that's not--[<i>Laughter</i>]--good news. But this time it was, because it told them that they could be eligible for a health care tax cut this year, a tax cut worth potentially tens of thousands of dollars for those small businesses, a tax cut that will help millions to provide coverage to their employees. That's happening now.<p>In many cases, young adults without health insurance are now able to stay on their parent's plan until they're 26 years old. Even though insurance companies had until September to comply with this rule, we asked them to do so immediately to avoid coverage gaps for young adults, and most have agreed.<p>Starting this month, relief is also available to businesses for providing coverage to retirees who are not yet eligible for Medicare. And as of last week, senior citizens who fall into the doughnut hole have started receiving a 20--a $250 rebate to help them afford their medication, and we're going to keep on going until we close that doughnut hole completely. In the meantime, we're strengthening Medicare by going after the billions of dollars in waste and fraud and abuse in the system. And States like Maine and Connecticut are beginning to predict budget savings as pieces of reform come on line.<p>So we've begun making coverage more affordable. In addition, the new health care law has also started to end the worst insurance industry practices. You know them. For too long, we've been held hostage to an industry that jacks up premiums and drops coverage whenever they please. Those days are coming to an end.<p>So after my administration demanded that a large insurance company justify a massive premium increase on Californians, the company backed off its plan. My Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius, has urged States to investigate other rate hikes. We've set up a new Office of Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight. And we'll provide grants to States running the best oversight programs to root out bad practices when it comes to premiums.<p>Now, as of September, the new health care law prohibits insurance companies from dropping people's coverage when they get sick, which is critical to giving people some peace of mind. But when news reports indicated that an insurance company was dropping the coverage of women diagnosed with breast cancer, my administration called on them to end the practice immediately, don't wait till September. And soon after, the entire industry announced that it would comply with the new law early and stop this perverse practice of dropping people's insurance when they fall ill and when they need coverage the most.<p>Some were also questioning whether insurance companies could find a loophole in the new law and continue to discriminate against children with preexisting conditions. So we called on insurance companies to step up, provide coverage to our most vulnerable Americans. And the insurance industry has agreed.<p>In just 2 weeks, Americans denied coverage because of preexisting conditions will be able to enroll in a new national insurance pool. And for States that opt to run their own pools using funds from the new law, we're urging them to begin enrolling people as soon as possible. And these pools are going to provide some short-term relief, but they're temporary. They're going to ensure that folks who have been shut out of the market because they've been sick can access more affordable insurance starting right away. But what we want is these health insurance exchanges up and running in a few years so that, at that point, this kind of discrimination will finally be banned forever. And that's when those--[applause]--that's when the millions without coverage, including people with preexisting conditions, will have the access to the same types of insurance plans that Members of Congress get. And you know those must be pretty good.<p>We're also going to be putting in place a patient's bill of rights that will tell insurance companies that they can't put a restrictive limit on the amount of coverage you get in your lifetime or in a given year. It will prevent insurance companies from rescinding your coverage when you get sick because of an administrative error. It will provide simple and clear information to consumers about their choices and their rights.<p>And beyond making insurance more affordable and more secure, reform also will mean changes that make it easier for you, the backbone of the health care system, to do your jobs. Already, over the past year, we've made one of the largest investments in nursing and health workforce in recent history. We passed landmark reforms to make college more affordable, which can help more people gain a nursing degree, even as we provide grants and aid for more than 15,000 nurses seeking graduate degrees and other training.<p>And we've begun the transition to private and secure computerized health records, because this will not only reduce errors and costs--I know you can't read those doctors' handwriting--[<i>Laughter</i>]--it will mean you can spend more time with patients and less time with paperwork. And that's why you got into the profession.<p>Now, there is more work to do. And that's why today my administration is announcing a number of investments to expand the primary care workforce. And this includes funding to allow students training part-time to become nurse practitioners to start training full-time. We want to speed up the process where folks go from the classroom into the exam room. And we're going to provide resources for clinics run by registered nurses and nurse practitioners.<p>Without these nurses, many people in cities and rural areas would have no access to care at all. Now, all of these steps are part of a larger effort to make our system work better for nurses and for doctors and to improve the quality of care for patients. And by focusing on primary medicine, we will finally recognize the role of all talented and skilled health care providers, including nurses.<p>I don't have to tell you that nurses all too often have been given short shrift. Even amidst a nursing shortage, when there are cutbacks, you feel the squeeze in salaries or the reduction in shifts, despite being overworked and underpaid. And, as you know, this disregard goes beyond numbers on a ledger. There have been a bunch of times, I'm sure, when the service you rendered is thought to be less consequential or valuable than that of other professions. That's what has to change.<p>It's important that we not only ensure that you have the support to do your jobs; we're seeking to elevate and value the work that you do, because throughout our history, nurses have done more than provide care and comfort to those in need. Often with little power or sway on their own, nurses--mostly women, historically--have been a force of will and a sense of common decency and paved the way towards better care and a more compassionate society, from Clara Barton's treatment of wounded soldiers at Antietam to the advocacy of Dorothea Dix on behalf of people with mental disabilities to the countless nurses whose names we'll never know.<p>One of America's greatest poets, Walt Whitman, also served as a nurse during the Civil War. And the experience changed him forever. And later, he would reflect on that time, on both the heartbreak and the fulfillment he found during those years. And he wrote:<blockquote>I thread my way through the hospitals,<p>The hurt and wounded I pacify with soothing hand,<p>I sit by the restless all the dark night, some are so young,<p>Some suffer so much, I recall the experience sweet and sad.</blockquote><p>Sweet and sad. Your jobs are tough. Your days can be stressful and exhausting and sometimes thankless. But through long shifts and late nights, in the hectic scrum of the emergency room or in those quiet acts of humanity, you are saving lives, you are offering solace, you're helping to make us a better nation. And my task as President--our task as a people--is to ensure that our health care system is worthy of your efforts. Our mission must be to live up to the values that you uphold each and every day.<p>So thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you, everybody.\" "
"178" "\"<i>The President</i>. Good afternoon, everybody. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Good afternoon.<p><i>The President</i>. Well, it is great to be back in Ohio. Strickland said I've been in Ohio so much he might start charging me for it. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It is wonderful to be back in Ohio, and it is wonderful to be back in the beautiful city of Columbus. I just want to say thank you right off the top to Mayor Coleman for his outstanding leadership of this city. You've got one of the best mayors in the country. You also got one of the best Governors in the country in Ted Strickland. <p>And I also want to just acknowledge that you're going to have one of the best--you already have one of the best Senators in Sherrod Brown, and you're going to have another one in Lee Fisher. So we appreciate the great work that they're doing.<p>I'm going to mention some of the congressional delegations here, because they've got a lot to do with what's going on at this site.<p>My last visit here was a little over a year ago, when I came to take part in a graduation ceremony for 114--the 114th class of the Columbus police recruits. Some of you may remember that. I know the mayor does. I don't have to tell anybody here that these have been difficult times for Ohio and difficult times for the country. And when I was here last, America was losing 700,000 jobs per month, our economy was shrinking, plants and businesses right here in Ohio were closing. And we knew that if we failed to act, then things were only going to get much worse.<p>And that's why, with the support of Sherrod Brown, but also Members of the House of Representatives--Mary Jo Kilroy, Steve Driehaus, and Charlie Wilson, who are all here--wave, guys--that's why these folks worked so hard to pass the Recovery Act, which cut taxes for middle class families, that way boosting demand; cutting taxes for small businesses so that they could make payroll and keep their doors open; extending unemployment insurance and COBRA to help folks make it through some really tough times; to rebuild our infrastructure and make investments that would spur additional investments from the private sector and strengthen our country in the long run. That's what the Recovery Act was all about.<p>And since then, here in Ohio, nearly 2,400 small businesses have gotten loans to keep their doors open and their workers on payroll, 4.5 million families have gotten tax cuts to help pay their bills and put food on the table, some 450 transportation projects are underway or have been completed, and more than 100,000 Ohioans are at work today as a result of these steps. And today I return to Columbus to mark a milestone on the road to recovery: the 10,000th project launched under the Recovery Act. That's worth a big round of applause. <p>And I want to thank Secretary Ray LaHood, who has been instrumental in so many of the projects that have taken place. He has done an outstanding job, as have our other agencies in administering these programs.<p>Now, these projects haven't just improved communities. They've put thousands of construction crews just like this one to work. They've spurred countless small businesses to hire because--these are some big guys here, so they got to eat--[<i>Laughter</i>]--which means that you got to get some food brought in, or the local restaurants here benefit from the crews being here at work. It means that instead of worrying about where their next paycheck is going to come from, Americans across the country are helping to build our future and their own futures.<p>Now, as my friend Joe Biden, who has done a great job overseeing the Recovery Act, would say, this is a big deal. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I think it's fitting that we've reached this milestone here in this community, because what you're doing here is a perfect example of the kind of innovation and coordination and renewal that the Recovery Act is driving all across the country. <p>A lot of people came together to make this day possible: business and government, grassroots organizations, ordinary citizens who are committed to this city's futures. And what you're starting here is more than just a project to repair a road; it's a partnership to transform a community. <p>Mayor Coleman was describing for me how all these pieces fit together on the way over here. So the city is using recovery dollars to rebuild the infrastructure. And because of that, in part, the hospital is expanding its operations to take even better care of more people, more children here in Columbus and throughout Ohio, which means they're hiring more people.<p>So together, you're creating more than 2,300 new jobs and sending a powerful message that this neighborhood will soon be a place where more families can thrive, more businesses can prosper, economic development that's being sparked today is going to continue into the future. And my understanding is, because the hospital is now growing, that means they're putting money back into the neighborhood for housing and other facilities so that the entire community starts rebuilding.<p>Ultimately, that's the purpose of the Recovery Act: not just to jump-start the economy and get us out of the hole that we're in right now, but to make the investments that will spur growth and spread prosperity and pay dividends to our communities for generations to come. <p>Since I was here last year, we've begun to see progress all across the country. Businesses are beginning to hire again. Our economy, which was shrinking by 6 percent when I was sworn in, is now growing at a good clip, and we've added jobs for 6 out of the past 7 months in this country. We were losing 700,000 jobs a month; for the last--6 out of the last 7 months, we've increased jobs here in the United States of America, in part because the policies that these Members of Congress were willing to step up and implement.<p>Now, I'm no--under no illusion that we're where we need to be yet. I know that a lot of families and communities have yet to feel the effects of the recovery in their own lives. There are still too many people here in Ohio and across the country who can't find work; many more can't make ends meet. And for these folks, the only jobs we create that matter are the ones that provide for their families. <p>So while the recovery may start with projects like this, it can't end here. The truth is, if we want to keep on adding jobs, if we want to keep on raising incomes, if we want to keep growing both our economy and our middle class, if we want to ensure that Americans can compete with any nation in the world, we're going to have to get serious about our long-term vision for this country and we're going to have to get serious about our infrastructure. <p>And I want to say a few words about infrastructure generally. Along with investments in health care and education, clean energy and a 21st-century financial system that protects consumers and our economy, rebuilding our infrastructure is one of the keys to our future prosperity.<p>If we're going to rebuild America's economy, then we've got to rebuild America, period, from the ports and the airways that ship our goods to the roads and the transit systems that move our workers and connect cities and businesses. <p>Now, some of this work involves fixing infrastructure that's already in place: patching up roads, repairing bridges, replacing old sewer lines. And the Recovery Act has made important investments in all these things. I mean, we've got a huge backlog of work just with the infrastructure that we've got that could put hundreds of thousands of people to work all across the country, just repairing roads that we already have and fixing sewer lines that are badly in need of repair.<p>But here's the thing, Columbus: Repairing our existing infrastructure is not enough. We can't build an economy that sustains our kids and our grandkids just by relying on the infrastructure that we inherited from our parents and our grandparents. <p>We can't let other countries get the jump on us when it comes to broadband access. There's no reason why Europe or China should have the fastest trains instead of the United States. There's no reason that Germany or other countries in Europe should have the newest factories that manufacture clean energy products instead of us right here in the United States. <p>And that's why the Recovery Act has been making unprecedented investments in clean energy, spurring America's businesses to build some of the world's largest wind and solar projects right here in the United States of America. I said this once at a State of the Union Address: America does not settle for second place. And we're going to make the investments to make sure we are first in the future, not just in the past. That's got to be our priority. That's why we're bringing high-speed Internet to ten thousands of homes--tens of thousands of homes and businesses and hospitals and schools. It's why Ray LaHood's helping to lead a surge in new investment in high-speed rail. That's why we're investing in electronic medical records. <p>A year ago, American businesses had just 2 percent of the market in the production of electric car batteries that power the vehicles of the future. All these hybrid cars that have electric batteries, those batteries were made someplace else; we only had 2 percent of them. We made investments in the Recovery Act, and by 2015, U.S. companies are going to have 40 percent of the global market. We have created an advanced battery manufacturing facility--facilities right here in the United States that are going to allow us to maintain that cutting edge.<p>From the very first railroads to the Interstate Highway System, our Nation has always been built to compete. And you know the history of Ohio is a testament to that. Nearly two centuries ago, our Nation's first federally funded highway, the National Road, was extended across Ohio, bringing a generation of settlers west to this new frontier and paving the way for the automobile that would transform our landscape. <p>And for our economy to thrive in this new century, we've got to act with that same sense of purpose and that same spirit of innovation. That's why the recovery is just beginning--just the beginning of the investments we're going to have to make for years on our infrastructure. It's just the beginning of the work of increasing our mobility and our productivity, reducing congestion, reducing pollution, creating good jobs that can't be shipped overseas. <p>Because we know what we can achieve when we act boldly and invest wisely. We're seeing it right here in this community. We see it in this hospital and the depths of its commitment to this city. We see it in the city leaders who saw a need and an opportunity in this neighborhood and decided to act. We see it in the folks right here who are ready to get to work building this road and providing their--providing for their families. And I'm confident that we'll soon see it in new families and businesses that are calling this area home.<p>It is with that vision of a brighter future--for this city and for the country--that we begin this project, and I am looking forward to seeing all that you achieve in the years and months to come.<p>So thank you. Congratulations for the great work you guys are doing. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"179" "\"At this moment, our Nation is facing a host of big and difficult challenges. And more than anything else, what's required to meet those challenges right now is a sense of cooperation and common purpose among our leaders. What we need is a willingness in Washington to put the public's interests first, a willingness to score fewer political points so that we can start solving more problems. <p>That's why I was disappointed this week to see a dreary and familiar politics get in the way of our ability to move forward on a series of critical issues that have a direct impact on people's lives.<p>In the United States Senate, we have legislation that would boost our economic recovery and help Americans who've been affected by the worst recession in generations. We've certainly made progress since we were losing 750,000 jobs per month around the time I took office. Our economy is growing again, and we've added jobs for 5 straight months, but there are still millions of Americans out of work and millions more who are struggling to pay the bills. The legislation in the Senate right now would extend unemployment benefits to those workers who lost their job through no fault of their own. It would provide relief to struggling States that would help save the jobs of thousands of teachers and cops and firefighters. There are also provisions in this legislation that would extend the tax credit for first-time home buyers as well as tax cuts to keep research and development jobs here in the United States.<p>Unfortunately, the Republican leadership in the Senate won't even allow this legislation to come up for a vote. And if this obstruction continues, unemployed Americans will see their benefits stop, teachers and firefighters will lose their jobs, families will pay more for their first home. <p>All we ask for is a simple up-or-down vote. That's what the American people deserve. Just like they deserve an up-or-down vote on legislation that would hold oil companies accountable for the disasters they cause, a vote that's also being blocked by the Republican leadership in the Senate. Right now the law places a $75 million cap on the amount oil companies must pay to families and small businesses who suffer economic losses as a result of a spill like the one we're witnessing in the Gulf Coast. We should remove that cap. But the Republican leadership won't even allow a debate or a vote.<p>And as we speak today, 136 men and women who I've nominated for key positions in the Federal Government are still awaiting a vote on the floor of the Senate. All are highly qualified. Very few are controversial. The vast majority already have support from both parties. But most of them are seeing their nominations intentionally delayed by Republican leaders or even blocked altogether. They cannot get a vote. What this means is that, at a moment when our country is facing so many challenges, a time when we need all hands on deck, we can't get the qualified people we need to start the jobs they were appointed to do. <p>Look, the nature of our democracy is that we'll always have disagreements and debates, even heated ones. That's healthy, and it's important. But let's argue over genuine differences, over ideas and policies. And let's go into those debates with an open mind, a willingness to find common ground, and a conviction that, in the end, one way or another, we'll have a vote to decide them. <p>Next week, I'll be meeting with a bipartisan group of Senators to discuss how we can transition away from our dependence on fossil fuels and embrace a clean energy future. I don't expect that we'll agree on a solution right away. In fact, I know that there will be plenty of disagreement and different ideas. But at least it shows that Republicans and Democrats can still sit down together in an attempt to tackle the big challenges facing our Nation. <p>I know the political season's upon us in Washington, but gridlock as a political strategy is destructive to the country. Whether we are Democrats or Republicans, we've got an obligation that goes beyond caring about the next election. We have an obligation to care for the next generation. So I hope that when Congress returns next week, they'll do so with a greater spirit of compromise and cooperation. America will be watching. <p>Thanks.\" "
"180" "\"Hello, everybody. Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat. Thank you very much. Let me just begin by making a few acknowledgements. First of all, I've got some outstanding fathers here in the first row who aren't seeing their kids enough because I'm working them all the time--[<i>Laughter</i>]--three members of my Cabinet, Secretary of the Treasury Tim Geithner, Attorney General Eric Holder, and Secretary of Commerce Gary Locke, are here.<p>In addition, we've got one of my heroes and I'm sure one of yours, somebody whose shoulders I stand on and allowed me to become President of the United States, and that's Congressman from the great State of Georgia, John Lewis, is here. A fierce advocate on behalf of the District of Columbia, Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton is here.<p>I want to acknowledge the mayor of Washington, DC, Adrian Fenty in the house. The executive director of ARC, Edmund Fleet, is here. I want to thank all the panel discussion participants who are involved in today's events, and I want to thank Nurney Mason, a Washington, DC, icon. Nurney founded Mason's Barbershop in 1961--that's the year I was born--it's still going strong. He is here with his children and his grandchildren. Where is he? There he is right there. I could use a little trim so-- [<i>Laughter</i>] .<p>One year ago this week, we kicked off a national conversation on fatherhood and personal responsibility, and members of our administration fanned out all across the country to hear from fathers and families about the challenges that they face. Secretary Arne Duncan, our Secretary of Education, held a discussion in New Hampshire about the link between fatherhood and educational achievement. Gary Locke talked to fathers in California about balancing the needs of their families with the demands of their jobs. Secretary Shinseki of Veterans Affairs held a town hall for military and veteran dads in North Carolina. And Attorney General Holder traveled to Georgia for a forum about fathers in our criminal justice system. <p>And in each of these places, each of these leaders posed a simple question: How can we as a nation--not just the Government, but businesses and community groups and concerned citizens--how can we all come together to help fathers meet their responsibilities to our families and communities?<p>And we did this because we know the vital role fathers play in the lives of our children. Fathers are our first teachers and coaches, or in my house, assistant teachers and assistant coaches--[<i>Laughter</i>]--to mom. But they're our mentors, our role models. They show us by the example they set the kind of people they want us to become. <p>But we also know that what too many fathers being absent means--too many fathers missing from too many homes, missing from too many lives. We know that when fathers abandon their responsibilities, there's harm done to those kids. We know that children who grow up without a father are more likely to live in poverty. They're more likely to drop out of school. They're more likely to wind up in prison. They're more likely to abuse drugs and alcohol. They're more likely to run away from home. They're more likely to become teenage parents themselves. <p>And I say all this as someone who grew up without a father in my own life. He left my family when I was 2 years old. And while I was lucky to have a wonderful mother and loving grandparents who poured everything they had into me and my sister, I still felt the weight of that absence. It's something that leaves a hole in a child's life that no government can fill. <p>So we can talk all we want here in Washington about issues like education and health care and crime. We can build good schools. We can put money into creating good jobs. We can do everything we can to keep our streets safe, but government can't keep our kids from looking for trouble on those streets. Government can't force a kid to pick up a book or make sure that the homework gets done. Government can't be there day in, day out to provide discipline and guidance and the love that it takes to raise a child. That's our job as fathers, as mothers, as guardians for our children.<p>Now, the fact is, is it's easy to become a father, technically. Any guy can do that. It's hard to live up to the lifelong responsibilities that come with fatherhood. And it's a challenge even in good times, when our families are doing well. It's especially difficult when times are tough, families are straining just to keep everything together. <p>In a time of war, many of our military families are stretched thin, with fathers doing multiple tours of duty far away from their children. In difficult economic times, a lot of fathers are worried about whether they're going to be able to keep their job or find a job or whether they'll be able to pay the bills and give their children the kinds of opportunities that if they didn't have them themselves, at least they wished for their children. And there are a lot of men who are out of work and wrestling with the shame and frustration that comes when you feel like you can't be the kind of provider you want to be for the people that you love. <p>But here's the key message I think all of us want to send today to fathers all across the country: Our children don't need us to be superheroes; they don't need us to be perfect; they do need us to be present. They need us to show up and give it our best shot, no matter what else is going on in our lives. They need us to show them--not just with words, but with deeds--that they, those kids, are always our first priority.<p>Those family meals, afternoons in the park, bedtime stories, the encouragement we give, the questions we answer, the limits we set, the example we set of persistence in the face of difficulty and hardship, those things add up over time, and they shape a child's character, build their core, teach them to trust in life and to enter into it with confidence and with hope and with determination. And that's something they'll always carry with them: that love that we show not with money or fame or spectacular feats, but through small daily acts; the love we show and that we earn by being present in the lives of our children.<p>Now, unfortunately, the way we talk about fatherhood in this country doesn't always reinforce these truths. When we talk about issues like child care and work-family balance, we call them \\"women's issues\\" and \\"mothers' issues.\\" Too often when we talk about fatherhood and personal responsibility, we talk about it in political terms, in terms of left and right, conservative/liberal, instead of what's right and what's wrong. And when we do that, we've gotten off track. So I think it's time for a new conversation around fatherhood in this country.<p>We can all agree that we've got too many mothers out there forced to do everything all by themselves. They're doing a heroic job, often under trying circumstances. They deserve a lot of credit for that. But they shouldn't have to do it alone. The work of raising our children is the most important job in this country, and it's all of our responsibilities, mothers and fathers. <p>Now, I can't legislate fatherhood. I can't force anybody to love a child. But what we can do is send a clear message to our fathers that there is no excuse for failing to meet their obligations. What we can do is make it easier for fathers who make responsible choices and harder for those who avoid those choices. What we can do is come together and support fathers who are willing to step up and be good partners and parents and providers. <p>And that's why today we're launching the next phase of our work to promote responsible fatherhood, a new, nationwide Fatherhood and Mentoring Initiative. This is a call to action with cities and States, with individuals and organizations across the country. From the NFL Players Association to the National PTA, to everyday moms and dads, we're raising awareness about responsible fatherhood and working to reengage absent fathers with their families. <p>As part of this effort, we've proposed a new and expanded Fatherhood, Marriage, and Families Innovation Fund. And we plan to seek out and support the very best, most successful initiatives in our States and communities, those that are offering services like job training or parenting skills classes, domestic violence prevention, all which help provide the kind of network of support for men, particularly those in vulnerable communities. <p>We're also going to help dads who get caught up--we want to make sure that they're caught up on child support payments and that we reengage them in their children's lives. We're going to support efforts to build healthy relationships between parents as well, because we know that children benefit not just from loving mothers and loving fathers, but from strong and loving marriages as well. <p>And we're going to--[<i>applause</i>]--we're also launching a new transitional jobs initiative for ex-offenders and low-income, noncustodial fathers, because these are men who often face serious barriers to finding work and keeping work. We'll help them develop the skills and experience they need to move into full-time, long-term employment, so they can meet their child support obligations and help provide for their families.<p>And under Eric Holder's direction, our Justice Department is planning to create its first Fathering Reentry Court for ex-offender dads and to help replicate this program in courts across the country. And the idea here is very simple: to reach fathers right as they're leaving the criminal justice system and connect them immediately to the employment and services they need to start making their child support payments and reconnecting them with their families. <p>And this program was inspired by leaders like Peter Spokes, who was the executive director of the National Center for Fathering, a good friend to many in our administration, all of whom were deeply saddened by his recent passing. And we are honored to have Peter's wife Barbara with us here today. Where's Barbara? I just saw her earlier. There she is. Thank you.<p>So these initiatives are a good start. But ultimately, we know that the decision to be a good father, that's up to us, each of us, as individuals. It's one that men across this country are making every single day: attending those school assemblies, parent-teacher conferences; coaching soccer, Little League; scrimping and saving and working that extra shift so that their children can go to college. And plenty of fathers--and men who aren't fathers as well--are stepping up to serve as mentors and tutors and big brothers and foster parents to young people who don't have any responsible adult in their lives. <p>Now, even when we give it our best efforts, there will still be plenty of days of struggle and heartache when we don't quite measure up--talking to the men here now. Even with all the good fortune and support Michelle and I have had in our lives, I've made plenty of mistakes as a parent. I've lost count of all the times when the demands of work have taken me from the duties of fatherhood. And I know I've missed out on moments in my daughters' lives that I'll never get back, and that's a loss that's hard to accept. <p>But I also know the feeling that one author described when she wrote that \\"to have a child is to decide forever to have your heart go walking around outside your body.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Think about that: To have a child is to have your heart walking around outside your body.<p>I'm sure a lot of fathers here know that same memory that I have, of driving home with Michelle and Malia right after she was born, going about 10 miles an hour--[<i>Laughter</i>]--your emotions swinging between unadulterated joy and sheer terror. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I made a pledge that day that I would do everything I could to give my daughter what I never had, that if I could be anything in life, I would be a good father. <p>And since--[<i>applause</i>]--and like a lot of the men here, since that time, I've found there's nothing else in my life that compares to the pleasures I take in spending time with my girls. Nothing else comes close to the pride I feel in their achievement and the satisfaction I get in watching them grow into strong, confident young women. <p>So over the course of my life, I have been an attorney, I've been a professor, I've been a State senator, I've been a U.S. Senator, and I currently am serving as President of the United States. But I can say without hesitation that the most challenging, most fulfilling, most important job I will have during my time on this Earth is to be Sasha and Malia's dad. <p>And that--[<i>applause</i>]--so you don't need a fancy degree for that. You don't need a lot of money for that. No matter what doubts we may feel, what difficulties we may face, we all have to remember, being a father is--it's not just an obligation and a responsibility, it is a privilege and a blessing, one that we all have to embrace as individuals and as a nation. <p>So happy Father's Day, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"181" "\"Thank you. What do you think, Taylor? She did a pretty good job. Yes, she was solid. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Welcome to the White House, everybody. And thank you, Amy, for the wonderful introduction. Thank you, Taylor, for being here. Stories like Amy's and Taylor's are exactly why we passed the Affordable Care Act. And the courage that you and so many Americans have shown in sharing your stories is what kept us going until we actually got it done. And so we're very grateful to you.<p>I want to thank all the Members of Congress who are here today who helped to make reform a reality. The Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius, is here, as is Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis. And they are two of the members of my Cabinet who are helping to implement this law.<p>I just finished a meeting with the CEOs of some of America's largest insurance companies and some of our State insurance commissioners where we discussed how we're going to work together to implement health insurance reform.<p>Now, it was more than a year ago that some of these same CEOs came to the White House for one of the first meetings about what this reform would look like. And we knew we wouldn't see eye to eye on everything. But for the first time, nearly everyone involved in this debate--patients, hospitals, doctors, nurses, businesses large and small, Democrats and Republicans, even those most invested in the status quo, including our insurance companies--everybody knew that finally something needed to be done about America's broken health care system. It was no longer working for families, who were seeing more and more of their incomes eaten by health costs, causing real hardships for working people. It was no longer working for small businesses, who were burdened by the weight of premiums that had doubled--more than doubled over the last decade. It was no longer working for State and Federal governments, imperiling our fiscal future. And all the while, the number of Americans without insurance kept rising, compounded by a horrific recession, people losing their jobs and then losing their health care.<p>So one thing was clear to everybody: We couldn't keep traveling down the same road. For the sake of our families, our businesses, and the fiscal future of this country, we had to change course. And that's why 3 months ago, in this very room, I signed the Affordable Care Act into law.<p>Now, this law will cut costs and make coverage more affordable for families and small businesses. It's reform that brings--that begins to bring down our Government's long-term structural deficit. It's reform that finally extends the opportunity to purchase coverage to the millions who currently don't have it and includes tough, new consumer protections to guarantee greater stability, security, and control for the millions who do have health insurance.<p>Now, while it will take a few years to fully implement this law, we can already see it taking effect. Last month, 4 million small-business owners found a postcard in their mailbox informing them that they could be eligible for a health care tax cut this year worth tens of thousands of dollars to help them cover their employees. And America's largest businesses are filling out applications for critical relief to help them provide coverage for retirees who aren't yet eligible for Medicare.<p>Two weeks ago, tens of thousands of seniors who fall into the Medicare prescription drug coverage gap known as the doughnut hole began receiving a $250 check to help them afford their medicine. And by the end of the year, we estimate that 4 million seniors will receive this help. And by 2020, this law will close the doughnut hole completely. We're also strengthening Medicare by going after waste and fraud and abuse in the system and aggressively pursuing those who prey on seniors with scams.<p>In many cases, young adults without insurance can now stay on their parent's plan until they're 26 years old. That lifts a lot of worry from some parents' shoulders. Even though the insurance companies had until September to comply with this rule, my administration asked them to do so immediately to avoid coverage gaps for young adults. And I want to thank those companies that agreed to do this.<p>On July 1, uninsured Americans who've been locked out of the insurance market because of a preexisting condition will now be able to enroll in a new national insurance pool where they'll finally be able to purchase quality, affordable health care, some for the very first time in their lives. For States that opt to run their own insurance pools using funds from the new law, my administration is urging them to begin enrolling people as soon as possible.<p>And in a few years, once the new competitive marketplace comes on line through insurance exchanges, discrimination against Americans with preexisting conditions will be banned for good. And that's when individuals and small businesses will finally have the same access to the same types of insurance plans that Members of Congress have for themselves.<p>And today I'm announcing that the Departments of Health and Human Services, Labor, and Treasury are issuing new regulations under the Affordable Care Act that will put an end to some of the worst practices in the insurance industry and put in place the strongest consumer protections in our history--finally what amounts to a true patient's bill of rights.<p>This long-overdue step has one overriding focus, and that's looking out for the American consumer. It's not punitive. As I said when I met with the insurance executives, it's not meant to punish insurance companies. They provide a critical service. They employ large numbers of Americans. And in fact, once this reform is fully implemented a few years from now, America's private insurance companies have the opportunity to prosper from the opportunity to compete for tens of millions of new customers. We want them to take advantage of that competition.<p>Now, what Americans respect--expect in return is a greater level of accountability and fairness and security. We expect to get what we pay for. And these rights guarantee just that: basic rules of the road that will make America's health care system more consumer driven and more cost effective and give Americans the peace of mind that their insurance will be there when they need it, give Amy that piece of mind that her insurance will be there when she needs it.<p>So starting in September, some of the worst abuses will be banned forever. No more discriminating against children with preexisting conditions. No more retroactively dropping somebody's policy when they get sick if they made an unintentional mistake on an application. No more lifetime limits or restrictive annual limits on coverage. Those days are over.<p>And I'm pleased to say that some insurance companies have already stopped these practices. When news reports indicated that a company was dropping coverage for women diagnosed with breast cancer, my administration called on the industry to end the practice immediately, don't wait until September. And soon after, the entire industry announced that it would comply with the new law early and stop the practice of dropping people's coverage when they fall ill and need it most.<p>Some also questioned whether insurance companies might find a loophole in the new law and continue to discriminate against children with preexisting conditions. And to their credit, when we called the insurance companies to provide coverage to our most vulnerable Americans, the industry agreed. <p>Those were the right things to do for their consumers, their customers, the American people. And I applaud industry for that. And we're going to hold industry to that standard, a standard in which industry can still thrive but Americans are getting a fair shake.<p>The patient's bill of rights also eliminates the barriers that stand between the American people and their doctors. Americans will be able to keep the primary care doctor or pediatrician they choose. You'll be able to see an ob-gyn without a referral. You'll be able to seek emergency care at a hospital outside the plan's network without fighting to get approval from an insurance company first. And consumers will finally have access to simple, clear information about their choices and their rights. These protections to preserve America's choice of doctors made up the original patient's bill of rights. It was a proposal that was debated over a decade ago with significant bipartisan support, but was never enacted until now as part of the Affordable Care Act.<p>So this is a long-overdue victory for America's consumers and patients. And yes, it does away with the status quo that some insurance companies have taken advantage of for so long. But insurance companies should see this reform as an opportunity to improve care and increase competition. They shouldn't see it as an opportunity to enact unjustifiable rate increases that don't boost care and inflate their bottom line.<p>And the fact is, some insurance companies tried to raise rates even before we passed the law, even though some of them were making record profits. Earlier this year, for example, more than 800,000 Anthem BlueCross customers in California opened their mail to see that their premiums would go up by as much as 39 percent. My administration wanted to know why. People's wages aren't going up 39 percent, and the company's expenses didn't rise by 39 percent. And when pressed, they took a look at it and said, \\"Well, our math was wrong; we didn't justify that kind of rate increase.\\" So they withdrew it.<p>The point is that there are genuine cost drivers that are not caused by insurance companies. But what is also true is we've got to make sure that this new law is not being used as an excuse to simply drive up costs. So what we do is make sure that the Affordable Care Act gives us new tools to promote competition, transparency, and better deals for consumers. The CEOs here today need to know that they're going to be required to publicly justify unreasonable premium increases on your web sites as well as the law's new web site, healthcare.gov. As we set up the exchanges, we'll be watching closely, and we'll fully support States if they exercise their review authority to keep excessively expensive plans out of their insurance exchanges.<p>None of this is designed to deprive insurance companies of their fair rates. And as I mentioned when we were meeting with the CEOs, there are a lot of cost drivers other than those that are within insurance companies' control. But it is important to have these steps in place to protect consumers from unjustifiable rate increases. In fact, many States are already exercising their review authority. We're already seeing a wave of change that's lifting up consumers and leveling the playing field. Maine rejected a proposed 18-percent rate hike there. Pennsylvania is investigating premium increases made by nine of the State's largest insurers. New York recently passed a law granting the State the authority to review and approve premium increases before they take effect. And we're working with other States and the State insurance commissioners here today to support similar efforts. Secretary Sebelius has urged them to investigate other rate hikes. We've set up a new Office of Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight to help. And we'll provide grants to the States that run the best, most innovative oversight programs to protect their consumers.<p>And beginning next year, insurance companies will be required to spend at least 80 or 85 percent of health care dollars where they should be spent: on health care and on efforts to improve its quality. Not on profits, not on bonuses, not on administrative costs that don't make people healthier.<p>Ultimately, all these reforms are about more than just ending a dangerous status quo. They're about offering stability and security to Americans who need it. Now, we're in Washington, so obviously, there's politics involved. And I've got some folks on the other side of the aisle that still think none of this should happen and, in fact, have said they're going to run on a platform of repeal. They want to go back to the system we had before.<p>Would you? [<i>Laughter</i>] Would you want to go back to discriminating against children with preexisting conditions? Would you want to go back to dropping coverage for people when they get sick? Would you want to reinstate lifetime limits on benefits so that mothers like Amy have to worry?<p>We're not going back. I refuse to go back, and so do countless Americans who bravely shared their stories with me over 2 years as I traveled this country and who wrote letter after letter to me in the White House. A lot of them are here today.<p>You heard Amy's story. Taylor got ill, and the treatment produced multiple costly side effects. And now, just 3 years after diagnosis, they're picking and choosing which tests and treatments to pursue because they don't want to exceed their plan's lifetime limits. So, Amy, you and Taylor are why the Affordable Care Act bans those lifetime limits. And you're why these Members of Congress right here fought so hard, despite some very tough politics, to make this happen.<p>I met Nathan Wilkes from Englewood, Colorado, last August. His son, Thomas, was born with hemophilia in 2003. At the time, the Wilkes family had high-quality insurance through the high-tech company that Nathan helped to found. But when that insurer saw Thomas's claims, it began jacking up premiums for all of Nathan's employees and their families. No other insurer would take Nathan as long as Thomas was on the policy.<p><i>[At this point, a fly flew in front of the President.]</i><p>Get out of here. [<i>Laughter</i>] You've seen me grab one of those before. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So as Nathan's family neared their lifetime limit, a social worker actually suggested that Nathan and his wife get divorced so that she could go on Medicaid. And nobody should face a choice like that in America. So, Nathan, you and your family, you're why the Affordable Care Act bans those lifetime limits and ends the discrimination that young Thomas faced.<p>I met Laura Klitzka last year in Green Bay, Wisconsin. Laura--it's wonderful to see her here with her crew. Laura was diagnosed with breast cancer 2 years ago. She's undergone 8 rounds of chemotherapy, a double mastectomy, 33 rounds of radiation; then the cancer returned, spread to her bones. She lost her job during treatment. The coverage she had through her husband's employer has a lifetime limit of $1 million, and so like Nathan, they worry they'll hit that limit. They're struggling to pay their medical bills. Laura is worried about losing their house. She just wants to make sure that she can spend time focused on being well and not worrying about her medical bills. Laura, you're why we banned those lifetime limits too.<p>I met Katie Gibson last year in Bozeman, Montana. Because Katie once had cancer, her insurance policy was suddenly revoked when she needed it most, even though she was paying her premiums. And I called Katie the day after the House passed a reform bill last November, and I told her then that when it finally became law, we'd be able to protect Americans like her from the kind of abuses she's had to endure. And, Katie, now we can.<p>So anybody who favors repeal is welcome to come talk to these people and tell them why we should go back to the status quo prior to us signing this bill, go back to the way things were. They are going to need to explain why they and tens of millions of Americans should have their new rights taken away. I don't think they'll have that conversation.<p>Because in the end, folks like Amy and Nathan and Laura and Katie are who this law was made to help, Americans who work hard, who do the right thing, and just expect a fair shake in return. In every story I heard out there, in every letter I read at night, people were not asking for much more than that. Nobody ever asked for a handout. Nobody ever asked for a free ride. A lot of times folks wrote they were embarrassed or guilty about asking for help at all when so many of their fellow Americans were hurting as well. Some even apologized for writing in the first place. But they all said the same thing: Please do something for people like me and families like mine.<p>So we did. The stories of everyday Americans and, more importantly, the courage it took to share those stories is what kept this effort alive and moving forward, even when it looked like it was lost. They are why we got this done. They are why I signed this bill into law. It wasn't easy, and it isn't perfect. Change never is in a country as big and busy and diverse as this one. But every time this country has moved forward, it's because ordinary Americans like these summoned what's best in each of us to make life better for all of us, and it's because we as a people find the will to cobble together out of all of our differences that American sense of common interest and common purpose that's always been required to advance the dreams of all of our people.<p>That's why we got this done. And that's what the Affordable Care Act does. And as long as I have the honor of being your President, that's what we're going to keep on doing together.<p>Thank you very much. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"182" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, everybody! I was going to say welcome to the White House, but you guys seem like you feel right at home. [<i>Laughter</i>] You don't need me to tell you this is the people's house.<p>The--a couple of acknowledgements that I want to make very quickly. First of all, our Director of the Office of Personnel Management, who has just done an extraordinary job across the Government, give John Berry a big round of applause, please. We love John.<p><i>Audience member</i>. All right, John!<p><i>The President</i>. All right, John! [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Our Chair of the Export-Import Bank, helping to bring jobs here to the United States of America, Fred Hochberg. Where is he? Our Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality, doing outstanding work each and every day, Nancy Sutley. Where is she? Nancy's a little vertically challenged--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but I see her over there. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We've got here a trailblazer for Federal appointees--we are so proud of her--Ms. Roberta Achtenberg is here. Give Roberta a big round of applause. And then I understand we've got a terrific country singer--Chely Wright is in the house. <p>Now, in addition, I know they had to leave because they had votes, but you guys obviously don't have just fiercer warriors on your behalf than a couple of our openly gay and lesbian Members of Congress, Tammy Baldwin and Jared Polis, so give them--[<i>applause</i>]. They are openly terrific. [<i>Laughter</i>] They do great work.<p>And it is also great to have so many activists and organizers from around the country, folks who fight every day for the rights of parents and children and partners and citizens to be treated equally under the law. And so we are very proud of all of you. <p>Oh, and by the way, the guy standing next to me, this is Joe Biden.<p><i>Audience member.</i> All the way from Pennsylvania.<p><i>Vice President Joe Biden.</i> Delaware.<p><i>The President.</i> Just because he's a Phillies fan--he's from Delaware. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, look, the fact that we've got activists here is important because it's a reminder that change never comes, or at least, never begins in Washington. It begins with acts of compassion--and sometimes defiance--across America. It begins when ordinary people, out of love for a mother or a father, son or daughter, or husband or wife, speak out against injustices that have been accepted for too long. And it begins when these impositions of conscience start opening hearts that had been closed and when we finally see each other's humanity, whatever our differences. <p>Now, this struggle is as old as America itself. It's never been easy. But standing here, I am hopeful. One year ago in this room, we marked the 40th anniversary of the Stonewall protests, and--[<i>applause</i>]. Some of you were here, and you may remember that I pledged then that even at a time when we faced enormous challenges, both on the economy and in our foreign policy, that we would not put aside matters of basic equality. And we haven't. <p>We've got a lot of hard work that we still have to do, but we can already point to extraordinary progress that we've made over the past year on behalf of Americans who are gay and lesbian, bisexual and transgender.<p>Just stay with me here for a second. Last year, I met with Judy Shepard, Matthew Shepard's mom, and I promised her that after a decades-long struggle, we would pass inclusive hate crimes legislation. I promised that in the name of her son, we would ensure that the full might of the law is brought down on those who would attack somebody just because they are gay. And less than 6 months later, with Judy by my side, we marked the enactment of the Matthew Shepard Act. It is now the law of the land. <p>Just a few moments ago, I met with Janice Langbehn and her children. Where's--where'd Janice go? There they are right there. And when Janice's partner of 18 years, Lisa, suddenly collapsed because of an aneurysm, Janice and the couple's three kids were denied the chance to comfort their partner and their mom, barred from Lisa's bedside. It was wrong; it was cruel. And in part because of their story, I instructed my Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius, to make sure that any hospital that's participating in Medicare or Medicaid--that means most hospitals--[<i>Laughter</i>]--allow gay and lesbian partners the same privileges and visitation rights as straight partners. <p>After I issued that memorandum, I called Janice, and I told her the news. And before we came out here today, I wanted to make sure that I had followed up. Secretary Sebelius will officially be proposing this regulation. And I can also announce that the Secretary has sent a letter today asking these hospitals to adopt these changes now, even before the rule takes effect, so--[<i>applause</i>]. Nothing can undo the hurt that her--that Janice's family has experienced. And nothing can undo the pain felt by countless others who've been through a similar ordeal. For example, Charlene Strong is here. She lost her wife Kate Fleming. And Charlene is here along with Kate's mom, who said on behalf of all mothers, thank you. Because we think it's the right thing to do. <p>In addition, I've issued an Executive order [Presidential memorandum]* to extend as many partnership benefits to gay and lesbian Federal employees as possible under current law. And I'm going to continue to fight to change the law to guarantee gay Federal employees the exact same benefits as straight employees, including access to health insurance and retirement plans. And in an announcement today, the Department of Labor made clear that under the Family and Medical Leave Act, same-sex couples, as well as others raising children, are to be treated like the caretakers that they are, so--[<i>applause</i>]. <p>Because I believe in committed--I believe that committed gay and lesbian couples deserve the same rights and responsibilities afforded to any married couple in this country, I have called for Congress to repeal the so-called Defense of Marriage Act. We are pushing hard to pass an inclusive employee nondiscrimination bill. No one in America should be fired because they're gay. It's not right, it's not who we are as Americans, and we are going to put a stop to it. <p>And finally, we're going to end \\"don't ask, don't tell.\\" That is a promise I made as a candidate. It is a promise that I reiterated as President. It's one that this administration is going to keep. Now, the only way to lock this in, the only way to get the votes in Congress to roll back this policy is if we work with the Pentagon, who are in the midst of two wars. <p>And that's why we were gratified to see, for the first time ever, the Secretary of Defense, Bob Gates, testify in favor of repeal. And the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Mike Mullen, has repeatedly and passionately argued for allowing gay men and women to serve honestly in the military. Now, we know that forcing gay and lesbian soldiers to live a lie or to leave the military, that doesn't contribute to our security, it harms our security. <p>And thanks to Patrick Murphy and others, for the first time in history, the House has passed a repeal that would allow gay men and women to openly serve in our Armed Forces. And this repeal is authored so that the Pentagon can complete its review of the policy, which is critical, by the way, not only to passage, but it's also critical to making sure that the change is accepted and implemented effectively. In the Senate, the Armed Services Committee has approved repeal for the first time, and the full body is poised to vote soon. <p>So here's the bottom line: We have never been closer to ending this discriminatory policy. And I'm going to keep on fighting until that bill is on my desk so that I can sign it. <p>Of course, ultimately, change is about more than just policies in our Government. And that's why I want to close by recognizing all the young people who are here. I had a chance to take a bunch of pictures with them, just really impressive folks who are advocating on their behalf. I know there are some in the audience who have experienced pain in their lives, who at times have been--felt like outcasts, who have been scorned or bullied, and I know that there are families here on behalf of loved ones who are no longer with us, some in part because of the particularly difficult challenges that gay men and women still face.<p>This is a reminder that we all have an obligation to ensure that no young person is ever made to feel worthless or alone--ever. Now, at the same time, I think there's plenty of reason to have some hope for many of the young people, including those who are here today. They've shown incredible courage and incredible integrity standing up for who they are. They've refused to be anything less than themselves. <p>And we all remember being young--sort of. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it's not easy. It's not easy standing up all the time and being who you are. But they're showing us the way forward. These young people are helping to build a more perfect Union, a nation where all of us are equal, each of us is free to pursue our own versions of happiness. <p>And I believe because of them that the future is bright. It's certainly bright for them. Of course, it does depend on all of us. It depends on the efforts of government and the activism of ordinary citizens like yourselves. It depends on the love of families and the support of communities. And I want you all to know that as this work continues, I'm going to be standing shoulder to shoulder with you, fighting by your side every step of the way. <p>So thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"183" "\"This weekend, I'm traveling to Toronto to meet the members of the G-20. There, I hope we can build on the progress we made at last year's G-20 summits by coordinating our global financial reform efforts to make sure a crisis like the one from which we are still recovering never happens again. We've made great progress towards passing such reform here at home. As I speak, we are on the cusp of enacting the toughest financial reforms since the Great Depression.<p>I don't have to tell you why these reforms are so important. We're still digging ourselves out of an economic crisis that happened largely because there wasn't strong enough oversight on Wall Street. We can't build a strong economy in America over the long run without ending this status quo and laying a new foundation for growth and prosperity.<p>That's what the Wall Street reforms currently making their way through Congress will help us do, reforms that represent 90 percent of what I proposed when I took up this fight. We'll put in place the strongest consumer financial protections in American history and create an independent agency with an independent director and an independent budget to enforce them.<p>Credit card companies will no longer be able to mislead you with pages and pages of fine print. You will no longer be subject to all kinds of hidden fees and penalties or the predatory practices of unscrupulous lenders. Instead, we'll make sure credit card companies and mortgage companies play by the rules. And you'll be empowered with easy-to-understand forms and the clear and concise information you need to make the financial decisions that are best for you and your family.<p>Wall Street reform will also strengthen our economy in a number of other ways. We'll make our financial system more transparent by bringing the kinds of complex trades that helped trigger this crisis--trades in a $600 trillion derivatives market--finally into the light of day. We'll enact what's called the Volcker rule to make sure banks protected by safety nets like the FDIC can't engage in risky trades for their own profit. We'll create what's called a resolution authority to help wind down firms whose collapse would threaten our entire financial system. Put simply, we'll end the days of taxpayer-funded bailouts and help make sure Main Street is never again held responsible for Wall Street's mistakes.<p>Beyond these reforms, we also need to address another piece of unfinished business. We need to impose a fee on the banks that were the biggest beneficiaries of taxpayer assistance at the height of our financial crisis, so we can recover every dime of taxpayer money.<p>Getting this far on Wall Street reform hasn't been easy. There are those who've fought it tooth and nail to preserve the status quo. In recent months, they've spent millions of dollars and hired an army of lobbyists to stop reform dead in its tracks.<p>But because we refused to back down and kept fighting, we now stand on the verge of victory. And I urge Congress to take us over the finish line and send me a reform bill I can sign into law, so we can empower our people with consumer protections and help prevent a financial crisis like this from ever happening again.\" "
"184" "\"Thank you. Everyone, please have a seat. Thank you very much. Let me thank Pastor Hybels from near my hometown in Chicago, who took time off his vacation to be here today. And we are blessed to have him.<p>I want to thank President Neil Kerwin and our hosts here at American University; acknowledge my outstanding Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis, and members of my administration; all the Members of Congress--[<i>applause</i>]. Hilda deserves applause. To all the Members of Congress, the elected officials, faith and law enforcement, labor, business leaders, and immigration advocates who are here today, thank you for your presence.<p>I want to thank American University for welcoming me to the campus once again. Some may recall that the last time I was here I was joined by a dear friend and a giant of American politics, Senator Edward Kennedy. Teddy's not here right now, but his legacy of civil rights and health care and worker protections is still with us.<p>I was a candidate for President that day, and some may recall I argued that our country had reached a tipping point, that after years in which we had deferred our most pressing problems and too often yielded to the politics of the moment, we now faced a choice: We could squarely confront our challenges with honesty and determination, or we could consign ourselves and our children to a future less prosperous and less secure.<p>I believed that then, and I believe it now. And that's why, even as we've tackled the most severe economic crisis since the Great Depression, even as we've wound down the war in Iraq and refocused our efforts in Afghanistan, my administration has refused to ignore some of the fundamental challenges facing this generation.<p>We launched the most aggressive education reforms in decades so that our children can gain the knowledge and skills they need to compete in a 21st-century global economy.<p>We have finally delivered on the promise of health reform, reform that will bring greater security to every American and that will rein in the skyrocketing costs that threaten families, businesses, and the prosperity of our Nation.<p>We're on the verge of reforming an outdated and ineffective set of rules governing Wall Street to give greater power to consumers and prevent the reckless financial speculation that led to this severe recession.<p>And we're accelerating the transition to a clean energy economy by significantly raising the fuel efficiency standards of cars and trucks and by doubling our use of renewable energies like wind and solar power, steps that have the potential to create whole new industries and hundreds of thousands of new jobs in America.<p>So despite the forces of the status quo, despite the polarization and the frequent pettiness of our politics, we are confronting the great challenges of our times. And while this work isn't easy and the changes we seek won't always happen overnight, what we've made clear is that this administration will not just kick the can down the road.<p>Immigration reform is no exception. In recent days, the issue of immigration has become once more a sense--a source of fresh contention in our country, with the passage of a controversial law in Arizona and the heated reactions we've seen across America. Some have rallied behind this new policy. Others have protested and launched boycotts of the State. And everywhere, people have expressed frustration with a system that seems fundamentally broken.<p>Of course, the tensions around immigration are not new. On the one hand, we've always defined ourselves as a nation of immigrants, a nation that welcomes those willing to embrace America's precepts. Indeed, it is this constant flow of immigrants that helped to make America what it is. The scientific breakthroughs of Albert Einstein, the inventions of Nikola Tesla, the great ventures of Andrew Carnegie's U.S. Steel and Sergey Brin's Google Inc., all this was possible because of immigrants.<p>And then there are the countless names and the quiet acts that never made the history books but were no less consequential in building this country, the generations who braved hardship and great risk to reach our shores in search of a better life for themselves and their families; the millions of people, ancestors to most of us, who believed that there was a place where they could be, at long last, free to work and worship and live their lives in peace.<p>So this steady stream of hard-working and talented people has made America the engine of the global economy and a beacon of hope around the world. And it's allowed us to adapt and thrive in the face of technological and societal change. To this day, America reaps incredible economic rewards because we remain a magnet for the best and brightest from across the globe. Folks travel here in the hopes of being a part of a culture of entrepreneurship and ingenuity, and by doing so, they strengthen and enrich that culture. Immigration also means we have a younger workforce and a faster growing economy than many of our competitors. And in an increasingly interconnected world, the diversity of our country is a powerful advantage in global competition.<p>Just a few weeks ago, we had an event of small-business owners at the White House. And one business owner was a woman named Prachee Devadas who came to this country, became a citizen, and opened up a successful technology services company. When she started, she had just one employee. Today, she employs more than a hundred people. <p>This past April, we held a naturalization ceremony at the White House for members of our Armed Forces. Even though they were not yet citizens, they had enlisted. One of them was a woman named Perla Ramos, born and raised in Mexico, came to the United States shortly after 9/11, and she eventually joined the Navy. And she said, \\"I take pride in our flag and the history that forged this great nation and the history we write day by day.\\"<p>These women, and men and women across this country like them, remind us that immigrants have always helped to build and defend this country and that being an American is not a matter of blood or birth, it's a matter of faith. It's a matter of fidelity to the shared values that we all hold so dear. That's what makes us unique. That's what makes us strong. Anybody can help us write the next great chapter in our history.<p>Now, we can't forget that this process of immigration and eventual inclusion has often been painful. Each new wave of immigrants has generated fear and resentments towards newcomers, particularly in times of economic upheaval. Our founding was rooted in the notion that America was unique as a place of refuge and freedom for, in Thomas Jefferson's words, \\"oppressed humanity.\\" But the ink on our Constitution was barely dry when, amidst conflict, Congress passed the Alien and Sedition Acts, which placed harsh restrictions of those suspected of having foreign allegiances. A century ago, immigrants from Ireland, Italy, Poland, other European countries were routinely subjected to rank discrimination and ugly stereotypes. Chinese immigrants were held in detention and deported from Angel Island in the San Francisco Bay. They didn't even get to come in.<p>So the politics of who is and who is not allowed to enter this country and on what terms has always been contentious. And that remains true today. And it's made worse by a failure of those of us in Washington to fix a broken immigration system.<p>To begin with, our borders have been porous for decades. Obviously, the problem is greatest along our southern border, but it's not restricted to that part of the country. In fact, because we don't do a very good job of tracking who comes in and out of the country as visitors, large numbers avoid immigration laws simply by overstaying their visas. <p>The result is an estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants in the United States. The overwhelming majority of these men and women are simply seeking a better life for themselves and their children. Many settle in low-wage sectors of the economy; they work hard, they save, they stay out of trouble. But because they live in the shadows, they're vulnerable to unscrupulous businesses who pay them less than the minimum wage or violate worker safety rules, thereby putting companies who follow those rules and Americans who rightly demand the minimum wage or overtime at an unfair advantage [disadvantage]*. Crimes go unreported as victims and witnesses fear coming forward. And this makes it harder for the police to catch violent criminals and keep neighborhoods safe. And billions in tax revenue are lost each year because many undocumented workers are paid under the table.<p>More fundamentally, the presence of so many illegal immigrants makes a mockery of all those who are going through the process of immigrating legally. Indeed, after years of patchwork fixes and ill-conceived revisions, the legal immigration system is as broken as the borders. Backlogs and bureaucracy means the process can take years. While an applicant waits for approval, he or she is often forbidden from visiting the United States, which means even husbands and wives may be forced to spend many years apart. High fees and the need for lawyers may exclude worthy applicants. And while we provide students from around the world visas to get engineering and computer science degrees at our top universities, our laws discourage them from using those skills to start a business or power a new industry right here in the United States. Instead of training entrepreneurs to create jobs on our shores, we train our competition.<p>In sum, the system is broken. And everybody knows it. Unfortunately, reform has been held hostage to political posturing and special-interest wrangling and to the pervasive sentiment in Washington that tackling such a thorny and emotional issue is inherently bad politics.<p>Now, just a few years ago, when I was a Senator, we forged a bipartisan coalition in favor of comprehensive reform. Under the leadership of Senator Kennedy, who had been a longtime champion of immigration reform, and Senator John McCain, we worked across the aisle to help pass a bipartisan bill through the Senate. But that effort eventually came apart. And now, under the pressures of partisanship and election-year politics, many of the 11 Republican Senators who voted for reform in the past have now backed away from their previous support.<p>Into this breach, States like Arizona have decided to take matters into their own hands. Now, given the levels of frustration across the country, this is understandable. But it is also ill conceived. And it's not just that the law Arizona passed is divisive--although it has fanned the flames of an already contentious debate--laws like Arizona's put huge pressures on local law enforcement to enforce rules that ultimately are unenforceable. It puts pressure on already hard-strapped State and local budgets. It makes it difficult for people here illegally to report crimes, driving a wedge between communities and law enforcement, making our streets more dangerous and the jobs of our police officers more difficult. And you don't have to take my word for this. You can speak to the police chiefs and others from law enforcement here today who will tell you the same thing.<p>These laws also have the potential of violating the rights of innocent American citizens and legal residents, making them subject to possible stops or questioning because of what they look like or how they sound. And as other States and localities go their own ways, we face the prospect that different rules for immigration will apply in different parts of the country, a patchwork of local immigration rules where we all know one, clear national standard is needed.<p>Our task then is to make our national laws actually work, to shape a system that reflects our values as a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants. And that means being honest about the problem and getting past the false debates that divide the country rather than bring it together. <p>For example, there are those in the immigrants' rights community who have argued passionately that we should simply provide those who are [here]* illegally with legal status or at least ignore the laws on the books and put an end to deportation until we have better laws. And often this argument is framed in moral terms: Why should we punish people who are just trying to earn a living?<p>I recognize the sense of compassion that drives this argument, but I believe such an indiscriminate approach would be both unwise and unfair. It would suggest to those thinking about coming here illegally that there will be no repercussions for such a decision. And this could lead to a surge in more illegal immigration. And it would also ignore the millions of people around the world who are waiting in line to come here legally. Ultimately, our Nation, like all nations, has the right and obligation to control its borders and set laws for residency and citizenship. And no matter how decent they are, no matter their reasons, the 11 million who broke these laws should be held accountable.<p>Now, if the majority of Americans are skeptical of a blanket amnesty, they are also skeptical that it is possible to round up and deport 11 million people. They know it's not possible. Such an effort would be logistically impossible and wildly expensive. Moreover, it would tear at the very fabric of this Nation, because immigrants who are here illegally are now intricately woven into that fabric. Many have children who are American citizens. Some are children themselves, brought here by their parents at a very young age, growing up as American kids, only to discover their illegal status when they apply for college or a job. Migrant workers--mostly here illegally--have been the labor force of our farmers and agricultural producers for generations. So even if it was possible, a program of mass deportations would disrupt our economy and communities in ways that most Americans would find intolerable.<p>Now, once we get past the two poles of this debate, it becomes possible to shape a practical, commonsense approach that reflects our heritage and our values. Such an approach demands accountability from everybody: from government, from businesses, and from individuals.<p>Government has a threshold responsibility to secure our borders. That's why I directed my Secretary of Homeland Security, Janet Napolitano--a former border Governor--to improve our enforcement policy without having to wait for a new law.<p>Today, we have more boots on the ground near the Southwest border than at any time in our history. Let me repeat that: We have more boots on the ground on the Southwest border than at any time in our history. We doubled the personnel assigned to Border Enforcement Security Task Forces. We tripled the number of intelligence analysts along the border. For the first time, we've begun screening 100 percent of southbound rail shipments. And as a result, we're seizing more illegal guns, cash, and drugs than in years past. Contrary to some of the reports that you see, crime along the border is down. And statistics collected by Customs and Border Protection reflect a significant reduction in the number of people trying to cross the border illegally.<p>So the bottom line is this: The southern border is more secure today than at any time in the past 20 years. That doesn't mean we don't have more work to do. We have to do that work, but it's important that we acknowledge the facts. Now, even as we are committed to doing what's necessary to secure our borders, even without passage of the new law, there are those who argue that we should not move forward with any other elements of reform until we have fully sealed our borders. But our borders are just too vast for us to be able to solve the problem only with fences and border patrols. It won't work. Our borders will not be secure as long as our limited resources are devoted to not only stopping gangs and potential terrorists, but also the hundreds of thousands who attempt to cross each year simply to find work.<p>That's why businesses must be held accountable if they break the law by deliberately hiring and exploiting undocumented workers. We've already begun to step up enforcement against the worst workplace offenders. And we're implementing and improving a system to give employers a reliable way to verify that their employees are here legally. But we need to do more. We cannot continue just to look the other way as a significant portion of our economy operates outside the law. It breeds abuse and bad practices. It punishes employers who act responsibly and undercuts American workers. And ultimately, if the demand for undocumented workers falls, the incentive for people to come here illegally will decline as well.<p>Finally, we have to demand responsibility from people living here illegally. They must be required to admit that they broke the law. They should be required to register, pay their taxes, pay a fine, and learn English. They must get right with the law before they can get in line and earn their citizenship, not just because it is fair, not just because it will make clear to those who might wish to come to America they must do so inside the bounds of the law, but because this is how we demonstrate that being an--what being an American means. Being a citizen of this country comes not only with rights, but also with certain fundamental responsibilities. We can create a pathway for legal status that is fair, reflective of our values, and works.<p>Now, stopping illegal immigration must go hand in hand with reforming our creaky system of legal immigration. We've begun to do that by eliminating a backlog in background checks that at one point stretched back almost a year. That's just for the background check. People can now track the status of their immigration applications by e-mail or text message. We've improved accountability and safety in the detention system. And we've stemmed the increases in naturalization fees. But here too we need to do more. We should make it easier for the best and the brightest to come to start businesses and develop products and create jobs.<p>Our laws should respect families following the rules, instead of splitting them apart. We need to provide farms a legal way to hire the workers they rely on and a path for those workers to earn legal status. And we should stop punishing innocent young people for the actions of their parents by denying them the chance to stay here and earn an education and contribute their talents to build the country where they've grown up. The \\"DREAM Act\\" would do this, and that's why I supported this bill as a State legislator and as a U.S. Senator and why I continue to support it as President.<p>So these are the essential elements of comprehensive immigration reform. The question now is whether we will have the courage and the political will to pass a bill through Congress, to finally get it done. Last summer, I held a meeting with leaders of both parties, including many of the Republicans who had supported reform in the past and some who hadn't. I was pleased to see a bipartisan framework proposed in the Senate by Senators Lindsey Graham and Chuck Schumer, with whom I met to discuss this issue. I've spoken with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus to plot the way forward and meet--and I met with them again earlier this week.<p>And I've spoken with representatives from a growing coalition of labor unions and business groups, immigrant advocates and community organizations, law enforcement, local government, all who recognize the importance of immigration reform. And I've met with leaders from America's religious communities, like Pastor Hybels, people of different faiths and beliefs, some liberal, some conservative, who nonetheless share a sense of urgency, who understand that fixing our broken immigration system is not only a political issue, not just an economic issue, but a moral imperative as well.<p>So we've made progress. I'm ready to move forward, the majority of Democrats are ready to move forward, and I believe the majority of Americans are ready to move forward. But the fact is, without bipartisan support, as we had just a few years ago, we cannot solve this problem. Reform that brings accountability to our immigration system cannot pass without Republican votes. That is the political and mathematical reality. The only way to reduce the risk that this effort will again falter because of politics is if members of both parties are willing to take responsibility for solving this problem once and for all.<p>And yes, this is an emotional question and one that lends itself to demagoguery. Time and again, this issue has been used to divide and inflame and to demonize people. And so the understandable, the natural impulse among those who run for office is to turn away and defer this question for another day or another year or another administration. Despite the courageous leadership in the past shown by many Democrats and some Republicans--including, by the way, my predecessor, President Bush--this has been the custom. That is why a broken and dangerous system that offends our most basic American values is still in place.<p>But I believe we can put politics aside and finally have an immigration system that's accountable. I believe we can appeal not to people's fears, but to their hopes, to their highest ideals, because that's who we are as Americans. It's been inscribed on our Nation's seal since we declared our independence: E pluribus unum. Out of many, one. That is what has drawn the persecuted and impoverished to our shores. That's what led the innovators and risk takers from around the world to take a chance here in the land of opportunity. That's what has led people to endure untold hardships to reach this place called America.<p>One of the largest waves of immigration in our history took place little more than a century ago. At the time, Jewish people were being driven out of Eastern Europe, often escaping to the sounds of gunfire and the light from their villages burning to the ground. The journey could take months, as families crossed rivers in the dead of night, traveled miles by foot, endured a rough and dangerous passage over the North Atlantic. And once here, many made their homes in a teeming and bustling Lower Manhattan.<p>And it was at this time that a young woman named Emma Lazarus, whose own family fled persecution from Europe generations earlier, took up the cause of these new immigrants. Although she was a poet, she spent much of her time advocating for better health care and housing for the newcomers. And inspired by what she saw and heard, she wrote down her thoughts and donated a piece of work to help pay for the construction of a new statue--the Statue of Liberty--which actually was funded in part by small donations from people across America.<p>Years before the statue was built, years before it would be seen by throngs of immigrants craning their necks skyward at the end of a long and brutal voyage, years before it would come to symbolize everything that we cherish, she imagined what it could mean. She imagined the sight of a giant statue at the entry point of a great nation, but unlike the great monuments of the past, this would not signal an empire. Instead, it would signal one's arrival to a place of opportunity and refuge and freedom.<p>\\"Here at our sea-washed, sunset gates shall stand,\\" she wrote,<blockquote>A mighty woman with a torch . . .<p>From her beacon-hand<p>Glows world-wide welcome . . .<p>\\"Keep, ancient lands, your storied pomp!\\" . . .<p>\\"Give me your tired, and your poor,<p>Your huddled masses yearning to be free . . .<p>Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed to me,<p>I lift my lamp beside the golden door!\\"</blockquote><p>Let us remember these words. For it falls on each generation to ensure that that lamp, that beacon continues to shine as a source of hope around the world and a source of our prosperity here at home.<p>Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"185" "\"<i>The President.</i> Well, hello. Welcome to the White House. Congratulations to Sky Blue on winning your first Women's Professional Soccer championship. Congratulations. Give them a big round of applause. <p>I want to recognize the mayor of Piscataway, Brian Wahler, who's with us here today. Where's Brian? Hey, he's got the video camera going on.<p>I want to thank the six players who took part in the WPS All-Star Game yesterday and rearranged their travel plans so they could be in Washington here today. We're glad you could make it. Thank you. <p>This is a pretty exciting time for soccer in America. We've all been glued to our TVs over the last couple of weeks as the men's team made their run at the World Cup. I know my staff, by the way, was watching when the U.S. beat Algeria, because I could hear them whooping it up as I was having important meetings in the Oval Office. [<i>Laughter</i>] Malia's team did very well this summer, which I think is also important to know. [<i>Laughter</i>] And today it's an honor to welcome the first-ever champions of the Women's Professional Soccer league to the White House.<p>Now, I know there were some bumps in the road for this team last season. They dealt with multiple coaching changes. They squeaked into the playoffs at the last minute. And then they had to play three games on the road in 8 days to win it all.<p>But this team came together when it counted. No matter what obstacles they faced, no matter what disappointments and distractions they had to deal with, they had each other's backs, and they stayed focused on their ultimate goal. That's what teams do. They work hard. This team loves being an underdog, and in the end, that made all the difference.<p>I know she's probably sick of hearing that story, but I have to single out your captain, Christie Rampone. Where's Christie? This is very impressive. This impresses me. After Sky Blue won the championship last season, Christie's teammates tried to get her to take a celebratory drink with them in the locker room and she had to turn it down because she was almost 3 months pregnant. That's really impressive. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Christie didn't want it to be a distraction, and so she had been waiting until the season was over to tell her teammates. After all, she said, \\"We can't have the trophy taken away for having 11 1/2 women on the field.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Is it going to be a girl? Do we know? <p><i>Sky Blue FC Team Captain Christie Rampone.</i> Yes.<p><i>The President.</i> Okay, well, there you go.<p>Today, Christie is the mother of two beautiful daughters, including--so Reece already came, she showed up. <p><i>Ms. Rampone.</i> Yes. She's here.<p><i>The President.</i> Where is she? Where is she? <p><i>Ms. Rampone.</i> She's right there.<p><i>The President.</i> Hey, oh, she's precious. [<i>Laughter</i>] Yes. She looks a little hungry, though. [<i>Laughter</i>] So Reece is going to be 4 months old next week. And in the meantime, Christie is already back in the lineup helping her teammates chase another title.<p>Now, even though Christie's story is unique, her dedication is not. The women on this team aren't playing for fame or fortune. They are spending countless hours in the gym and on the practice field because they recognize a rare opportunity to do the thing that they love. They believe in using their God-given talent to inspire the next generation to reach a little higher and work a little harder. <p>And that sense of responsibility also extends off the pitch. I'm pleased that the WPS is creating a program called \\"Get Active!\\" that will sponsor three-on-three soccer tournaments and help young people learn about the importance of living healthy, active lives. Obviously, this is an issue that the First Lady, Michelle, is talking about all across the country, and so I want to thank this league for joining the cause. <p>Today, nearly 14 million children in America play soccer; 40 percent of them are girls. And as the father of one of them, I want to say a special thanks to this group, and to all the women who came before them, for serving as such outstanding role models. Together, you've changed the way our young women look at themselves, you've expanded the realm of what they believe is possible, and for that, we all owe you a great debt of gratitude.<p>So congratulations on your championship, and best of luck this season. <p>All right, I think they're going to pull this out and then we're going to take some pictures, okay? Oh, but I've got my jersey--yes, okay. [<i>Laughter</i>] I've got to have my jersey. <p><i>Ms. Rampone.</i> First, before we take a photo, we would like to present this to you on behalf of Sky Blue FC professional soccer.<p><i>The President.</i> And it is sky blue, by the way. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's very nice. <p><i>Ms. Rampone.</i> A perfect color for you. It matches your tie. Looking good. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> I might have to get in the weight room a little bit before I wear this. [<i>Laughter</i>] Thank you very--come on, and I'll hold it while we're taking our picture.\" "
"186" "\"Thank you. Please have a seat, everybody. Good evening, everybody. As President, one of my highest national security priorities is to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons. That's why my administration has aggressively pursued a comprehensive agenda of nonproliferation and nuclear security. <p>Leading by example, we agreed with Russia to reduce our nuclear arsenals through the new START Treaty, and I've urged the Senate to move forward with ratification this year. And with allies and partners, we've strengthened the global nonproliferation regime, including the cornerstone of our efforts, the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.<p>Now, in the entire world, there is only one signatory to the NPT--only one--that has been unable to convince the International Atomic Energy Agency that its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes--one nation--and that nation is Iran. For years, the Iranian Government has violated its commitments, defied United Nations Security Council resolutions, and forged ahead with its nuclear program, all while supporting terrorist groups and suppressing the aspirations of the Iranian people.<p>Since taking office, I've made it clear that the United States was prepared to begin a new chapter of engagement with the Islamic Republic of Iran. We offered the Iranian Government a clear choice: It could fulfill its international obligations and realize greater security, deeper economic and political integration with the world, and a better future for all Iranians, or it could continue to flout its responsibilities and face even more pressure and isolation. <p>To date, Iran has chosen the path of defiance. That's why we have steadily built a broader and deeper coalition of nations to pressure the Iranian Government. Last month, we joined with our partners at the U.N. Security Council to pass the toughest and most comprehensive multilateral sanctions that the Iranian Government has ever faced. And I want to specifically single out our tireless--and I mean tireless--Ambassador to the United Nations, Susan Rice, for all--for her terrific accomplishment.<p>As I said last month, we are going to make sure that these sanctions are vigorously enforced. At the same time, we'll work with our allies and friends to refine and enforce our own sanctions on Iran. And that's exactly what we've been doing. Here in the United States, thanks to the efforts of my Treasury Secretary, Tim Geithner, and Under Secretary Stuart Levey--[<i>applause</i>]--they have been terrific on this effort; Stuart's been just outstanding--we have imposed sanctions against more institutions, more individuals involved with Iran's nuclear and missile programs. <p>Other nations are now acting alongside us, nations like Australia, which announced new sanctions, including those against a major Iranian bank and Iran's shipping company. The European Union is moving ahead with additional strong measures against Iran's financial, banking, insurance, transportation, and energy sectors, as well as Iran's Revolutionary Guard. Other countries, like Canada, have indicated they will also be taking action. In other words, we are ratcheting up the pressure on the Iranian Government for its failure to meet its obligations. <p>And today we're taking another step, a step that demonstrates the broad and bipartisan support for holding Iran accountable. I'm pleased to sign into law the toughest sanctions against Iran ever passed by the United States Congress: the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act. <p>I want to thank all the Members of Congress who worked on behalf of this legislation, including another tireless person, but who never seems to break a sweat, the Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi. I want to thank Representatives Steny Hoyer and Eric Cantor for doing outstanding work. Although they weren't able to join us, I want to acknowledge Senators Harry Reid, Jon Kyl, and Richard Shelby. And I want to thank those who led the effort to forge a final bill that received overwhelming bipartisan support: Senator Chris Dodd and Representative Howard Berman. Thank you for your good work. <p>Consistent with the Security Council mandate, this legislation strengthens existing sanctions, authorizes new ones, and supports our multilateral diplomatic strategy to address Iran's nuclear program. It makes it harder for the Iranian Government to purchase refined petroleum and the goods, services, and materials to modernize Iran's oil and natural gas sector. It makes it harder for the Revolutionary Guards and banks that support Iran's nuclear programs and terrorism to engage in international finance. It says to companies seeking procurement contracts with the United States Government, if you want to do business with us, you first have to certify that you're not doing prohibited business with Iran.<p>In short, with these sanctions, along with others, we are striking at the heart of the Iranian Government's ability to fund and develop its nuclear program. We're showing the Iranian Government that its actions have consequences. And if it persists, the pressure will continue to mount and its isolation will continue to deepen. There should be no doubt, the United States and the international community are determined to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. <p>Now, finally, even as we increase pressure on the Iranian Government, we're sending an unmistakable message that the United States stands with the Iranian people as they seek to exercise their universal rights. This legislation imposes sanctions on individuals who commit serious human rights abuses. And it exempts from our trade embargo technologies that allow the Iranian people to access information and communicate freely. In Iran and around the world, the United States of America will continue to stand with those who seek justice and progress and the human rights and dignity of all people.<p>So again, this is not a day that we sought, but it is an outcome that was chosen by the Iranian Government when it repeatedly failed to meet its responsibilities. And the Government of Iran still has a choice. The door to diplomacy remains open. Iran can prove that its intentions are peaceful. It can meet its obligations under the NPT and achieve the security and prosperity worthy of a great nation. <p>It can have confidence in the Iranian people and allow their rights to flourish, for Iranians are heirs to a remarkable history. They are renowned for their talents and their contributions to humanity. Here in the United States, Iranian Americans have thrived. And within Iran, there's a great potential for the Iranian people to forge greater prosperity through deeper integration with the international community, including with the United States. <p>That's the future we do seek, one where Iran's leaders do not hold their own people back by failing to live up to Iran's international obligations and where Iran can reclaim its place in the community of nations and find greater peace and prosperity. <p>That is the Iranian Government's choice. And it remains our hope that they choose this path, even as we are clear-eyed and vigilant about the difficult challenges ahead. <p>So with that, I will sign this legislation into law.\" "
"187" "\"Thank you. To Mona and Marjorie and to Senator Byrd's entire family, including those adorable great-granddaughters that I had a chance to meet, Michelle and I offer you our deepest sympathies.<p>To Senator Byrd's friends, including the Speaker of the House, the majority leader, the Republican leader, President Clinton, Vice President Biden, Vicki Kennedy, Nick Rahall, and all the previous speakers; Senator Rockefeller for the outstanding work that you've done for the State of West Virginia; to his larger family, the people of West Virginia: I want you all to know that all America shares your loss. May we all find comfort in a verse of Scripture that reminds me of our dear friend: \\"The time of my departure has come. I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith.\\" <p>It's interesting that you've heard that passage from several speakers now, because it embodies somebody who knew how to run a good and long race and somebody who knew how to keep the faith, with his State, with his family, with his country, and his Constitution.<p>Years from now, when I think of the man we memorialize today, I'll remember him as he was when I came to know him, his white hair full like a mane, his gait steadied with a cane. Determined to make the most of every last breath, the distinguished gentleman from West Virginia could be found at his desk until the very end, doing the people's business, delivering soul-stirring speeches, a hint of the Appalachians in his voice, stabbing the air with his finger, fiery as ever, years into his tenth decade.<p>He was a Senate icon. He was a party leader. He was an elder statesman. And he was my friend. That's how I'll remember him.<p>Today we remember the path he climbed to such extraordinary peaks. Born Cornelius Calvin Sale, Jr.--Corny, he joked, for short--his mother lost her life in the great influenza pandemic of 1918. From the aunt and uncle who raised him, amid West Virginia's coal camps, he gained not only his Byrd name but a reverence for God Almighty, a love of learning that was nurtured at Mark Twain School. And there he met Erma, his sweetheart for over 70 years, by whose side he will now rest for eternity.<p>Unable to afford college, he did what he could to get by, finding work as a gas station attendant, a produce salesman, a meat cutter, and a welder in the shipyards of Baltimore and Tampa during World War II. Returning home to West Virginia after the war, he ran for the State House of Delegates, using his fiddle case as a briefcase, the better to stand out on the stump.<p>Before long, he ran for Congress, serving in the House before jumping over to the Senate, where he was elected nine times, held almost every leadership role imaginable, and proved as capable of swaying others as standing alone, marking a row of milestones along the way: longest serving Member of Congress; nearly 19,000 votes cast; not a single loss at the polls, a record that speaks to the bond that he had with you, the people of his State.<p>Transplanted to Washington, his heart remained here, in West Virginia, in the place that shaped him, with the people he loved. His heart belonged to you. Making life better here was his only agenda. Giving you hope, he said, was his greatest achievement. Hope in the form of new jobs and industries. Hope in the form of black lung benefits and union protections. Hope through roads and research centers, schools and scholarships, health clinics and industrial parks that bear his name.<p>His early rival and late friend, Ted Kennedy, used to joke about campaigning in West Virginia. When his bus broke down, Ted got hold of the highway patrol, who asked where he was. And he said, \\"I'm on Robert Byrd Highway.\\" And the dispatcher said, \\"Which one?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>It's a life that immeasurably improved the lives of West Virginians. Of course, Robert Byrd was a deeply religious man, a Christian. And so he understood that our lives are marked by sins as well as virtues, failures as well as successes, weakness as well as strength. We know there are things he said and things he did that he came to regret. I remember talking about that the first time I visited with him. He said: \\"There are things I regretted in my youth. You may know that.\\" And I said, \\"None of us are absent some regrets, Senator. That's why we enjoy and seek the grace of God.\\"<p>And as I reflect on the full sweep of his 92 years, it seems to me that his life bent towards justice. Like the Constitution he tucked in his pocket, like our Nation itself, Robert Byrd possessed that quintessential American quality, and that is a capacity to change, a capacity to learn, a capacity to listen, a capacity to be made more perfect.<p>Over his nearly six decades in our Capitol, he came to be seen as the very embodiment of the Senate, chronicling its history in four volumes that he gave to me just as he gave to President Clinton. I too read it. I was scared he was going to quiz me. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But as I soon discovered, his passion for the Senate's past, his mastery of even its most arcane procedures, it wasn't an obsession with the trivial or the obscure; it reflected a profoundly noble impulse, a recognition of a basic truth about this country that we are not a nation of men, we are a nation of laws. Our way of life rests on our democratic institutions. Precisely because we are fallible, it falls to each of us to safeguard these institutions, even when it's inconvenient, and pass on our Republic more perfect than before.<p>Considering the vast learning of this self-taught Senator--his speeches sprinkled with the likes of Cicero and Shakespeare and Jefferson--it seems fitting to close with one of his favorite passages in literature, a passage from \\"Moby Dick\\":<blockquote>And there is a Catskill eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackest gorges, and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunny spaces. And even if he forever flies within the gorge, that gorge is in the mountains; so that even in his lowest swoop the mountain eagle is still higher than any other bird upon the plain, even though they soar.</blockquote><p>Robert Byrd was a mountain eagle, and his lowest swoop was still higher than the other birds upon the plain.<p>May God bless Robert C. Byrd. May he be welcomed kindly by the Righteous Judge, and may his spirit soar forever like a Catskill eagle, high above the Heavens. Thank you very much.\" "
"188" "\"Good morning, everybody. Before I depart, I'd like to say a quick word about the state of our economy.<p>This morning we received the June employment report. It reflected the planned phaseout of 225,000 temporary census jobs. But it also showed the sixth straight month of job growth in the private sector. All told, our economy has created nearly 600,000 private sector jobs this year. That's a stark turnaround from the first 6 months of last year, when we lost 3.7 million jobs at the height of the recession.<p>Now, make no mistake: We are headed in the right direction. But as I was reminded on a trip to Racine, Wisconsin, earlier this week, we're not headed there fast enough for a lot of Americans. We're not headed there fast enough for me either. The recession dug us a hole of about 8 million jobs deep, and we continue to fight headwinds from volatile global markets. So we still have a great deal of work to do to repair the economy and get the American people back to work.<p>That's why we're continuing a relentless effort across multiple fronts to keep this recovery moving. And today I'd like to make a quick announcement regarding new infrastructure investments under the Recovery Act, investments that will create private sector jobs and make America more competitive.<p> Secretary Locke and Secretary Vilsack have joined me here today to announce that the Departments of Commerce and Agriculture will invest in 66 new projects across America that will finally bring reliable broadband Internet service to communities that currently have little or no access.<p>In the short term, we expect these projects to create about 5,000 construction and installation jobs around the country. And once we emerge from the immediate crisis, the long-term economic gains to communities that have been left behind in the digital age will be immeasurable.<p>All told, these investments will benefit tens of millions of Americans, more than 685,000 businesses, 900 health care facilities, and 2,400 schools around the--across the country. And studies have shown that when communities adopt broadband access, it can lead to hundreds of thousands of new jobs. Broadband can remove geographic barriers between patients and their doctors. It can connect our kids to the digital skills and 21st-century education required for the jobs of the future. And it can prepare America to run on clean energy by helping us upgrade to a smarter, stronger, more secure electrical grid.<p>So we're investing in our people and we're investing in their future. We're competing aggressively to make sure that jobs and industries and the markets of tomorrow take root right here in the United States. We're moving forward. And to every American who is looking for work, I promise you we are going to keep on doing everything that we can. I will do everything in my power to help our economy create jobs and opportunity for all people.<p>Sunday is the Fourth of July. And if that date reminds us of anything, it's that America has never backed down from a challenge. We've faced our share of tough times before. But in such moments, we don't flinch. We dig deeper, we innovate, we compete, and we win. That's in our DNA, and it's going to be what brings us through these tough times towards a brighter day.<p>So I want to say happy Fourth of July to everybody. I want our troops overseas to know that we are thinking of your bravery and grateful for your service.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"189" "\"This week, I spent some time in Racine, Wisconsin, talking with folks who are doing their best to cope with the aftermath of a brutal recession. And while I was there, a young woman asked me a question I hear all the time: \\"What are we doing as a nation to bring jobs back to this country?\\"<p>Well, on Friday we learned that after 22 straight months of job loss, our economy has now created jobs in the private sector for 6 months in a row. That's a positive sign. But the truth is, the recession from which we're emerging has left us in a hole that's about 8 million jobs deep. And as I've said from the day I took office, it's going to take months, even years, to dig our way out, and it's going to require an all-hands-on-deck effort.<p>In the short term, we're fighting to speed up this recovery and keep the economy growing by all means possible. That means extending unemployment insurance for workers who lost their job. That means getting small businesses the loans they need to keep their doors open and hire new workers. And that means sending relief to States so they don't have to lay off thousands of teachers and firefighters and police officers.<p>Still, at a time when millions of Americans feel a deep sense of urgency in their own lives, Republican leaders in Washington just don't get it. While a majority of Senators support taking these steps to help the American people, some are playing the same old Washington games and using their power to hold this relief hostage, a move that only ends up holding back our recovery. It doesn't make sense.<p>But I promised those folks in Wisconsin, and I promise all of you, that we won't back down. We're going to keep fighting to advance our recovery. And we're going to keep competing aggressively to make sure the jobs and industries of the future are taking root right here in America.<p>That's one of the reasons why we're accelerating the transition to a clean energy economy and doubling our use of renewable energy sources like wind and solar power, steps that have the potential to create whole new industries and hundreds of thousands of new jobs in America. In fact, today I'm announcing that the Department of Energy is awarding nearly $2 billion in conditional commitments to two solar companies.<p>The first is Abengoa Solar, a company that has agreed to build one of the largest solar plants in the world right here in the United States. After years of watching companies build things and create jobs overseas, it's good news that we've attracted a company to our shores to build a plant and create jobs right here in America. In the short term, construction will create approximately 1,600 jobs in Arizona. What's more, over 70 percent of the components and products used in construction will be manufactured in the U.S.A., boosting jobs and communities in States up and down the supply chain. Once completed, this plant will be the first large-scale solar plant in the U.S. to actually store the energy it generates for later use, even at night, and it will generate enough clean, renewable energy to power 70,000 homes.<p>The second company is Abound Solar manufacturing, which will manufacture advanced solar panels at two new plants, creating more than 2,000 construction jobs and 1,500 permanent jobs. A Colorado plant is already underway, and an Indiana plant will be built in what's now an empty Chrysler factory. When fully operational, these plants will produce millions of state-of-the-art solar panels each year.<p>These are just two of the many clean energy investments in the Recovery Act. Already, I've seen the payoff from these investments. I've seen once-shuttered factories humming with new workers who are building solar panels and wind turbines, rolling up their sleeves to help America win the race for the clean energy economy.<p>So that's some of what we're doing. But the truth is, steps like these won't replace all the jobs we've lost overnight. I know folks are struggling. I know this Fourth of July weekend finds many Americans wishing things were a bit easier right now. I do too.<p>But what this weekend reminds us, more than any other, is that we are a nation that has always risen to the challenges before it. We're a nation that, 234 years ago, declared our independence from one of the greatest empires the world had ever known. We're a nation that mustered a sense of common purpose to overcome depression and fear itself. We're a nation that embraced a call to greatness and saved the world from tyranny. That is who we are, a nation that turns times of trial into times of triumph, and I know America will write our own destiny once more.<p>I wish every American a safe and happy Fourth of July. And to all our troops serving in harm's way, I want you to know you have the support of a grateful nation and a proud Commander in Chief. Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"190" "\"<i>The President.</i> Good evening, everybody. On behalf of Michelle and myself and the girls and Bo--[<i>laughter</i>]--welcome to the White House, and happy Fourth of July.<p>All across our great country today, folks are coming together, decked out in their red and white and blue, firing up the grill, having a good time with family, just like here today. Now, of course, I'll admit that the backyard is a little bigger here. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it's the same spirit. And Michelle and I couldn't imagine a better way to celebrate America's birthday than with America's extraordinary men and women in uniform and your families.<p>Now, we decided to let you leave your uniforms at home for today. Although, I have to say, I met a young corporal here who was wearing a black suit. And I said, \\"Man, it's hot here.\\" He said, \\"I'm sorry, sir. I know you're my Commander in Chief, but my grandma told me I had to wear a suit.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] I can't--you can't argue with grandma. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But we do want all of you to relax and have some fun today. And that also goes for the leaders who are joining us here today, including Deputy Secretary of Defense Bill Lynn, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Jim \\"Hoss\\" Cartwright, Navy Secretary Ray Mabus, Air Force Secretary Mike Donley, Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Robert Papp, and the many outstanding senior enlisted officers who are here today.<p>I want to acknowledge that my Vice President, Joe Biden, and his wonderful wife Dr. Jill Biden aren't with us because they're spending the Fourth of July with our troops in Iraq. And I would add that because of the honor and heroism of our troops, we are poised to end our combat mission in Iraq this summer, on schedule. That's thanks to so many of you.<p>Now, this is the day when we celebrate the very essence of America and the spirit----<p><i>Audience member.</i> [<i>Inaudible</i>]--bring the boys home!<p><i>The President.</i> They're coming. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is the day when we celebrate the very essence of America and the spirit that has defined us as a people and as a nation for more than two centuries. Even now, all these years later, we still look in awe at the small band of patriots who stood up and risked everything and defied an empire to declare \\"that these united Colonies are, and of right ought to be free and independent States.\\"<p>We're amazed at the debt to a founding generation that gave their blood to give meaning to those words, pledging to each other their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor. And we celebrate the principles that are timeless, tenets first declared by men of property and wealth, but which gave rise to what Lincoln called a \\"new birth of freedom\\" in America: civil rights and voting rights, workers' rights and women's rights, and the rights of every American.<p>And on this day that is uniquely American, we're reminded that our Declaration, our example, made us a beacon to the world, not only inspiring people to demand their own freedom, from Latin American to Africa, from Europe to Asia, but even now, in this time, these ideals still light the world.<p>Two hundred and thirty-four years later, the words are just as bold, just as revolutionary, as they were when they were first pronounced: \\"We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.\\"<p>These are not simply words on aging parchment. They are the principles that define us as a nation, the values we cherish as a people, and the ideals we strive for as a society, even as we know that we constantly have to work in order to perfect our Union, and that work is never truly done.<p>The Founders understood this. There in that hall in Philadelphia, as they debated the Declaration, John Adams wrote to his beloved Abigail. He predicted that independence would be celebrated \\"from one end of the continent to the other, from this time forward forever.\\" But he added, \\"I am well aware of the toil and blood and treasure that it will cost us to maintain this declaration and support and defend these states.\\"<p>So today we also celebrate all of you, the men and women of our Armed Forces who defend this country we love. <p>We salute the United States Army, including a soldier who served on more than 150 combat missions in Afghanistan, and after losing most of his arm in an IED attack, recently completed a grueling 26-mile run, inspiring all who know him and all of us; that's Staff Sergeant Gabriel Garcia. Gabriel.<p>We salute the United States Navy, and a sailor who excels in a job few can imagine but for which all are grateful, a commander of an explosive ordnance disposal team in Iraq, his nerve and steady hand has diffused countless bombs and saved countless lives; that's Lieutenant Erich Frandrup. Where's Erich?<p>We salute the United States Air Force, and an airman who during an attack on her vehicle in Iraq that left her seriously wounded, directed medics to help another wounded American first and offered her own bandages to help save his life; that's Captain Wendy Kosek.<p>We salute the United States Marine Corps, and a marine who for his heroic actions in Afghanistan, exposing himself to enemy machine gunfire to help rescue his fellow marines, was recognized with the Bronze Star for valor, Staff Sergeant Jonathan Piel.<p>And we salute the United States Coast Guard, including a coastguardsman who commanded the first U.S. vessel to arrive in Haiti after the earthquake, helping to pave the way for the one of the most complex humanitarian efforts ever attempted, Commander Diane Durham.<p>This is the spirit of which Adams spoke so long ago. You are the men and women who toil to defend these States. You are patriots, and you have earned your place among the greatest of generations.<p>Yet on this day, we know that America's journey is not sustained by those in uniform alone. It must be the calling and cause of every American. So let us ensure that our troops always have the support that they need to succeed in the missions we ask of them, and that includes public support here at home.<p>Let us forge a national commitment to support our extraordinary military families, not just now, during war, but at every stage of your lives. And thanks to Michelle and Jill Biden for challenging us to do that.<p>Let us resolve, as citizens, to carry on the improbable experiment that began more than 200 years ago; not simply declaring our principles, but living them here at home; not simply celebrating our Union, but always working to perfect it. <p>And here in a still young century, let us renew our commitment to stand with those around the world who, like us, still believe in that simple yet revolutionary notion that we are all endowed by our Creator \\"with certain inalienable rights.\\"<p>So happy Fourth of July, everybody. God bless all of you and all our men and women in uniform and your families, and God bless the United States of America.<p>And with that, let me turn it over to our outstanding United States Marine Band.\" "
"191" "\"Thank you very much. Everybody, please be seated. Well, good morning. Thank you, Jim McNerney, for being here. And thank you to members of my Cabinet and my administration for coming. Thank you, Gary Locke, for the introduction and the outstanding work that you've been doing at Commerce to move America's economy forward.<p>Now, that work has been my driving focus since we walked through these doors a year and a half ago. And at that time, our economy was shrinking at an alarming rate. Nearly 3 million jobs were lost in the last half of 2008. In January 2009 alone, more than 750,000 jobs had been lost here in the United States. So every alarm bell was ringing at the prospect of a second Great Depression.<p>So our imperative was to stop that freefall and reverse direction to get our economy moving and get jobs growing again, which meant we took a series of dramatic and frankly sometimes unpopular actions. But as a result of those actions, we broke the recession's momentum, and we're in a much different place today.<p>Our economy has now grown for three consecutive quarters and created nearly 600,000 private sector jobs in the first half of this year, a stark contrast to the 3.7 [million]* we lost over the first half of last year. And despite uncertain world events and the resulting ups and downs in the market, we are moving America forward again.<p>But the progress we've made to date isn't nearly enough to undo the damage that the recession visited on people and communities across our country. Our businesses are hiring again, but there are still five unemployed workers for each job opening. The economy is growing, but empty storefronts still haunt too many Main Streets. And the truth is the middle class families that are the backbone of our economy have felt their economic security eroding since long before this recession hit.<p>So we've got much more work to do to spur stronger job growth and to keep the larger recovery moving. The question is, over the months and years to come, how do we encourage the strong and lasting economic growth required for America to lead in this new century? Where are we going to find the growth necessary to help us address all of our priorities, from creating jobs and prosperity to boosting our businesses and our workers, to improving our fiscal health and reducing our long-term deficits?<p>Now, one thing we know is this growth won't come from an economy where prosperity is based on fleeting bubbles of consumption, of debt; it can't rely on paper gains. We've seen where that led us, and we're not going back. The truth is we've had to face over the past year and a half the truth that if we want to once again approach full employment and fuel real economic growth, then we need to put an end to the policies that got us here, tackle the challenges we've put off for decades, and move this economy forward. We need to lay a new and stronger foundation on which businesses can thrive and create jobs and rising incomes, on which innovators and entrepreneurs can lead the world in generating new technologies and products and services. We have to rely on a new foundation on which America can harness what has made our economy the engine and the envy of the world: the talent and drive and creativity of our people.<p>So as business leaders and labor leaders representing some of America's largest corporations and America's workers, that's what I want to talk to you about all today, because America's success ultimately depends on your success. It's the private sector that has always been the source of our job creation, our economic growth, and our prosperity. And it's our businesses and workers who will take the reins of this recovery and lead us forward.<p>Same time, some might argue that Government has no role to play at all in our economy. But everybody in this room understands that the free market depends on a government that sets clear rules that ensure fair and honest competition, that lives within its means, that invests in certain things that the private sector can't invest on its own. In the absence of this kind of responsible government, whenever government is dragged too far to one end or the other of the spectrum, we see negative consequences for our economy. <p>So too much regulation or too much spending can stifle innovation, can hamper confidence and growth, and hurt business and families. A government that does too little can be just as irresponsible as a government that does too much, because, for example, in the absence of sound oversight, responsible businesses are forced to compete against unscrupulous and underhanded businesses, who are unencumbered by any restrictions on activities that might harm the environment, or take advantage of middle class families, or threaten to bring down the entire financial system. That's bad for everybody. That's the reason we pursued Wall Street reforms. And when the Senate takes up its business again, I hope it moves as quickly as possible to finish this chapter and settle this issue. <p>In the absence of sensible policies that invest in long-term public goods like education or basic research, roads, railways, broadband, a smart electric grid, an absence of those investments can be equally disastrous. Over time, failure to make such investments slowly degrades our competitiveness, leaving us without the skilled workforce or the technologies or the basic infrastructure that a 21st-century economy requires.<p>So to make sure our workers can outcompete anybody, anywhere in the world, we've invested in the skills and education of our people. Through the Race to the Top, we're challenging our schools to raise their standards. And I've pledged that by 2020, America will once again lead the world in the percentage of students graduating from college, and by making higher education more affordable, we're on our way to achieving that goal.<p>To strengthen our standing in a 21st-century economy, we've invested in upgrading our critical infrastructure, from high-speed rail to high-speed Internet. We've enacted reforms that will reduce the drag of health care costs on businesses and consumers alike. And we are committed to bringing down the unsustainable debt that has ballooned over the past 10 years.<p>To spur lasting growth, we've invested in science and technology, research and development, and clean energy projects that will strengthen our global leadership. Eighteen months ago, for example, American companies commanded just 2 percent of the global capacity for advanced battery technology. Today the seed money we provided has helped leverage substantial private investment, and by 2012, we expect America's capacity to reach 20 percent of the global market--and as high as 40 percent in 2015.<p>But Government has another responsibility, and that is to remove barriers that stand in the way of opportunity and prosperity so that our people, all of our people--our workers, our entrepreneurs, our CEOs--can build the future that we seek. And that's what I want to focus on now.<p>In my State of the Union Address, I set a goal for America: Over the next 5 years, we will double our exports of goods and services around the world, an increase that will boost economic growth and support millions of American jobs in a manner that is deficit friendly.<p>Export growth leads to job growth and economic growth. In 2008, American exports accounted for nearly 7 percent of our total employment, one in three manufacturing jobs, and supported 10.3 million jobs in all, jobs that pay 15 percent more than average. So at a time when jobs are in short supply, building exports is an imperative.<p>But this isn't just about where jobs are today; this is where American jobs will be tomorrow. Ninety-five percent of the world's customers and fastest growing markets are beyond our borders. So if we want to find new growth streams, if we want to find new markets and new opportunity, we've got to compete for those new customers, because other nations are competing for those new customers.<p>As I've said many times, the United States of America should not, cannot, will not play for second place. We mean to compete for those jobs and we mean to win. But we're going to have to change how we do business.<p>To meet this goal, we launched the National Export Initiative, an ambitious effort to team up with America's businesses, large and small, and help them unleash their energy and innovation, grow their markets, support new jobs selling their goods and services all across the globe. And we're bringing to bear the full resources of the United States Government. <p>One of the first things we did was establish an Export Promotion Cabinet made up of Cabinet members and senior administration officials whose work affects exports. Yesterday I assembled this cabinet for an update on our efforts so far. We're going to hold these meetings every few months, and I've asked for a progress report at our next meeting in September.<p>But this is about more than what Government can do; this is about what our businesses can do. And that's why we are relaunching the President's Export Council, a group that includes business and labor leaders who will offer their unfiltered advice and expertise on how best to promote exports. We've also included congressional leaders and senior representatives of my administration. <p>And earlier today, members of my Cabinet and I met with this council to begin soliciting advice. And I want to again thank Jim, president and CEO of Boeing, as well as Ursula Burns, CEO of Xerox, for agreeing to serve as the chair and vice chair.<p>Our efforts are off to a solid start. American exports grew almost 17 percent over the first 4 months of this year compared to the same period last year. Part of this, of course, is due to the global recovery. But we're also moving forward on improving conditions for America's exporters. And since we launched the National Export Initiative, we've made progress across its five objectives.<p>First, we said that America would be a strong partner and better advocate in the international marketplace for its businesses and workers. And we're going to go to bat for everyone from the largest corporations to the smallest business owner with an idea that she wants to market and sell to the world.<p>So, for example, already this year, the Commerce Department has coordinated 18 trade missions with over 160 companies that compete in 24 countries, and we've got 8 more planned over the next 3 months. Their Advocacy Center has assisted American companies competing for export opportunities, supporting $11.4 billion in exports and an estimated 70,000 jobs. <p> Secretary Clinton recently held a roundtable with businesses in Shanghai, and next week, she'll host another one with Secretary Locke to discuss removing barriers that stand in the way of their success. <p>Meanwhile, we're moving forward with strengthening our business assistance centers across the country and in our embassies and consulates abroad so that they can provide a comprehensive toolkit of services to help potential exporters gain a foothold in new markets and expand, especially small businesses that might not know how to sell their products abroad.<p>Second, we're increasing access to export financing for small and medium-sized businesses that want to export their goods and services, but just need a boost. So the Export-Import Bank has more than doubled its loans in support of American exporters since last year, and that step alone has helped support nearly 110,000 jobs.<p>Third, we're upping our efforts to remove barriers to trade and open new markets and new opportunities for American business. On a global level, this begins with pushing hard in the Doha round to improve those negotiations so that they have a higher level of ambition in the way that will translate directly into more opportunities for American exporters. Regionally, we're working on the Trans-Pacific Partnership free trade agreement to expand our commercial presence in some of the most dynamic markets in Asia. And where our businesses run up against barriers in individual markets, we are acting. <p>In March, for example, we reached an agreement with China to reopen their market to American pork and pork products. And last month, during President Medvedev's visit, we reached an agreement with Russia to reopen their market to American poultry. And these steps are worth more than $1 billion to American businesses. <p>We're also reforming our own restrictions on exports, consistent with our national security interests. And we hope to move forward on new agreements with some of our key partners. I've instructed U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk to begin discussions to help resolve outstanding issues with the pending Korean Free Trade Agreement before my visit to Korea in November. It's an agreement that will create new jobs and opportunity for people in both of our countries. <p>We also want to deepen and broaden our relations with Panama and Colombia. So we're working to resolve outstanding issues with the free trade agreements with those key partners, and we're focused on submitting them as soon as possible for congressional consideration. And we'll make sure each agreement we pursue doesn't just advance the interests of our businesses, workers, and farmers, but also upholds our most cherished values.<p>Fourth, as we help American businesses access new markets, we're making sure that the access is free and fair. The United States offers some of the world's lowest barriers to trade, and when we give other countries the privilege of that free and fair access, we expect it in return. Where American producers face unfair trade practices, we'll use every tool at our disposal to enforce trade agreements. Last week, for example, the WTO ruled in favor of the United States on a case that found European governments were subsidizing planes that Airbus manufactures. That practice was unfair and hurt American workers. This ruling will help keep the playing field level and boost American jobs.<p>And finally, we continue to coordinate with other nations around the world to promote strong, sustainable, and balanced growth. At last month's G-20 summit, we built on the actions we took last year, actions that have replaced global contraction with global growth, and trade that was plummeting with trade that's bounced back.<p>Sustaining that recovery, however, also involves rebalancing our economies. As I told other leaders at the G-20, after years of taking on too much debt, Americans will no longer borrow and buy the world's way to lasting prosperity. We alone cannot be the engines of economic growth. Furthermore, a strong and durable recovery requires that countries not have an undue advantage. <p>So we discussed the need for market-driven currencies. And I welcome China's decision to allow its currency to appreciate in response to market forces. Our discussion with China has also addressed the important challenge of how to create a more level playing field for American companies seeking to expand their access to the growing Chinese market. And I made it clear to all that the United States of America is prepared to compete aggressively for the jobs and industries and markets of the future. <p>The bottom line is this: For a long time we were trapped, I think, in a false political debate in this country where business was on one side, labor was on the other. There were partisan divides. The argument was either you were protrade or you were antitrade. What we now have an opportunity to do is to refocus our attention where we're all in it together. Businesses, workers, Government--everybody is focused on the same goal.<p>We live in a interconnected world. There are global challenges and global opportunities. This Nation has never shied away from the prospect of competition. We thrive on competition. And we are better positioned than anybody--as uniquely positioned as ever--to compete with anyone in the world. We've got the most respected brands, the best products, the most vibrant companies in the world. We've got the most productive workers in the world. We've got the finest universities in the world. We've got the most open, dynamic, and competitive market in the world. When the playing field is even, nobody can beat us. And we are upping our game for the playing field of the 21st century.<p>But we've got to do it together. We've got to all row in the same direction. There's no doubt that these are challenging times. But I am absolutely convinced that we will rise to meet them, to grow our economy, to put our people back to work, to forge our own future once more. We are Americans, and that is what we do. <p>I appreciate all your participation, and I'm looking forward to getting busy working with you. Thank you.\" "
"192" "\"Hello, everybody. Good to see you. [<i>Applause</i>] You don't need to do that. It's good to see you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you so much. Everybody have a seat.<p>Usually they announce me with some fancy thing, and I think I messed up; I just walked out here. [<i>Laughter</i>] So I hope you didn't mind. But on the way out, if you want, we can play the ruffles and flourishes and all that.<p>I want to, before I start, acknowledge some people who have just done a wonderful job for this area, but also a wonderful job for the country: first of all, one of the best Governors that we've got in the United States of America, Governor Jay Nixon; one of my--not just my favorite Senators, but one of my favorite people and a great friend of mine who is fighting every day for the people of Missouri, Senator Claire McCaskill. We've got two outstanding Members of Congress, one from this side and one from that side, Congressman Emanuel Cleaver and Congressman Dennis Moore. And finally, I just want to acknowledge all the wonderful people at Smith Electric Vehicles and their energetic and outstanding staff.<p>It is outstanding to be here, and I'm not going to take a long time. I just want to spend some time shaking hands and thanking you for the great work that you've done. I just had a chance to get a tour and saw some of the battery-powered trucks that you're manufacturing. I had a chance to talk to some of the folks who build them. But the reason I'm here today is because at this plant you're doing more than just building new vehicles. You are helping to fight our way through a vicious recession and you are building the economy of America's future.<p>Now, it's not easy. We've gone through as bad a economic situation as we've had since the Great Depression. And this recession was a culmination of a decade of irresponsibility, a decade that felt like a sledgehammer hitting middle class families. For the better part of 10 years, people have faced stagnant incomes, skyrocketing health care costs, skyrocketing tuition costs, and declining economic security. And this all came to a head in a massive financial crisis that sent our economy into a freefall and cost 8 million American jobs, including many in this community.<p>So it was in the middle of this crisis that my administration walked through the door, and we had to make some difficult decisions at a moment of maximum peril, to avoid a Great Depression, to make sure that we didn't have a complete meltdown in our financial system. It was a moment when the markets were in turmoil and we were losing 750,000 jobs every month. <p>Some of the decisions we made weren't popular at the time, and some of them may still be unpopular today. But we made those decisions because we had to stop that freefall. And because we made those hard choices, our economy is in a different place today than it was just a year ago.<p>One of those decisions was to provide critical funding to promising, innovative businesses like Smith Electric Vehicles. And because we did, there is a thriving enterprise here instead of an empty, darkened warehouse. Because of the grant that went to this company, we can hear the sounds of machines humming and people doing their work, instead of just the ghostly silence of an emptied-out building and the memory of workers who were laid off a long time ago.<p>And we made that kind of decision all across America last year. And we were guided by a simple idea: Government doesn't have all the answers. Ultimately, government doesn't create all the jobs. Government can't guarantee growth by itself. But what government can do is lay the foundation for small businesses to expand and to thrive, for entrepreneurs to open up shop and test out new products, for workers to get the training that they need, and for families to achieve some measure of economic security. And that role is especially important in tough economic times.<p>And that's why, when my administration began, we immediately cut taxes. That's right. You wouldn't know it from listening to folks, but we cut taxes for working families and for small-business owners all across American to help them weather the storm. Through our small-business loans, and our focus on research and development, and our investment in high-tech, fast-growing sectors like clean energy, we're helping to speed our recovery by harnessing the talent and the drive and the innovative spirit of the American people. So our goal has never been to create another government program, our goal has been to spur growth in the private sector.<p>For example, right here at Smith, you've recently passed a milestone, hiring a 50th employee, and I know you're on the way to hire 50 more. And we're seeing similar things all across America, with incentives and investments that are creating wind turbines and solar panels. We're seeing investments in energy-efficient appliances and home-building materials and in advanced battery technologies and clean energy vehicles.<p>So just give you a couple examples, just last week, Abound manufacturing in Colorado received backing for two plants to produce solar panels. This is going to create 2,000 construction jobs and 1,500 permanent jobs. One of the plants is actually taking over what's now an empty Chrysler supplier factory. Another company, called Abengoa Solar, is now planning to build one of the world's largest solar plants right here in the United States. And when it's finished, this facility will be the first large-scale solar plant in the United States that can actually store energy that it creates for later use, even at night.<p>All told, we expect energy investments alone to generate 700,000 jobs over the next few years. And this is not just going to boost our economy in the short term; this is going to lay a platform for the future. It's going to create opportunities year after year after year, decade after decade after decade, as companies like Smith, that start small, begin to expand. And I was just talking to your CEO, and he says he wants to open up 20 of these all across the country so that in each region you're able to service--Smith is able to service its customers, and they're going to have a reliable sense that Smith is always going to be there for them, making sure that customer satisfaction and performance is high.<p>I'll give you another example. Just a few years ago, America had the capacity to build only about 2 percent of the world's advanced batteries for electric and hybrid vehicles like Smith's. Two percent, that was it. We account for 25 percent of the world's economy, and we were only making 2 percent of the world's advanced batteries.<p>But thanks to our new focus on clean energy and the work that's taking place in plants like this one, we could have as much as 40 percent of the world's market by 2015--5 years. That means jobs. But that also means we're going to have an expertise in a sector that's just going to keep on growing all around the world for years to come. So all these efforts taken together are making a difference.<p>A year and a half ago, our economy was shrinking at 6 percent a year; now it's growing. The economy was bleeding jobs. We've now created private sector jobs, added private sector jobs, for 6 consecutive months.<p>Now, obviously, the progress we've made isn't nearly enough to undo all the damage that was done as a consequence of the economic crisis. There's still five unemployed workers for every vacancy. There's still too many empty storefronts on Main Street all across America. And I've said since I took office that my administration will not rest until every American who is able and ready and willing to work can find a job, and a job that pays a decent wage and has decent benefits to support a family.<p>We're not there yet. We've got a long way to go. But what is absolutely clear is we're moving in the right direction. We are headed in the right direction. And that's--the surest way out of this storm is to go forward, not to go backwards. There are some people who argue that we should abandon some of these efforts, some people who make the political calculation that it's better to just say no to everything than to lend a hand to clean up the mess that we've been in.<p>But my answer to those who don't have confidence in our future, who want to stop, my answer is come right here to Kansas City. Come see what's going on at Smith Electric. I think they're going to be hard-pressed to tell you that you're not better off than you would be if we hadn't made the investments in this plant.<p>For the naysayers, they ought to travel all across America and meet the people that I've met at places like Navistar in Indiana where folks are being hired to build new electric trucks; or Siemens wind power in Iowa where they're making wind turbines in a factory that used to be empty just like this one; or Celgard, which is a battery technology company in North Carolina that hired more than 50 people because of the investments we made; or POET biorefinery here in Missouri that's putting people to work harvesting homegrown energy.<p>While they're at it, they ought to talk to all the small-business owners who've gotten tax breaks to pay for their health plans and new SBA loans to expand or keep their doors open, and that includes tens of millions of dollars in loans for companies right here in Kansas City.<p>Or they ought to talk to the crews that are rebuilding all the highways and laying tracks for new rail lines, including road projects that are putting hundreds of people to work in this area. They ought to talk to the scientists who are toiling day and night to develop the technologies and the cures with the potential to improve our economy and our health and our well-being.<p>And they might want to talk to the teachers who didn't get laid off because of the budget help that we gave the State of Missouri, who are then going to be teaching our kids, and they're being incentivized to reform how they do business so we've got the best education system in the world, and we've got the highest number of folks who are going to community colleges or 4-year colleges than anyplace in the world.<p>That's how we're going to take charge of our destiny. That's how we create jobs and create lasting growth. That's how we ensure that America doesn't just limp along, maybe recover to where we were before, but instead that we're prospering, that this Nation leads the industries of the future.<p>I mean, this has been a difficult time for America right now: 2 years of brutal recession, a decade of economic insecurity. And there are going to be some hard days ahead. That's the truth. It's going to take a while for us to dig ourselves out of this hole. But what you are proving here--each and every one of you who work here at Smith Electric--is the promise of a brighter future. What you're proving is that if we hold fast to that spirit of entrepreneurship and innovation that's always defined America, we're not just going to emerge from this period of turmoil; we're going to emerge stronger than we were before.<p>You're proving that as long as we keep on moving forward, nobody can stop us. And for that I want to thank you. You are setting a model for what we need to be doing all across the country.<p>So congratulations. Thank you very much.\" "
"193" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. Everybody, have a seat. Everybody, have a seat. Everybody enjoy themselves. The--how's lunch? <p><i>Audience members.</i> It's good.<p><i>The President.</i> All right, good.<p>Hello, Kansas City. It is good to be back in the Midwest, even better to be back in the Midwest with Robin Carnahan.<p>I--you all have had a long tradition of sending tough, independent, no-nonsense leaders to Washington, from Harry Truman to my great friend Claire McCaskill to some wonderful Missourians who go by the name of Carnahan.<p>Nobody fits this mold better than Robin. She's not going to Washington to represent the oil industry or the insurance industry or the banks on Wall Street. She's not even going there to represent every aspect of either party's agenda or my agenda. She's going to Washington to represent one constituency, and that's you, the people of Missouri. She's going to call them like she sees them, and she sees them the same way that most of you do, the same way that most of the people of Missouri do.<p>Robin's a small-business owner, still runs her family farm. That's why as your secretary of state, she cut redtape for small businesses and saved small-business owners millions of dollars so they can focus on growing their companies and creating jobs right here in this State. That's why she spent her time in office standing up for consumers, got $10 billion back for Missourians who were being taken advantage of by big institutions. That's worth applauding; $10 billion is real money. That's why she worked with Democrats and Republicans to pass one of the strictest laws in the Nation protecting seniors from fraud. That's why Missouri needs somebody like Robin Carnahan in Washington, DC. She is a fighter, she is a survivor, and she will never forget where she comes from or who she represents. And that's why I'm glad to see that all of you are here today, because you know that about Robin.<p>Now, we need tough leaders like Robin in Washington because these are tough times for America; I don't need to tell you that. Eighteen months ago, I took office after almost a decade of economic policies that gave us sluggish growth and falling or flat incomes and record deficits. They were the policies that culminated in an economic crisis that was the worst since the Great Depression. Three million Americans lost their jobs in the last 6 months of 2008. The month I was sworn in, in January of 2009, more than 750,000 jobs were lost in that month alone. These aren't just numbers. Most of you in this room were either touched by this or know somebody who was.<p>And the policies that led to this economic disaster were pretty straightforward: You cut taxes for millionaires and billionaires who don't need the tax cuts, didn't even ask for them, you cut rules and regulations for the most powerful institutions, whether it's big banks on Wall Street or big oil companies in the Gulf, and you cut working people loose to fend for themselves. You tell them, you're on your own. You put a fancy name on it. You call it the \\"ownership society\\" or whatever the new slogan is. But it's the same policy over and over again.<p>And I think everybody here would agree, those policies were bad for the people of Missouri. They were bad for workers. They were bad for responsible business owners. They were bad for America. And that's why we took a different path when I got elected, so we could stop the freefall and rebuild our economy for the long run.<p>And our ideas have been pretty straightforward. We cut taxes--didn't raise them, we cut them--for 95 percent of working families and small-business owners, the people who needed it most and were most impacted by the recession. We're making sure that everybody--the Wall Street banks, other big corporations--are playing by the same rules as small-business owners and everybody else in America. We can't have two sets of rules. And we're investing in our people, investing in them and their future, in the skills and education of our workforce, in the research and clean energy technologies that will create thousands of new jobs and new industries and make our country competitive in the 21st century. That's our vision for America.<p>Now, we knew from the very beginning that some of the steps that we had to take would be difficult and unpopular. I love sometimes--the pundits will say, \\"Boy, Obama's doing this stuff; it's not very popular.\\" I've got pollsters too. [<i>Laughter</i>] I know--[<i>applause</i>]--before we make decisions, we know initially how they're going to play. But our decision was not to worry about the next election. We decided to worry about the next generation.<p>We knew it took years to dig the hole that we were in and it would take some time to dig out, longer than anybody would like. But here's what I also knew: An economy that was shrinking, if we did what we needed to do, would be growing. And it has now been growing for the better part of a year. An economy that was once losing jobs has now been adding private sector jobs for 6 consecutive months. During that time we have created nearly 600,000 jobs in the private sector, not public sector jobs, private sector jobs--600,000.<p>Now, that's not enough. Not when there's still five folks out of work for every available job. Not when there are still storefronts on Main Streets all across the country that are sitting there empty. It's frustrating, and it's heartbreaking. And we've got plenty more work to do. But here's what you need to know: We are headed in the right direction, and the last thing we should do is go back to the very ideas that got us into this mess in the first place.<p>That's the choice that you're going to be facing in November. It's a choice between the policies that led us into this mess and the policies that are leading us out of this mess. It's a choice between falling backwards or moving forward. Robin wants to move us forward. I want to move us forward. And I believe that you and the rest of America are ready to move forward, and that's why you're going to send Robin Carnahan to Washington, DC.<p>Some of the same folks in the other party whose policies gave us the economic crisis are now looking for another chance to lead. They spent nearly a decade driving the economy into the ditch, and now they're asking for the car keys back. [<i>Laughter</i>] They can't have them back. They don't know how to drive. Don't know how to drive, drive in the wrong direction, get us stuck. And by the way, Robin's opponent hasn't just been along for the ride. As one of the Republican leaders in the House of Representatives, he had his hands on the wheel. He was there giving those tax breaks to millionaires and billionaires and oil companies without paying for them, adding to our deficit, adding to our debt. He fought for fewer rules and less oversight for Wall Street--still fighting for them. That's how he makes his money.<p>So we already know how this story ends. We don't have to guess how the other party will govern because we're still living with the results from the last time they governed. And in the 18 months since I've been President, they have been singing from the same hymnal.<p>Right after I took office, we passed an economic plan that cut taxes for over 2 million Missouri families, a plan that provided more than 1,500 loans to Missouri small businesses, a plan that has extended unemployment benefits to 170,000 Missourians who lost their jobs through no fault of their own. Fifty-five thousand men and women in this State are working today because of this plan. I just met 50 of them at the Smith Electric Vehicles plant in Kansas City that I visited right before I came here. <p>So our plan was to provide grants to companies like Smith Electric Vehicles all across America, businesses that are investing in clean energy manufacturing and technology. Smith Electric is making the world's largest battery-electric-powered trucks. But there are also companies like Siemens Wind Power in Iowa that are making these wind turbines, delivering energy--clean energy--all across America, or Celgard in North Carolina, which is a battery technology company, or a biofuel refinery plant called POET right here in Missouri. That's how we create jobs and economic growth. That's how we ensure that America leads in the industries of the future.<p>I'll give you an example. Just a few years ago, America had the capacity to build only 2 percent of the world's advanced batteries for electric and hybrid cars and trucks. Today, thanks to our policies, thanks to a new focus on clean energy and the work taking place at plants like Smith Electric, in 5 years, we could have as much as 40 percent of the world's capacity to build these batteries--40 percent. That means jobs right here in Missouri. It also means we're developing the expertise in a sector that is going to keep building and growing and innovating far into the future.<p>That's what our economic plan is doing. Robin Carnahan supports that plan. Her opponent doesn't. Like almost every member of the other party in Congress, he said no. If he had his way, there would be a lot of Missouri families and small businesses paying higher taxes today. There would be a lot of small-business owners who wouldn't have received the loans they needed to keep their doors open and make payroll. Those jobs at Smith Electric, those clean energy jobs and businesses that our policies are supporting across America, a lot of them wouldn't be here today.<p>These folks in the other party in Washington want to take us backwards. But Robin and I and Claire McCaskill, Jay Nixon--we want to take America forward. And that's the choice in this election.<p>You'd think that after this devastating financial crisis, we'd all agree that we believe in the free market system, we want a dynamic financial sector, but it makes sense to have a little better oversight on Wall Street to prevent something like this from happening again. Right? That would be the sensible thing to do. You'd think that would be a nonpartisan issue. When we lost trillions of dollars of wealth, people's 401(k)s plunged, stock market plunged, the entire economy went into a tailspin, maybe we just want to make sure that doesn't happen again. That'd be the sensible approach.<p>Robin's opponent and almost all of our friends in the other party are against Wall Street reform. The Republican leader, Mr. Boehner, said this reform was like employing nuclear weapons to kill \\"an ant,\\" he said. An ant--that's what he called what we just went through. You can imagine a movie: \\"The Ant That Ate Our Economy.\\" It's just--[<i>laughter</i>]--that's a big ant.<p>So they continue to defend the status quo that got us into this mess, a system that allowed reckless speculators to gamble and left the rest of America to pay for their mistakes. That doesn't make sense to you; it doesn't make sense to me. It's not good for our country.<p>In the end, it's not good for all the hard-working, honest people in the financial industry who were put at a competitive disadvantage because of the recklessness of a few.<p>So let me tell you, when the Senate returns, we're going to pass reform that ends this era of irresponsibility, reform that protects consumers against unfair practices of credit card companies and mortgage lenders, reform that makes sure taxpayers are never again on the hook for Wall Street's mistakes.<p>It'd be a lot easier to get it passed--it would already have been done--if I had Robin Carnahan there. She doesn't want to move us backwards. She wants to move us forward, and that's the choice in this election. I need another vote. It'd be helpful. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Despite the growing burdens on middle class families struggling to send their kids to college, Robin's opponent and almost all of our friends in the other party voted against a law that provides billions of dollars that were going to financial institutions, senseless subsidies, and now will be going to young people for scholarships, billions of dollars for student loans paid for because we're eliminating subsidies that shouldn't have been there in the first place. Nearly a million more students from working families will have access to financial aid, access to college, because of what we did. The other side said no.<p>They said no to laws that we passed to stop insurance companies from denying coverage to people with preexisting conditions. They said no to requiring women to get equal pay for equal work. They said no to extended unemployment insurance for folks who desperately needed help. They said no to holding oil companies accountable when they bring on catastrophe.<p>You may have read the top Republican on the House Energy Committee, Mr. Barton, publicly apologizing to BP after we compelled them to set aside $20 billion to pay for the folks who have suffered as a consequence of the oil spill. Does anybody here think BP should get an apology?<p><i>Audience members.</i> No!<p><i>The President.</i> Mr. Barton did. He called this \\"a tragedy,\\" this fund that we had set up to compensate fishermen and small-business owners throughout the Gulf. That's not the tragedy; the tragedy is if they didn't get compensated.<p>So this is the leadership that we've gotten from Barton and Boehner and Blunt. Sometimes I wonder if that \\"no\\" button is just stuck--[<i>laughter</i>]--in Congress, so they just--they can't do what's right for the American people.<p>And this isn't just about politics. But a awful lot of it has to do with politics, because I think they figure if they just keep on saying no to everything and nothing gets done, they're going to get more votes in November. The theory is, if I lose, then they win. But that's the old brand of politics. That just takes us backwards. Robin wants to move America forward. We want America to win, not just Democrats to win. That's the choice in this election. Are we all going to pull in a single direction to get this country moving?<p>Last point I'm going to make: Lot of our friends in the other party like to talk a big game about fiscal responsibility and out-of-control spending. Now, I'll be honest with you, it's one of the things that keeps me up at night, thinking about all the debt and deficits that we inherited that have accumulated. Often I hear Claire McCaskill's voice in my head reminding me of that. [<i>Laughter</i>] Maybe it's just my voicemail. [<i>Laughter</i>] Robin feels the same way. She's a small-business owner. She knows about making sure that she stays on budget, that she's not spending more than she takes in. And families around the country have been tightening their belts for a few years now. So, rightly, they think it's time that their Government did the same thing.<p>So that's why we proposed a 3-year freeze on all Government spending outside of national security, something that was never enacted in the previous administration. That's why we've gone through the budget line by line, identified more than 120 programs for elimination. That's why we put forward a fiscal commission that's bringing both parties together to come up with a long-term solution for our deficit. And working with leaders like Claire and Robin, we're going to keep on taking the steps we need to in the months and years ahead, steps that don't just make Government leaner, but also smarter and more efficient and more accountable. That's what Harry Truman did when he fought to hold war profiteers accountable. That's what Claire and I are fighting for today.<p>So I got to say, when I hear the other party talking about fiscal responsibility, criticizing us for fiscal responsibility when I had a $1.3 trillion deficit wrapped in a big bow waiting for me when I got to the White House--[<i>laughter</i>]--I've got to scratch my head a little. You'd think that after turning a record Clinton surplus into a record deficit and record debt, they'd be a little shy about this. [<i>Laughter</i>] On their watch, they neglected to pay for two wars, neglected to pay for two tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, didn't control spending, set up a worthy, but expensive prescription drug program. Didn't pay for any of it. So it's a little odd getting lectures on sobriety from folks who spent like drunken sailors for the better part of the last decade. [<i>Laughter</i>] They want to take us backwards. Robin and I and Claire, we want to take America forward. That's the choice in this election. <p>So here's the bottom line: These are incredibly challenging times, there's no doubt about it. And as I said every day during the campaign, change is hard. Change takes time. The problems we face have been building up for decades; they're not going to go away overnight. Not in 1 year, not in 4 years. No President, no politician has the power to snap their fingers and fix everything. A lot of folks will tell you that the closer you get to election day, that they can, but you can't believe them.<p>Here's what we can do, though. We can make choices about which direction we want to take this country. We can stop putting off the things that have been holding us back and going ahead and tackling them and fixing them. We can do what we've always done, whether it was on a farm or dealing with a crisis overseas: We shape our own destiny as a nation. We decide what we're going to bequeath to our children and our grandchildren.<p>The interests of the status quo, they'll always have the most influential and vocal defenders. There will always be lobbyists for the powerful industries that don't want more regulation or would rather see tax breaks instead of more investments in education and infrastructure. And let's face it: The prospect of change is scary, even when we know the status quo isn't working.<p>But there are no powerful interests to lobby for the clean energy company that may start for a few--hiring folks a few years from now or the research that may lead to a lifesaving medical breakthrough or the student who may not be able to afford a college education, but if they got that education, their dreams would not just carry them, but carry other people with them.<p>It's our job as a nation to advocate on behalf of the America that we hope for, even when it's not popular, even if we can't always see benefits in the short term, because we know it will pay off in the long term. It's our job to fight not just for the next election but for the next generation, for our children and our children's children.<p>And that's what I've tried to do every day as President. That's what Robin Carnahan will do when she is the next great Senator from the State of Missouri. I need all of you to join us on this journey. And if you're willing to make that investment, I guarantee you our better days are not behind us, they are in front of us.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"194" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Nevada! Hello, Vegas! Si se puede! Oh, it is good to be back in Vegas. This is a pretty good crowd. I know you're disappointed, but I'm not singing tonight. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Listen, I love being in Vegas again, love being in Vegas. I love this town. Maybe not as much as my staff. [<i>Laughter</i>] For some reason, every time we come here, Air Force One is a little more crowded. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's like I'm seeing people in the couches and----<p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you, Obama!<p><i>The President.</i> I love you back. I love you back. A couple other people I love here. I want to make mention--Congresswoman Dina Titus is in the house. There she is right there. Love Dina. Secretary of State Ross Miller is in the house; give a big round of applause to Ross, right here. One of my earliest supporters, not just here in Nevada, but anywhere in the country, State Senate Majority Leader Steven Horsford is in the house. He's somewhere out here. Your wonderful speaker of the State assembly, Barbara Buckley, is here.<p>Give it up for Brandon, David, and Mark, The Killers. These guys, by the way, for the Fourth of July performed for military families in the South Lawn, and so have just been unbelievable for us. Really nice guys; they don't look like killers, let's face it. [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, one of them is tall, but they don't look like you'd be scared of them. [<i>Laughter</i>] But they are wonderful people, and we are grateful to them. And then how about Sarah McLachlan? She was--I met her backstage--just delightful, and a couple of beautiful daughters. And I'm always partial to daughters. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now, despite the entertainment, despite the nice digs, despite seeing all these old friends, the main reason I'm here is because there's a guy from Searchlight, Nevada, who has been fighting on behalf of Nevada for most of his life and is now fighting for working families all across America, and that's your Senate majority leader, Harry Reid.<p>I have known Harry since I arrived in the Senate 5 years ago, and we have become dear friends. He is a man of principle. He is a straight shooter. He is a man of his word. He comes across as soft-spoken--you know, how he's all like, \\"Well, you know.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Even when he's in front of a big crowd, he's like, \\"Well, you know.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"Okay, okay, we're trying here, trying hard.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, that's just how Harry is. But anybody who knows Harry knows he is made of strong stuff. This is one tough guy. A lot of people talk tough; Harry is tough.<p>A lot of people in Washington forget where they came from. Harry remembers every single day. A lot of people, instead of taking the tough votes, showing leadership, making difficult decisions, they do what's politically expedient. They're not making the choices that give them the best chance of staying in Washington. That's not Harry Reid. He doesn't always do what's easy. He doesn't always do what is popular. But he always does what's right for the people of Nevada. And that's why you've got to send him back there for one more term. As Senate majority leader, he has always done what's right. You've got to send him back.<p>You know, Harry used to be a boxer. He likes to brag about this. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it's--you know, he brags in his Harry way--he's all, \\"Well, I used to box.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] He'll say, \\"You know, I wasn't the most talented guy.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"I wasn't very fast. I wasn't big, obviously.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"But I could take a punch. I could take a punch.\\"<p>He would outlast the other guy. And that's exactly how Harry Reid has been able to orchestrate one of the most productive legislative sessions in the history of America. And that's how he's going to win this race, so he can serve the people of Nevada one more time.<p>He's taken his lumps. We all have. But I have no doubt that the people of Nevada will realize the quality of public servant that they have in Harry Reid, partly because he knows no matter what kind of lumps he's taking, they're nothing compared to the lumps that folks back home have been taking.<p>Harry comes from humble beginnings. He knows what it's like not to have a lot. He knows what it's like to see your folks scraping by and have to tell you, no, I'm sorry, we can't afford this, we can't afford that. He's been there. And so when he hears the stories of Nevadans who are losing their homes, or he hears stories of Nevadans who have lost their jobs, when he hears stories about people who are feeling desperate, who, after doing the right thing, somehow have gotten the short end of the stick, that's who he identifies with. That's who he's fighting for.<p>I just came from the birthplace of another Harry, a guy named Harry Truman. Harry Truman was a lot like Harry Reid. You know, in 1948, Harry Truman campaigned across this country, making the case against the do-nothing Republicans in Congress. Right?<p>For the last 2 years, Harry has been dealing with the do-nothing Republican leadership in the Senate, just like Harry Truman. But despite all their tactics, despite all their political maneuvering, he's just been steady, and we keep on making progress. He does not give up; he does not give in. He keeps on fighting, and he outlasts them. And he's changed the landscape of America as a consequence.<p>We need Harry Reid because we've taken quite a few punches as a nation. About 17 months ago, I took office after almost a decade of economic policies that gave us sluggish job growth, falling incomes, a record deficit--I want everybody to remember this--a decade of economic policies that culminated in the worst crisis since the Great Depression.<p>Three million Americans had lost their jobs in the last 6 months of 2008. Another 750,000 Americans lost their jobs the month I was sworn in. The month I was sworn in--the next month, it was 600,000. And these weren't just numbers. Most of you have somebody in your family who was touched by this crisis, if you weren't yourself. <p>And the economic policies that led to this economic disaster were pretty straightforward. Harry mentioned it: You cut taxes for millionaires and billionaires, even if they don't need them and weren't even asking for them, you cut rules and regulations for the most powerful industries--big banks on Wall Street, big oil in the Gulf--and then you cut working families loose. You tell people, you're on your own. You don't have health care? Too bad, you're on your own. Young person born into poverty, can't afford college--tough luck, you're on your own. That was their reigning philosophy. They might call it different things, the \\"ownership society\\" or laissez-faire or whatever, but this was their philosophy.<p>Now, I want somebody to argue that somehow this was working well for the people in Nevada.<p><i>Audience members.</i> No!<p><i>The President.</i> It was bad for workers, it was bad for business owners, and it was bad for this country. And that's why, with Harry Reid's help, I took a different path as President. I had a different philosophy, one that's based on how do we help ordinary families seize opportunity and use their innovation and their drive to rebuild an America that's stronger than before. That was our job. That was our task.<p>So we've got a different philosophy. We said we'd cut taxes for the 95 percent of working families and small-business owners who really needed help in this recession. We believe in the free market, but we also think that everybody should be following basic rules of the road, so we made sure Wall Street banks and other big corporations have to play by the same rules that small banks and small-business owners have to play with. That just makes sense. There shouldn't be two sets of rules. There shouldn't be loopholes and special tax breaks and lack of oversight. And we decided that we were going to invest in our people and in our future, in the skills and education of our workforce, in the research and clean energy technologies that will create new jobs and new industries and make sure America is competitive in the 21st century. That's our vision for America.<p>Now, since we had a crisis on our hands, since the financial system was melting down, since we--people couldn't get auto loans, couldn't get home loans, people weren't traveling. You remember. You remember last year. So we had to make a bunch of decisions, and we had to make them fast. And they were tough decisions, difficult decisions. Some of them weren't popular.<p><i>Audience member.</i> It's all right.<p><i>The President.</i> And by the way--well, I know it's all right, because you know what? Let me tell you something. As we were making these decisions, sometimes the pundits would say, boy, you know, why is he doing that, why is Harry Reid doing that? That's not going to be popular. Well, we've got poll. You know, Harry Reid and I, we've got pollsters. They let us know when things aren't going to be popular. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's not like we were surprised. [<i>Laughter</i>] But my job isn't to put my finger up to the wind and see which way the wind is blowing. That's not Harry Reid's job. That's not leadership. Our job is to focus not on the next election but on the next generation, and that's why we made those decisions.<p>We knew it would take us months, years to dig ourselves out of the holes that we found ourselves in. That's longer than anybody would like, but here's what I also know: An economy that last year was shrinking by 6 percent is now growing; an economy that was shredding jobs at an unbelievable pace, we've now had 6 months in a row of private sector job growth. That's because of policies that Harry Reid helped bring about. We have turned things around, and we are moving in the right direction.<p>Now, that's not enough. It hasn't moved as fast as I want. I'm not going to be satisfied and Harry won't be satisfied until everybody in Nevada who wants a job can find a job. We don't want to just survive; we want to thrive. We want Nevada to be on the move. We want the Las Vegas dream to be a reality for everybody. And so we understand we've got a lot of work to do.<p>Basically, the other party, their whole argument is based on the notion, well, it hasn't moved fast enough. Well, I agree. I'd like to see us get out of this hole sooner, but you have to understand we are heading in the right direction. And what the other side is offering is basically to go back to the same ideas that got us into this mess in the first place. That's all they're doing.<p>This is a choice between the policies that led us into the mess or the policies that are leading us out of the mess. This is the choice between falling backwards or moving forward. Now, I don't know about you, but Harry Reid wants to move forward. I want to move forward. I think most people in Nevada want to move forward. They don't want to go backwards. America doesn't go backwards, we go forward. That's who we are as Americans.<p>What the other party is counting on is that all of you don't have very good memories. [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, think about it. They're not making new arguments. It's not like they're coming back and saying, you know what, we know we screwed up, and we learned from our mistakes, and we're going to do things differently this time. That's not what you're hearing. They are peddling the same stuff they've been peddling for years and years and years. <p>They basically--they spent a decade driving the economy into a ditch, and now they're asking for the keys back. [<i>Laughter</i>] And my answer is, no, you can't have the keys. You can't drive. You don't know how to drive. You drive in the wrong direction. You can't have them back. We're just getting the car out of the ditch. We can't have you drive it back in the ditch.<p>Harry Reid and I, we got mud on our shoes. We're--we've been pushing and shoving, car is just kind of getting out, almost on some pavement. [<i>Laughter</i>] Suddenly, they're all, \\"No, no, we want to pull into reverse.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Run right over Harry and me. [<i>Laughter</i>] Get you back in the mud. That doesn't make sense.<p>I mean, look, Harry Reid's opponent doesn't just believe in these old, worn-out theories. On a lot of these issues, she favors an approach that's even more extreme than the Republicans we got in Washington. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's saying something. [<i>Laughter</i>] That is saying something. I mean, she wants to phase out and privatize Social Security and Medicare.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> Phase out and privatize t hem.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Phase her out. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Wants to eliminate our investment in clean energy. Wants to eliminate the Federal investment in our children's educations.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> Said the answer to the BP oil spill is to deregulate the oil industry. <p><i>Audience members.</i> No!<p><i>The President.</i> I'm not making this up. Harry, am I making this up? [<i>Laughter</i>] I know some of you are saying, no, she didn't really say that. [<i>Laughter</i>] She said it. She said that if only there were fewer rules and safeguards, then BP would have been more careful--[<i>laughter</i>]--about their drilling.<p>Some of you might have heard about the Republican Congressman who apologized to BP. I think you heard Harry mention him. This, by the way, is the guy who heads up the Energy Committee for the Republicans. We decided, let's get $20 billion to make sure fishermen and small-businesspeople and hotels are compensated for their loss. That makes sense. I mean, most people around the country, it doesn't matter whether you're Democrat, Republican, Independent, you'd say, well, yes, of course that makes sense. They shouldn't be punished for somebody else's carelessness. <p>Well, this Congressman, he, in a hearing, apologized to BP executives, said that the fund we'd set up was a \\"tragedy,\\" a \\"shakedown.\\" A tragedy? You think about all those people down there who--a lot of folks down there, just like Vegas, rely on tourism. And it's much more seasonal than Vegas, so they've got basically 3, 4 months where they make money for the entire year. You talk to some fishermen--they had already--or guys who own boats who take fishermen out--they'd already bought all their supplies, bought all their gasoline, and suddenly, that's it, wiped out. That's the tragedy. It's not asking BP to do what's right and what's fair.<p>But Harry's opponent, she agreed with this guy. She called the compensation we're providing a \\"slush fund.\\"<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> To compensate fishermen and compensate shrimpers and compensate small-restaurant owners.<p>Now, a few hours later, her campaign puts out a memo saying, well, she didn't mean that. [<i>Laughter</i>] They said there was some, quote, \\"confusion.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And I'm sure she meant \\"slush fund\\" in the nicest possible way. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Let me tell you, most of the Nevadans I meet--and I've spent a lot of time here; you know that. [<i>Laughter</i>] I've been seeing you. Most of the people I meet here in this State, they don't think like that. They don't subscribe to that kind of thinking. So why would you want somebody who has that philosophy representing the people of Nevada?<p><i>Audience members.</i> No!<p><i>The President.</i> You need somebody like Harry Reid representing you in Nevada.<p>My simple point is this: You have a choice in this election. And look, obviously, you're here, you guys are some diehards, you guys are supporters, and you need to be energized in this election. But when you're talking to your friends and your neighbors, and they're not following politics as closely, they're not sure how things should go, they're frustrated about what's happening, and they say, ah, it doesn't make any difference, you have to remind them, it makes a difference. There is a real choice here. We know how the movie ends if the other party is in charge. [<i>Laughter</i>] You don't have to guess how they'll govern because we're still living with the damage from the last time they were governing. And they're singing from the same hymnal. They haven't changed. They want to do the same stuff.<p>Right after we took office, working with Harry, we passed tax cuts for over 1 million families here in Nevada, made over 400 loans to Nevada's small businesses, extended unemployment benefits to 300,000 Nevadans who'd lost their jobs. Twenty-seven thousand men and women in this State are working today because of what Harry Reid did. They're in clean energy companies, producing solar power and geothermal power and new jobs.<p>That's what Harry Reid fought for, but you know what, his opponent, she's got a different way of seeing things. And if we had had her way, there would be a lot of Nevada families and small businesses right now paying higher taxes. There would be a lot of small-business owners who wouldn't have received those loans to keep their doors open and make payroll. Those 27,000 jobs, they wouldn't be there today. All that clean energy work that those companies are doing wouldn't be here today. They want to take us backwards. We want to move forwards. That's the choice in this election.<p>You would have thought that after this financial crisis--bear with me here, because you might be scratching your head--you would think that everybody would agree that proper oversight over the financial sector would be the smart thing to do, just to prevent this from happening again. We want businesses to thrive. We want banks to thrive. But we want to make sure that they're doing sensible things. We don't want them selling crazy derivatives that nobody understands. We don't want them selling subprime mortgages with fine print that result in people losing their homes and entire communities collapsing. We don't want them overcharging people on their credit cards for hidden fees.<p>So we--so Harry and I and a bunch of people just tried to put together a sensible bit of reform. Now, the Republican leader in the House says, no, we can't do that; we're against that. He says having this big financial regulatory reform, that's \\"like killing an ant with a nuclear weapon.\\" That's what he said. [<i>Laughter</i>] So he thinks the worst crisis since the worst--since the Great Depression, he analogized to an ant. It's like it should be a movie: \\"The Ant That Ate the Economy.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So all the Republicans--a whole bunch of the Republican leadership fought against Wall Street reform. There are a handful of Republicans who are supporting it, and we appreciate that. And they're pretty much the same handful that have been supporting us on just about everything, and they're good people. But Harry's opponent said she'd leave everything exactly the way it is, the status quo.<p>Now, I don't believe in the status quo. Harry Reid doesn't believe in the status quo. You don't believe in the status quo.<p><i>Audience members.</i> No!<p><i>The President.</i> So thanks to Harry's leadership, we are about to pass this landmark legislation that will end this era of irresponsibility. That's the kind of leadership that you'll have in place. That's what he's fighting for. That's why you've got to send him back for one more term.<p>You go through the list. Health care--now, this is an interesting example. People in Washington, they were all surprised when I said, \\"Well, I said in the campaign I was going to do health care, so yes, we're going to do health care reform.\\"<p>They said: \\"Well, no, this is hard. This is hard. You're going to use up a lot of political capital.\\" They said the same thing to Harry: \\"Harry, you're going to have a tough race. You don't want to do this. This is hard.\\" But we said we were going to do it because we had met too many families out there who, because of a preexisting condition, couldn't get insurance. We had met folks working two, three jobs, still couldn't get insurance. We'd met too many people who had hit lifetime limits, couldn't get insurance. So we said, we're going to do the right thing. And we did it, even though it was hard, because it was the right thing to do.<p>Now, not only do the folks in the other party say no to reform, now they say they want to repeal it, go back to the days when insurance companies could jack up your rates any time they felt like it or drop your coverage when you get sick. That's going backwards. What do you want to do?<p><i>Audience members.</i> Forward! <p><i>The President.</i> I want to go forward. But in order to go forward, you got to send Harry for another term as the senior Senator from Nevada.<p>Look, the bottom line is this: This is going to be a tough race. Harry reminds me, he's never been in an easy race. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's because he talks softly and he says, \\"Well, you know\\"--[<i>laughter</i>]. \\"I don't like to brag about myself.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"I'm from Searchlight.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So Harry is always in a tough race. He's just not a flashy guy. I mean, considering we're in Vegas, you'd think somebody could give him some tips. [<i>Laughter</i>] You know, spruce up the wardrobe a little bit--[<i>laughter</i>]--take some voice lessons. [<i>Laughter</i>] So he's always in a tough race. But ultimately, what you want out of your elected officials is somebody who knows your life, who remembers what it's like to struggle so that when we're making a whole bunch of decisions that continue to face us over the next several months and the next several years, that person is going to advocate for you. He's going to have you in mind when he's deciding, are we going to have an energy future that is clean and bright and creating jobs and allowing us to compete? Are we going to make sure that young people continue to get the student loans and scholarships they need so we've got the best trained workforce in the world?<p>Are we finally going to get our budget and our debt under control in a way that doesn't do it on the backs of working families? Let me just talk about--let me talk about this whole debt and deficit thing. This keeps me up at night. We've got serious issues with debt and debt--deficits and debt.<p>Now, keep in mind that we had a surplus--you remember that?--with the last Democratic President. Do you remember that? But when I walked in--this is right in the middle of this huge crisis--what had been a record surplus was suddenly a $1.3 trillion deficit. That was when we walked in. All right?<p>So we said, even though we're doing all these other things, even though we're giving tax cuts, even though we have to make sure that small businesses get loans, even though we are making sure that the economy stays afloat, despite all that, let's start taking some steps that over the long term can help control the budget. <p>So I proposed a 3-year freeze on all Government spending outside of national security, something that was never enacted by the previous administration. And then we identified 120 Government programs that weren't working that well. So we said, let's eliminate those and consolidate and streamline and make them work. And then I--then we said, well, let's form a bipartisan fiscal commission, an idea of a Republican Senator and a Democratic Senator, the two leading experts on the budget in the Senate. Let's go ahead and adopt this proposal to come up with a long-term solution on how we're going to deal with entitlements and all this stuff.<p>Now, here's what happens. Harry knows this; Harry remembers this. We had seven Republicans who were sponsors of this fiscal commission. They said, we've got to deal with the deficit, we've got to deal with the debt. So I say, okay, let's do it. I make an announcement. And in front of the entire country I said, I embrace this bipartisan fiscal commission idea. Let's get this legislation passed. I'll sign it into law. Next thing you know, the seven folks on the Republican side who had been cosponsors of it voted against it--[<i>laughter</i>]--their legislation.<p>Now, this is typical. So look, I don't want you guys to get bamboozled. I don't want--when these folks start running the okeydoke on you, I want you to be clear. [<i>Laughter</i>] When they start intoning about how \\"we care so much about the deficit and debt\\" and \\"we're tired of this out-of-control Government spending,\\" look, these are the folks who delivered to you a structural debt--deficits that broke the record, turned record surpluses into record deficits. So this is like a lecture on sobriety from folks who had been spending money like drunken sailors. [<i>Laughter</i>] You don't want to put them in charge. You definitely don't want to put them behind the wheel. Given their track record, they've been weaving on the road when it comes to fiscal responsibility. That's part of the reason they drove us into the ditch. Don't give them the keys back. <p>You got to make sure that Harry Reid is in a position to look after you when we make these difficult debates. So here's my hope. This is going to be a close election. Everybody here, I expect, will vote for Harry. That's good. Everybody here will vote for Harry. And a couple of you who won't--he--you know, because you're scouting out what we're saying--[<i>laughter</i>]--that's okay. That's part of politics. And then the other two of you who thought this was how you got to the slots. [<i>Laughter</i>] But all the rest of you, you're going to all vote for Harry Reid.<p>But it's not enough for you just to vote for him. I need you to work for him. I need you to knock on doors for him. I need you to make phone calls for him. Don't do it for me. Do it for you. More importantly, do it for your children and do it for your grandchildren. And do it because despite the storm clouds we've been going through, you see out in the horizon a future that's bright. <p>You see a future where we're no longer relying just on dirty energy and expensive energy, but clean energy. And it's creating jobs all across Nevada. We're harnessing the sun and the wind. You see a future where every child in Nevada has a world-class education, and they're getting the jobs of the future. You see a future where health care is available for every American, and we're driving the costs of health care down for every American. And you see a future where we're respected around the world. And you see a future where you can retire with dignity and respect. And you see a future where our air and water is clean. And you see a future where the 21st century is just like the 20th century: It is the American century.<p>And you know in your heart of hearts the only way that's going to happen is if we make sure that leaders with the integrity and honesty and the willingness to take tough decisions like Harry Reid are sent back to Washington to fight for you. I need you to work for Harry Reid. And if you do, then our future is, indeed, bright and Nevada's future is bright and Las Vegas future is bright. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"195" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you, everybody. Good to see you. Thank you. Please have a seat. Have a seat. Well, thank you, Harry. Thanks for giving me a chance to get out of Washington. It's very hot there. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's hot here too, but there's a little more humidity there. And I just love coming to Vegas. I love being here. I mentioned last night, I'm not the only one who loves it, because I noticed that, for some reason, Air Force One is more crowded when we're coming to Vegas. [<i>Laughter</i>] Somehow I need more staff and logistical support and a couple extra Secret Service guys. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>We've got some wonderful leaders here, and I just want to acknowledge them very quickly. U.S. Representative Dina Titus is here, doing a great job. And Nevada's secretary of state, Ross Miller, is here. Dr. Neal Smatresk is here, and his family. And they're doing a great job on behalf of UNLV. And all of you are here. And I am thrilled to see you.<p>But I'm especially here to be with my friend and your Senator, Harry Reid. One of the first stories I heard about Harry was that he was a boxer back in the day here in Nevada. And I was mentioning last--she's laughing, she's, \\"Oh, I can't believe it.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] No, he was. [<i>Laughter</i>] You wouldn't know that because he's so soft-spoken. You know, he's all, \\"Well, I'm Harry Reid.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] But when he first told me he was a boxer, he said, \\"Barack, I wasn't the fastest, I wasn't the hardest hitting, but I knew how to take a punch.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] He knew how to take a punch. And Harry Reid became a pretty good boxer because he would simply outlast his opponents. He had a stronger will.<p>And I think that tells you something about the kind of person he is, the kind of Senator he is, the kind of Senate majority leader he is. He is a fighter, and you should never bet against him. And that's just what we need right now. That's what Nevada needs right now. That's what Nevada needs, is somebody who's going to fight for the people of Nevada and for the American people.<p>And you know that he wasn't born with a silver spoon in his mouth, in Searchlight, Nevada. So when you're going through tough times, Harry Reid has been there. He knows what it feels like to be scraping and scrimping, and struggle to make ends meet. And so when his home State is having a tough time, when the country is having a tough time, he knows that he's got to be fighting on behalf of not those who are powerful, but on behalf of those who need help the most.<p>Now, let me tell you, when we first took office, amidst the worst economy since the Great Depression, we needed Harry's fighting spirit, because we had lost nearly 3 million jobs during the last 6 months of 2008. The month I was sworn in, January 2009, we lost 750,000 jobs in that month alone. The following month we lost 600,000 jobs. And these were all the consequence of a decade of misguided economic policies, a decade of stagnant wages, a decade of declining incomes, a decade of spiraling deficits.<p>So our first mission was to break the momentum of the deepest and most vicious recession since the Great Depression. We had to stop the freefall and get the economy and jobs growing again. And digging out of this mess required us taking some tough decisions, and sometimes those decisions were not popular. And Harry knew they weren't popular. I knew they weren't popular. But they were the right thing to do.<p>And Harry was willing to lead those fights because he knew that we had to change course, that to do nothing, to simply continue with the policies that had gotten us into this mess in the first place would mean further disaster. And to fail to act on some of the great challenges facing the country that we had been putting off for decades would mean a lesser future for our children and our grandchildren.<p>Now, as a result of those tough steps that we took, we're in a different place today than we were a year ago. An economy that was shrinking is now growing. We've gained private sector jobs for each of the past 6 months instead of losing them, almost 600,000 new jobs.<p>But as Harry pointed out, that's not enough. I don't have to tell you that. The unemployment rate is still unacceptably high, particularly in some States like Nevada. And a lot of you have felt that pain personally or you've got somebody in your family who's felt the pain. Maybe you found yourself underwater on your mortgage and faced the terrible prospect of losing your home. Maybe you're out of work and worried about how you're going to provide for your family. Or maybe you're a student at UNLV, and you're wondering if you're going to be able to find a job when you graduate, or if you're going to be able to pay off your student loans, or if you're going to be able to start your career off on the right foot.<p>Now, the simple truth is it took years to dig this hole; it's going to take more time than any of us would like to climb out of it. But the question is, number one, are we on the right track? And the answer is, yes. And number two, how do we accelerate the process? How do we get the recovery to pick up more steam? How do we fill this hole faster?<p>There's a big debate in Washington right now about the role that Government should play in all this. As I said in the campaign, and as I've repeated many times as President, the greatest generator of jobs in America is our private sector. It's not Government. It's our entrepreneurs and innovators who are willing to take a chance on a good idea. It's our businesses, large and small, who are making payroll and working with suppliers and distributing goods and services across the country and now across the world.<p>The private sector, not Government, is, was, and always will be the source of America's economic success. That's our strength, the dynamism of our economy. And that's why one of the first things Harry Reid did, one of the first things we did, was cut dozens of taxes--not raise them, cut them--for middle class and small-businesspeople. And we extended loan programs to put capital in the hands of startups. And we worked to reduce the cost of health care for small businesses.<p>And right now Harry is fighting to pass additional tax breaks and loan authority to help small businesses grow and hire all across the country. But he has also tried to look out specifically for Nevada. He understands, for example, that tourism is so enormous an aspect of our economy, and so helped to move our trade promotion act that is going to be helping to do exactly what it says, promote tourism and bring folks here to enjoy the incredible hospitality.<p>The point is, our role in Government, especially in difficult times like these, is to break down barriers that are standing in the way of innovation, to unleash the ingenuity that springs from our people, to give an impetus to businesses to grow and expand. That's not some abstract theory. We've seen the results. We've seen what we can do to catalyze job growth in the private sector.<p>And one of the places we've seen it most is in the clean-energy sector, an industry that will not only produce jobs of the future, but help free America from our dependence on foreign oil in the process, clean up our environment in the process, improve our national security in the process.<p>So let me give you an example. Just yesterday I took a tour of Smith Electric Vehicles in Kansas City, Missouri, on the way here. This is a company that just hired its 50th worker, it's on the way to hiring 50 more, and is aiming to produce 500 electric vehicles at that plant alone. And these are spiffy-looking trucks. I mean, they are, and they're used by Fortune 500 companies for distribution: PepsiCo, Frito-Lay. They're also used for the United States military, electric trucks with a lot of--they're very strong, great horsepower.<p>And the reason for their success is their entrepreneurial drive. But it's also partly because of a grant that we're offering companies that manufacture electric vehicles and the batteries that power them.<p>Because of these grants, we're going to be going from only having 2 percent of the global capacity to make advanced batteries that go in trucks and cars, run on electricity--we're going to go from 2 percent of advanced battery market share to 40 percent just in the next 5 years--just in the next 5 years. And that will create thousands of jobs across the country, not just this year, not just next year, but for decades to come. So it's a powerful example of how we can generate jobs and promote robust economic growth here in Nevada and all across the country by incentivizing private sector investments.<p>That's what we're working to do with the clean energy manufacturing tax credits that we enacted last year, thanks to Harry's leadership. Thanks to Harry's leadership.<p>Some people know these tax credits by the name 48c, which refers to their section in the Tax Code. But here's how these credits work. We said to clean energy companies, if you're willing to put up 70 percent of the capital for a worthy project, a clean energy project, we'll put up the remaining 30 percent. To put it another way, for every dollar we invest, we leverage two more private sector dollars. We're betting on the ingenuity and talent of American businesses.<p>Now, these manufacturing tax credits are already having an extraordinary impact. A solar panel company called Amonix received a roughly $6 million tax credit for a new facility they're building in the Las Vegas area, a tax credit they were able to match with roughly $12 million in private capital. That's happening right now. And that's just one of over 180 projects that received manufacturing tax credits in over 40 States.<p>Now, here's the--the only problem we have is these credits were working so well, there aren't enough tax credits to go around. There are more worthy projects than there are tax credits. When we announced the program last year, it was such a success we received 500 applications requesting over $8 billion in tax credits, but we only had $2.3 billion to invest. In other words, we had almost four times as many worthy requests as we had tax credits.<p>Now, my attitude, and Harry's attitude, is that if an American company wants to create jobs and grow, we should be there to help them do it. So that's why I'm urging Congress to invest $5 billion more in these kinds of clean energy manufacturing tax credits, more than doubling the amount that we made available last year. And this investment would generate nearly 40,000 jobs and $12 billion or more in private sector investment, which could trigger an additional 90,000 jobs.<p>Now, I'm gratified that this initiative is drawing support from Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle, including Republican Senators Richard Lugar and Orrin Hatch. Unfortunately, that kind of bipartisanship has been absent on a lot of efforts that Harry and I have taken up over the past year and a half.<p>We fought to keep Nevada teachers and firefighters and police officers on the job and to extend unemployment insurance and COBRA so folks have health insurance while they're looking for work. We fought to stop health insurance companies from dropping your coverage on the basis of preexisting conditions or right when you get sick or placing lifetime limits on the amount of care that you can receive.<p>We fought to eliminate wasteful subsidies that go to banks that were acting as unnecessary middlemen for guaranteed student loans from the Federal Government, and as a consequence, freed up tens of billions of dollars that are now going directly to students, which means more than a million students have access to financial aid that they didn't have before.<p>And we're now on the cusp of enacting Wall Street reforms that will empower consumers with clear and concise information that they need to make financial decisions that are best for them and to help prevent another crisis like this from ever happening again and putting an end to some of the predatory lending and the subprime loans that had all kinds of fine print and hidden fees that have been such a burden for the economy of a State like Nevada and haven't been fair to individual consumers in the process.<p>So that's what Harry and I fought for. And frankly, at every turn we've met opposition and obstruction from a lot of leaders across the aisle. And that's why I'm glad I've got a boxer in the Senate who is not afraid to fight for what he believes in. And Harry and I are going to keep on fighting until wages and incomes are rising and businesses are hiring again right here in Nevada and Americans are headed back to work again and we've recovered from this recession and we're actually rebuilding this economy stronger than before. That's what we're committed to doing.<p>So, Nevada, I know we've been through tough times. And not all the difficult days are behind us. There are going to be some tough times to come. But I can promise you this: We are headed in the right direction. We are moving forward. We are not going to move backwards.<p>And I'm absolutely confident that if we keep on moving forward, if we refuse to turn backwards, if we're willing to show the same kind of fighting spirit as Harry Reid has shown throughout his career, then out of this storm brighter days are going to come.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"196" "\"Last weekend, on the Fourth of July, Michelle and I welcomed some of our extraordinary military men and women and their families to the White House.<p>They were just like the thousands of Active Duty personnel and veterans that I've met across this country and around the globe: proud, strong, determined men and women with the courage to answer their country's call and the character to serve the United States of America.<p>Because of that service, because of the honor and heroism of our troops around the world, our people are safer, our Nation is more secure, and we are poised to end our combat mission in Iraq by the end of August, completing a drawdown of more than 90,000 troops since last January.<p>Still, we are a nation at war. For the better part of a decade, our men and women in uniform have endured tour after tour in distant and dangerous places. Many have risked their lives. Many have given their lives. And as a grateful nation, humbled by their service, we can never honor these American heroes or their families enough.<p>Just as we have a solemn responsibility to train and equip our troops before we send them into harm's way, we have a solemn responsibility to provide our veterans and wounded warriors with the care and benefits they've earned when they come home. That's our sacred trust with all who serve, and it doesn't end when their tour of duty does.<p>To keep that trust, we're building a 21st-century VA, increasing its budget and ensuring the steady stream of funding it needs to support medical care for our veterans. To help our veterans and their families pursue a college education, we're funding and implementing the post-9/11 GI bill. To deliver better care in more places, we're expanding and increasing VA health care, building new wounded warrior facilities, and adapting care to better meet the needs of female veterans. To stand with those who sacrifice, we've dedicated new support for wounded warriors and the caregivers who put their lives on hold for a loved one's long recovery. And to do right by our vets, we're working to prevent and end veteran homelessness. Because in the United States of America, no one who served in our uniform should sleep on our streets.<p>We also know that for many of today's troops and their families, the war doesn't end when they come home. Too many suffer from the signature injuries of today's wars: posttraumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury. And too few receive the screening and treatment they need.<p>Now, in past wars, this wasn't something America always talked about. And as a result, our troops and their families often felt stigmatized or embarrassed when it came to seeking help. Today, we've made it clear up and down the chain of command that folks should seek help if they need it. In fact, we've expanded mental health counseling and services for our vets.<p>But for years, many veterans with PTSD who have tried to seek benefits--veterans of today's wars and earlier wars--have often found themselves stymied. They've been required to produce evidence proving that a specific event caused their PTSD. And that practice has kept the vast majority of those with PTSD who served in noncombat roles, but who still waged war, from getting the care they need.<p>Well, I don't think our troops on the battlefield should have to keep notes just in case they need to apply for a claim. And I've met enough veterans to know that you don't have to engage in a firefight to endure the trauma of war. So we're changing the way things are done.<p>On Monday, the Department of Veterans Affairs, led by Secretary Ric Shinseki, will begin making it easier for a veteran with PTSD to get the benefits he or she needs. This is a long-overdue step that will help veterans not just of the Afghan and Iraq Wars, but generations of their brave predecessors who proudly served and sacrificed in all our wars.<p>It's a step that proves that America will always be there for our veterans, just as they've always been there for us. We won't let them down. We take care of our own. And as long as I'm Commander in Chief, that's what we're going to keep doing. Thanks.\" "
"197" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody! Well, good evening, everybody. This is a pretty feisty group here. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you, President!<p><i>The President.</i> Love you back. Thank you. Well, it is a privilege to speak with all of you. Welcome to the White House. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Thank you.<p><i>The President.</i> Let me begin by welcoming the Cabinet Secretaries who are here. I know I saw at least one of them, Kathleen Sebelius, our outstanding Secretary of Health and Human Services. I want to thank all the Members of Congress who are present and all the distinguished guests that are here--that includes all of you. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>In particular, I want to recognize Ambassador Eric Goosby, our Global AIDS Coordinator. Eric's leadership of the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief is doing so much to save so many lives around the world. He will be leading our delegation to the International AIDS Conference in Vienna next week. And so I'm grateful for his outstanding service. <p>And I want to also thank the Presidential Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS--thank you--and the Federal HIV Interagency Working Group for all the work that they are doing. So thank you very much. <p>Now, it's been nearly 30 years since a CDC publication called Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report first documented five cases of an illness that would come to be known as HIV/AIDS. In the beginning, of course, it was known as the, quote, \\" gay disease,\\" a disease surrounded by fear and misunderstanding, a disease we were too slow to confront and too slow to turn back. <p>In the decades since, as epidemics have emerged in countries throughout Africa and around the globe, we've grown better equipped, as individuals and as nations, to fight this disease. From activists, researchers, community leaders who've waged a battle against AIDS for so long, including many of you here in this room, we have learned what we can do to stop the spread of the disease. We've learned what we can do to extend the lives of people living with it. And we've been reminded of our obligations to one another, obligations that, like the virus itself, transcend barriers of race or station or sexual orientation or faith or nationality. <p>So the question is not whether we know what to do, but whether we will do it, whether we will fulfill those obligations, whether we will marshal our resources and the political will to confront a tragedy that is preventable. <p>All of us are here because we are committed to that cause. We're here because we believe that while HIV transmission rates in this country are not as high as they once were, every new case is one case too many. We're here because we believe in an America where those living with HIV/AIDS are not viewed with suspicion, but treated with respect, where they're provided the medications and health care they need, where they can live out their lives as fully as their health allows. <p>And we're here because of the extraordinary men and women whose stories compel us to stop this scourge. I'm going to call out a few people here, people like Benjamin Banks, who right now is completing a master's degree in public health, planning a family with his wife, and deciding whether to run another half marathon. [<i>Laughter</i>] Ben has also been HIV-positive for 29 years, a virus he contracted during cancer surgery as a child. So inspiring others to fight the disease has become his mission. <p>We're here because of people like Craig Washington, who after seeing what was happening in his community--friends passing away; life stories sanitized, as he put it, at funerals; homophobia, all the discrimination that surrounded the disease--Craig got tested, disclosed his status, with the support of his partner and his family, and took up the movement for prevention and awareness, in which he is a leader today. <p>We're here because of people like Linda Scruggs. Linda learned she was HIV-positive about two decades ago when she went in for prenatal care. Then and there, she decided to turn her life around, and she left a life of substance abuse behind. She became an advocate for women; she empowered them to break free from what she calls the bondage of secrecy. She inspired her son, who was born healthy, to become an AIDS activist himself. <p>So we're here because of Linda and Craig and Ben and because of the over 1 million Americans living with HIV/AIDS and the nearly 600,000 Americans who've lost their lives to the disease. It's on their behalf, and on the behalf of all Americans, that we began a national dialogue about combating AIDS at the beginning of this administration. <p>In recent months, we've held 14 community discussions. We've spoken with over 4,200 people. We've received over 1,000 recommendations on the White House web site, devising an approach not from the top down but from the bottom up. <p>And today we're releasing our national HIV/AIDS strategy, which is the product of these conversations and conversations with HIV-positive Americans and health care providers, with business leaders, with faith leaders, and the best policy and scientific minds in our country. <p>Now, I know that this strategy comes at a difficult time for Americans living with HIV/AIDS, because we've got cash-strapped States who are being forced to cut back on essentials, including assistance for AIDS drugs. I know the need is great. And that's why we've increased Federal assistance each year that I've been in office, providing an emergency supplement this year to help people get the drugs they need, even as we pursue a national strategy that focuses on three central goals. <p>First goal: prevention. We can't afford to rely on any single prevention method alone. So our strategy promotes a comprehensive approach to reducing the number of new HIV infections, from expanded testing so people can learn their status to education so people can curb risky behaviors to drugs that can prevent a mother from transmitting a virus to her child.<p>And to support our new direction, we're investing $30 million in new money, and I've committed to working with Congress to make sure these investments continue in the future.<p>The second----<p><i>Audience member.</i> Mr. President----<p><i>The President.</i> Let's--hold on--you can talk to me after--we'll be able to talk after I speak. That's why I invited you here, right? So you don't have to yell, right? Thank you. <p> Second is treatment. To extend lives and stem transmission, we need to make sure every HIV-positive American gets the medical care that they need. And by stopping health insurers from denying coverage because of a preexisting condition and by creating a marketplace where people with HIV/AIDS can buy affordable care, the health insurance reforms I signed into law this year are an important step forward. And we'll build on those reforms, while also understanding that when people have trouble putting food on the table or finding a place to live, it's virtually impossible to keep them on lifesaving therapies. <p>Now, the third goal is reducing health disparities by combating the disease in communities where the need is greatest. Now, we all know the statistics. Gay and bisexual men make up a small percentage of the population, but over 50 percent of new infections. For African Americans, it's 13 percent of the population, nearly 50 percent of the people living with HIV/AIDS. HIV infection rates among Black women are almost 20 times what they are for White women. So such health disparities call on us to make a greater effort as a nation to offer testing and treatment to the people who need it the most. <p>So reducing new HIV infections, improving care for people living with HIV/AIDS, narrowing health disparities, these are the central goals of our national strategy. They must be pursued hand in hand with our global public health strategy to roll back the pandemic beyond our borders. And they must be pursued by a government that is acting as one. So we need to make sure all our efforts are coordinated within the Federal Government and across Federal, State, and local governments, because that's how we'll achieve results that let Americans live longer and healthier lives. <p>So yes, government has to do its part, but our ability to combat HIV/AIDS doesn't rest on government alone. It requires companies to contribute funding and expertise to the fight. It requires us to use every source of information, from TV to film to the Internet, to promote AIDS awareness. It requires community leaders to embrace all and not just some who are affected by the disease. It requires each of us to act responsibly in our own lives, and it requires all of us to look inward, to ask not only how we can end this scourge, but also how we can root out the inequities and the attitudes on which this scourge thrives.<p>When a person living with HIV/AIDS is treated as if she's done something wrong, when she's viewed as being somehow morally compromised, how can we expect her to get tested and disclose her diagnosis to others? <p>When we fail to offer a child a proper education, when we fail to provide him with accurate medical information and instill within him a sense of responsibility, then how can we expect him to take the precautions necessary to protect himself and others? <p>When we continue, as a community of nations, to tolerate poverty and inequality and injustice in our midst, we don't stand up for how women are treated in certain countries, how can we expect to end the disease, a pandemic that feeds on such conditions? <p>So fighting HIV/AIDS in America and around the world will require more than just fighting the virus. It will require a broader effort to make life more just and equitable for the people who inhabit this Earth. And that's a cause to which I'll be firmly committed so long as I have the privilege of serving as President. <p>So to all of you who have been out there in the field, working on this issue day in, day out, I know sometimes it's thankless work, but the truth is, you are representing what's best in all of us: our regard for one another, our willingness to care for one another. I thank you for that. I'm grateful for you. You're going to have a partner in me.<p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"198" "\"Hello, everybody. Thank you so much. Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat. Have a seat.<p>Before I get started, first of all, let me thank your fine, young mayor. Mr. Mayor, it is wonderful to see you, and I am partial to daughters, as I know you are, and I hope at some point I get a chance to meet yours. But thank you for the great work that you've done.<p>To somebody who I think is one of the best Governors in the country, Jennifer Granholm, please give her another round of applause. Jennifer has been relentless about bringing manufacturing--21st-century manufacturing--here to Michigan. And this is just an example of the kinds of projects she's been working on for so long. <p>I'm very grateful for the presence of the chairman of LG Chem, Bon Moo Koo. Thank you very much for your presence here today, as well as the CEO and vice chairman, Peter Bahnsuk Kim. Thank you very much. Please give them a big round of applause.<p>And I want to acknowledge your Congressman, Pete Hoekstra is here in the audience. Please give him a round of applause.<p>Now, it is wonderful to be here in Holland, and I am--especially to be here as Compact Power breaks ground on this site. This is about more than just building a new factory; it's about building a better future for this city, for this State, and for this country.<p>Now, I want to say what everyone here in Holland and everybody here in Michigan knows too well, which is that these have been some pretty tough times. A brutal recession came on top of what was already a lost decade for the middle class, especially for manufacturing towns here in the Midwest. Even before this recession cost so many jobs, incomes had been flat, jobs were moving overseas, while the price of everything from health care to college tuitions were skyrocketing.<p>It was a decade in which it seemed like the values that built this country were turned upside down. Folks who were working hard and honestly every day to meet their responsibilities were running in place or falling behind, while high-flying financial speculators who were cutting corners were rewarded with lavish bonuses and benefits.<p>It got even worse when the financial crisis sent our economy into a freefall and cost 8 million Americans their jobs. Michigan was hit harder than anywhere else. And on top of this recession, you were also rocked by the near collapse of the domestic auto industry.<p>It was in the middle of this crisis that my administration walked through the door. And we had a number of difficult decisions that we had to make and make quickly. Some, including shoring up U.S. automakers, weren't real popular, as you will recall. But with millions of jobs at stake, with the future of so many families and businesses on the line, we acted to prevent the country from slipping into an even deeper crisis.<p>And that's why when my administration began, we cut taxes for small-business owners and for 95 percent of working families here in Michigan and across the country. We extended unemployment insurance to help folks get through these storms. And through small-business loans, a focus on research and development, and investments in high-tech, fast-growing sectors like clean energy, we've aimed to grow our economy by harnessing the innovative spirit of the American people.<p>Because we did, shovels will soon be moving earth and trucks will soon be pouring concrete where we are standing. Because of a grant to this company, a grant that's leveraging more than 150 million private dollars, as many as 300 people will be put to work doing construction and another 300 will eventually be hired to operate this plant when it's fully up and running. And this is going to lead to growth at local businesses like parts suppliers and restaurants. It will be a boost to the economy of the entire region.<p>Now, this is the ninth advanced battery plant to begin construction because of our economic plan. And these plants will put thousands of people to work. This includes folks who were working at a couple of facilities being built in Michigan by another battery technology company called A123. And in every case, we've been guided by a simple idea: Government can't generate the jobs or growth we need by itself, but what Government can do is lay the foundation for small businesses to expand and to hire, for entrepreneurs to open shop and test new products, for workers to get the training they need for the jobs of the 21st century, and for families to achieve some semblance of economic security.<p>So our goal has never been to create a Government program, but rather to unleash private sector growth. And we are seeing results. There are 4.5 million unemployed workers already hired whose employers are eligible for a payroll tax exemption, a tax break that I signed into law earlier this year.<p>Just yesterday the Council of Economic Advisers put out a detailed report, and it showed that for things like tax credits that go to advanced energy manufacturing or loan guarantees for small businesses or financing for infrastructure projects, we're leveraging nearly three private dollars for every public dollar that's spent. That's an incredible bang for our buck. By making critical seed money available, we've attracted more than $280 billion in investment from private companies and others, which will mean new jobs and brighter futures for families in Holland and in communities across the country.<p>And by the way, these aren't just any jobs; these are jobs in the industries of the future. Just a few years ago, American businesses manufactured only 2 percent of the world's advanced batteries for electric and hybrid vehicles--2 percent. But because of what's happening in places like this, in just 5 years, we'll have up to 40 percent of the world's capacity--40 percent. So for years, you've been hearing about manufacturing jobs disappearing overseas. You are leading the way in showing how manufacturing jobs are coming right back here to the United States of America. <p>For example, the workers at this plant, already slated to produce batteries for the new Chevy Volt, learned the other day that they're also going to be supplying batteries for the new electric Ford Focus as soon as this operation gears up. And that means that by 2012, the batteries will be manufactured here in Holland, Michigan. So when you buy one of these vehicles, the battery could be stamped \\"Made in America,\\" just like the car.<p>And here's another benefit: Because of advances in the manufacture of these batteries, their costs are expected to come down by nearly 70 percent in the next few years. That's going to make electric and hybrid cars and trucks more affordable for more Americans. And that not only means more jobs, but it also means we're going to be less dependent on foreign oil.<p>So taken together, these are the efforts that are going to create jobs and help build a stronger economy in the long run. And I want to express my appreciation to the Michigan leaders, not only here but in Congress, who supported the economic plan that made this possible.<p>As a result of the steps that we took, an economy that was shrinking is now growing. We were bleeding jobs at a rate of 750,000 per month the January that I was sworn in. Now the economy is adding private sector jobs and has been for 6 straight months.<p>Now, this doesn't mean that we're out of the woods, not by a long shot. But it does mean that there are small-business owners who've been able to get the loans they need to hire a few more people. It means there are salespeople with a few more dollars in their pockets because customers are buying again. It means there are innovators and entrepreneurs finally able to take a chance on a new idea. And it means there are construction workers heading to the jobsite each day--just like some of the folks who are here today--because our country is slowly coming back from this vicious recession.<p>The progress we've made so far is not nearly enough to do--undo the enormous damage that this recession caused. And I've said since the first day I took office, it's going to take time to reverse the toll of the deepest downturn in a generation. I won't be satisfied as long as even one person who needs a job and wants to work can't find one.<p>But what I'm absolutely clear about and what this plant will prove is that we are headed in the right direction and that the surest way out of the storms we've been in is to keep moving forward and not go backwards.<p>There are some folks who want to go back, who think that we should return to the policies that helped to lead to this recession. Some of them made the political calculation that it's better to obstruct than to lend a hand. They said no to tax cuts; they said no to small-business loans; they said no to clean energy projects. Now, it doesn't stop them from being at ribbon cuttings, but--[<i>laughter</i>]--but that's okay. I just want to make sure that everybody understands that this country would not be better off if this plant hadn't gotten built and if the clean energy package that made it possible wasn't in place.<p>And when you head out to any of the two dozen battery technology plants coming on line that are going to be able to be stamped \\"Made in America\\" on their products, I want folks who have been pushing against these economic policies to explain to these workers why it'd be better for these things to be manufactured in other countries, or why the solar plants and wind turbines and biodiesel refineries that are being built shouldn't have happened.<p>Most workers and most entrepreneurs understand we're not in the clear yet. But they understand we're headed in the right direction. There's something about America that no matter what the trials are, what the tribulations are, we stay optimistic and we keep going forward. And we know if we work hard enough and we're determined enough, if we try as hard as we can and if we're willing to experiment, and if things don't work, we put them aside, but we keep on going, that sooner or later, we're going to see a brighter day, and we're going to pass on a better America to our children and our grandchildren.<p>That's been our history. That's the legacy that we inherit. So to everybody in Holland, I want you to understand these have been a tough few years, but we have been through tough times before. And at our best, we've risen to the challenges we face by tapping the drive and the talent and the ingenuity that has always been at the heart of America's success.<p>And that's what's happening all across America as we speak. That's not only how we're going to emerge from this period of turmoil, that's how we're going to actually come out stronger than we were before.<p>So to all of you who have been part of this project, thank you. This is a symbol of where Michigan's going, this is a symbol of where Holland's going, this is a symbol of where America is going.<p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"199" "\"This week, many of our largest corporations reported robust earnings, a positive sign of growth. But too many of our small-business owners and those who aspire to start their own small businesses continue to struggle, in part because they can't get the credit they need to start up, grow, and hire. And too many Americans whose livelihoods have fallen prey to the worst recession in our lifetimes, a recession that cost our economy 8 million jobs, still wonder how they'll make ends meet. That's why we need to take new, commonsense steps to help small businesses, grow our economy, and create jobs. And we need to take them now.<p>For months, that's what we've been trying to do. But too often, the Republican leadership in the United States Senate chooses to filibuster our recovery and obstruct our progress. And that has very real consequences.<p>Consider what this obstruction means for our small businesses, the growth engines that create two of every three new jobs in this country. A lot of small businesses still have trouble getting the loans and capital they need to keep their doors open and hire new workers. So we proposed steps to get them that help: eliminating capital gains taxes on investments, establishing a fund for small lenders to help small businesses, enhancing successful SBA programs that help them access the capital they need. But again and again, a partisan minority in the Senate said no and used procedural tactics to block a simple up-or-down vote.<p>Think about what these stalling tactics mean for the millions of Americans who've lost their jobs since the recession began. Over the past several weeks, more than 2 million of them have seen their unemployment insurance expire. For many, it was the only way to make ends meet while searching for work, the only way to cover rent, utilities, even food.<p>Three times, the Senate has tried to temporarily extend that emergency assistance. And three times, a minority of Senators--basically the same crowd who said no to small businesses--said no to folks looking for work and blocked a straight up-or-down vote. <p>Some Republican leaders actually treat this unemployment insurance as if it's a form of welfare. They say it discourages folks from looking for work. Well, I've met a lot of folks looking for work these past few years, and I can tell you, I haven't met any American who would rather have an unemployment check than a meaningful job that lets you provide for your family. And we all have friends or neighbors or family members who already know how hard it is to land a job when five workers are competing for every opening.<p>Now, in the past, Presidents and Congresses of both parties have treated unemployment insurance for what it is, an emergency expenditure. That's because an economic disaster can devastate families and communities just as surely as a flood or tornado. <p>But suddenly, Republican leaders want to change that. They say we shouldn't provide unemployment insurance because it costs money. So after years of championing policies that turned a record surplus into a massive deficit, including a tax cut for the wealthiest Americans, they've finally decided to make their stand on the backs of the unemployed. They've got no problem spending money on tax breaks for folks at the top who don't need them and didn't even ask for them, but they object to helping folks laid off in this recession who really do need help. And every day this goes on, another 50,000 Americans lose that badly needed lifeline.<p>Well, I think these Senators are wrong. We can't afford to go back to the same misguided policies that led us into this mess. We need to move forward with the policies that are leading us out of this mess.<p>The fact is, most economists agree that extending unemployment insurance is one of the single most cost-effective ways to help jump-start the economy. It puts money into the pockets of folks who not only need it most but who are also most likely to spend it quickly. That boosts local economies, and that means jobs.<p>Increasing loans to small businesses, renewing unemployment insurance, these steps aren't just the right thing to do for those hardest hit by the recession, they're the right thing to do for all of us. And I'm calling on Congress once more to take these steps on behalf of America's workers and their families and small-business owners, the people we were sent here to serve.<p>Because when storms strike Main Street, we don't play politics with emergency aid. We don't desert our fellow Americans when they fall on hard times. We come together. We do what we can to help. We rebuild stronger, and we move forward. That's what we're doing today. And I'm absolutely convinced that's how we're going to come through this storm to better days ahead. <p>Thanks.\" "
"200" "\"All right, everybody, have a seat now, have a seat. Well, it is just wonderful to welcome all of you here to the White House. And congratulations to the Phoenix Mercury on winning your second WNBA title in the last 3 years. <p>Now, I noticed my Department of Homeland Security Secretary--[<i>laughter</i>]--is kind of horning in on our event here. [<i>Laughter</i>] She has been a huge fan of Mercury ever since her days as Governor of Arizona. She's--I didn't know you'd been a guest coach. That is cool. Did you guys win that game? Nice, nice, nice. So I'm impressed. <p>I want to congratulate Head Coach Corey Gaines. He won a ring as assistant coach, now he's got a ring as head coach. So congratulations. <p>I know how much hard work goes into a championship----<p>[<i>At this point, there was a minor disruption in the audience.</i>]<p>----you guys all right back there? [<i>Laughter</i>] I know how much hard work goes into a championship season. But I hear that one of the real keys to the Mercury's title is sitting in the audience. For those of you who don't know, Assistant Coach Julie Hairgrove and her kids are the lucky charms of this team. Where are they? Julie? Sleeping? Not that excited to see the President. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>My understanding, when the Mercury won their first title in 2007, Julie was pregnant with her second child. Wait, where's Julie by the way? Nice. When they won their second title, Julie was pregnant with her third child, Grace, who's now 3 months old. And I understand the team is trying to talk Julie and her husband into their fourth. [<i>Laughter</i>] One more? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But beyond your lucky charms, the sacrifice, the dedication, and the heart that all of you have put into this sport is obvious. Team captain Diana Taurasi was named regular season and WNBA Finals MVP this year. That's pretty good. Last week, she won the ESPY Award for Best WNBA Player of 2010. Congratulations. <p>Tangela Smith became only the fourth player in WNBA history to score 4,500 career points and rack up 2,000 rebounds. Congratulations, Tangela. Nice! Nice!<p>But this is a true team. When Diana was named finals MVP, she turned around and gave the trophy to her teammates. She said, \\"It's not one player that makes an MVP. It never has been, and it never will be.\\"<p>And this team set a new WNBA scoring record with 92.8 points per game. They made their way onto a box of Wheaties, I understand. [<i>Laughter</i>] But they have managed to keep themselves pretty grounded. I hear that rookies Taylor Lilley and Sequoia Holmes are still doing luggage duty--is that true? [<i>Laughter</i>] You guys didn't even--[<i>laughter</i>]--rooks, huh? That's rough. That's rough. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>This team also goes above and beyond in serving the Phoenix community, from putting on basketball camps for children of veterans to collecting clothes for the homeless. And today they're bringing that commitment here to the White House. After we're done here, they'll be holding a clinic as part of Michelle's \\"Let's Move!\\" initiative to help our young people live healthy and active lives.<p>So I want to thank all of you guys for your extraordinary service as well as your championship spirit. And I want to thank you for setting a wonderful example, because I live with three tall, good-looking women--[<i>laughter</i>]--who are quite competitive and push me around under the boards all the time. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I want Malia and Sasha to know that there is absolutely no contradiction between women who are beautiful and healthy and contributing, and good athletes and competitive. And when they see you guys every day, that helps them in a way that--I think if you heard from Michelle, sometimes she feels like when she was coming up she didn't always have that. And I think that is just so important to everybody.<p>So, as a basketball fan, I congratulate you on your second championship. As a father, I thank you for being great role models. And good luck with the rest of the season. All right.\" "
"201" "\"Good morning, everybody. Right now, across this country, many Americans are sitting at the kitchen table, they're scanning the classifieds, they're updating their resumes or sending out another job application, hoping that this time, they'll hear back from a potential employer. And they're filled with a sense of uncertainty about where their next paycheck will come from. And I know the only thing that will entirely free them of those worries, the only thing that will fully lift that sense of uncertainty is the security of a new job. <p>To that end, we all have to continue our efforts to do everything in our power to spur growth and hiring. And I hope the Senate acts this week on a package of tax cuts and expanded lending for small businesses, where most of America's jobs are created. <p>So we've got a lot of work to do to make sure that we are digging ourselves out of this tough economic hole that we've been in. But even as we work to jump-start job growth in the private sector, even as we work to get businesses hiring again, we also have another responsibility: to offer emergency assistance to people who desperately need it, to Americans who've been laid off in this recession. We've got a responsibility to help them make ends meet and support their families, even as they're looking for another job. And that's why it's so essential to pass the unemployment insurance extension that comes up for a vote tomorrow. <p>We need to pass it for men like Jim Chukalas, who's with me here today. Jim worked as a parts manager at a Honda dealership until about 2 years ago. He's posted resumes everywhere. He's gone door to door looking for jobs. But he hasn't gotten a single interview. Now, he's trying to be strong for his two young kids, but now that he's exhausted his unemployment benefits, that's getting harder to do.<p>We need to pass it for women like Leslie Macko, who lost her job at a fitness center last year and has been looking for work ever since. Because she's eligible for only a few more weeks of unemployment, she's doing what she never thought she'd have to do, not at this point anyway. She's turning to her father for financial support.<p>And we need to pass it for Americans like Denise Gibson, who was laid off from a real estate agency earlier this year. Denise has been interviewing for jobs, but so far, nothing's turned up. Meanwhile, she's fallen further and further behind on her rent. And with her unemployment benefits set to expire, she's worried about what the future holds.<p>And we need to pass it for all the Americans who haven't been able to find work in an economy where there are five applicants for every opening, who need emergency relief to help them pay the rent and cover their utilities and put food on the table while they're looking for another job. <p>And for a long time, there's been a tradition--under both Democratic and Republican Presidents--to offer relief to the unemployed. That was certainly the case under my predecessor, when Republican Senators voted several times to extend emergency unemployment benefits. But right now these benefits, benefits that are often the person's sole source of income while they are looking for work, are in jeopardy. <p>And I have to say, after years of championing policies that turned a record surplus into a massive deficit, the same people who didn't have any problem spending hundreds of billions of dollars on tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans are now saying we shouldn't offer relief to middle class Americans like Jim or Leslie or Denise who really need help. <p>Over the past few weeks, a majority of Senators have tried--not once, not twice, but three times--to extend emergency relief on a temporary basis. Each time, a partisan minority in the Senate has used parliamentary maneuvers to block a vote, denying millions of people who are out of work much needed relief. These leaders in the Senate who are advancing a misguided notion that emergency relief somehow discourages people from looking for a job should talk to these folks. <p>That attitude, I think, reflects a lack of faith in the American people, because the Americans I hear from in letters and meet in town hall meetings--Americans like Leslie and Jim and Denise--they're not looking for a handout. They desperately want to work. It's just right now they can't find a job. These are honest, decent, hard-working folks who've fallen on hard times through no fault of their own and who have nowhere else to turn except unemployment benefits and who need emergency relief to help them weather this economic storm.<p>Now, tomorrow we will have another chance to offer them that relief, to do right by not just Jim and Leslie and Denise, but all the Americans who need a helping hand right now. And I hope we seize it. It's time to stop holding workers laid off in this recession hostage to Washington politics. It's time to do what's right, not for the next election, but for the middle class. We've got to stop blocking emergency relief for Americans who are out of work. We've got to extend unemployment insurance. We need to pass those tax cuts for small businesses and the lending for small businesses. <p>Times are hard right now. We are moving in the right direction. I know it's getting close to an election, but there are times where you put elections aside. This is one of those times. And that's what I hope Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle will do tomorrow. <p>Thanks very much.\" "
"202" "\"Well, welcome to the White House. I am just thrilled, and I know Michelle is thrilled, to host the sixth in a series of evenings celebrating the music that helped to shape America.<p>Now, so far we have heard from some of the biggest names in jazz, in country, in Latin, classical, and the music of the civil rights movement. And tonight we are honored to be joined by some of the biggest and brightest stars on Broadway.<p>And I notice--I should just point out that I see a lot of members of the New York delegation here. [<i>Laughter</i>] They take great pride in Broadway. I want to start by thanking George C. Wolfe and Margo Lion for making this event possible. So please give them a big round of applause. And I want to thank all of tonight's performers for sharing their gifts with us. They are just so generous with their time, and this will be a wonderful evening.<p>I also want to recognize my outstanding Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis, who is in the house. Here she is right here. As well as the other members of the administration--thank you guys for the hard work you do each and every day. Thank you to the National Endowment for the Arts and the President's council on the arts and the humanities for their continued support. And I finally want to recognize Jerry Mitchell and everybody who participated in the dance workshop earlier this afternoon and helped inspire the next generation of performers--as well as my wife--to do a few dances. [<i>Laughter</i>] She was showing off backstage.<p>Now, as we're about to see this evening, there's nothing quite like the power and the passion of Broadway music. At its heart, it's the power of a story: of love and of heartbreak, of joy and sorrow, singing witches, dancing ogres. Musicals carry us to a different time and place, but in the end, they also teach us a little bit of something about ourselves. It's one of the few genres of music that can inspire the same passion in an 8-year-old that it can an 80-year-old, and make them both want to get up and dance. It transcends musical tastes, from opera and classical to rock and hip-hop. And whether we want to admit it or not, we all have the lyrics to a few Broadway songs stuck in our heads. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>In many ways, the story of Broadway is also intertwined with the story if America. Some of the greatest singers and songwriters Broadway has ever known came to this country on a boat with nothing more than an idea in their head and a song in their heart. And they succeeded the same way that so many immigrants have succeeded, through talent and hard work and sheer determination.<p>Over the years, musicals have also been at the forefront of our social consciousness, challenging stereotypes, shaping our opinions about race and religion, death and disease, power and politics.<p>But perhaps the most American part of this truly American art form is its optimism. Broadway music calls us to see the best in ourselves and in the world around us, to believe that no matter how hopeless things may seem, the nice guy can still get the girl, the hero can still triumph over evil, and a brighter day can be waiting just around the bend.<p>As the great Mel Brooks once said, musicals \\"blow the dust off your soul.\\" So to everyone watching, both here and at home, here's a taste of Broadway to help us do just that.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"203" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat. Have a seat. Well, good morning, everyone.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Good morning.<p><i>The President.</i> We are gathered in the heart of our Nation's Capital, surrounded by memorials to leaders and citizens who served our Nation in its earliest days and in its days of greatest trial. Now, today is such a time for America. <p>Over the past 2 years, we have faced the worst recession since the Great Depression. Eight million people lost their jobs. Tens of millions saw the value of their homes and retirement savings plummet. Countless businesses have been unable to get the loans they need, and many have been forced to shut their doors. And although the economy is growing again, too many people are still feeling the pain of the downturn.<p>Now, while a number of factors led to such a severe recession, the primary cause was a breakdown in our financial system. It was a crisis born of a failure of responsibility, from certain corners of Wall Street to the halls of power in Washington. For years, our financial sector was governed by antiquated and poorly enforced rules that allowed some to game the system and take risks that endangered the entire economy. <p>Unscrupulous lenders locked consumers into complex loans with hidden costs. Firms like AIG placed massive, risky bets with borrowed money. And while the rules left abuse and excess unchecked, they also left taxpayers on the hook if a big bank or financial institution ever failed. <p>Now, even before the crisis hit, I went to Wall Street and I called for commonsense reforms to protect consumers and our economy as a whole. And soon after taking office, I proposed a set of reforms to empower consumers and investors, to bring the shadowy deals that caused this crisis into the light of day, and to put a stop to taxpayer bailouts once and for all. <p>Today, thanks to a lot of people in this room, those reforms will become the law of the land. For the last year, Chairmen Barney Frank and Chris Dodd have worked day and night--[<i>applause</i>]--Barney and Chris have worked day and night to bring about this reform. And I am profoundly grateful to them. I would be remiss if I didn't also express my appreciation to Senator Harry Reid and Speaker Nancy Pelosi for their leadership. It wouldn't have happened without them. <p>Passing this bill was no easy task. To get there, we had to overcome the furious lobbying of an array of powerful interest groups and a partisan minority determined to block change. So the Members who are here today, both on the stage and in the audience, they have done a great service in devoting so much time and expertise to this effort, to looking out for the public interests and not the special interests. And I also want to thank the three Republican Senators who put partisanship aside, judged this bill on the merits, and voted for reform. We're grateful to them and the Republican House Members. Good to see you, Joe.<p>Now, let's put this in perspective. The fact is, the financial industry is central to our Nation's ability to grow, to prosper, to compete, and to innovate. There are a lot of banks that understand and fulfill this vital role, and there are a whole lot of bankers out there who want to do right--and do right--by their customers. This reform will help foster innovation, not hamper it. It is designed to make sure that everybody follows the same set of rules so that firms compete on price and quality, not on tricks and not on traps. It demands accountability and responsibility from everyone. It provides certainty to everybody, from bankers to farmers to business owners to consumers. And unless your business model depends on cutting corners or bilking your customers, you've got nothing to fear from reform. <p>Now, for all those Americans who are wondering what Wall Street reform means for you, here's what you can expect. If you've ever applied for a credit card, a student loan, or a mortgage, you know the feeling of signing your name to pages of barely understandable fine print. What often happens as a result is that many Americans are caught by hidden fees and penalties or saddled with loans they can't afford. That's what happened to Robin Fox, hit with a massive rate increase on her credit card balance, even though she paid her bills on time. That's what happened to Andrew Giordano, who discovered hundreds of dollars in overdraft fees on his bank statement, fees he had no idea he might face. And both are here today. Well, with this law, unfair rate hikes, like the one that hit Robin, will end for good, and we'll ensure that people like Andrew aren't unwittingly caught by overdraft fees when they sign up for a checking account. <p>With this law, we'll crack down on abusive practices in the mortgage industry. We'll make sure that contracts are simpler, putting an end to many hidden penalties and fees in complex mortgages, so folks know what they're signing. With this law, students who take out college loans will be provided clear and concise information about their obligations. And with this law, ordinary investors, like seniors and folks saving for retirement, will be able to receive more information about the costs and risks of mutual funds and other investment products so that they can make better financial decisions as to what will work for them. <p>So all told, these reforms represent the strongest consumer financial protections in history--in history. And these protections will be enforced by a new consumer watchdog with just one job: looking out for people--not big banks, not lenders, not investment houses--looking out for people as they interact with the financial system.<p>And that's not just good for consumers; that's good for the economy. Because reform will put a stop to a lot of the bad loans that fueled a debt-based bubble. And it will mean all companies will have to seek customers by offering better products instead of more deceptive ones.<p>Now, beyond the consumer protections I've outlined, reform will also rein in the abuse and excess that nearly brought down our financial system. It will finally bring transparency to the kinds of complex and risky transactions that helped trigger the financial crisis. Shareholders will also have a greater say on the pay of CEOs and other executives, so they can reward success instead of failure.<p>And finally, because of this law, the American people will never again be asked to foot the bill for Wall Street's mistakes. There will be no more tax-funded bailouts, period. If a large financial institution should ever fail, this reform gives us the ability to wind it down without endangering the broader economy. And there will be new rules to make clear that no firm is somehow protected because it is too big to fail, so we don't have another AIG. <p>That's what this reform will mean. Now, it doesn't mean our work is over. For these new rules to be effective, regulators will have to be vigilant. We may need to make adjustments along the way as our financial system adapts to these new changes and changes around the globe. No law can force anybody to be responsible; it's still incumbent on those on Wall Street to heed the lessons of this crisis in terms of how they conduct their businesses. <p>The fact is, every American, from Main Street to Wall Street, has a stake in our financial system. Wall Street banks and firms invest the capital that makes it possible for startups to sell new products. They provide loans to businesses to expand and to hire. They back mortgages for families purchasing a new home. That's why we'll all stand to gain from these reforms. We all win when investors around the world have confidence in our markets. We all win when shareholders have more power and more information. We all win when consumers are protected against abuse. And we all win when folks are rewarded based on how well they perform, not how well they evade accountability. <p>In the end, our financial system only works, our market is only free when there are clear rules and basic safeguards that prevent abuse, that check excess, that ensure that it is more profitable to play by the rules than to game the system. And that's what these reforms are designed to achieve, no more, no less. Because that's how we will ensure that our economy works for consumers, that it works for investors, that it works for financial institutions, that it works for all of us. This is the central lesson not only of this crisis but of our history. <p>Ultimately, there's no dividing line between Main Street and Wall Street. We rise or fall together as one Nation. So these reforms will help lift our economy and lead all of us to a stronger, more prosperous future. <p>And that's why I'm so honored to sign these reforms into law, and I'm so grateful to everybody who worked so hard to make this day possible. Thank you very much, everybody.<p>[<i>At this point, the President signed the bill.</i>]<p>It's done. Thank you.\" "
"204" "\"Morning, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat. Welcome to the White House. I am pleased that you could all join us today as I sign this bill, the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act, which, translated into English, means cutting down on waste, fraud, and abuse and ensuring that our Government serves as a responsible steward for the tax dollars of the American people. <p>Now, this is a responsibility we've been working to fulfill from the very beginning of this administration. Back when I first started campaigning for office, I said I wanted to change the way Washington works so that it works for the American people. I meant making Government more open and more transparent and more responsive to the needs of the people. I meant getting rid of the waste and inefficiencies that squander the people's hard-earned money. And I meant finally revamping the systems that undermine our efficiency and threaten our security and fail to serve the interests of the American people. <p>Now, there are outstanding public servants doing essential work throughout our Government. But too often, their best efforts are thwarted by outdated technologies and outmoded ways of doing business. That needs to change. We have to challenge a status quo that accepts billions of dollars in waste as the cost of doing business and enables obsolete or underperforming programs to survive year after year simply because that's the way things have always been done.<p>This isn't just about lines on a spreadsheet or numbers in a budget, because when we fail to spend people's tax dollars wisely, that's money that we're not investing in better schools for our kids or tax relief for families or innovation to create new industries and new jobs. When Government doesn't work like it should, it has a real effect on people's lives, on small-business owners who need loans, on young people who want to go to college, on the men and women who've served this country and are trying to get the benefits that they've earned. And when we continue to spend as if deficits don't matter, that means our kids and our grandkids may wind up saddled with debts that they'll never be able to repay. <p>And the reality is that right now, in these difficult economic times, families across this country are cutting every frill and stretching every dollar as far as they can. And they should expect no less from their Government. <p>If folks can book a flight or buy a pair of shoes online with the click of a button, there's no reason they should have to fill out duplicative forms or endure endless redtape and delays when they deal with their Government. So that's why one of the first things we did when we arrived in Washington was to undertake an accountable Government initiative, an effort that spans every agency, department, and office in our Government. <p>We named our first ever Chief Performance Officer, Jeffrey Zients, and we're bringing to bear every tool at our disposal, a combination of 21st-century technology and old-fashioned common sense to ensure that our Government operates as efficiently as possible and provides the highest quality of service to its customers, the American people. <p>We began by combining--by going through the budget line by line and proposing $20 billion worth of cuts each year by targeting programs that are wasteful, duplicative, or, in some cases, just plain ridiculous, like the $35 million we're spending for a radio navigation system for ships. Since we now have this thing called GPS, we don't need it. Or the $3 million that was spent on consultants to create seals and logos for the Department of Homeland Security, their logos and seals are fine. [<i>Laughter</i>] Or the billions of dollars slated to be spent on a fancy, new Presidential helicopter fleet that I didn't want and didn't need because Marine One is also fine.<p>We've drafted a budget for next year that freezes all discretionary Government spending outside of national security for 3 years, a budget, by the way, that would reduce this spending--nondefense discretionary spending--to its lowest level as a share of the economy in 50 years. This isn't talked about a lot so I'm going to repeat it. Our budget would take nonsecurity defense--or nondefense spending to its lowest level since JFK--lowest level as a percentage of the economy since JFK.<p>We've gone after wasteful Government contracting with a vengeance, working to put an end to unnecessary no-bid contracts and dramatically reinforcing the way Government contracts are awarded. And we're now on track to reach our goal of saving $40 billion by the end of next--the next fiscal year. We're working to sell or lease out thousands of Federal buildings which we no longer need and aren't using, saving another $8 billion. We froze salaries for senior White House staff; hence, the glum faces. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And we've asked Congress for additional authority so that working together, we can move quickly to cut wasteful spending proposals before the money goes out the door. We've streamlined those college loan forms, eliminating nearly two dozen unnecessary questions. We're creating a single electronic medical record for our men and women in uniform that will follow them from the day they enlist until the day that they are laid to rest. We're revamping our Social Security and citizenship processes so that folks can book appointments and check the status of their applications online. We've created mobile apps that provide everything from disaster assistance to product safety information to the latest wait times for security lines at your local airport.<p>And we've begun an unprecedented effort to put an end to a problem known as improper payments, which is the purpose of the bill that I'm signing into law today. Now, these are payments sent by the Government to the wrong person or for the wrong reasons or in the wrong amount: payments to a defense contractor that's been disbarred for shoddy work, but somehow managed to get through the system, payments to companies that haven't paid their taxes or to folks who are incarcerated or who are dead. <p>Sometimes these payments are the result of innocent mistakes or reflect valid claims that were paid at the wrong time. But sometimes they result from abuses by scam artists and crooked companies. And all told, they added up to $110 billion. I want everybody to understand, just get some perspective on that: That is more than the budgets of the Departments of Education and the Small Business Administration combined. And that's unacceptable.<p>So that's why earlier this year, I directed our Federal agencies to launch rigorous audits conducted by auditors who are paid based on how many abuses or errors they uncover; the more they find, the more money they make. So they are highly incentivized. We're also creating a \\"do not pay\\" list, a consolidated database of every individual and company that's ineligible for Federal payments. Before checks are mailed, agencies will be required to check this list to make sure that the payment is to the right person, in the right amount, for the right reason. <p>Now, with these new tools, the challenge I'm making to my team today is to reduce improper payments by $50 billion between now and 2012. And this goal is fully achievable due in no small part to some of the great work of the Members of Congress standing with me today, particularly Senator Tom Carper and Representative Patrick Murphy, who sponsored the bill I'm about to sign and worked with all the other Members of Congress who are here today to get it passed. <p>And I think, by the way, it's worth noting that this bill passed unanimously in both the House and the Senate, a powerful reminder of what we can accomplish when we put partisanship aside and do what's best for the people we serve.<p>So this bill will dramatically expand and intensify our efforts to end improper payments. And going forward, every agency in our Government will be required to conduct annual assessments to determine which of their programs are at risk of making improper payments. Agencies will be required to audit more of their programs and recapture more taxpayer dollars. And we now have rigorous enforcement mechanisms to hold agencies accountable for how much money they save. <p>So in large part thanks to the great work of the people in this room, I think we're headed in the right direction. And today I'm pleased to announce that I will be charging Jack Lew, my choice for Director of Office of Management and Budget--once Peter Orszag, the current OMB Director, departs--with building on the good work that Peter began. I'm entrusting Jack with carrying forward our accountable Government initiative in the months ahead. I will be asking him and Jeff to give me regular updates on our progress in cutting waste and making our Government more efficient and effective. <p>And as the only OMB Director in history to preside over a budget surplus for 3 consecutive years, Jack Lew knows a thing or two about making Government work. I'm confident he's up to the challenge of building the kind of Government that the American people expect and deserve, one that spends their money wisely, serves their interests well, and is fully worthy of their trust and respect. <p>So I want to again thank these outstanding Members of Congress who are here today who have been on the case in both Chambers for quite some time. I want to thank all the people who worked on this bill, in this room for your outstanding efforts. <p>Thank you. God bless you. God bless America. And let me sign this bill.\" "
"205" "\"Hello, everybody. Trying a little change of venue here, mix it up. <p>I want to talk about the progress that we made this week on three fronts, as we work to repair the damage to our economy from this recession and build a stronger foundation for the future.<p>First, I signed a Wall Street reform bill that will protect consumers and our entire economy from the recklessness and irresponsibility that led to the worst recession since the Great Depression. It's a reform that will help us put a stop to the abusive practices of mortgage lenders and credit card companies and ensure that people get the straight, unvarnished information that they need before they take out a loan or open a credit card. It will bring the shadowy deals that caused the financial crisis into the light of day. And it will end taxpayer bailouts of Wall Street firms and give shareholders a say on executive compensation.<p>The need for this reform, by the way, was underscored by the report issued by Ken Feinberg this morning, identifying a number of financial companies that continued to pay out lavish bonuses at the height of the financial crisis, even as they accepted billions of dollars in taxpayer assistance.<p>Second, I signed a law that will improve our ability to crack down on improper payments made by our Government. Every year, the Government wastes tens of billions of dollars--taxpayer dollars--on erroneous payments to companies that haven't paid their taxes or to prison inmates or even to people who died a long time ago. Today, we have the technology to block these payments, and the law I signed will give us new tools to do so. I've set a target to save at least $50 billion in--by 2012, savings that are more important today than ever because we simply don't have any money to waste.<p>Third, we finally overcame the procedural blockade of a partisan minority in the Senate to restore unemployment insurance for about 2.5 million Americans who are out of work and looking for a job.<p>So taken together, we made enormous progress this week on Wall Street reform, on making sure that we're eliminating waste and abuse in Government, and in providing immediate assistance to people who are out there looking for work. <p>But ultimately, our goal is to make sure the people who are looking for a job can find a job. And that's why it's so important for the Senate to pass the additional steps that I've asked for to cut taxes and expand lending for America's small businesses, our most important engine for hiring and for growth. And a small-business jobs bill that contains these measures may come up for a final vote in the Senate in the next few days.<p>With this small-business bill, we'll set up a new lending fund to help community banks offer small-business men and women the loans they need to grow and to hire. We'll help States encourage more private sector loans to small businesses in industries like manufacturing or construction that have been especially hard hit by this recession. We'll expand our most successful small-business initiatives and more than double the size of loans our small-business owners can take out.<p>And to unlock the growth of our entrepreneurs, we'll finally do what I've been advocating since I ran for President, which is to eliminate capital gains taxes entirely for key investments in small businesses.<p>Now, last night, after a series of partisan delays, the Senate took an important step forward by supporting a lending fund in the overall small-business jobs bill. I want to thank Senators Mary Landrieu and George LeMieux for their leadership and advocacy on behalf of the millions of small-businesspeople for whom this will make a meaningful difference. I was heartened that Senators LeMieux and Senator George Voinovich crossed party lines to help pass this lending provision last night, and I hope we can now finish the job and pass the small-business jobs plan without delay and without additional partisan wrangling.<p>You know, the small-business men and women who write to me every day and the folks who I've met with across this country, they can't afford any more political games. They need us to do what they sent us here to do. They didn't send us here to wage a never-ending campaign. They didn't send us here to do what's best for our political party. They sent us here to do what's best for the United States of America and all its citizens, whether Democrats or Republicans or Independents. In other words, they sent us here to govern. And that's what I hope we will do in the remaining days before the Congress takes its August recess. <p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"206" "\"This week, I signed into law a Wall Street reform bill that will protect consumers and our entire economy from the recklessness and irresponsibility that led to the worst recession of our lifetime. It's reform that will help put a stop to the abusive practices of mortgage lenders and credit card companies. It will end taxpayer bailouts of Wall Street firms, and it will finally bring the shadowy deals that caused the financial crisis into the light of day.<p>Wall Street reform is a key pillar of an overall economic plan we've put in place to dig ourselves out of this recession and build an economy for the long run, an economy that makes America more competitive and our middle class more secure. It's a plan based on the Main Street values of hard work and responsibility, and one that demands new accountability from Wall Street to Washington.<p>Instead of giving tax breaks to corporations that ship jobs overseas, we want to give tax breaks to small-business owners who are creating jobs right here in America. Already, we've given small businesses eight new tax cuts and have expanded lending to more than 60,000 small-business owners.<p>We're also investing in a homegrown clean energy industry, because I don't want to see new solar panels and wind turbines and electric cars manufactured in some other country. I want to see them made in America, by American workers. So far, we've provided new tax credits, loan guarantees, and investments that will lead to more than 800,000 clean energy jobs by 2012. And throughout America, communities are being rebuilt by people working in hundreds of thousands of new private sector jobs repairing our roads, bridges, and railways.<p>Our economic plan is also aimed at strengthening the middle class. That's why we've cut taxes for 95 percent of working families. That's why we've offered tax credits that have made college more affordable for millions of students and why we're making a new commitment to our community colleges. And that's why we passed health insurance reform that will stop insurance companies from dropping or denying coverage based on an illness or preexisting condition.<p>This is our economic plan: smart investments in America's small businesses, America's clean energy industry, and America's middle class. Now, I can't tell you that this plan will bring back all the jobs we've lost and restore our economy to full strength overnight. The truth is, it took nearly a decade of failed economic policies to create this mess, and it will take years to fully repair the damage. But I am confident that we are finally headed in the right direction. We are moving forward. And what we can't afford right now is to go back to the same ideas that created this mess in the first place.<p>Unfortunately, those are the ideas we keep hearing from our friends in the other party. This week, the Republican leader in the House of Representatives offered his plan to create jobs. It's a plan that's surprisingly short and sadly familiar.<p>First, he would repeal health insurance reform, which would take away tax credits from millions of small-business owners and take us back to the days when insurance companies had free rein to drop coverage and jack up premiums. Second, he would say no to new investments in clean energy, after his party already voted against the clean energy tax credits and loans that are creating thousands of new jobs and hundreds of new businesses. And third, even though his party voted against tax cuts for middle class families, he would permanently keep in place the tax cuts for the very wealthiest Americans, the same tax cuts that have added hundreds of billions to our debt.<p>These aren't new ideas. They're the same policies that led us into this recession. They will not create jobs, they will kill them. They will not reduce our deficit, they will add $1 trillion to our deficit. They will take us backward at a time when we need to keep America moving forward.<p>I know times are tough. I know that the progress we've made isn't good enough for the millions of Americans who are still out of work or struggling to pay the bills. But I also know the character of this Nation. I know that in times of great challenge and difficulty, we don't fear the future, we shape the future. We harness the skills and ingenuity of the most dynamic country on Earth to reach a better day. We do it with optimism, and we do it with confidence. That's the spirit we need right now, and that's the future I know we can build together. Thanks.\" "
"207" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. Tomorrow there's going to be a very important vote in the Senate about how much influence special interests should have over our democracy. Because of the Supreme Court's decision earlier this year in the Citizens United case, big corporations, even foreign-controlled ones, are now allowed to spend unlimited amounts of money on American elections. They can buy millions of dollars' worth of TV ads, and worst of all, they don't even have to reveal who's actually paying for the ads. Instead, a group can hide behind a name like \\"Citizens for a Better Future,\\" even if a more accurate name would be \\"Companies for Weaker Oversight.\\" And these shadow groups are already forming and building war chests of tens of millions of dollars to influence the fall elections. <p>Now, imagine the power this will give special interests over politicians. Corporate lobbyists will be able to tell Members of Congress if they don't vote the right way, they will face an onslaught of negative ads in their next campaign. And all too often, no one will actually know who's behind those ads. <p>So the House has already passed a bipartisan bill that would change all this before the next election. The \\"DISCLOSE Act\\" would simply require corporate political advertisers to reveal who's funding their activities. So when special interests take to the airwaves, whoever is running and funding the ad would have to appear in the advertisement and claim responsibility for it, like a company's CEO or the organization's biggest contributor. And foreign-controlled corporations and entities would be restricted from spending money to influence American elections, just as they were in the past. <p>Now, you'd think that making these reforms would be a matter of common sense, particularly since they primarily involve just making sure that folks who are financing these ads are disclosed so that the American people can make up their own minds. Nobody is saying you can't run the ads; just make sure that people know who in fact is behind financing these ads. And you'd think that reducing corporate and even foreign influence over our elections would not be a partisan issue, but of course, this is Washington in 2010. And the Republican leadership in the Senate is once again using every tactic and every maneuver they can to prevent the \\"DISCLOSE Act\\" from even coming up for an up-or-down vote, just like they did with unemployment insurance for Americans who'd lost their jobs in this recession, just like they're doing by blocking tax credits and lending assistance for small-business owners. On issue after issue, we are trying to move America forward, and they keep on trying to take us back. <p>Now, at a time of such challenge for America, we can't afford these political games. Millions of Americans are struggling to get by, and their voices shouldn't be drowned out by millions of dollars in secret, special interest advertising. The American people's voices should be heard. <p>A vote to oppose these reforms is nothing less than a vote to allow corporate and special interest takeovers of our elections. It is damaging to our democracy. It is precisely what led a Republican President named Theodore Roosevelt to tackle this issue a century ago. <p>Back then, President Roosevelt warned of the dangers of limitless corporate spending in our political system. He actually called it \\"one of the principal sources of corruption in our political affairs.\\" And he proposed strict limits on corporate influence in elections, not because he was opposed to them expressing their views in the halls of democracy, but he didn't want everybody else being drowned out. <p>He said, \\"Every special interest is entitled to justice, but no one is entitled--not one is entitled to a vote in Congress or a voice on the bench or to representation in any public office,\\" because he understood those weren't individual voters; these are amalgams of special interests. They have the right to hire their lobbyists. They have the right to put forward their view. They even have the right to advertise. But the least we should be able to do is know who they are. <p>So on Tuesday, we face the sort of challenge that Teddy Roosevelt talked about over a century ago. We've got a similar opportunity to prevent special interests from gaining even more clout in Washington. This should not be a Democratic issue or a Republican issue. This is an issue that goes to whether or not we're going to have a Government that works for ordinary Americans, a Government of, by, and for the people.<p>That's why these reforms are so important, and that's why I urge the Senate to pass the \\"DISCLOSE Act.\\" <p>Thank you.\" "
"208" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. Good evening, everybody. Thank you so much. Well, we have a gorgeous day to celebrate an extraordinary event in the life of this Nation. Welcome, all of you, to our White House. And thank you, Robert, for the wonderful introduction. It is a pleasure and honor to be with all of you on the 20th anniversary of one of the most comprehensive civil rights bills in the history of this country, the Americans with Disabilities Act. <p>I see so many champions of this law here today. I wish I had time to acknowledge each and every one of you. I want to thank all of you. But I also want to thank our Cabinet Secretaries and the members of my administration here today who are working to advance the goals of the ADA so that it is not just the letter of the law, but the spirit of the law that's being applied all across this country.<p>I want to thank the Members of Congress in attendance who fought to make ADA possible and to keep improving it throughout the years. I want to acknowledge Dick Thornburgh, who worked hard to make this happen as Attorney General under President George H.W. Bush.<p>And by the way, I had a chance to speak to President Bush before I came out here, and he sends heartfelt regards to all of you. And it's--he's extraordinarily proud of the law that was passed. He was very humble about his own role, but I think it's worth acknowledging the great work that he did. <p>We also remember those we've lost who helped make this law possible, like our old friend Ted Kennedy--and I see Patrick here--and Justin Dart, Jr., a man folks call the father of the ADA, whose wife Yoshiko is here. Yoshiko, so nice to see you.<p>I also notice that Elizabeth Dole is here, and I had a chance to speak to Bob Dole as well and thank him for the extraordinary role that he played in advancing this legislation. <p>Let me also say that Congressman Jim Langevin wanted to be here today, but he's currently presiding over the House Chamber, the first time in our history somebody using a wheelchair has done so. <p>Now, today, as we commemorate what the ADA accomplished, we celebrate who the ADA was all about. It was about the young girl in Washington State who just wanted to see a movie at her hometown theater, but was turned away because she had cerebral palsy; or the young man in Indiana who showed up at a worksite able to do the work, excited for the opportunity, but was turned away and called a cripple because of a minor disability he had already trained himself to work with; or the student in California who was eager and able to attend the college of his dreams and refused to let the iron grip of polio keep him from the classroom--each of whom became integral to this cause. <p>And it was about all of you. You understand these stories because you or someone you loved lived them. And that sparked a movement. It began when Americans no longer saw their own disabilities as a barrier to their success and set out to tear down the physical and social barriers that were. It grew when you realized you weren't alone. It became a massive wave of bottom-up change that swept across the country as you refused to accept the world as it was. And when you were told, \\"No, don't try, you can't,\\" you responded with that age-old American creed: \\"Yes, we can.\\"<p><i>Audience member.</i> [<i>Inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Yes, we can! <p>Sit-ins in San Francisco, demonstrations in Denver, protests in Washington, DC, at Gallaudet, and before Congress, people marched and organized and testified, and laws changed and minds changed and progress was won. <p>Now, that's not to say it was easy. You didn't always have folks in Washington to fight on your behalf. And when you did, they weren't as powerful, as well connected, as well funded as the lobbyists who lined up to kill any attempt at change. And at first, you might have thought, what does anyone in Washington know or care about my battle? But what you knew from your own experience is that disability touches us all. If one in six Americans has a disability, then odds are the rest of us love somebody with a disability. <p>I was telling a story to a group that was in the Oval Office before I came out here about Michelle's father, who had MS. And by the time I met him, he had to use two canes just to walk. He was stricken with MS when he was 30 years old, but he never missed a day of work; had to wake up an hour early to get dressed----<p><i>Audience member.</i> So what.<p><i>The President.</i> ----to get to the job, but that was his attitude: So what. He could do it. Didn't miss a dance recital, did not miss a ball game of his son. Everybody's got a story like that somewhere in their family.<p>And that's how you rallied an unlikely assortment of leaders in Congress and in the White House to the cause, Congressmen like Steny Hoyer, who knew his wife Judy's battle with epilepsy; and Tony Coelho, who waged his own; and Jim Sensenbrenner, whose wife Cheryl is a tremendous leader and advocate for the community, and they're both here today. <p>Senators like Tom Harkin, who's here today and who signed part of a speech on the ADA so his deaf brother, Frank, would understand; and Ted Kennedy, whose sister had a severe intellectual disability and whose son lost a leg to cancer; and Bob Dole, who was wounded serving heroically in World War II; senior officials in the White House; and even the President himself.<p>They understood this injustice from the depths of their own experience. They also understood that by allowing this injustice to stand, we were depriving of our Nation--we were depriving our Nation and our economy of the full talents and contributions of tens of millions of Americans with disabilities.<p>That is how the ADA came to be, when, to his enduring credit, President George H.W. Bush signed it into law, on this lawn, on this day, 20 years ago. That's how you changed America.<p> Equal access to the classroom, the workplace, and the transportation required to get there; equal opportunity to live full and independent lives the way we choose; not dependence, but independence, that's what the ADA was all about. <p>But while it was a historic milestone in the journey to equality, it wasn't the end. There was and is more to do. And that's why today I'm announcing one of the most important updates to the ADA since its original enactment in 1991. <p>Today the Department of Justice is publishing two new rules protecting disability-based discrimination--or prohibiting disability-based discrimination by more than 80,000 State and local government entities and 7 million private businesses. And beginning 18 months from now, all new buildings must be constructed in a way that's compliant with the new 2010 standards for the design of doors and windows and elevators and bathrooms, buildings like stores and restaurants and schools and stadiums and hospitals and hotels and theaters. <p>My predecessor's administration proposed these rules 6 years ago. And in those 6 years, they've been improved upon with more than 4,000 comments from the public. We've heard from all sides. And that's allowed us to do this in a way that makes sense economically and allows appropriate flexibility, while ensuring Americans with disabilities full participation in our society.<p>And for the very first time, these rules will cover recreational facilities like amusement parks and marinas and gyms and golf facilities and swimming pools and municipal facilities like courtrooms and prisons. From now on, businesses must follow practices that allow individuals with disabilities an equal chance to purchase tickets for accessible seating at sporting events and concerts. <p>And our work goes on. Even as we speak, Attorney General Eric Holder is preparing new rules to ensure accessibility of web sites.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Yes, we can!<p><i>The President.</i> Yes, we can. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>We're also placing a new focus on hiring Americans with disabilities across the Federal Government. Today, only 5 percent of the Federal workforce is made up of Americans with disabilities, far below the proportion of Americans with disabilities in the general population. In a few moments, I'll sign an Executive order that will establish the Federal Government as a model employer of individuals with disabilities. So we're going to boost recruitment, we're going to boost training, we're going to boost retention. We'll better train hiring managers. Each agency will have a senior official who's accountable for achieving the goals we've set. And I expect regular reports. And we're going to post our progress online so that you can hold us accountable too. And these new steps build on the progress my administration has already made. <p>To see it that no one who signs up to fight for our country is ever excluded from its promise, we've made major investments in improving the care and treatment for our wounded warriors. To ensure full access to participation in our democracy and our economy, we're working to make all Government web sites accessible to persons with disabilities. <p>We're expanding broadband Internet access to Americans who are deaf and hard of hearing. We've followed through with a promise I made to create three new disability offices at the State Department and Department of Transportation and at FEMA. <p>And to promote equal rights across the globe, the United States of America joined 140 other nations in signing the U.N. Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the first new human rights convention of the 21st century. America was the first nation on Earth to comprehensively declare equality for its citizens with disabilities; we should join the rest of the world to declare it again. And when I submit our ratification package to Congress, I expect passage to be swift. <p>And to advance the right to live independently, I launched the Year of Community Living on the 10th anniversary of the Olmstead decision, a decision that declared the involuntary institutional isolation of people with disabilities unlawful discrimination under the ADA.<p>So HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius and HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan have worked together to improve access to affordable housing and community supports and independent living arrangements for people with disabilities. And we continued a program that successfully helps people with disabilities transition to the community of their choice. And I'm proud of the work that the Department of Justice is doing to enforce Olmstead across the country.<p>And we've finally broken down one of the discriminatory barriers that the ADA left in place, because for too long, our health care system denied coverage to tens of millions of Americans with preexisting conditions, including Americans with disabilities. It was time to change that, and we did. Yes, we did. <p>So the Affordable Care Act I signed into law 4 months ago will give every American more control over their health care, and it will do more to give Americans with disabilities control over their own lives than any legislation since the ADA. I know many of you know the frustration of fighting with an insurance company. That's why this law finally shifts the balance of power from them to you and to other consumers.<p>No more denying coverage to children based on a preexisting condition or disability. No more lifetime limits on coverage. No more dropping your coverage when you get sick and need it the most because your insurance company found an unintentional error in your paperwork. And because Americans with disabilities are living longer and more independently, this law will establish better long-term care choices for Americans with disabilities as a consequence of the CLASS Act, an idea Ted Kennedy championed for years. <p>Equal access, equal opportunity, the freedom to make our lives what we will--these aren't principles that belong to any one group or any one political party. They are common principles. They are American principles. No matter who we are--young, old, rich, poor, Black, White, Latino, Asian, Native American, gay, straight, disabled, or not--these are the principles we cherish as citizens of the United States of America. <p>They were guaranteed to us in our founding documents. And one of the signers of those documents was a man named Stephen Hopkins. He was a patriot, a scholar, a nine-time Governor of Rhode Island. It's also said he had a form of palsy. And on July 4, 1776, as he grasped his pen to sign his name to the Declaration of Independence, he said, \\"My hand trembles, but my heart does not.\\" My hand trembles, but my heart does not. <p>Life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness: words that began our never-ending journey to form a more perfect Union, to look out for one another, to advance opportunity and prosperity for all of our people, to constantly expand the meaning of life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness, to move America forward. That's what we did with the ADA, that is what we do today, and that's what we're going to do tomorrow, together.<p>So thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Let me sign this order.\" "
"209" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. I just concluded a productive discussion with the leaders of both parties in Congress. This was one of a series of regular meetings that I called for in the State of the Union because I think it's important for us to come together and speak frankly about the challenges we face and to work through areas where we don't agree; hopefully, find some areas where we do.<p>Our conversation today focused on an issue that's being discussed every day at kitchen tables across this country, and that's how do we create jobs that people need to support their families. <p>I believe that starts with doing everything we can to support small businesses. These are the stores, the restaurants, the startups, and other companies that create two out of every three new jobs in this country and that grow into the big businesses that transform industries here in America and around the world.<p>But we know that many of these businesses still can't get the loans and the capital they need to keep their doors open and hire new workers. That's why we've proposed steps to get them that help: eliminating capital gains taxes on investments, making it easier for small lenders to support small businesses, expanding successful SBA programs to help these businesses access the capital that they need. <p>This is how we create jobs, by investing in the innovators and entrepreneurs that have always driven our prosperity. These are the kind of commonsense steps that folks from both parties have supported in the past, steps to cut taxes and spur private sector growth and investment. And I hope that in the coming days, we'll once again find common ground and get this legislation passed. We shouldn't let America's small businesses be held hostage to partisan politics and certainly not at this critical time.<p>We also talked about the need to move forward on energy reform. The Senate is now poised to act before the August recess, advancing legislation to respond to the BP oil spill and create new clean energy jobs. <p>That legislation is an important step in the right direction, but I want to emphasize it's only the first step. And I intend to keep pushing for broader reform, including climate legislation, because if we've learned anything from the tragedy in the Gulf, it's that our current energy policy is unsustainable. <p>And we can't afford to stand by as our dependence on foreign oil deepens, as we keep on pumping out the deadly pollutants that threaten our air and our water and the lives and livelihoods of our people. And we can't stand by as we let China race ahead to create the clean energy jobs and industries of the future. We should be developing those renewable energy resources and creating those high-wage, high-skill jobs right here in the United States of America. That's what comprehensive energy and climate reform would do. And that's why I intend to keep pushing this issue forward.<p>I also urged the House leaders to pass the necessary funding to support our efforts in Afghanistan and Pakistan. I know much has been written about this in recent days as a result of the substantial leak of documents from Afghanistan covering a period from 2004 to 2009. <p>While I'm concerned about the disclosure of sensitive information from the battlefield that could potentially jeopardize individuals or operations, the fact is, these documents don't reveal any issues that haven't already informed our public debate on Afghanistan. Indeed, they point to the same challenges that led me to conduct an extensive review of our policy last fall.<p>So let me underscore what I've said many times: For 7 years, we failed to implement a strategy adequate to the challenge in this region, the region from which the 9/11 attacks were waged and other attacks against the United States and our friends and allies have been planned. <p>That's why we've substantially increased our commitment there, insisted upon greater accountability from our partners in Afghanistan and Pakistan, developed a new strategy that can work, and put in place a team, including one of our finest generals, to execute that plan. Now we have to see that strategy through. <p>And as I told the leaders, I hope the House will act today to join the Senate, which voted unanimously in favor of this funding, to ensure that our troops have the resources they need and that we're able to do what's necessary for our national security.<p>Finally, during our meeting today, I urged Senator McConnell and others in the Senate to work with us to fill the vacancies that continue to plague our judiciary. Right now we've got nominees who've been waiting up to 8 months to be confirmed as judges. Most of these folks were voted out of committee unanimously or nearly unanimously by both Democrats and Republicans. Both Democrats and Republicans agreed that they were qualified to serve. Nevertheless, some in the minority have used parliamentary procedures time and again to deny them a vote in the full Senate. <p>Now, if we want our judicial system to work, if we want to deliver justice in our courts, then we need judges on our benches. And I hope that in the coming months, we'll be able to work together to ensure a timelier process in the Senate. <p>Now, we don't have many days left before Congress is out for the year. And everyone understands that we're less than 100 days from an election. It's during this time that the noise and the chatter about who's up in the polls and which party is ahead threatens to drown out just about everything else. <p>But the folks we serve--who sent us here to serve--they sent us here for a reason. They sent us here to listen to their voices. They sent us here to represent their interests, not our own. They sent us here to lead. And I hope that in the coming months, we'll do everything in our power to live up to that responsibility. <p>Thanks very much.\" "
"210" "\"Well, I just had a terrific meeting with these small-business owners here at Tastee Sub Shop. And I want to thank Dave and Carl for hosting us here today. And I highly recommend everybody buy a sandwich while you're here. Although, as I said before, I can't eat a 12-inch these days, now that I'm 49--well, I will be in a week.<p>We talked about some of the difficulties that people have had making payroll and turning a profit during this recession. And we talked about what we can do to make it easier for small businesses to grow. <p>All of these folks here know why that's important. Small businesses create two out of every three jobs in this country, so our recovery depends on them. And if we want to keep America moving forward, we need to keep investing in our small businesses. <p>This is, by the way, more than--is more important than just our economy. It's also about who we are as a people, because America has always been a place where if you've had a good idea and you're willing to really work hard for it, you can see it through and you can succeed. That's what gives the worker the courage to leave her job to become her own boss. It's what propels people to risk their savings on an idea that they believe might just change the world. I was hearing from Tom, here, about how he was having trouble finding work 30, 40 years ago and decided that he would take over a business that only had two employees. And now he's an employer for a whole bunch of folks, and he's going to be passing on his business to his family. And that's the American story.<p>This town, Edison, is named after somebody who was not only one of history's greatest inventors, but also a pretty savvy small-business owner. And the small-businesspeople who are here with me today exemplify that same entrepreneurial spirit. And all these companies have seen their share of challenges. All of these small-business owners have had to improvise and adapt over the years, especially in tough times, and that includes over the last couple years.<p>So Tom and Catherine Horsburgh were telling me that they got through the downturn. In order to do so, they had to market their products to types of businesses that they hadn't sold to before. Brian Bovio's company had to let some people go when the recession hit. But in the 2 years since, he's transformed his business, and now he's making people's homes more energy efficient to save money on their utility bills, and he's been able to start hiring again. He is very interested in making sure that the Home Star proposal that we've put into Congress actually passes, because not only will that help to expand his business, but it's also going to help Americans save energy, not only in this part of the country but all across the country.<p>Now, all of this hasn't been easy. The recession hasn't--has meant that folks are spending less. It means that small businesses have had a tougher time getting credit and getting loans. And that's why when I took office, we put in place an economic plan specifically to help small businesses. And we were guided by a simple idea: Government can't guarantee success, but it can knock down barriers that keep entrepreneurs from opening or expanding. For example, the lack of affordable credit, that's something the Government can do something about. Government can't replace the millions of jobs that we lost in the recession, but it can create the conditions for small businesses to hire more people through steps like tax breaks. <p>That's why we've cut taxes for America's small businesses eight times--eight times have we cut taxes for small businesses all across the country. Because of a bill I signed into law a few months ago, businesses are now eligible for tax cuts when they hire unemployed workers, something that could benefit every business represented behind me. Companies are also able to write off more of their investments in new equipment, which Tom and Catherine have taken advantage of. As part of the health reform package, 4 million small-business owners recently received a postcard in their mailbox telling them that this year, they could be eligible for a health care tax credit that's worth perhaps tens of thousands of dollars. <p>And I was just talking to Dave, who does the right thing by his employees and is providing health insurance; they actually are not paying a significant share for that health insurance. Dave and Carl are doing the right thing by those workers. He's now going to be eligible to potentially get up to 35 percent tax relief on those--premium that he's paying, and that could make obviously an enormous difference in terms of his bottom line and may mean that he can hire some additional workers.<p>Our economic plan's also supported nearly 70,000 new loans to small businesses. One of these loans made it possible for Tom and Catherine to purchase new equipment. We've waived fees on new SBA loans to save folks money on payments. And that reduced Theo's costs when he opened his new restaurant. His family had a business, a family restaurant. He opened his own, and it saved him more than $20,000 in waived fees and--money that's now gone into that new restaurant and its 60 new employees. <p>So all told, these and other steps are making a difference. But when you listen to the struggles that small-business owners are still facing, it's clear that we need to do more. And that's why I'm urging the Senate to approve a jobs bill that will do two big things for small businesses: cut taxes and make more loans available. That's what Dave and Carl and Theo and Brian and Tom and Catherine tell me they can use. And that's what I've heard from small businesses all across America. <p>If this bill becomes law, small businesses and startups will see the positive benefits right away. It eliminates capital gains taxes for key investments in small firms. It will increase the deductions that small businesses can take for new equipment and other expenses. I know Tom and Catherine are looking at expanding to a larger facility; this can help them do that. <p>This bill will also make more credit available. Everywhere I go, I hear from small-business owners who simply cannot get the credit they need to hire and expand. And we've been hearing from smaller community banks that they want to lend to these folks but need more capital to do it. So the initiatives in this bill will help them meet those challenges. And it will increase--allow them to increase loan sizes and make sure that we continue to waive fees for SBA loans that have helped a number of the people standing behind me.<p>Now, let me just make one last point. I know it's no secret that we've confronted a lot of partisan politics over the past year and a half. We've seen a fair amount of obstruction that's had more to do with gaining political advantage than helping the country. But surely, Democrats and Republicans ought to be able to agree on this bill. Now, when I had a conversation with Mitch McConnell and John Boehner yesterday, I told them that the provisions of this bill are things that the Republican Party has said it supported for years: helping small businesses, cutting taxes, making credit available. This is as American as apple pie. Small businesses are the backbone of our economy. They are central to our identity as a nation. They are going to lead this recovery. The folks standing beside me are going to lead this recovery.<p>So as I said yesterday at--in a meeting with congressional leaders at the White House, I expect us to get this done before they go on vacation, for the folks standing behind me and for small businesses and their employees all across the country.<p>All right? Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you, guys.\" "
"211" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat. Have a seat. Take a load off. Thank you very much. Please, please, have a seat. Good morning, Urban Leaguers.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Good morning.<p><i>The President.</i> Well, it is wonderful to be here with all of you. It is wonderful to be here. And let me begin by congratulating Marc Morial for his outstanding leadership, his great friendship. I want to thank the entire National Urban League on your centennial. From your founding, amid the great migration, to the struggles of the civil rights movement, to the battles of today, the Urban League has been on the ground, in our communities, working quietly, day in, day out, without fanfare, opening up opportunity, rolling back inequality, making our Union just a little more perfect. So America is a better place because of the Urban League. And I'm grateful to all of you for the outstanding contributions that you've made.<p>Now, the last time I spoke with you was during your Orlando conference in August--[<i>applause</i>]--got Orlando in the house--[<i>laughter</i>]--Orlando conference back in August of 2008. I didn't have any gray hair back then. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Audience member.</i> That's all right.<p><i>The President.</i> Say, that's all right? [<i>Laughter</i>] Yes. <p>But I want to remind you what things were like in August of 2008. Our economy was in freefall. We had just seen 7 straight months of job loss. Foreclosures were sweeping the Nation. And we were on the verge of a financial crisis that threatened to plunge our economy into a second Great Depression.<p>So from the moment I took office, we had to act immediately to prevent an even greater catastrophe. And I knew that not everything we did would be popular. Sometimes when we do things, the scribes, the pundits here in Washington, they act surprised. They say, why would you do such a thing? It doesn't poll well. And I have to explain to them I've got my own pollsters. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I wasn't elected just to do what's popular, I was elected do what was right. That's what you supported me for.<p>And because of what we did, America, as a whole, is in a different place today. Our economy is growing instead of shrinking. Our private sector has been adding jobs for 6 straight months instead of losing them.<p>I was--[<i>applause</i>]--yesterday a report was put out by two prominent economists--one of them John McCain's old economist--that said if we hadn't taken the actions that we took, we would have had an additional 8 million people lose their jobs.<p>Now, that doesn't mean we're out of the woods yet. Every sector of our economy was shaking by the crisis, every demographic group felt its impact. And as has been true in the wake of other recent recessions, this one had an especially brutal impact on minority communities, communities that were already struggling long before the financial crisis hit.<p>The African American unemployment rate was already much higher, the incomes and wealths of African American families already lower. There was less of a cushion. Many minority communities, whether in big cities or rural towns, had seen businesses and opportunities vanish for years, stores boarded up, young people hanging out on the street corners without prospects for the future.<p>So when we came in to office, we focused not just on rescuing our economy in the short run, but rebuilding our economy for the long run, creating an economy that lifts up all Americans, not just some, but all.<p>That's why we passed health insurance reform that will give every American more choices, more control over their health care, will narrow the cruel disparities between Americans of different backgrounds. That's why we passed Wall Street reform, not only to make sure that taxpayers aren't paying for somebody else's foolishness, but also to protect consumers from predatory credit cards and lending practices, regulating everything from mortgages to payday loans, making sure that we're protecting our economy from the recklessness and irresponsibility of a few.<p>Across agencies, we're taking on the structural inequalities that have held so many of our fellow citizens back, whether it's making more housing available and more affordable, making sure civil rights and antidiscrimination laws are enforced, making sure our crime policy is not only tough, but also smart. So yesterday we took an important step forward when Congress passed a fair sentencing bill that I look forward to signing into law, a bipartisan bill to help right a longstanding wrong by narrowing sentencing disparities between those convicted of crack cocaine and powder cocaine. It's the right thing to do. We've gotten that done.<p>So we've made progress. And yet for all of our progress--progress that's come through the efforts of groups like the Urban League, progress that makes it possible for me to stand here as President--we were reminded this past week that we've still got work to do when it comes to promoting the values of fairness and equality and mutual understanding that must bind us together as a nation.<p>Now, last week, I had the chance to talk to Shirley Sherrod, an exemplary woman whose experiences mark both the challenges we have faced and the progress that we've made. She deserves better than what happened last week, when a bogus controversy based on selective and deceiving excerpts of a speech led her--led to her forced resignation.<p>Now, many are to blame for the reaction and overreaction that followed these comments, including my own administration. And what I said to Shirley was that the full story she was trying to tell--a story about overcoming our own biases and recognizing ourselves in folks who, on the surface, seem different--is exactly the kind of story we need to hear in America.<p>It's exactly what we need to hear because we've all got our biases. And rather than jump to conclusions and point fingers and play some of the games that are played on cable TV, we should all look inward and try to examine what's in our own hearts. We should all make more of an effort to discuss with one another, in a truthful and mature and responsible way, the divides that still exist--the discrimination that's still out there, the prejudices that still hold us back--a discussion that needs to take place not on cable TV, not just through a bunch of academic symposia or fancy commissions or panels, not through political posturing, but around kitchen tables and water coolers and church basements and in our schools and with our kids all across the country.<p>And if we can have that conversation in our own lives and if we can take an opportunity to learn from our imperfections and our mistakes, to grow as individuals and as a country, and if we engage in the hard work of translating words into deeds--because words are easy and deeds are hard--then I'm confident that we can move forward together and make this country a little more perfect than it was before.<p>Now, since we're on the topic of speaking honestly with one another, I want to devote the balance of my time, the balance of my remarks to an issue that I believe will largely determine not only African American success but the success of our Nation in the 21st century, and that is whether we are offering our children the very best education possible.<p>I know some argue that as we emerge from a recession, my administration should focus solely on economic issues. They said that during health care, as if health care had nothing to do with economics, said it during financial reform, as if financial reform had nothing to do with economics, and now they're saying it as we work on education issues. But education is an economic issue, if not the economic issue of our time.<p>It's an economic issue when the unemployment rate for folks who've never gone to college is almost double what it is for those who have gone to college. It's an economic issue when 8 in 10 new jobs will require workforce training or a higher education by the end of this decade. It's an economic issue when countries that outeducate us today are going to outcompete us tomorrow.<p>Now, for years, we've recognized that education is a prerequisite for prosperity. And yet we've tolerated a status quo where America lags behind other nations. Just last week, we learned that in a single generation, America went from number 1 to 12th in college completion rates for young adults--used to be number 1, now we're number 12.<p>At the same time, our eighth graders trail about 8--10 other nations, 10 other nations in science and math. Meanwhile, when it comes to Black students, African American students trail not only almost every other developed nation abroad, but they badly trail their White classmates here at home, an achievement gap that is widening the income gap between Black and White, between rich and poor.<p>We've talked about it, we know about it, but we haven't done enough about it. And this status quo is morally inexcusable, it is economically indefensible, and all of us are going to have to roll up our sleeves to change it.<p>And that's why--[<i>applause</i>]--that is why, from day one of this administration, we've made excellence in American education, excellence for all our students, a top priority. And no one has shown more leadership on this issue than my Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan, who is here today.<p>I chose Arne not only because he's a great ballplayer--[<i>laughter</i>]--now, Arne and I play a little bit on the weekends--I chose Arne because I knew that for him, closing the achievement gap, unlocking the potential of every child, isn't just a job, it's been the cause of his life.<p>Now, because a higher education has never been more important or more expensive, it's absolutely essential that we put a college degree within reach for anyone who wants it. And that's why we're making higher education more affordable, so we can meet the goals I've set of producing a higher share of college graduates than any other nation by 2020. I want us to be back at number 1 instead of number 12.<p>And in pursuit of that goal, we eliminated taxpayer subsidies to big banks. We saved tens of billions of dollars, and we used those savings to open the door to additional financial aid, to open the door for college to millions more students. This is something that a lot of you may not be aware of, but we have added tens of billions of dollars that were going to bank middlemen so that that money is now going to students, millions more students who are getting scholarships to go to college. That's already been done. We're making loan repayment more manageable, so young people don't graduate like Michelle and me, with such big loan payments every month.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Thank you!<p><i>The President.</i> You're welcome. That right there. [<i>Laughter</i>] Yes, you can relate. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And we're reinvesting in our Historically Black Colleges and Universities, our HBCUs. We are reinvesting in them, while at the same time reforming and strengthening our community college, which are great, undervalued assets, great assets that are a lifeline to so many working families in every community across America.<p>But here's the thing: Even if we do all this good stuff for higher education, too many of our children see college as nothing but a distant dream because their education went off the rails long before they turned 18. These are young people who've been relegated to failing schools in struggling communities, where there are too many obstacles, too few role models, communities that I represented as a State senator, communities that I fought to lift up as a community organizer.<p>I remember going to a school back in my organizing days and seeing children, young children, maybe 5 or 6, eyes were brimming with hope, had such big dreams for the future. You'd ask them, what do you want to be when you grow up? They'd want to be a doctor; they'd want to be a lawyer. And then I remember the principal telling me that soon, all that would change. The hope would start fading from their eyes as they started to realize that maybe their dreams wouldn't come to pass, not because they weren't smart enough, not because they weren't talented enough, but because through a turn of fate, they happened to be born in the wrong neighborhood. They became victim of low expectations, a community that was not supporting educational excellence.<p>And it was heartbreaking. It is heartbreaking. And it reinforced in me a fundamental belief that we've got an obligation to lift up every child in every school in this country, especially those who are starting out furthest behind.<p>That's why I want to challenge our States to offer better early learning options to make sure our children aren't wasting their most formative years so that they can enter into kindergarten already ready to learn, knowing their colors, knowing their numbers, knowing their shapes, knowing how to sit still. [<i>Laughter</i>] Right? That's no joke. You got to learn that, especially when you're a boy. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's why we placed such heavy emphasis on the education our children are getting from kindergarten through 12th grade.<p>Now, over the past 18 months, the single most important thing we've done--and we've done a lot. I mean, we--the Recovery Act put a lot of money into schools, saved a lot of teacher jobs, made sure that schools didn't have to cut back even more drastically in every community across this country. But I think the single most important thing we've done is to launch an initiative called Race to the Top. We said to States, if you are committed to outstanding teaching, to successful schools, to higher standards, to better assessments, if you're committed to excellence for all children, you will be eligible for a grant to help you attain that goal.<p>And so far, the results have been promising and they have been powerful. In an effort to compete for this extra money, 32 States reformed their education laws before we even spent a dime. The competition leveraged change at the State level. And because the standards we set were high, only a couple of States actually won the grant in the first round, which meant that the States that didn't get the money, they've now strengthened their applications, made additional reforms. Now 36 have applied in the second round, and 18 States plus the District of Columbia are in the running to get a second grant.<p>So understand what's happened. In each successive round, we've leveraged change across the country. And even students in those districts that haven't gotten a grant, they've still benefited from the reforms that were initiated. And this process has sown the seeds of achievement. It's forced teachers and principals and officials and parents to forge agreements on tough and often uncomfortable issues, to raise their sights and embrace education.<p>Now, for the most part, States, educators, reformers, they've responded with great enthusiasm around this promise of excellence. But I know there's also been some controversy about Race to the Top. Part of it, I believe, reflects a general resistance to change. We get comfortable with the status quo, even when the status quo isn't good. We make excuses for why things have to be the way they are. And when you try to shake things up, some people aren't happy.<p>There have been criticisms from some folks in the civil rights community about particular elements of Race to the Top. So I want to address some of those today. I told you we're going to have an honest conversation.<p>First, I know there's a concern that Race to the Top doesn't do enough for minority kids, because the argument is, well, if there's a competition, then somehow some States or some school districts will get more help than others. Let me tell you, what's not working for Black kids and Hispanic kids and Native American kids across this country is the status quo. That's what's not working. What's not working is what we've been doing for decades now.<p>So the charge that Race to the Top isn't targeted at those young people most in need is absolutely false because lifting up quality for all our children--Black, White, Hispanic--that is the central premise of Race to the Top. And you can't win one of these grants unless you've got a plan to deal with those schools that are failing and those young people who aren't doing well. Every State and every school district is directly incentivized to deal with schools that have been forgotten, been given up on.<p>I also want to directly speak to the issue of teachers. We may have some teachers here in the house. [<i>Applause</i>] I know Urban League has got some teachers. Nothing is more important than teachers. My sister is a teacher. I'm here because of great teachers. The whole premise of Race to the Top is that teachers are the single most important factor in a child's education from the moment they step into the classroom. And I know firsthand that the vast majority of teachers are working tirelessly, are passionate about their students, are often digging into their own pockets for basic supplies, are going above and beyond the call of duty.<p>So I want teachers to have higher salaries. I want them to have more support. I want them to be trained like the professionals they are, with rigorous residencies like the ones that doctors go through. I want to give them a career ladder so they've got opportunities to advance and earn real financial security. I don't want talented young people to say, I'd love to teach, but I can't afford it.<p>I want them to have a fulfilling and supportive workplace environment. I want them to have the resources, from basic supplies to reasonable class sizes, that help them succeed. And instead of a culture where we're always idolizing sports stars or celebrities, I want us to build a culture where we idolize the people who are shaping our children's future. I want some teachers on the covers of some of those magazines, some teachers on MTV, featured.<p>I was on the \\"The View\\" yesterday, and somebody asked me who Snooki was. I said, I don't know who Snooki is. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I know some really good teachers that you guys should be talking about. [<i>Laughter</i>] I didn't say the teacher part, but I just--[<i>laughter</i>]. The question is, who are we lifting up? Who are we promoting? Who are we saying is important?<p>So I am 110 percent behind our teachers. But all I'm asking in return--as a President, as a parent, and as a citizen--is some measure of accountability. So even as we applaud teachers for their hard work, we've got to make sure that we're seeing results in the classroom. If we're not seeing results in the classroom, then let's work with teachers to help them become more effective. If that doesn't work, let's find the right teacher for that classroom.<p> Arne makes the point very simply: Our children get only one chance at an education, so we need to get it right.<p>Now, I want to commend some of the teachers unions across this country who are working with us to improve teaching, like the Delaware Education Association, which is working with State leaders as part of their Race to the Top efforts, not only to set aside 90 minutes of collaboration time a week to improve instruction, but to strengthen teacher development and evaluation. That's the right way to go.<p>So for anyone who wants to use Race to the Top to blame or punish teachers, you're missing the point. Our goal isn't to fire or admonish teachers; our goal is accountability. It's to provide teachers with the support they need to be as effective as they can be and to create a better environment for teachers and students alike.<p>Now, there's also the question of how hard our teachers should push students in the classroom. Nations in Asia and Europe have answered this question, in part by creating standards to make sure their teachers and students are performing at the same high levels throughout their nation. That's one of the reasons that their children are doing better than ours. But here at home, there's often a controversy about national standards, common standards; that violates the principle of local control. Now, there's a history to local control that we need to think about, but that's the argument.<p>So here's what Race to the Top says: Instead of Washington imposing standards from the top down, let's challenge States to adopt common standards voluntarily, from the bottom up. That doesn't mean more standards; it means higher standards, better standards, standards that clarify what our teachers are expected to teach and what our children are expected to learn, so high school graduates are actually prepared for college and a career. I do not want to see young people get a diploma, but they can't read that diploma.<p>Now, so far, about 30 States have come together to embrace and develop common standards, high standards. More States are expected to do so in the coming weeks. And by the way, this is different from No Child Left Behind, because what that did was it gave the States the wrong incentives. A bunch of States watered down their standards so that school districts wouldn't be penalized when their students fell short. And what's happened now is at least two States, Illinois and Oklahoma, that lowered standards in response to No Child Behind--No Child Left Behind are now raising those standards back up, partly in response to Race to the Top.<p>And part of making sure our young people meet these high standards is designing tests that accurately measure whether they are learning. Now, here too there's been some controversy. When we talk about testing, parents worry that it means more teaching to the test. Some worry that tests are culturally biased. Teachers worry that they'll be evaluated solely on the basis of a single standardized test. Everybody thinks that's unfair. It is unfair.<p>But that's not what Race to the Top is about. What Race to the Top says is there's nothing wrong with testing; we just need better tests applied in a way that helps teachers and students, instead of stifling what teachers and students do in the classroom; tests that don't dictate what's taught, but tell us what has been learned; tests that measure how well our children are mastering essential skills and answering complex questions; and tests that track how well our students are growing academically, so we can catch when they're falling behind and help them before they just get passed along.<p>Because of Race to the Top, States are also finding innovative ways to move beyond having just a snapshot of where students are and towards a real-time picture that shows how far they've come and how far they have to go. And armed with this information, teachers can get what amounts to a game tape that they can study to enhance their teaching and their focus on areas where students need help the most.<p>Now, sometimes a school's problems run so deep that you can do the better assessments and the higher standards and a more challenging curriculum, and that's not enough. If a school isn't producing graduates with even the most basic skills--year after year after year after year--something needs to be done differently. You know, the definition, somebody once said, of madness is you do the same thing over and over again and keep expecting a different result. If we want success for our country, we can't accept failure in our schools decade after decade.<p>And that's why we're challenging States to turn around our 5,000 lowest performing schools. And I don't think it's any secret that most of those are serving African American or Hispanic kids. We're investing over $4 billion to help them do that, to transform those schools--$4 billion, which even in Washington is real money. This isn't about--unlike No Child Left Behind, this isn't about labeling a troubled school a failure and then just throwing up your hands and saying, well, we're giving up on you. It's about investing in that school's future and recruiting the whole community to help turn it around and identifying viable options for how to move forward.<p>Now, in some cases, that's going to mean restarting the school under different management as a charter school, as an independent public school formed by parents, teachers, and civic leaders who've got broad leeway to innovate. And some people don't like charter schools. They say, well, that's going to take away money from other public schools that also need support. Charter schools aren't a magic bullet, but I want to give States and school districts the chance to try new things. If a charter school works, then let's apply those lessons elsewhere. And if a charter school doesn't work, we'll hold it accountable, we'll shut it down.<p>So no, I don't support all charter schools, but I do support good charter schools. I'll give you an example. There's a charter school called Mastery in Philadelphia. And in just 2 years, three of the schools that Mastery has taken over have seen reading and math levels nearly double, in some cases, triple. Chaka Fattah is here, so he knows what I'm talking about. One school called Pickett went from just 14 percent of students being proficient in math to almost 70 percent. Now--and here's the kicker: At the same time academic performance improved, violence dropped by 80 percent--80 percent. And that's no coincidence. <p>Now, if a school like Mastery can do it, if Pickett can do it, every troubled school can do it. But that means we're going to have to shake some things up: setting high standards, common standards, empowering students to meet them; partnering with our teachers to achieve excellence in the classroom; educating our children--all of them--to graduate ready for college, ready for a career, ready to make most of their lives. None of this should be controversial. There should be a fuss if we weren't doing these things. There should be a fuss if Arne Duncan wasn't trying to shake things up.<p>So Race to the Top isn't simply the name of an initiative. It sums up what's happening in our schools. It's the single most ambitious, meaningful education reform effort we've attempted in this country in generations.<p>And I know there are a number of other steps we need to take to lift up our education system--like saving teachers' jobs across this country from layoffs--and I'll continue fighting to take those steps and save those jobs. But I'll also continue to fight for Race to the Top with everything I've got, including using a veto to prevent some folks from watering it down.<p>Now, let me wrap up by saying this. I know there are some who say that Race to the Top won't work. There are cynics and naysayers who argue that the problems in our education system are too entrenched, that think that we'll just fall back into the same old arguments and divides that have held us back for so long. And it is true, as I've said since I ran for President, and that everybody here knows firsthand, change is hard. I don't know if you've noticed. That's why I've got all this gray hair. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Fixing what was broken in our health care system is not easy. Fixing what was broken on Wall Street is not easy. Fixing what's broken in our education system is not easy. We won't see results overnight. It may take a decade for these changes to pay off. But that's not a reason not to make them. It's a reason to start making them right now, to feel a sense of urgency, the fierce urgency of now.<p>We also know that as significant as these reforms are, there's going to be one more ingredient to really make a difference: Parents are going to have to get more involved in their children's education. Now, in the past, even that statement has sparked controversy. Folks say, well, why are you talking about parents? [<i>Laughter</i>] Parents need help too. I know that. Parents need jobs. They need housing. They need, in some cases, social services. They may have substance abuse problems. We're working on all those fronts.<p>Then some people say, well, why are you always talking about parental responsibility in front of Black folks? [<i>Laughter</i>] And I say, I talk about parental responsibility wherever I talk about education. Michelle and I happen to be Black parents, so--[<i>laughter</i>]--I may add a little umph to it when I'm talking to Black parents. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But to paraphrase Dr. King, education isn't an either-or proposition, it's a both-and proposition. It will take both more focus from our parents and better schooling. It will take both more money and more reform. It will take both a collective commitment and a personal commitment.<p>So yes, our Federal Government has responsibilities that it has to meet, and I will keep on making sure the Federal Government meets those responsibilities. Our Governors, our superintendents, our States, our school districts have responsibilities to meet. And parents have responsibilities that they have to meet. And our children have responsibilities that they have to meet.<p>It's not just parents. It's the children too. Our kids need to understand nobody is going to hand them a future. An education is not something you just tip your head and they pour it in your ear. [<i>Laughter</i>] You've got to want it. You've got to reach out and claim that future for yourself. And you can't make excuses.<p>I know life is tough for a lot of young people in this country. The places where Urban League is working to make a difference, you see it every day. I'm coming from the South Side of Chicago, so I know--I see what young people are going through there. And at certain points in our lives, young Black men and women may feel the sting of discrimination. Too many of them may feel trapped in a community where drugs and violence and unemployment are pervasive, and they're forced to wrestle with things that no child should have to face.<p>There are all kinds of reasons for our children to say, \\"No, I can't.\\" But our job is to say to them, \\"Yes, you can.\\" Yes, you can overcome. Yes, you can persevere. Yes, you can make what you will out of your lives.<p>I know they can because I know the character of America's young people. I saw them volunteer on my campaign. They asked me questions in town hall meetings. They write me letters about their trials and aspirations.<p>I got a letter recently postmarked Covington, Kentucky. It was from Na'Dreya Lattimore, 10 years old, about the same age as Sasha. And she told me about how her school had closed, so she had enrolled in another. Then she had bumped up against other barriers to what she felt was her potential. So Na'Dreya was explaining to me how we need to improve our education system. She closed by saying this: \\"One more thing,\\" she said--[<i>laughter</i>]--this is a long letter--[<i>laughter</i>]--\\"You need to look at us differently. We are not Black, we're not White, biracial, Hispanic, Asian, or any other nationality.\\" No, she wrote, \\"We are the future.\\"<p>Na'Dreya, you are right. And that's why I will keep fighting to lead us out of this storm. But I'm also going to keep fighting alongside the Urban League to make America more perfect so that young people like Na'Dreya, people of every race, in every region, are going to be able to reach for that American Dream. They're going to know that there are brighter days ahead, that their future is full of boundless possibilities. I believe that, and I know the Urban League does too.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"212" "\"Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat.<p>I want to start obviously by thanking Lisa for her introduction and having the courage to share her story with all of us today. It's for every survivor like Lisa who has never gotten their day in court and for every family that feels like justice is beyond reach and for every tribal community struggling to keep its people safe that I'll be signing the Tribal Law and Order Act into law today. <p>And in doing so, I intend to send a clear message that all of our people, whether they live in our biggest cities or our most remote reservations, have the right to feel safe in their own communities and to raise their children in peace and enjoy the fullest protection of our laws. <p>And as many of you know, I campaigned on this issue. And during our last--during our tribal conference last year, I pledged my administration's fullest support for this bill. And I told Senator Dorgan last week that I intended to sign it in a ceremony here at the White House with all of you. So today I am proud to make good on my word. <p>Now, I'm told there's a Seneca proverb that says, \\"He who would do great things should not attempt them all alone.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And that's particularly true of this legislation, which is the product of tireless efforts by countless individuals across this country. Congressional leaders like Senator Dorgan, Representative Herseth Sandlin, and others who are here today, and tribal leaders like Chairman Marcus Levings, President Theresa Two Bulls, President Diane Enos, Chief Chad Smith, Vice Chairman Jonathan Windy Boy--we are grateful to all of them for their extraordinary support. And then we've got leaders in our administration like Attorney General Holder and Secretary Salazar, Kimberly Teehee, Jodi Gillette here at the White House who worked tirelessly on this legislation. <p>And that's nothing to say of all the dedicated judges and prosecutors and tribal and BIA law enforcement officers--some of whom are here today--who've supported these efforts, and the determined survivors most of all, like Lisa, who even when it's too late to undo what happened to them, still speak out to seek justice for others. <p>All of you come at this from different angles, but you're united in support of this bill because you believe, like I do, that it is unconscionable that crime rates in Indian Country are more than twice the national average and up to 20 times the national average on some reservations. And all of you believe, like I do, that when one in three Native American women will be raped in their lifetimes, that is an assault on our national conscience; it is an affront to our shared humanity; it is something that we cannot allow to continue. <p>So ultimately, it's not just the Federal Government's relationship with tribal governments that compels us to act, it's not just our obligations under treaty and under law, but it's also our values as a nation that are at stake. And that's why earlier this year, after extensive consultations with tribal leaders, Attorney General Holder announced significant reforms to increase prosecutions of crimes committed in Indian Country. He hired more assistant U.S. attorneys and more victim-witness specialists. And he even created a position for a National Indian Country Training Coordinator who will work with prosecutors and law enforcement officers throughout Indian Country. <p>And under Secretary Salazar's leadership, we're launching new community policing pilot programs. We've overhauled the recruitment process for BIA officers, resulting in a 500-percent jump in applications and the largest hiring increase in history. And we're working to deploy those officers to the field as quickly as possible.<p>The bill I'm signing into law today will build on these efforts, because it requires the Justice Department to disclose data on cases in Indian Country that it declines to prosecute, and it gives tribes greater authority to prosecute and punish criminals themselves. It expands recruitment and retention and training for BIA and tribal officers and gives them better access to criminal databases. It includes new provisions to prevent counterfeiting of Indian-produced crafts and new guidelines and training for domestic violence and sex crimes. And it strengthens tribal courts and police departments and enhances programs to combat drug and alcohol abuse and help at-risk youth. <p>So these are significant measures that will empower tribal nations and make a real difference in people's lives. Because as I said during our tribal conference, I have no interest in just paying lip service to the problems we face. I know that too often this community has heard grand promises from Washington that turned out to be little more than empty words. And I pledged to you then that if you gave me a chance, this time it would be different. I told you I was committed to moving forward and forging a new and better future together in every aspect of our government-to-government relationship.<p>And slowly but surely, that is exactly what we are doing. At this moment, agencies across our Government are implementing detailed plans to increase coordination and consultation with tribal governments, and I intend to hold them accountable for following through. <p>We've also included a permanent reauthorization of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act in the health care reform legislation we passed this spring. We're strengthening tribal education. We're working to spur economic development throughout Indian Country. And in consultation with Indian tribes, we're now formally reviewing the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. And after 14 long years, we've finally settled the Cobell case and we're working with Congress to get the settlement approved as quickly as possible.<p>So we're moving forward, and we're making progress. And as we celebrate today, I'm reminded of a visit I made a couple of years ago to the Crow Nation out in Montana. While I was there, I was adopted into the nation by a wonderful couple, Hartford and Mary Black Eagle--so I'm Barack Black Eagle. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I was also given a Crow name that means \\"One Who Helps People Throughout the Land.\\" And it's a name that I view not as an honor that I deserve, but as a responsibility that I must work to fulfill.<p>And looking back, I can't help but think that only in America could a guy like me, named Barack Obama, adoptive son of the Crow Nation, go on to become President. [<i>Laughter</i>] So that was improbable when it happened 2 years ago--[<i>laughter</i>]--but it would have been inconceivable a generation or two before that. And I think the same could be said of this legislation. <p>And that should ultimately give us all hope. It should remind us that our Union has a way of, over time, becoming more, and not less, perfect, more inclusive, more fair, more free. And that's because of people like you and leaders and public servants and everyday folks who understand that we're more than just heirs to a difficult past. Here in America, we have a chance to choose a different future and to heed those better angels of our nature and cast our lot with something bigger than ourselves. <p>So it's in that spirit that I hope we define the relationship between our nations in the years ahead, and it is the goal of this legislation that I am proud to sign into law today.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.<p>[<i>At this point, the President signed the bill.</i>]<p>There you go. It's done.\" "
"213" "\"Hello, everybody! Hello, Detroit! Thank you. Listen, before I just make a few short remarks, I just want to acknowledge some people who are here who have been critical in helping make sure that we are putting the U.S. auto industry back on track. First of all, my Secretary of Transportation, Ray LaHood, from Peoria, Illinois, is here. The mayor of Hamtramck, Karen Majewski, is here. Give her a big round of applause. Detroit mayor and Hall of Famer Dave Bing is in the house. Two Senators who've been fighting for you each and every day, Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow, are here. Wonderful Congresswoman Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick is here. UAW President Bob King is in the house. General Motors CEO Ed Whitacre is here. And I want to thank Teri Quigley and Frank Moultrie for the great tour that they gave me. <p>Now, I have to tell you, some of you saw me drive the Volt about 12 inches. They don't let me drive much these days. But the Cadillac that I drive in is made right here. I got to admit the Secret Service soups it up a little bit. But it's a nice ride. It's very smooth.<p>You know, it is great to be back here and to see this outstanding plant and to see all of you. And I want to take you down memory lane just a little bit to a year ago. At that point, we were coming out of the worst recession that we had seen since the Great Depression. The economy was shrinking. We had lost 8 million jobs. The day I was sworn in, we lost--that month, we lost 750,000 jobs, that month that I was sworn in. That's true.<p>The auto industry had lost hundreds of thousands of jobs. Sales had gone down by 40 percent. And two of the Big Three, GM and Chrysler, were on the brink of a liquidation bankruptcy, which means they would have been wiped out. And if GM and Chrysler were wiped out, then suppliers would be wiped out and dealerships would have been wiped out and communities would have been even more devastated. <p>It's estimated that we would have lost another million jobs if we had not stepped in. Now, we basically had three options when I was confronting what was happening in the U.S. auto industry. <p>Option number one was to keep on doing what the previous administration had been doing, which is basically give about a billion dollars a month to the auto industry, but not really ask for any kind of change that would get it on the right track. <p>Option two was to do nothing, and as I said, we would have lost another million jobs. But more importantly, we would have lost what has been the heart and soul of American manufacturing, what has built a middle class not just here in Detroit, but all throughout the Midwest, what has made us proud and has been a symbol of our economic power. <p>So I didn't like either of those two options, and I went for a third option. The third option was, we are going to give you the help you need, but we are also going to insist that management, workers, creditors, suppliers, dealers, shareholders, everybody get together and come up with a plan so that we can start building for the future, so we're not looking backwards, but we're moving forward.<p>Now, that was a tough decision, and let's face it, a lot of people were skeptical. I don't know if you all remember, but I remember how last year, there were a whole bunch of folks who said, \\"Well, that makes no sense.\\" There's the \\"just say no\\" crowd in Washington--they're still saying no--who basically said: \\"Well, this is a terrible investment. We should just let the market take its course, let GM, let Chrysler go bankrupt.\\" So there was a lot of skepticism out there. <p>But we made the decision to step in. And the reason I did that was because I had confidence in you. I had faith in you, because I believe that the American worker is the best worker on Earth. We've got the best engineers, we've got the best technologies, and if we could just mobilize our strengths and our talents and feel confident about the future, nothing can stop us. <p>And now here we are a year later. And a year later, GM and Chrysler, along with Ford, are all posting a profit. The U.S. auto industry has hired 55,000 workers, the most job growth in a decade. And not only that, but you're producing the cars of the future right here at this plant, producing cars that are going to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. This car right here doesn't need a sip of gasoline for 40 miles and then keeps on going after that. <p>And along with creating these new products, we've also started to say, well, why don't we make the advanced batteries that go into the Volt right here in the United States of America? So we were making 2 percent of the advanced batteries right here in the United States. By 2015, in 5 years, we will have 40 percent of the market in advanced batteries right here in the United States of America being made by American workers. <p>Now, let's be clear: We're not out of the woods yet. The economy is now growing. It was shrinking at 6 percent. Now it's growing at 2.4 percent. We've added private sector jobs for 6 months in a row. But there's still too many folks unemployed. There are a lot of folks in the auto industry who haven't been hired back. We're still going to have to do a lot of work to put folks back to work.<p>But we are moving in the right direction. The trend lines are good. And as people get more confident, people are going to start saying, it's finally time for me to buy a new car. And they're not just going to look at some foreign-made car, they're going to say, you know what, GM is making the car of the future, and I'm going to take a look at what GM is making. <p>So we've got a lot of work to do. We've got some challenges out here. We're going to have to keep on being lean and mean. We're going to have to keep on marketing our products more effectively. We're going to have to make sure the Government, business, everybody is working in the same direction. We've got to export more. We can't just buy from other countries; we got to sell to other countries. And that means we've got to make sure that our trade deals are fair. But let me tell you, when I look out at this plant and I look out at all of you, it gives me hope. It confirms my conviction: Don't bet against the American worker; don't bet against the American people.<p>We are back on our feet. We are on the move. GM is on the move, the U.S. auto industry is on the move, and America is on the move. And I'm not going to rest until every single American worker who wants to get back to work is going to be back to work. You're helping lead the way, and I'm grateful to you. <p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you, everybody.\" "
"214" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Detroit! Well, it is good to be here. Everybody, if you have a seat, have a seat. [<i>Laughter</i>] It is good--it's good to be back.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Yeah!<p><i>The President.</i> Good to be back. First of all, give it up to Leah for that wonderful introduction. <p>We've got some special guests here that I want to acknowledge. First of all, your Secretary of Transportation, who has helped to make sure that we are guiding this process of rebuilding the American auto industry and is doing an outstanding job, from Peoria, Illinois, Secretary Ray LaHood. Give him a big round of applause. <p>Because of a funeral, she couldn't be here, but I want everybody to big--give a huge round of applause to one of the best Governors, in very tough times, that exists anywhere in the country, Jennifer Granholm. She's doing a great job. Your outstanding new mayor and close to my heart, NBA Hall of Famer, Dave Bing is in the house. <p>Two of the hardest working Senators anywhere--and they are always thinking about Michigan and Michigan manufacturing, making stuff right here in the United States of America--Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow. Outstanding Member of Congress, Representative Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick; UAW President Bob King is in the house; and Chrysler CEO Sergio Marchionne. Sergio's modest. He doesn't stand up. [<i>Laughter</i>] But he's doing a great job.<p>So I just had a tour of this outstanding plant with Sergio and Pat Walsh, your plant manager, and General Holiefield--now, that's a name right there--[<i>laughter</i>]--General Holiefield, vice president of the UAW; Cynthia Holland, your local UAW president.<p>And it was great to see the work that you're doing and the cars that you're building, especially when you consider the fact that just over a year ago, the future here seemed very much in doubt. <p>Now, before I make my remarks, I've got to disclose, I'm a little biased here because the first new car that I ever bought was a Grand Cherokee--first new car. Up until that point, I had had some old, beat-up--[<i>laughter</i>]--used cars. They were not state of the art. And I still remember walking into that showroom and driving out with that new car. It had that new car smell, and everything worked. [<i>Laughter</i>] I wasn't used to that. Had all these--everything was electronic, and I had--all my--I'd had to roll up my windows up until that point. So I've got some good memories of that car. But I've got to tell you, when I sat in this car, this is a better car. This is a state-of-the-art car. This is a world-class car right here. <p>Now, I want everybody to think about where we were. We were in the midst, when I took office, of a deep and painful recession that cost our economy about 8 million jobs--8 million jobs--and took a terrible toll on communities like this one. Our economy was shrinking about 6 percent per quarter. <p>Now, this morning we learned that our economy grew by 2.4 percent in the second quarter of the year, so that means it's now been growing again for 1 full year. Our economy is growing again instead of shrinking. That's a welcome sign compared to where we were. But we've got to keep on increasing that rate of growth and keep adding jobs, so we can keep moving forward. And that's especially important for places like this.<p>In the 12 months before I took office, the American auto industry lost hundreds of thousands of jobs. Sales plunged 40 percent. Think about that. The industry looked like it was going over a cliff. As the financial crisis and the vicious recession collided with an industry that for too long had avoided hard choices and hadn't fully adapted to changing times, we finally reached the point where two of the Big Three, Chrysler and GM, were on the brink of liquidation.<p>And that left us with very few choices. One choice, one option was to keep the practice of giving billions of dollars of taxpayer money to the auto industry, but not really forcing any accountability or change, so you just keep on kicking the tough problems down the road year after year and, hopefully, seeing if you can get more and more money out of Washington.<p>A second option was to do nothing and risk allowing two of the Big Three to disintegrate. And that could have meant the end of an industry that, like no other industry, represents so much of what makes up the American spirit. <p>This industry's been the source of deep pride for generations of American workers whose imaginations led to some of the finest cars the world has ever known and whose sweat built a middle class that has held the dreams of millions of our people.<p>I just met one of your coworkers on a line. He's third generation working at Chrysler. His grandfather worked at Chrysler, his father worked at Chrysler, and now he's on the line at Chrysler. And that could have all vanished. <p>Now, the worse thing about it is that if we had done nothing, not only were your jobs gone, but supplier jobs were gone and dealership jobs were gone and the communities that depend on them would have been wiped out. And by the way, when you talk to the CEO of Ford, he'll tell you that wouldn't have been good for Ford either, because a lot of those suppliers that they depend on might have gone out of business.<p>Independent estimates suggest that more than 1 million jobs could have been lost if Chrysler and GM had liquidated. And in the middle of a deep recession, that would have been a brutal, irreversible shock not just to Detroit, not just to the Midwest, but to our entire economy. So I refused to let that happen.<p>And we came up with a third way. What we said was, if you're willing to take the tough and painful steps necessary to make yourselves more competitive, if you're willing to pull together--workers, management, suppliers, dealers, everybody--to remake yourself for changing times, then we'll stand by you and we'll invest in your future. Our strategy was to get this company and this industry back on its feet, taking a hands-off approach, saying, you guys know the business, we don't. We're going to give you a chance, but we do know you've got to change.<p>Now, not surprisingly, a lot of folks were skeptical. You remember last year. A lot of folks were saying: \\"Well, this is stupid. We shouldn't be helping them.\\" And I understand that. Look, this was a hard decision. I didn't want Government to get into the auto business. I've got enough to do. [<i>Laughter</i>] And the politics of it weren't good. Your delegation was supportive, but Debbie and Carl and Carolyn and others, they'll tell you, there were a lot of folks in Washington who said it couldn't be done.<p>But I believed that if each of us were willing to work and sacrifice in the short term--workers, management, creditors, shareholders, retirees, communities--it could mark a new beginning for a great American industry. And if we could summon that sense of teamwork and common purpose, we could once again see the best cars in the world designed, engineered, forged, and built right here in Detroit, right here in the Midwest, right here in the United States of America. <p>So I placed that faith in you and all of America's autoworkers, and you've vindicated that belief. The fact that we're standing in this magnificent factory today is a testament to the decisions we made and the sacrifices that you and countless stakeholders across this industry and this country were willing to make. So today, this industry is growing stronger. It's creating new jobs. It's manufacturing the fuel-efficient cars and trucks that will carry us toward an energy-independent future. You are proving the naysayers wrong, all of you. <p>They thought it would be impossible for your company to make the kind of changes necessary to restore fiscal discipline and move towards viability. Today, for the first time since 2004, all three U.S. automakers are operating at a profit--first time in 6 years. <p>Last year, sales plummeted and manufacturers and suppliers across the country were forced to idle plants and furlough workers. Today, Chrysler is responding to more demand than anticipated by keeping this plant and others running through the usual summer shutdown. The same goes for GM's plants. Sales have rebounded. Across the supply chain, plants that wouldn't exist without the sacrifices made across this industry are running at nearly full capacity. <p>Last year, many thought this industry would keep losing jobs as it had for the better part of the past decade. Today, U.S. automakers have added 55,000 jobs since last June, the strongest job growth in more than 10 years in the auto industry. This plant just hired a new shift of 1,100 workers last week. <p>Met one of your coworkers on the line. He said: \\"Thank you, Mr. President. I needed to get out of the house.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] I said, \\"I know your wife really felt that way.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"I'm sure you were driving her crazy.\\"<p>The Dundee Chrysler plant will begin production of an American-made, advanced-technology, fuel-efficient engine this December. The Sterling Heights Chrysler plant that was scheduled to close after 2012 will stay open and add a second shift of 900 workers next year. And when a plant thrives, that doesn't just affect the new workers; that affects the entire community. <p>Now, it also helped that we took steps to stimulate demand, steps like Cash for Clunkers, which said, if you traded your old car in for a new, more fuel-efficient model, you'd get a rebate. That program was good for automakers. It was good for consumers. But you know what? It was also good for the environment. It was more successful than we ever imagined, and it saved at least 100,000 jobs, giving dealerships sales numbers they hadn't had in years and communities an economic boost they wouldn't have otherwise seen.<p>So there's no doubt that the auto industry is growing stronger. But look, the hard truth is, this industry lost a lot of jobs in recent years. Some of those jobs aren't coming back, partly because automakers have become so much more efficient than they used to be. This is a lean, mean operation. And so there are people who've still lost their jobs, haven't been hired back, and it wasn't their fault. Mistakes were made in managing the company that weren't theirs.<p>So that's why we've still also got to make targeted investments to encourage new private sector manufacturing growth. We've got to encourage clean energy. That's why we're taking steps to help communities revitalize and redevelop old, shuttered auto facilities, preparing them for new industries and new jobs and new opportunities.<p>I'll give you an example: Those investments that we're making are helping to create an entire new advanced battery industry take root right here in Michigan. That industry was producing only 2 percent of the world's advanced batteries last year, but by 2015, we expect to produce 40 percent of the advanced batteries that go into our cars. And we're going to do it right here in Michigan, all across the Midwest.<p>Investments like those mean jobs for American workers to do what they've always done: build great products and sell them around the world.<p>So the bottom line is this: We've got a long way to go, but we're beginning to see some of these tough decisions pay off. We are moving forward.<p>I want you to remember, though, if some folks had their way, none of this would have been happening. Just want to point that out. Right? I mean, this plant and your jobs might not exist. There were leaders of the \\"just say no\\" crowd in Washington--they were saying, oh, standing by the auto industry would guarantee failure. One of them called it \\"the worst investment you could possibly make.\\"<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> They said we should just walk way and let those jobs go. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> I wish they were standing here today. I wish they could see what I'm seeing in this plant and talk to the workers who are here taking pride in building a world-class vehicle. I don't think they'd be willing to look you in the eye and say that you were a bad investment. They might just come around if they were standing here and admit that by standing by a great American industry and the good people who work for it, that we did the right thing. It's hard for them to say that. You know, they don't like admitting when I do the right thing. [<i>Laughter</i>] But they might have had to admit it. And I want all of you to know, I will bet on the American worker any day of the week.<p>You know, when World War II hit Pearl Harbor, we didn't throw up our arms and say: \\"Boy, this is tough. I don't know what we're going to do.\\" We rolled up our sleeves. We got to work. And it was workers just like you, right here in Detroit, who built an arsenal of democracy that propelled America to victory. It was workers like you that built this country into the greatest economic power the world has ever known. It was workers like you that manufactured a miracle that was uniquely American.<p>We faced down impossible odds. We can rise to meet any challenge. As I was thinking about what to say today, an extraordinary story was brought to my attention.<p>I don't know if they're here, but I think some of you must know 14 of your fellow employees at the plant won the lottery. Where are they? That's one--a couple of them right there. You know--lunch is on them, by the way. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now, the first assumption people might make is, you know, after you win the lottery, you just kick back and you retire. Nobody'd fault folks for that. This is tough work. But most of them, they just want to keep on working. And I--is William Shanteau here?<p><i>Audience member.</i> No, he's not.<p><i>The President.</i> He's not? Well, he was one of the guys who bought one of the--he bought the winning ticket, right? Turns out he used some of the winnings to buy his wife one of the Jeep Grand Cherokees that you build right here. He called it a sweet ride. [<i>Laughter</i>] And he's going to pay for new American flags for his hometown because he loves his country. <p>And he's going to keep coming to work because he loves this plant and he loves these workers. So don't bet against the American worker. Don't bet against the American people. We got more work to do. It's going to take some time to get back to where we need to be, but I have confidence in the American worker. I have confidence in you. I have confidence in this economy. We are coming back. <p>Thank you, everybody. Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"215" "\"Hello, everybody. I'm speaking to you from the GM auto plant here in Detroit, Michigan, where a hopeful story is unfolding in a place that's been one of the hardest hit in America.<p>In the 12 months before I took office, American auto companies lost hundreds of thousands of jobs. Sales plunged 40 percent. Liquidation was a very real possibility. Years of papering over tough problems and a failing to adapt to changing times, combined with a vicious economic crisis, brought an industry that's been the symbol of our manufacturing might for a century to the brink of collapse. <p>We didn't have many good options. On the one hand, we could have continued the practice of handing out billions of taxpayer dollars to the auto industry with no real strings attached. On the other hand, we could have walked away and allowed two major auto companies to go out of business, which could have wiped out 1 million American jobs. <p>I refused to let that happen. So we came up with a third way. We said to the auto companies, if you're willing to make the hard decisions necessary to adapt and compete in the 21st century, we'll make a one-time investment in your future. <p>Of course, if some folks had their way, none of this would be happening at all. This plant might not exist because there were leaders of the \\"just say no\\" crowd in Washington who argued that standing by the auto industry would guarantee failure. One called it \\"the worst investment you could possibly make.\\" They said we should just walk away and let these jobs go.<p>Today, the men and women in this plant are proving these cynics wrong. Since GM and Chrysler emerged from bankruptcy, our auto industry has added 55,000 jobs, the strongest period of job growth in more than 10 years. For the first time since 2004, all three American automakers are operating at a profit. Sales have begun to rebound. And plants like this that wouldn't have existed if all of us didn't act are now operating at maximum capacity. <p>What's more, thanks to our investments, a lot of these auto companies are reinventing themselves to meet the demands of a new age. At this plant, they're hard at work building the high-quality, fuel-efficient cars of tomorrow, cars like the plug-in hybrid Chevy Volt that can run 40 miles before taking a sip of gasoline. Throughout Michigan, an advanced battery industry is taking root that will power clean electric cars, an industry that produced only 2 percent of the world's advanced batteries last year, but will now be able to produce as much as 40 percent in a little over 5 years. That's real progress. <p>There's no doubt we have a long way to go and a lot of work to do before folks here and across America can feel whole again. But what's important is that we're finally beginning to see some of the tough decisions we made pay off. And if we had listened to the cynics and the naysayers, if we had simply done what the politics of the moment required, none of this progress would have happened. <p>Still, even as these icons of American industry are being reborn, we also need to stand shoulder to shoulder with America's small-business men and women, particularly since they're the ones who create most of the new jobs in this country. <p>As we work to rebuild our economy, I can't imagine anything more common sense than giving additional tax breaks and badly needed lending assistance to America's small-business owners so they can grow and hire. That's what we're trying to do with the \\"Small Business Jobs Act,\\" a bill that has been praised as being good for small businesses by groups like the Chamber of Commerce and the National Federation of Independent Business. It's a bill that includes provision after provision authored by both Democrats and Republicans. But yesterday the Republican leaders in the Senate once again used parliamentary procedures to block it. Understand, a majority of Senators support the plan. It's just that the Republican leaders in the Senate won't even allow it to come up for a vote. <p>That isn't right. And I'm calling on the Republican leaders in the Senate to stop holding America's small businesses hostage to politics and allow an up-or-down vote on this small-business jobs bill.<p>At a time when America is just starting to move forward again, we can't afford the do-nothing policies and partisan maneuvering that will only take us backward. I won't sit here and pretend everything's wonderful. I know that times are tough. But what I also know is that we've made it through tough times before. And we'll make it through again. The men and women hard at work in this auto plant makes me absolutely confident of that. <p>So to all the naysayers out there, I say this: Don't ever bet against the American people, don't bet against the American worker, because we don't take the easy way out. That's not how we deal with challenge. That's not how we built this country into the greatest economic power the world has ever known. We did it by summoning the courage to persevere and adapt and push this country forward, inch by inch. That's the spirit I see in this plant today, and as long as I have the privilege of being your President, I will keep fighting alongside you until we reach a better day. <p>Thanks.\" "
"216" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. Everyone, please have a seat. Thank you. Thank you very much.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Happy birthday! [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Thank you so much. Thank you. It is----<p><i>Audience member.</i> Happy birthday!<p><i>The President.</i> Thank you. It is a great honor and--it is true, I will be 49 this week. [<i>Laughter</i>] I have a lot more gray hair than I did last year. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>It is an extraordinary honor to be here. Thank you, Commander Barrera, for your kind introduction and for your lifetime of service in the Marines in Vietnam----<p><i>Audience members.</i> Hooah! <p><i>The President.</i> ----but also as a tireless advocate for your fellow disabled veterans. We are grateful to you. Thank you for everything that you've done. <p>I want to thank your great leadership team for welcoming me today: Chairman Ray Dempsey--[<i>applause</i>]--absolutely; incoming Commander Wally Tyson; National Adjutant Art Wilson; Judy Hezlep of the DAV Auxiliary; and your outstanding executive director in Washington, Dave Gorman. <p>And I am pleased to be joined by a decorated Vietnam veteran, wounded warrior, and a lifetime member of the DAV, my outstanding Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Ric Shinseki.<p>Disabled American Veterans, I valued your advice and counsel when I was a Senator and when I cosponsored the post-9/11 GI bill. You were one of the first veterans' organizations that I called upon when I began my Presidential campaign. And as President, it's been my pleasure to welcome you to the White House to make sure America is serving our veterans as well as you've served us and, most recently, to sign advanced appropriations into law so that veterans health care will never again be held hostage to the budget battles and the political games in Washington. <p>Now, there's another visit I won't forget. I was in the Oval Office expecting a visit from the DAV, and in comes Bobby carrying a baseball bat. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, it's not every day that somebody gets past the Secret Service carrying a baseball bat. [<i>Laughter</i>] You may have heard about this. It turns out it was a genuine Louisville Slugger, a thank you for going to bat for our veterans on advanced appropriations. <p>So I'm grateful for that symbol of our partnership, and I'm proud of the progress we've achieved together. But as one of your outstanding DAV members from Illinois just reminded me, this is a promise I made during the campaign. It was a promise made, and it was a promise kept. And I intend to keep on keeping my promises to the veterans of America.<p>In the life of our Nation, not every generation has been summoned to defend our country in its hour of need. But every generation to answer that call has done so with honor and with courage. <p>Among you are members of that generation that saved the world from fascism. I was honored to stand with our World War II vets at Normandy last year for the anniversary of D-day. And this year, as we mark the 65th anniversary of our victory in that war, we once again salute our veterans of the Second World War. <p>Others among you faced a brutal foe on a cold Korean Peninsula. This year, as we mark the 60th anniversary of that conflict, I will be proud to travel to the Republic of Korea in November to pay tribute to our veterans of the Korean war. <p>Many of you served in the jungles of Vietnam. You also served with honor, exemplary dedication, and courage, but were often shunned when you came home. That was a national disgrace and it must never happen again. And that's why we're making sure our veterans from today's wars are shown the respect and the dignity they deserve. <p>And whether you served in the Gulf to free a captive Kuwait or fought in the streets of Mogadishu or stopped an ethnic slaughter in the Balkans, you too are part of an unbroken line of service stretching across two centuries. <p>For you, coming home was the beginning of another battle, the battle to recover. You fought to stand again and to walk again and to work again. You fought for each other and for the benefits and treatment you had earned. You became leaders in our communities, in our companies, and our country, including a former Vietnam vet and Senator, Max Cleland, who reminded us that America's disabled veterans are \\"strong at the broken places.\\" <p>Today, your legacy of service is carried on by a new generation of Americans. Some stepped forward in a time of peace, not foreseeing years of combat. Others stepped forward in this time of war, knowing they could be sent into harm's way. For the past 9 years, in Afghanistan and Iraq, they have borne the burdens of war. They and their families have faced the greatest test in the history of our All-Volunteer Force, serving tour after tour, year after year. Through their extraordinary service, they have written their own chapter in the American story. And by any measure, they have earned their place among the greatest of generations. <p>Now one of those chapters is nearing an end. As a candidate for President, I pledged to bring the war in Iraq to a responsible end. Shortly after taking office, I announced our new strategy for Iraq and for a transition to full Iraqi responsibility. And I made it clear that by August 31, 2010, America's combat mission in Iraq would end. And that is exactly what we are doing, as promised and on schedule. <p>Already, we have closed or turned over to Iraq hundreds of bases. We're moving out millions of pieces of equipment in one of the largest logistics operations that we've seen in decades. By the end of this month, we'll have brought more than 90,000 of our troops home from Iraq since I took office--more than 90,000 have come home. <p>Today, even as terrorists try to derail Iraq's progress, because of the sacrifices of our troops and their Iraqi partners, violence in Iraq continues to be near the lowest it's been in years. And next month, we will change our military mission from combat to supporting and training Iraqi security forces. In fact, in many parts of the country, Iraqis have already taken the lead for security. <p>As agreed to with the Iraqi Government, we will maintain a transitional force until we remove all our troops from Iraq by the end of next year. And during this period, our forces will have a focused mission: supporting and training Iraqi forces, partnering with Iraqis in counterterrorism missions, and protecting our civilian and military efforts. Now, these are dangerous tasks. There are still those with bombs and bullets who will try to stop Iraq's progress. And the hard truth is, we have not seen the end of American sacrifice in Iraq.<p>But make no mistake: Our commitment in Iraq is changing from a military effort led by our troops to a civilian effort led by our diplomats. And as we mark the end of America's combat mission in Iraq, a grateful America must pay tribute to all who served there. <p>Remember, our Nation has had vigorous debates about the Iraq war. There are patriots who supported going to war and patriots who opposed it. But there has never been any daylight between us when it comes to supporting the more than 1 million Americans in uniform who have served in Iraq, far more than any conflict since Vietnam. <p>These men and women from across our country have done more than meet the challenges of this young century. Through their extraordinary courage and confidence and commitment, these troops and veterans have proven themselves as a new generation of American leaders. And while our country has sometimes been divided, they have fought together as one. While other individuals and institutions have shirked responsibility, they have welcomed responsibility. While it was easy to be daunted by overwhelming challenges, the generation that has served in Iraq has overcome every test before them. <p>They took to the skies and sped across deserts in the initial charge into Baghdad. And today we're joined by an infantryman who was there as part of the 101st Airborne Division: Sergeant Nicholas Bernardi is here. <p>When invasion gave way to insurgency, our troops persevered, block by block, city by city, from Baghdad to Fallujah. As a driver in a transportation company, this soldier endured constant attacks, but never waivered in his mission, and we thank Sergeant Dan Knabe. Thank you, Dan.<p>When terrorists and militias plunged Iraq into sectarian war, our troops adapted and adjusted, restoring order and effectively defeating Al Qaida in Iraq on the battlefield. And among those who served in those pivotal days was a scout with the 1st Cavalry Division, Specialist Matt Seidl. Matt. <p>For each of these men and women, there are countless others. And we honor them all: our young enlisted troops and noncommissioned officers who are the backbone of our military; the National Guardsmen and reservists who served in unprecedented deployments; more women tested by combat than in any war in American history, including a marine here today, Sergeant Patricia Ruiz. Patricia. I teased Patricia. I said she looks like she's still in high school. [<i>Laughter</i>] But she's a marine. <p>And we salute the families back home. They too have sacrificed in this war. That's why my wife Michelle and the Vice President's wife, Dr. Jill Biden, have made it their mission to make sure America takes care of our remarkable military families, including our veterans.<p>Now, this summer, tens of thousands of our troops in Iraq are coming home. Last week, Vice President Biden was at Fort Drum to help welcome back members of the legendary 10th Mountain Division. Families are being reunited at bases across the country, from Fort Bragg in North Carolina to Fort Riley in Kansas to Fort Lewis in Washington. And in this season of homecomings, every American can show their gratitude to our patriots who served in Iraq.<p>As we do, we are humbled by the profound sacrifice that has been rendered. Each of the veterans I have mentioned carried with them the wounds of this war. And as a nation, we will honor forever all who gave their lives--that last true measure of devotion--in service in Iraq: soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, coastguardsmen, Active, Guard, Reserve.<p>Even as we end the war in Iraq, even as we welcome home so many of our troops, others are still deployed in Afghanistan. So I want to remind everyone, it was Afghanistan where Al Qaida plotted and trained to murder 3,000 innocent people on 9/11. It is Afghanistan and the tribal regions of Pakistan where terrorists have launched other attacks against us and our allies. And if Afghanistan were to be engulfed by an even wider insurgency, Al Qaida and its terrorist affiliates would have even more space to plan their next attack. And as President of the United States, I refuse to let that happen. <p>The effort in Afghanistan has been long and been difficult. And that's why after years in which the situation had deteriorated, I announced a new strategy last December: a military effort to break the Taliban's momentum and train Afghan forces so that they can take the lead for their security; and a civilian effort to promote good governance and development that improves the lives of the Afghan people; and deeper cooperation with Pakistan to root out terrorists on both sides of the border.<p>We will continue to face huge challenges in Afghanistan. But it's important that the American people know that we are making progress and we are focused on goals that are clear and achievable. <p>On the military front, nearly all the additional forces that I ordered to Afghanistan are now in place. Along with our Afghan and international partners, we are going on the offensive against the Taliban, targeting their leaders, challenging them in regions where they had free reign, and training Afghan National Security Forces. Our thoughts and prayers are with all our troops risking their lives for our safety in Afghanistan. <p>And on the civilian front, we're insisting on greater accountability. And the Afghan Government has taken concrete steps to foster development and combat corruption and to put forward a reintegration plan that allows Afghans to lay down their arms. <p>In Pakistan, we've seen the Government begin to take the fight to violent extremists within its borders, and major blows have been struck against Al Qaida and its leadership, because in this region and beyond, we will tolerate no safe haven for Al Qaida and their extremist allies. We will disrupt, we will dismantle, and we will ultimately defeat Al Qaida. And we will give our troops the resources and the equipment to get the job done and keep our country safe.<p>At the same time, every American who has ever worn the uniform must also know this: Your country is going to take care of you when you come home. Our Nation's commitment to our veterans, to you and your families, is a sacred trust, and to me and my administration, upholding that trust is a moral obligation; it's not just politics.<p>That's why I've charged Secretary Shinseki with building a 21st-century VA. And that includes one of the largest percentage increases to the VA budget in the past 30 years. We are going to cut this deficit that we've got, and I've proposed a freeze on discretionary domestic spending. But what I have not frozen is the spending we need to keep our military strong, our country safe, and our veterans secure. So we're going to keep on making historic commitments to our veterans. <p>For about 200,000 Vietnam vets who may have been exposed to agent orange and who now suffer from three chronic diseases, we're making it easier for you to get the health care and benefits you need. <p>For our Gulf war veterans, we've declared that nine infectious diseases are now presumed to be related to your service in Desert Storm. <p>For our disabled veterans, we've eliminated copays for those of you who are catastrophically disabled. We've kept our promise on concurrent receipt by proposing legislation that would allow severely disabled retirees to receive your military retired pay and your VA disability benefits. It's the right thing to do. <p>We've dramatically increased funding for veterans health care across the board, and that includes improving care for rural veterans and women veterans. For those half-million vets who had lost their eligibility, our Priority 8 veterans, we're restoring your access to VA health care. <p>And since the rumors continue to fly, even though they are wrong, let me say it as clearly as I can: The historic health care reform legislation that I signed into law does not--I repeat, does not--change your veterans benefits. The VA health care benefits that you know and trust are safe, and that includes prosthetics for our disabled veterans. <p>Thanks to advanced appropriations, the delays for funding of veterans medical care are over. And just as those delays were unacceptable, so too are long delays in the claims process. So Secretary Shinseki is working overtime to create a single, lifetime electronic record that our troops and veterans can keep for life. <p>And today I can announce that for the first time ever, veterans will be able to go to the VA web site, click a simple blue button, and download or print your personal health records so you have them when you need them and can share them with your doctors outside of the VA. That's happening this fall. <p>We're hiring thousands of new claims processors to break the backlog once and for all. And to make sure the backlog doesn't come back, we're reforming the claims process itself with new information technologies and a paperless system. <p><i>Audience member.</i> Hallelujah! [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> We got an amen over here. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>As a result of the innovation competition that I announced last summer, our dedicated VA employees suggested more than 10,000 new ways to cut through the redtape and the bureaucracy. And we're already putting dozens of these innovative ideas into action. Additionally, we're enabling more veterans to check the status of their claims online and from their cell phone. <p>As a next step, we're opening this competition to entrepreneurs and academics, so the best minds in America can help us develop the technologies to serve our vets, including those of you with multiple traumatic injuries. And we're going to keep at this until we meet our commitment to cut those backlogs, slash those wait times, and deliver your benefits sooner. This is a priority and we are going to get it done.<p>We're making progress in ending homelessness among our veterans. Today, on any given night, there are about 20,000 fewer veterans on the streets than there were when we took office. But we're not going to be satisfied until every veteran who has fought for America has a home in America. We will not stop. <p>Finally, we're keeping faith with our newest veterans returning from Afghanistan and Iraq. We're offering more of the support and counseling they need to transition back to civilian life. That includes funding the post-9/11 GI bill, which is already helping more than 300,000 veterans and family members pursue their dream of a college education. <p>And for veterans trying to find work in a very tough economy, we're helping with job training and placement. And I've directed the Federal Government to make it a priority to hire more veterans, including disabled veterans. And every business in America needs to know our vets have the training, they've got the skills, they have the dedication: They are ready to work. And our country is stronger when we tap the incredible talents of our veterans. <p>For those coming home injured, we're continuing to direct unprecedented support to our wounded warriors in uniform--more treatment centers, more case managers--delivering the absolute best care available. For those who can, we want to help them get back to where they want to be, with their units. And that includes servicemembers with a disability, who still have so much to offer our military. <p>We're directing unprecedented resources to treating the signature wounds of today's wars: traumatic brain injury and posttraumatic stress disorder. And I recently signed into law the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act. That's a long name, but let me tell you what it does. It not only improves treatment for traumatic brain injury and PTSD, it gives new support to many of the caregivers who put their own lives on hold to care for their loved one. <p>And as so many of you know, PTSD is a pain like no other: the nightmares that keep coming back, the rage that strikes suddenly, the hopelessness that's led too many of our troops and veterans to take their own lives. So today I want to say, in very personal terms, to anyone who is struggling: Don't suffer in silence. It's not a sign of weakness to reach out for support, it's a sign of strength. Your country needs you. We are here for you. We are here to help you stand tall. Don't give up. Reach out. <p>We're making major investments in awareness, outreach, and suicide prevention, hiring more mental health professionals, improving care and treatment. For those of you suffering from PTSD, we're making it a whole lot easier to qualify for VA benefits. From now on, if a VA doctor confirms a diagnosis of posttraumatic stress disorder, that is enough, no matter what war you served in. <p>These are the commitments my administration has made. These are the promises we've worked to keep. This is the sacred trust we have pledged to uphold to you and all who serve. <p>I want to make special mention of a truly inspiring American, Staff Sergeant Cory Remsburg. He was at Bethesda during one of my periodic visits to see our wounded warriors. And as I walked into his room, I saw a picture on the wall, and it was a picture of the two of us together. See, I had met Cory before, back at the D-day anniversary in Normandy. A good-looking young man, a proud Army Ranger, he had joined in a reenactment of that historic paratroop jump. <p>Then soon after, Cory served on his 10th deployment since 9/11--that's right, his 10th deployment. And that's when an IED nearly took his life. The traumatic brain injury was severe. Cory was in a coma for months. It seemed possible that he would never wake up.<p>But then something happened. His doctors still can't explain it. His parents called it a miracle. Cory opened one of his eyes. Then a few weeks later, he moved a leg. Then he moved an arm. <p>And there at Bethesda, we were meeting again. And Cory still couldn't speak, but he looked me in the eye, he lifted his arm, and he shook my hand firmly. And when I asked how he was feeling, he held up his hand, pulled his fingers together and gave a thumbs up. <p>Today, Cory is at a VA hospital in Florida. And with the support of his family and VA staff, he's working hard every day to regain his strength. He's got to learn to speak all over again. He's grateful for the visits he's received from friends and supporters, including the Disabled American Veterans. <p>And Cory is only 27 years old. And he knows he's got a long and very hard road ahead. But he pushes on, and he's determined to get back to his fellow Rangers. And when someone at the hospital said, \\"Cory, you're going to walk out of here someday,\\" he said, \\"No, I'm going to run out of here.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So to Staff Sergeant Cory Remsburg, to the Disabled American Veterans, I want to say to all of you: You are the very essence of America, the values that sustain us as a people, and the virtues our Nation needs most right now. And the resilience that, in the face of great loss, so many of you experienced, I know you, like Cory, know what it means to pick yourselves up and keep pushing on. <p>And that sense of purpose that tells us to carry on, not just when it's easy, but when it's hard, even when the odds seem overwhelming, that's what we're about. The confidence that our destiny is never written for us, it's written by us. The faith, that fundamental American faith that there are always brighter days ahead and that we will not simply endure, but we will emerge from our tests and trials and tribulations stronger than before, that is your story. That is America's story. And I'm proud to stand with you as we write the next proud chapter in the life of the country we love.<p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"217" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody.<p><i>Senator Bennet.</i> Mr. President.<p><i>The President.</i> How are you?<p><i>Sen. Bennet.</i> I'm not going to take any of your time. Thank you for--I'm doing great. How are you?<p><i>The President.</i> I'm great.<p><i>Sen. Bennet.</i> Good, thanks for joining us. And I'll turn it over to you.<p><i>The President.</i> Well, look, everybody, it's great to talk to you. And by the way, I enjoyed Michael's answer on education. He was right on point. And I want to thank all of you for joining us on this call tonight.<p>You know, Michael arrived in Washington just as I took office as President, and this was one of the toughest times in our country's history. We'd just gone through nearly a decade of economic policies that weren't working for ordinary families. It culminated in the worst recession of our lifetimes. And so what we needed were leaders who were willing to stand up to the status quo and the special interests and start moving this country in a new direction. <p>And Michael has been that kind of leader. He's been a breath of fresh air in a town with a lot of hot air. And one of the things that I've discovered in Washington is there are basically two kinds of people who go into politics. There are folks who want to be something, and then there are folks who run because they want to do something, because they care about something bigger than themselves. And that's Michael.<p>He could have lived a comfortable life. Instead, he's devoted himself to every assignment he's undertaken to make a positive difference for his community and for the people of Colorado.<p>We saw that when he turned around Denver's public schools, fighting for change and reform, making sure that young people got the opportunity they deserve. All across this country, people who care about school reform admire and know what Michael did in Denver, so he's become the go-to guy for reforming America's public schools in Congress. And he stood up in the Senate again and again these past 18 months on a whole host of issues related to opening up opportunity. <p>So he stood up to the insurance lobbies to help pass reforms that finally make health insurance affordable and stop people from getting insurance because of preexisting conditions. <p>He stood up against big corporations that are getting tax breaks for offshoring, when we should actually be giving tax breaks to companies that create jobs here in the United States; stood up to credit card companies that were taking advantage of people with hidden fees and unfair rate hikes, and mortgage lenders who tricked families into buying homes they couldn't afford; and was one of the key people who I needed to make sure we passed Wall Street reform to prevent another financial crisis.<p>So Michael has been as good of a Senator as I expected him to be when I first met him and he was still head of the public schools out in Denver. And I know there have been a lot of negative ads running against Michael in the last few weeks, which is sort of politics as usual. But when he came to Washington, he came to get things done and not just play the usual political games. And he's running a campaign that we can be proud of. He's a public servant that we can be proud of. We need more folks like Michael in Washington. <p>And so the main reason I'm on this call is to make sure that everybody who's listening is thinking not just about the next election but about the next generation. That's how Michael approaches his job. And if you're already supporting Michael, we need you to help in these final weeks, this final week, to knock on doors and make phone calls to everyone you know to get out the vote. And if you're still trying to figure out what to do, I want you to support him, because Michael is somebody who has stood up on behalf of you, and we need to stand up on his behalf right now.<p>So I just want to say thank you to all of you for taking the time to join us. Thanks for staying engaged and interested. We need people who are involved in this process now more than ever. We've accomplished an incredible amount over the last 18 months, but we've got a lot more work to do. And Michael is the person that I want alongside me when we do it.<p>So make sure, guys, to go out there and cast your ballots for Michael. And I know that he's going to be one of the best Senators that Colorado's ever had. All right?<p><i>Sen. Bennet.</i> Thank you, Mr. President. We deeply appreciate your taking the time to be on the call with everybody and everything you're doing. Let's see if we can't get Elena Kagan confirmed this week.<p><i>The President.</i> Oh, I think we're going to get her confirmed. And after that we're just going to keep on going to make sure that we create the kind of economy that's working for all Americans. <p>So thanks for everything, Michael. Bye-bye.<p><i>Sen. Bennet.</i> All right, thank you.\" "
"218" "\"Thank you. Please, have a seat. <p>Thank you very much, Senator Burris, and hello, everybody. Welcome to the White House, I want to start by recognizing the very proud Members of Congress who are joining us to help celebrate a few of their outstanding constituents. So thank you all for coming. <p>We are here to recognize--and this is one of my favorite events that I do every year--we're here to recognize winners of the Citizens Medal. This is one of the highest honors a President can bestow. For 40 years, this medal has been given to men and women who have \\"performed exemplary deeds of service for their country or their fellow citizens.\\" And their lives stand as shining examples of what it means to be an American. Today we've got an opportunity to tell their stories, to say thank you, and to offer them a small token of our appreciation. <p>Now, at first glance, the honorees behind me don't seem to have too much in common, although I did point out that the guys are outnumbered--[<i>laughter</i>]--which tells you something about who really gets stuff done in the neighborhoods. [<i>Laughter</i>] But they are mothers and fathers, nurses and bus drivers, veterans and immigrants. They come from different backgrounds, and they hail from every corner of our country. But what unites these citizens, what makes them special, is the determination they share, to right a wrong, to see a need and then meet it, to recognize when others are suffering and take it upon themselves to make a difference.<p>When they saw a veteran in need of proper care or a teenage mom who could use a helping hand, they didn't just shake their heads and keep on walking. They didn't write it off as another example of life not being fair. Instead, they saw it as a problem to solve, a challenge to meet, a call to action that they could not ignore.<p>So just to give a few examples here: When Jorge Munoz saw homeless men gathered on a street corner with nothing to eat, he could have rolled up his window and driven away. Instead, he came home from his job as a school bus driver and started cooking hot meals for anyone who was hungry. These days, the \\"Angel of Queens\\" feeds over 100 people every night, rain or shine. And Jorge says, \\"You have to see their smile. That's what I get paid.\\"<p>Or, Susan Retik's husband was killed when his plane was flown into the World Trade Center on September 11th. And nobody would have blamed Susan if she had turned inward with grief or with anger. But that isn't who she is. So instead, she and another widow started Beyond the 11th, and this is a group that empowers Afghan widows affected by war and terrorism. And Susan says, \\"These women are not our enemy.\\"<p>So for Jorge and Susan and the rest of today's honorees, the words \\"not my problem\\" don't exist. Instead, they ask themselves, \\"If I don't help this person, who will?\\" They recognize that no matter how difficult their lives may be, no matter how daunting their own challenges may seem, someone else will always have it harder than they do. There will always be a more important cause to fight for.<p>For these men and women, serving others isn't just the right thing to do, it's the obvious thing to do. They may not be rich or powerful in the traditional sense. But they believe that those of us with a roof over our heads, with loved ones to go home to, with food in our stomachs and strength in our limbs, have been blessed. And in return, it's our duty to use those gifts to reach out to those who aren't so lucky.<p>This humility and this selflessness has always been a part of the American story. From the patriots who have worn our Nation's uniform to everyday Americans who have marched and fought and raised their voices to help perfect our Union, it's no coincidence that our founding document begins with the words, \\"We the People.\\" Ours is a nation founded on the power and freedom of individuals, but also on the belief that I am my brother's keeper and I am my sister's keeper, and that only if we look out for one another can we all move forward together.<p>As Lisa Nigro, another one of today's honorees, said, \\"Once you find a common bond in your humanity, you start to see the less fortunate as people--not 'them' or 'those' people, they are you and me.\\" That was the idea behind the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act, the landmark piece of legislation that I signed into law last year. And together with the work of the Corporation of National and Community Service, as well as the Office of Social Innovation, it's giving more Americans the opportunity to serve others and help address our greatest challenges. And I want to thank Patrick Corvington and Melody Barnes for their leadership. Because we know that real change does not come from Washington, it comes from the grassroots, from men and women in communities all across the country working together to make a difference. <p>In the end, that's what service is all about. It's not about the recognition or the awards--and it's obviously not about the money. [<i>Laughter</i>] To quote George Weiss, who's being honored here today: \\"We don't do it for the notoriety. We do it because we felt it has to be done.\\" And that's why it is my hope that if this award serves a purpose, it will be to inspire more Americans to open their hearts, to strengthen their communities, and to follow the example of these amazing men and women who are here today. <p>So congratulations to all of the winners of the Citizens Medal. I've got some military aides here, and one of them is going to read the citations and I am going to get the medals to present to each of our honorees. With that, let's get started.<p>[<i>At this point, Maj. Barrett M. Bernard, USA, Army Aide to the President, read the citations, and the President presented the medals.</i>]<p>Well, you see why this is one of my favorite ceremonies? [<i>Laughter</i>] I want to thank all of you for joining us to honor these remarkable people. None of them asked for this award. They didn't apply for it. Instead they were nominated by the men and women all across the country whose lives they have touched. And even though their names may not be well-known--at least not until today--[<i>laughter</i>]--they are heroes to those who need it the most. <p>And together, they remind us that we all have a purpose on this Earth that goes beyond our own lives and our own individual needs. And they teach us that no matter what challenges we face, we each have the power to make the world a better place. So congratulations to all of you. We are better as a country as a consequence of your ordinary--extraordinary service. And you exemplify what it means to be a citizen of the United States of America. We're grateful. <p>Thank you all for coming.\" "
"219" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. Thank you. <p>It is good to spend my birthday with some good friends. [<i>Laughter</i>] And as I look around the room, there are very few of you who I haven't, in some form or fashion, worked directly with on an issue, some of you dating back to when I was in the State legislature, some of you who I've worked with in the United States Senate, and all of you who I've had the opportunity to work with as President of the United States. <p>So I am grateful. And I want to first of all thank Rich, not only for inviting me here, not only for, I know, making clear my commitment to all of you during an earlier session today, but also for your outstanding leadership of the labor movement. And we very much appreciate everything that you do.<p>I want to thank Liz and Arlene for bucking up Rich all the time--[<i>laughter</i>]--and making him look good. This is a shared leadership, and we are very proud of them. I want to thank all the members of the executive council, all my brothers and sisters in the AFL-CIO. <p>Together, you are fighting for the hard-working men and women in this country after nearly 10 years of struggle. The middle class has been struggling now for about a decade, 10 years in which folks felt the sting of stagnant incomes and sluggish job growth and declining economic security, as well as at least 8 years in which there was a profound animosity towards the notion of unions. <p>It's going to take some time to reverse all that's been done, but we're on the right track. We're moving forward. And that's what I'm going to want to talk to you about briefly today. <p>I hope you don't mind me interjecting, though, a topic, because it's in the news right now and I want to make sure that all of you are aware of it. <p>One place in our country where people have faced particular struggles in the last few months is in the Gulf of Mexico, as a result of the BP oil spill. So it was very welcome news when we learned overnight that efforts to stop the well through what's called a static kill appear to be working and that a report out today by our scientists show that the vast majority of the spilled oil has been dispersed or removed from the water. So the long battle to stop the leak and contain the oil is finally close to coming to an end. And we are very pleased with that. <p>Our recovery efforts, though, will continue. We have to reverse the damage that's been done. We will continue to work to hold polluters accountable for the destruction they've caused. We've got to make sure that folks who were harmed are reimbursed, and we're going to stand by the people of the region, however long it takes, until they're back on their feet.<p>Now, beyond the Gulf, many of those who've been hit hardest by the economic upheaval of recent years have been the people that you represent. For generations, manufacturing was the ticket to a better life for the American worker. But as the world became smaller, outsourcing, an easier way to increase profits, a lot of those jobs shifted to low-wage nations. So many who held those jobs went to work in the construction industry, as we had the housing boom. But when the subprime mortgage crisis hit, when those mortgages were called up on Wall Street, that bubble burst, leaving devastation everywhere. <p>So now we've got millions of our fellow Americans swept up in that disaster, hard-working people who've been left to sit idle for months and even years as their lives have been turned upside down.<p>And there's one last element to it, obviously. Having been plunged into a recession, it also means that teachers and firefighters and people who are providing public services each and every day are threatened because tax revenues at the State level and at the local levels have crashed. And so you have a perfect economic storm that's hit our middle class directly in every region, every segment of this country. <p>You know the stories; I don't need to tell you. You know what happens when a plant closes and hundreds of your members are suddenly without work and an entire community is devastated. You know how hard it is for somebody who's worked his whole life to be unable to find a job. And that pain goes beyond just the financial pain. It goes to who they are as a person. It hits them in their gut. Having a conversation with your spouse and saying, you know, maybe we can't afford this house anymore; maybe we're going to have to give up on being able to save for our kids' college education--that goes directly to people's identities, to their cores. And this is something that all of you know all too well.<p>But I'm here to tell you, we are not giving up and we are not giving in. We are going to keep fighting for an economy that works for everybody, not just for a privileged few. We want an economy that rewards, once again, people who work hard and fulfill their responsibilities, not just people who game the system. And that's been at the heart of the economic plan that we put in place over the past year and a half. <p>And I want to thank the AFL-CIO for all you've done to fight for jobs, to fight for tax cuts for the middle class, to fight for reforms that will rein in the special interests, and to fight for policies that aren't just going to rebuild this economy, but are actually going to put us on a long-term path of sustainable growth that is good for all Americans. <p>Because of you, we've been able to get a lot done over the last 20 months. Together, we're jump-starting a new American clean energy industry, an industry with the potential to generate perhaps millions of jobs building wind turbines and solar panels and manufacturing the batteries for the cars of the future, building nuclear plants, developing clean coal technology. There are other countries that are fighting for those jobs, in China and India and in Germany and other parts of Europe. But the United States doesn't play for second place. As long as I'm President, I'm going to keep fighting night and day to make sure that we win those jobs, that those are jobs that are created right here in the United States of America, and that your members are put to work.<p>So the message I want to deliver to our competitors and to those in Washington who've tried to block our progress at every step of the way is that we are going to rebuild this economy stronger than before, and at the heart of it are going to be three powerful words: Made in America. Made in America. <p>That's why we're finally enforcing our trade laws, in some cases for the very first time. That's why we're fighting for tax breaks for companies that invest here in the United States as opposed to companies that are investing overseas or that keep their profits offshore. Because it is my belief--and I know it's the belief of this room--that there are no better workers than U.S. workers. There are no better workers than your members. And they are absolutely committed to making sure that America is on the rise again. And we are going to keep moving forward with them, not moving backwards, but moving forward with them. <p>As we rebuild our economy, we're going to rebuild America as well. Over the last 20 months, bulldozers and backhoes have been whirring in communities across the country, as construction crews from local companies repair roads and bridges, railways, and ports. That was part of our plan, and it's put hundreds of thousands of folks to work. But there's a lot more to do to rebuild our infrastructure for the 21st century and a lot more Americans who are ready and willing to do that work. So that too is an area where we've got to keep moving forward.<p>We're going to have to cut taxes for middle class families, and after a tough fight, we finally extended emergency unemployment assistance for folks who had lost their jobs. We passed the Fair Pay Act to help put a stop to pay discrimination. We've reversed the Executive orders of the last administration that were designed to undermine organized labor. I've appointed folks who actually are fulfilling their responsibilities to make sure our workplaces are safe, whether in a mine or in an office, a factory, or anyplace else. And we are going to keep on fighting to pass the Employee Free Choice Act. <p>With your help, we passed health reform, enshrining the idea that everybody in America should be able to get decent health care and shouldn't go bankrupt when they get sick, health reform that is preventing insurers from denying and dropping people's coverage, that's lowering the price of prescription drugs for our seniors. It's going to make health care more affordable for everybody, including businesses, which means they can hire more workers.<p>Together, we passed Wall Street reform to protect consumers in our financial system and put an end to taxpayer bailouts and stop the abuses that almost dragged our economy into another Great Depression. <p>Now, the steps we're taking are making a difference, but the fact is--and Rich mentioned this--it took us nearly a decade to dig ourselves into the hole that we're in. It's going to take a lot longer than any of us would like to climb out of that hole. And I'd be lying to you if I thought that all these changes are going to be happening overnight. We've still got some tough times ahead. And your members obviously are bearing the brunt of a lot of those tough times.<p>But here's what we're not going to do: We're not going to go back to digging the hole. We're not going to go back to the policies that took Bill Clinton's surplus and in 8 years turned it into record deficits. We're not going back to policies that saw people working harder and harder, but falling further and further behind. We're not going back to policies that gave corporate special interests free rein to write their own rules and produced the greatest economic crisis in generations. We are not going back to those ideas. <p>Because as hard as it is out there right now for a lot of folks, as far as we've got to go, what's clear is that our Nation is headed in the right direction. Our economy is growing again instead of shrinking. We're adding jobs in the private sector instead of losing them. America is moving forward. <p>And we're moving forward largely without any help from the opposition party, a party that has voted no on just about every turn: no on making college more affordable, no on clean energy jobs, no on broadband, no on high-speed rail, no on water and highway projects. That doesn't stop them from showing up at the ribbon cuttings. It doesn't stop them from sending out press releases. They've even said no to tax cuts for small businesses and 95 percent of working families. They just said no to a small-business tax cut again just last week. <p>As we speak, they've been trying to block an emergency measure to save the jobs of police officers and firefighters and teachers and other critical public servants across the country who may be laid off because of State and local budget cuts. <p>And as if that was not enough, now they're talking about repealing this and repealing that. I guess they want to go back to hidden credit card fees and mortgage penalties buried in the fine print. They want to go back to a system that allowed for taxpayer bailouts. They want to go back to allowing insurance companies to discriminate against people based on preexisting conditions. They would repeal the tax cuts for small businesses that provide health care for their employees. They want to go backwards; we want to move America forward. <p>And that's what the choice is going to be in this upcoming election, and all your members need to understand it. I know if you're talking to a lot of your locals, I'm sure they're feeling like, boy, change is not happening fast enough; we are still hurting out here. They're frustrated. They've got every right to be frustrated. And I am happy, as President of the United States, to take responsibility for making decisions now that are going to put us in a stronger position down the road. And they need to know that, that we're going to be working with you to make sure that we're putting ourselves in a position where folks are working and working for a good wage and good benefits. <p>But you have to remind them for the next 3 months, this election is a choice. You've got these folks who drove America's economy into a ditch. And for the last 20 months, we put on our boots and we got into the mud and we've been shoving that car out of the ditch inch by inch. And they've been standing on the side the whole time watching, telling us, \\"No, you're not pushing hard enough; you're not doing it the right way,\\" not lifting a finger to help. And now we've finally got that car up on the blacktop there, about to drive, and they say they want the keys back. Well, you can't have the keys, because you don't know how to drive. [<i>Laughter</i>] You don't know how to drive. You're not going to get the keys back. [<i>Laughter</i>] You're not going to get them back.<p>Somebody pointed out to me that when you're in a car and you want to go forward, you put it in \\"D.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] You want to go back in the ditch, you put it on \\"R.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] So I just want everybody to think about that. <p>All right, let me close by saying this. A few weeks ago, I had the opportunity to visit--not a few weeks ago, just a few days ago--I had the opportunity to visit a Chrysler plant in Detroit. This is a place obviously that's been harder hit than just about anywhere, not just during this financial crisis, but for a couple of decades now. The auto industry alone lost hundreds of thousands of jobs in the year before I took office. So we had to make a very difficult decision when I became President about whether to walk away from American automakers or help them get back on their feet. <p>And I decided we couldn't walk away from what could be a million middle class jobs. So we told the automakers that we would give them temporary assistance if they restructured to make themselves competitive for the 21st century. And most of the \\"just say no\\" crowd in Washington didn't agree with this decision. And let's face it: It was not popular in the polls. A lot of people weren't happy with that decision. But today, all three U.S. automakers are operating at a profit for the first time in more than 5 years. They've had the strongest job growth in more than 10 years; 55,000 workers have been hired. Instead of a planned shutdown, the plant that I was at is staying open this summer just to meet increased demand. They've even added another shift.<p>Now, just a few weeks before I visited that auto plant, 14 of its employees won the lottery. This is a true story. Now, you'd think they would have decided to retire, cash out, walk away. But most of them didn't. They're staying on their jobs. And the guy who bought the ticket was a guy named William Shanteau, took the money, and he bought his wife one of the Jeep Cherokees that they make at the plant. And then he bought a bunch of American flags for his hometown because he loves his country, just like he loves the company that he works for and the workers that he works with and the union that represents him. And he's going to keep on showing up every day because he loves that plant, he loves his coworkers, and he loves the idea of making something right here in the United States that's worth something. He loves the idea of being productive and creating something of value for people. <p>That's the true character of our people. That's been the essence of the AFL-CIO. That's why even in these difficult times, I remain confident about our future, because of people like that, because of the workers that I meet all across this country, members of your unions who get up every morning and put in a hard day's work to build a company, build a future, support their families. <p>As Americans, they don't give up. They don't quit. I don't give up. I don't quit. The AFL-CIO does not give up. It does not quit. If we stand together, then I am absolutely confident that we are going to rebuild America, not just to where it was before this financial crisis, but stronger than it has ever been. That is a commitment that I am making to you. Thank you for the commitment that you've made to me. God bless you. Thank you, guys. [<i>Applause</i>] Thank you. <p><i>AFL-CIO President Richard L. Trumka.</i> Mr. President, on behalf of our full executive council, first of all, let me thank you for sharing your special day with us, and let us wish you again a happy birthday. <p>Two, let us thank you for all that you've done for every working American out there. I know you're pressed for time----<p><i>The President.</i> I'm a little disappointed there wasn't a cake, though. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm going to have to talk to Secret Service about that. <p><i>Mr. Trumka.</i> You've got to talk to those guys, because they nixed the cake.<p><i>The President.</i> They're probably eating it right now. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Mr. Trumka.</i> They are. They got it all over them. Do you see the guy back there----<p><i>The President.</i> That's some good cake.<p><i>Mr. Trumka.</i> He has a little bit on him----<p><i>The President.</i> Had some frosting on his--I noticed that, all right. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Mr. Trumka.</i> We know you only have time for one question. Mr. President, when I was a working coal miner, I understood from personal experience how my parents and my grandparents formed a union and changed coal mining from a life-threatening journey through poverty into reasonably safe and well-paid jobs. Now, so many Americans now work in bad jobs--jobs with no benefits, jobs with--that don't pay a living wage, jobs that aren't safe, jobs where they have no voice.<p>Now, we're going into a congressional election 3 months from today, and I think it's fair to say that workers' hopes for congressional action to protect workers' rights and to create jobs have been frustrated by a Republican minority that has filibustered every matter in front of them, every single thing that's been good for us.<p>I just want to ask you, what advice do you have for workers as the election approaches, particularly for workers who are trying to organize to have a voice on the job?<p><i>The President.</i> Well, you guys don't need advice from me, but let me tell you what I see out there. We were hurt by this recession, badly hurt. This is going to take some time to recover. Unemployment is at unacceptably high levels. <p>But as I said before, we'd had challenges before the crisis hit. A lot of your membership had been hurting long before, partly because we just live in a more competitive world. There's nothing we can do about that; that's just the truth. But a lot of it also had to do with the fact that we put policies in place that were not good for working families. There's a reason why incomes, wages, were stagnant for average workers, even while the costs were going up. And part of it had to do with the fact that we had a philosophy that said that providing help to workers, allowing them to collectively bargain, allowing them to negotiate for better benefits, that that all was something of the past, instead of something we need for the future.<p>So on the one hand, I think everybody here understands we've got to be competitive in America. We've got to have competitive price structures. We've got to make the best products possible. Workers have to be invested in trying to help the companies they work for succeed. With respect to public employees, we've all got to work together to make sure that whatever we're doing, whether it's as firefighters or as teachers or postal workers, whatever it is, that we're providing the best possible service. I think everybody understands that there's no operation in the United States of America that shouldn't be efficient and effective in doing what it does.<p>But it is my profound belief that companies are stronger when their workers are getting paid well and have decent benefits and are treated with dignity and respect. It is my profound belief that our Government works best when it's not being run on behalf of special interests, but it's being run on behalf of the public interest, and that the dedication of public servants reflects that.<p>So FDR, I think, said--he was asked once what he thought about unions. He said, \\"If I was a worker in a factory and I wanted to improve my life, I would join a union.\\" Well, I tell you what. I think that's true for workers generally. I think if I was a coal miner, I'd want a union representing me to make sure that I was safe and you did not have some of the tragedies that we've been seeing in the coal industry. If I was a teacher, I'd want a union to make sure that the teachers' perspective was represented as we think about shaping an education system for our future. <p>And that's why my administration has consistently implemented not just legislative strategies, but also where we have the power through Executive orders to make sure that those basic values are reflected. <p>I'm not telling anybody anything you don't know. Getting EFCA through a Senate is going to be tough. It's always been tough; it will continue to be tough. We'll keep on pushing. But our work doesn't stop there. I mean, there's a reason why we nominated people to the National Mediation Board that would ensure that folks in the rail industry and in the air industry were going to end up having a better deal. <p>We are going to make sure that the National Labor Relations Board is restored to have some balance so that if workers want to form a union, they can at least get a fair vote in a reasonable amount of time. And we don't want, by the way, Government dollars going in to pay for union busting. That's not something that we believe in. That's not right. That tilts the playing field in an unfair way. <p>So you're going to have an administration that's working alongside you. There are going to be times where we want to get something done and we can't get it done, at least not immediately, and we're going to just keep on at it. I think people have started to figure out I'm a persistent son of a gun. [<i>Laughter</i>] I just stay on things if I think they're the right thing to do. And we should be looking for opportunities, by the way, to make sure that the labor movement is, wherever possible, finding common ground with the business community, because I want America as a whole to be competitive. <p>One of the problems that we've had over the last decade is that so often the business community sees labor as the problem, and their basic attitude is, well, you know what, we'll just go to wherever we don't have any problems with labor and we can pay them the lowest wages and the fewest benefits, and then just ship the stuff back here, and our profits will be good. But over time, that hollows out America and hollows out our middle class. That makes us weaker, not stronger.<p>Now, on the other hand, when business and labor are working together, then we can compete against anybody and we can knock down trade barriers in other countries and we can start selling products around the world. And we make great products in this country. We've got the best workers in the world, the best universities in the world. We've got the most dynamic economy in the world. We have the freest market system in the world. And all those things give us a huge competitive advantage if we're all working together.<p>So my bottom line is this: I'm going to continue to work with all of you on behalf of working families around the country, and I'm going to continue to reach out to businesses to try to make the argument that what's good for workers is going to be good for business. They're your customers as well as your workers. And if they've got a decent living standard, that's lifting the entire economy up. And they're going to be buying more products, and they're going to be buying more services. And all of us are going to be growing together. And the 21st century is going to end up being the American century, just like the 20th century was.<p>But we're not going to be able to do it when we're pitted against each other. And I'm actually confident that once we get through some of the political posturing and shenanigans that we've been seeing over the last several years, people are going to step back and say, you know what, the lesson we needed to learn out of hardship is: We're all in this thing together. We are all in this thing together.<p>That's what the union movement's always been about. We're stronger together than we are on our own. That is true within individual unions. That is true within industries; that is true for the country as a whole. And I hope that I will be your partner in trying to bring about that unity of purpose in the years to come.<p>All right. Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless America.\" "
"220" "\"Good afternoon. I am very pleased that the Senate has just voted to confirm Elena Kagan as our Nation's 112th Supreme Court Justice. And I want to thank the Senate Judiciary Committee, particularly its chairman, Senator Leahy, for giving her a full, fair, and timely hearing. <p>Over the past 2 months, the committee has scrutinized Elena's record as a scholar, as a law school dean, as a Presidential adviser, and as Solicitor General. And after 17 hours of testimony, during which she answered more than 540 questions, I'd say they got a pretty good look at Elena Kagan. They've gotten a sense of her formidable intelligence, her rich understanding of our Constitution, her commitment to the rule of law, and her excellent--and occasionally irreverent--sense of humor. And they have come to understand why, throughout her career, she has earned the respect and admiration of folks from across the political spectrum, an achievement reflected in today's bipartisan vote. <p>But today's vote wasn't just an affirmation of Elena's intellect and accomplishments. It was also an affirmation of her character and her temperament, her openmindedness and evenhandedness, her determination to hear all sides of every story and consider all possible arguments. Because Elena understands that the law isn't just an abstraction or an intellectual exercise. She knows that the Supreme Court's decisions shape not just the character of our democracy, but the circumstances of our daily lives--or as she once put it, that \\"behind the law there are stories--stories of people's lives as shaped by the law, stories of people's lives as might be changed by law.\\" <p>So I am confident that Elena Kagan will make an outstanding Supreme Court Justice. And I'm proud also of the history we're making with her appointment. For nearly two centuries, there wasn't a single woman on our Nation's highest court. When Elena takes her seat on that bench, for the first time in our history, there will be three women. <p>It is, as Ruth Bader Ginsburg recently stated, \\"one of the most exhilarating developments,\\" a sign of progress that I relish not just as a father who wants limitless possibilities for my two daughters, but as an American proud that our Supreme Court will be more inclusive, more representative, and more reflective of us as a people than ever before.<p>Thanks very much, everybody.\" "
"221" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Chicago! Hello, hello, hello! What's going on? Thank you, everybody. And listen, it is good to see everybody. I appreciate everybody way back there. Hello, hello! <p>We--it is wonderful to be here. There are a couple of special guests I want to mention here before we get started. First of all, we got the Governor of the great State of Illinois, Pat Quinn. Give it up for Pat. Got one of the finest mayors in the country, Mayor Richard Daley is in the house. Our treasurer and soon-to-be United States Senator, Alexi Giannoulias, is here. A number of outstanding Members of Congress who've been very supportive of the auto industry: Congressman Jesse Jackson, Jr.; Congressman Bobby Rush; Congressman Danny Davis; Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky; Congressman Mike Quigley. <p>We've got Fred Hochberg of the--who's the chairman and President of the Export-Import Bank, which is going to help Ford sell all these outstanding cars overseas, not just here in the United States. And your own president, Mark Fields, is in the house. Give it up. <p>So it is good to be back in Chicago. It's good to see some friendly faces, be back in the old neighborhoods. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Happy birthday!<p><i>The President.</i> Thank you. I've gotten a little more gray hair since I was last down here. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it is wonderful to be back home.<p>Now, don't get me wrong, the White House is nice. And I've got a really short commute from my office to the house. I don't have to drive too far. And there's no greater honor than being your President. But let me tell you something: There's nothing like coming home, especially when your home is Chicago. <p>And I just had a chance to tour this extraordinary plant to see the great work that you're doing here. I notice that Mark and everybody, they put all the White Sox fans in front for me to meet. I didn't see a lot of Cubs guys on the line or Cardinals fans. <p>But this plant has a remarkable history. Henry Ford built it. Henry Ford built this plant in 1924 to manufacture the Model T. When the Great Depression struck and 25 Ford plants closed down, this one stayed open. When World War II was raging, this plant was churning out armored vehicles that helped make victory possible. In the 1990s, workers at this plant built the best-selling car in America 5 years in a row. <p>So this plant is part of American history. For nearly nine decades, this plant has been the backbone of this community. There are workers here whose fathers worked on this line--I just met one while I was on my way over here--whose fathers' fathers worked on this line. This plant, like the entire industry, has been a source of deep pride for generations of American workers whose imaginations and hard work led to some of the finest cars that the world has ever known and whose sweat helped build up the middle class that lifted up the dreams of millions of people all across America.<p>This plant has stood through the good times, when American auto industry ruled the world, and in the not-so-good times, when the future of the auto industry was very much in doubt.<p>And let's face it: We've seen some of those not-so-good times in recent years. The year before I took office, this industry lost hundreds of thousands of jobs. Sales plunged 40 percent--40 percent. When the financial crisis hit and this great recession hit, that collided with an industry that for a long time had put off some hard choices, had put off adapting to changing times. And we had to face a hard, unimaginable reality, which was two of the Big Three automakers, GM and Chrysler, were on the brink of liquidation. If that had happened, more than 1 million jobs could have been lost, and that would have been a devastating blow to the entire economy.<p>Now, Ford was in better financial shape and was able to weather the storm without Federal assistance. That's a testament to the hard work you all do and the choices this company made. But I don't have to tell you--and your CEO will--has said this publicly--if your competitors had gone down, they would have taken down a whole bunch of the suppliers you depend on. The brand of American autos would have diminished. That would have had severe consequences for Ford. And that's the challenge we faced when I took office: an industry that was on the brink.<p>Now, there were a lot of folks who were ready to write off the American auto industry, who thought we should just have walked away from you. Some still think that today. But you know what, that's not how you build a better future. That's not how you build a better America. We don't give up. The United States does not quit. We always compete. That's what we do. And that's what we're doing with the U.S. auto industry. <p>So I refused to walk away from this industry and American jobs. I put my faith in the American worker. I believe the American worker is the best worker in the world. And if we were willing to work hard together and rebuild and sacrifice in the short term, it would be a new beginning for a great American industry. If we could just get a sense of common purpose, we could once again see the best cars in the world designed, engineered, forged right here in Chicago, right here in the Midwest, right here in the United States of America. <p>So I tell you what. Last Friday, I stood with workers at a GM plant. I stood with workers at a Chrysler plant. Today I'm standing with workers at a Ford plant. I put my money on the American worker. I'd place my bets on the American worker any day of the week. And because of your efforts and the sacrifice that have been made across this industry over the past year, this industry is growing stronger. It's creating new jobs. It's manufacturing the fuel-efficient cars and trucks that will carry America towards an energy-independent future. Each and every one of you is proving the naysayers wrong.<p>All three automakers--all three U.S. automakers--are now operating at a profit. That's the first time it's happened in 6 years. America's automakers have added 55,000 jobs since last June. That's the best job growth in more than 10 years in this industry. Sales have rebounded. Automakers are keeping plants open through the usual summer shutdown to keep up with demand. Across the supply chain, plants that would not exist without the sacrifices made across industry are running at max or near-full capacity. <p>And this plant, right here, is shifting into higher gear. What I said last year was if American automakers were willing to make the tough choices necessary to make them more competitive in the future, America would stand by them. And one thing we did was put in place a new national fuel efficiency standard for all new cars and trucks sold in America. This was good for consumers, it was good for the environment, and it finally gave our automakers the certainty they needed to plan for the future, a future where American workers build 21st-century cars that the world wants to buy.<p>So Ford dedicated itself to increasing fuel efficiency of more than a dozen of its models. And the Department of Energy awarded Ford a 2-year loan commitment to help make that happen. And Ford used that loan to retool this factory to build the next-generation Explorer. That's a model that will be up to 30 percent more fuel efficient. <p>Now, I should add, by the way, my most recent car was a Ford. I had one of those Ford Escapes, and that was a spiffy car. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, I have to admit that I bought it about 2 months before I got Secret Service--[<i>laughter</i>]--and they wouldn't let me drive anymore. [<i>Laughter</i>] So it only had like 2,000 miles after 5 years, but I really enjoyed those 2,000 miles. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But I just got in that Explorer and that's an outstanding car. And over the next 2 months, this plant will bring on a second shift of 1,200 workers to build that Explorer, nearly doubling your workforce. That's not just good for this plant, that's good for the stamping plant in Chicago Heights; it's good for the suppliers, who are investing in new facilities and adding shifts and hiring more than 600 workers in Illinois and Indiana and Michigan; it's good for the entire community; it's good for the city; it's good for the State.<p>And Ford's also committed to selling more of the cars you build around the world, including the Explorer that you manufacture right here. We're going to sell it in up to 90 countries. <p>So today, to support those efforts, my administration is announcing a new $250 million Export-Import Bank loan guarantee for Ford. And what this does is this helps Ford export--this will help Ford export more than 200,000 cars and trucks overseas, and that means more production and more manufacturing jobs right here in the United States of America. <p>And it's going to help us reach the goal that I set in my State of the Union Address, which is, we are going to double America's exports of goods and services over the next 5 years. We're tired of just buying from everybody else; we want to start selling to other people, because we know we can compete. <p>That's how we're going to grow our economy. That's how we're going to support millions of good jobs for American workers to do what they've always done: build great products and sell them around the world. Our workers can compete with anybody, and America is going to compete aggressively for every job out there and every industry out there and every market out there.<p>So, Chicago, here's the bottom line: We've still got a long way to go. We've gone through a very, very difficult time. The auto industry has gone through a difficult time. And it's not back to where it needs to be. Our economy is not yet where it needs to be. It's going to take more time to heal from all the damage that was done. But we're beginning to see our efforts pay off. We are headed in the right direction. We are moving forward. The industry isn't just on the way back; it's on the way to being number one again. And I am convinced we're going to rebuild not only the auto industry but the economy better and stronger than before. And at its heart is going to be three powerful words: Made in America. Made in America. <p>And to all those naysayers in Washington, what we call the \\"just say no\\" crowd--[<i>laughter</i>]--who said that investing in you would guarantee failure, who said we should just walk away from this industry, who said that standing by America's automakers was, quote, \\"the worst investment you could make,\\" who tried to block us at every turn, I wish they were standing here today and saw what I see. I wish they could see the pride you take in building these great cars, American-made cars. <p>And my message to them is, don't bet against the American worker, don't lose faith in the American people, don't lose faith in American industry. We are coming back. <p>Just a few weeks before I visited that Chrysler plant--this is a true story--I went to a Chrysler plant. A few weeks before, 14 employees had won the lottery. And when they won, everybody thought they were just going to cash in and kick back and retire. Nobody would have blamed them for that. This is tough work.<p>But here's the thing: Most of them aren't retiring. And the worker who bought the winning ticket, what he did was he went out and bought for his wife one of the new cars that was being made in that plant, and then he went out and he bought American flags for his hometown, because he's proud of his country. And he keeps on showing up to work every single day, because he's proud of his job. <p>And that's the character of America: proud of your job, proud of your community, proud of your country, proud of the company you work for. That's what Ford is about. That's what you are about. That's what Chicago's about. That's what Illinois's about. That's what the United States of America's about. We are coming back. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you, and God bless America.\" "
"222" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody! Hello, Chicago! Thank you very much. Thank you. Everybody, have a seat. Have a seat, everybody. <p>It is good to be back home. It is good to be back home, and I am so proud to be standing here with the next Senator from the great State of Illinois, Alexi Giannoulias.<p>Now, we've got some other important personages here, so I want to make sure to make mention, because they have been great friends for many years to me and to so many of you. Now, first of all, our outstanding Governor, Pat Quinn, is here. Where's Pat? There he is. One of America's greatest mayors, Richard M. Daley, is in the house. Secretary of State Jesse White is here; a great friend of mine, Comptroller Dan Hynes. Senate President John Cullerton is here. Where's John? Over there. He's also a funny guy. [<i>Laughter</i>] Speaker Mike Madigan is here. Where's the speaker? Congressman Danny Davis from the West Side; Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky from the North Side; and Congresswoman Debbie Halvorson from the South Side.<p>It is wonderful to be here, and it is wonderful to be with Alexi. Alexi is my friend. I know his character. I know how much he loves this country. I know how committed he is to public service for all the right reasons.<p>I appreciate his strong sense of advocacy for ordinary Americans. He's not doing this to help the lobbyists; he's not doing it to help special interests. Alexi is not one of these politicians who puts his finger to the wind and who changes who he is or where he stands to suit the political moment. You can trust him. You can count on him. <p>On his very first day in office, Alexi enacted the most sweeping ethics reforms of any Illinois State treasurer and ensured that contractors and banks couldn't \\"pay to play\\" for State business.<p>And he's not funding this campaign with Federal PAC or lobbyist money--not a dime--because he wants to make a strong statement about who he will be fighting for in the United States Senate. And as State treasurer, Alexi has proven himself as someone who isn't afraid to stand up to special interests. He took on credit card companies and banned them from aggressively marketing on college campuses so that our kids don't graduate with credit card debt on top of tuition debt. He's reformed our State's college savings program so that it's now ranked one of the best in the country.<p>And I'm sure a lot of you have heard of what he did for Hartmarx. This is a clothing company that's employed people in this State for more than a century. And by the way, I'm a customer. [<i>Laughter</i>] And when they fell on hard times and a big bank threatened to pull their credit and destroy more than 600 jobs, Alexi stepped in, and he told the bank that if they did that, they would no longer be managing the money of Illinois taxpayers. And because of what he did, Alexi helped save that company and save those jobs. That's the kind of person you want in the United States Senate, somebody who's not going to forget where they came from, why they're in this, and who they're fighting for. <p>So we need fighters like Alexi in Washington because I don't know if you've noticed, but we've got a lot of work to do. [<i>Laughter</i>] The last few years have been incredibly challenging for the United States. Eighteen months ago, when I took office after nearly a decade of economic policies that gave us sluggish job growth, falling incomes, a record deficit--all culminating in the worst recession of our lifetimes, the worst recession since the Great Depression--that month that I was sworn in, in January of 2009, we lost 750,000 jobs, in that month alone. In total, we lost 8 million jobs during that recession.<p>Now, we didn't get to that point by accident. We got to that point after nearly 10 years of an economic agenda in Washington that was pretty straightforward. It basically said we're going to cut taxes for the wealthiest Americans, folks who don't need it and weren't even asking for it; we're going to cut rules for special interests; and then we're going to cut working folks loose to fend for themselves. <p>So if you were a kid in Chicago whose family had never gone to college and you aspire to go to college but you didn't have the money, tough luck, you're on your own. If you were a worker who was just barely hanging on, didn't have health insurance, even if you were working two jobs, those are the breaks, tough luck, you're on your own. <p>That was the philosophy of the last administration and their friends in Congress. They called it the \\"ownership society,\\" but it really meant you were on your own. And if you were a Wall Street banker or an insurance company or an oil company like BP, you got to write your own rules. And we know how this turned out. <p>So when I took office, we decided not only were we going to have to heal the economy short term, we had to revamp how we thought about the American economy and put families and middle class workers at the center of it. We put in place a new economic plan, a plan that rewards hard work instead of greed, a plan that rewards responsibility instead of recklessness, a plan that's focused on making our middle class more secure and our country more competitive in the long run so that the jobs and industries of the future aren't just found in China or India or Brazil, but right here in the United States of America. <p>Instead of spending money on--that we don't have on tax breaks for those who don't need them, we're making smart investments in education and innovation and clean energy that will benefit all people and our entire economy. Instead of giving special interests free rein to do what they please, we're demanding new accountability from Wall Street to Washington so that big corporations play by the same rules that workers and small businesses do. It's only fair. <p>Now, because the policies of the last decade landed us in such a deep hole, it takes time to dig ourselves out. And we're not there yet. We've got a lot more work to do. There are a lot of people hurting all across this region and all across the country. But after 18 months, I can say unequivocally with confidence that our Nation is finally headed in the right direction. It is headed in the right direction. Instead of shrinking, our economy is growing again. Instead of losing jobs, we're adding jobs. America is moving forward. And the last thing we can afford right now is to go back to the very same special interest-laden policies that created this mess in the first place. <p>And that's the choice in this election, that's the decision you'll have to make when you walk into the voting booth in November. And everybody here in Illinois and all across the country are going to have to make a choice: Do we go back to the policies of the past, or do we keep this country moving forward?<p>I believe we have to keep on moving forward. Alexi believes we've got to keep on moving forward. And I think the American people want to keep moving forward. <p>Now, if you doubt that that's the choice, if you're thinking, well, that's just some political rhetoric, I want you to think about what's transpired within the Republican Party. It would be one thing if after 2006 and 2008 and all the problems that have been taking place, that they went off into the wilderness and they meditated, and they thought, boy, we really screwed up, and we've got to think of some new ways of approaching things. If they were full of reflection and soul-searching, and then they finally came back and said, we've got some new ideas. We're going to do things differently. We may not agree with the President, but we have a vision for the future that might work. Then you could say, okay, maybe we should give them a shot.<p>But that's not what's happened. They haven't learned from all the mistakes that they made. They promise to do the exact same things that got us into this mess. They haven't come out with a single, solitary idea that is different from the policies that held sway for 8 years before Democrats took over. Not a single policy difference that's discernable from George W. Bush, not one.<p>So what they're really betting on is amnesia. [<i>Laughter</i>] They are betting that you just forgot about the 8 years that they were in charge of Washington. They're betting that you didn't notice that the recession started under their watch and the deficits started under their watch, and that instead of trying to work with us, they have been trying to oppose us every step of the way in solving these problems.<p>I mean, remember, these are the folks who spent almost a decade driving the economy into a ditch. And now they're asking for the keys back. So car went into the ditch, we had to put on our boots, we got in the mud, we're pushing, we're shoving, we're tired, sweaty. They're standing, watching. [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"You're not doing that fast enough.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"Why don't you push a little harder? Why don't you--I think if you put your shoulder here, you'll get a better grip.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So after all our huffing and puffing, we finally get the car out of the ditch, finally back on blacktop, on level ground. And what do they say? \\"Give us the keys back.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Well, you can't have the keys back; you don't know how to drive. [<i>Laughter</i>] You got us into the ditch in the first place. We can't give you these keys.<p>I also want to make a simple point--not to belabor this analogy--[<i>laughter</i>]--but when you want to go forward, what do you put the car in? <p><i>Audience members.</i> \\"D\\"!<p><i>The President.</i> \\"D.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] When you want to go backwards, what do you do? You put it in \\"R.\\" We want to go forward. We don't want to go backwards. They can't have the keys because they want to take us back in the ditch. Don't want to do it. You thought that was just an accident? [<i>Laughter</i>] It's not. There was a sign there. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Look, the choice in this election is between policies that encourage job creation in America and policies that encourage job creation somewhere else. We've said repeatedly, instead of giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas, we want to give tax cuts to small-business owners who are creating jobs right here in the United States of America. These other folks talk about tax cuts; we've already cut taxes eight times for small businesses since I've been President. And we want to do more, because America's small-business owners are the backbone of America's economy. <p>We're also jump-starting a homegrown clean energy industry, because I don't want to see new solar panels and wind turbines and electric cars built in China. I want to see them built right here in Chicago, right here in the Midwest, right here in the United States. The investments we've made so far will lead to more than 800,000 clean energy jobs by 2012--800,000. And because our Nation has always been built to compete, from the transcontinental railroad to the Interstate Highway System, we're investing in a 21st-century infrastructure, not just new roads and bridges, but faster Internet access and high-speed railroads, projects that will lead to hundreds of thousands of new private sector jobs, but will also create the platform for us to compete in the future. <p>That's our plan to keep jobs in America not just short term, but over the long term. And yet most of the folks in the other party, they voted no on just about every one of these policies: no on tax cuts for small businesses, no on clean energy jobs, no on railroad and highway projects. Although, John, it doesn't stop them from showing up at ribbon cuttings, sending out press releases. They vote no for them, but they show up, try to get credit. They're pretty good at finding the cameras; they're waving and grinning. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>The point is, their votes, their obstruction, that takes us backwards. We want businesses to create jobs in America. We want clean energy here in the United States. We want young people to be able to go to college in record numbers. We want it--the principle that everybody in America should be able to get affordable health care, we want that enshrined in this country. And that's the choice in this election. It's between policies that strengthen the hand of special interests and policies that strengthen America's middle class. <p>A few weeks ago, the Republican leader of the House was asked what was his jobs plan for the party. Let's say they took control of Congress next year. He said his number-one priority is repealing the law we passed to prevent health insurance companies from denying you coverage or dropping your coverage just because you got sick. Repealing the health care law, that's his jobs plan. Now, I'm not sure exactly how that creates jobs. It might create jobs for insurance executives or the folks who deny you claims, but it's not creating jobs for the American people. <p>But if they think that's a--look, if you think that's a good idea, if you think that's a good jobs plan, you should vote for the other party. We've got a different view. The health insurance reform we passed isn't just preventing insurers from denying you coverage. It's cutting taxes for small-business owners who cover their employees. It's allowing young adults to stay on their parents' coverage until they're 26. It's lowering the price of prescription drugs for our seniors. It will ultimately lower the cost of health care for every American. We just got a report today from the trust fund that manages Medicare saying we've extended the life of Medicare by 12 years because of the health insurance reform. It is going to be more secure for our seniors and it's going to be there for future generations because of the changes we made. They want to repeal that reform, take us back to the days when insurance companies could deny you care? We're not going to let that happen. We're moving forward. <p>The other party wants to repeal Wall Street reform. Most of them voted against it, including Alexi's opponent. Now they want to repeal it. Now, think about it: worst financial crisis since the Great Depression; almost put the entire economy over a cliff; 8 million people unemployed as a consequence of it. And their answer is, go back to the status quo that got us into this. This is reform that's finally going to stop credit card companies from charging you hidden fees and unfair rate hikes, that stops the abusive practices of mortgage lenders, that ends taxpayer bailouts of Wall Street banks, says we're going to be able to resolve problems in any single bank, quarantine them, isolate them without dragging the whole system with it. This is reform that protects consumers, responsible business owners, and our entire economy. We need this reform. We can't go back to the same rules, the same regulations that allowed this crisis to happen. And yet Alexi's opponent wants to get rid of that? That's the choice in this election. <p>On almost every issue that matters to middle class families, that's the choice. The other party voted to keep taxpayer subsidies for big banks that offer loans to college. I don't know if everybody understands, the Federal Government guaranteed these loans for young people so they can go to college. Banks were taking out tens of billions of dollars in profits, despite the fact that the loans were guaranteed. We said, let's cut out the middleman. We'll have an extra $40 billion that we can give to millions more college students so they can afford to go to college. Got no support on the other side. <p>For years, they did nothing about the fact that too many women aren't paid as much as men for doing the same work. I signed a law that helps end discrimination so that in the United States of America, an equal day of work means an equal day of pay. They didn't support it. <p>They want to extend the Bush tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires that have exploded our deficit. They talk a good game about deficit reduction, and then every time you ask them, \\"What's your plan?\\" they don't have one. I kept my campaign promise and gave a tax cut to the middle class, 95 percent of working Americans. They voted against it. <p>They voted against holding oil companies like BP accountable for every dime of the spills they cause. We forced BP to set aside $20 billion for the men and women of the Gulf Coast whose livelihoods depend on clean water and clean beaches. And then what happens? After we do that, the guy who, if they took over in the House of Representatives, would be the chairman of the Energy Committee apologizes to BP; says, I'm so sorry that the President is making you pay these fishermen and these hotel owners and others whose livelihoods have been wrecked by your carelessness. Apologized to them, called what we did a \\"shakedown.\\" I think he might have added \\"Chicago shakedown\\" in there. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>That's the choice in this election: a choice between folks who apologize to BP and folks who are looking out for small-business owners and fishermen; policies that are helping our economy grow again and policies that are going to make America more competitive and our middle class more secure, or more of the same.<p>I know this Nation has been through an incredibly difficult time. Not all the steps we took to dig us out of this recession have been popular. The pundits in Washington--I have befuddled them over the last 20 months. They keep on saying: \\"Well, why is he doing that? That doesn't poll well.\\" And I keep on explaining to them, I have my own pollsters. I know how it polls. I know these things--some things we did were not popular, but they were right. I wasn't elected just to do what was popular. I was elected to do what was right. <p>My job is not to focus on the next election; it's to focus on the next generation. That's why I ran for office. That's what I try to do every day. That's why Alexi is running for the United States Senate. That's what he will do every day when he's in the United States Senate. We need your help. And if you're willing to invest in our future, we are going to keep on moving forward for years and decades to come. <p>Thank you, Chicago. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"223" "\"Thank you. Everybody, please sit down. Have a seat. This is a good day. [<i>Laughter</i>] Good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to the White House. I am pleased that all of you could be here today as we celebrate the next member of our Nation's highest court. And while she may be feeling a twinge of sadness about giving up the title of \\"General\\"--[<i>laughter</i>]--a cool title--I think we can all agree that \\"Justice Elena Kagan\\" has a pretty nice ring to it. <p>We are very honored to be joined today by two of Elena's new colleagues, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Justice Anthony Kennedy, and we're thankful for their presence. Justice Kennedy assured me that he would keep Justice Kagan out of trouble, and Justice Ginsburg assured me that she would get Justice Kagan into trouble. [<i>Laughter</i>] So we'll see how that works out. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>We're also pleased to have several Members of Congress, as well as our Cabinet, here today and of course members of Elena's family. And thanks to all of you for your service and for taking time to be here today. <p>I also want to express my gratitude to our Senate Judiciary Committee chairman, Senator Leahy; ranking member, Senator Sessions; Majority Leader Reid; and Republican Leader McConnell for seeing to it that Elena got a full, fair, and timely hearing.<p>After more than 80 one-on-one meetings and 17 hours of testimony, I'd say that the Senate got a pretty good look at Elena Kagan. They got a good sense of her judicial philosophy, her commitment to the rule of law, her rich understanding of our Constitution, and of course where she can be found on Christmas Day. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And the bipartisan support she received in yesterday's vote is yet another example of the high esteem in which she's held by folks across the political spectrum. There aren't many law school deans who receive standing ovations from both the Federalist Society and the American Constitution Society. And I don't know too many folks whose fans include President Clinton, Judge Abner Mikva, and Justice Ginsburg, as well as Ken Starr, Miguel Estrada, and Justice Scalia. In fact, I understand that Justice Scalia came to relish their spirited exchanges during Elena's appearances before the Court, even after Elena cheerfully informed him that he was, and I quote, \\"wrong\\" in his understanding of a recent case. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm sure that was refreshing for him to hear. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>These folks may not agree on much, but they've all been impressed, as I have, by Elena's formidable intellect and pathbreaking career as an acclaimed scholar and Presidential adviser, as the first woman to serve as dean of the Harvard Law School, and most recently as Solicitor General. They admire how, while she could easily have settled into a comfortable practice in corporate law, she chose instead to devote her life to public service. They appreciate her evenhandedness and openmindedness and her excellent and often irreverent sense of humor.<p>These are traits that she happens to share with the last Solicitor General who went on to become a Supreme Court Justice, one for whom Elena clerked and whom she considers one of her heroes, Justice Thurgood Marshall. And we are very proud to have Justice Marshall's widow here today joining us.<p>In a tribute she wrote after Justice Marshall's death, Elena recalled how she and her fellow clerks took turns standing guard when his casket lay in state at the Supreme Court and how 20,000 people stood in a line that stretched around the block to pay their respects. They were people from every background and every walk of life: Black, White, rich and poor, young and old. Many brought their children, hoping to impress upon them the lessons of Justice Marshall's extraordinary life. Some left notes; some left flowers. One mourner left a worn slip opinion of Brown v. Board of Education. <p>It is, to this day, a moving reminder that the work of our highest court shapes not just the character of our democracy, but the most fundamental aspects of our daily lives: how we work, how we worship, whether we can speak freely and live fully, whether those words put to paper more than two centuries ago will truly mean something for each of us in our time. Because as visionary as our Founders were, they did not presume to know exactly how the times would change and what new questions fate and history would set before us. Instead, they sought to articulate principles that would be timeless, ones that would accommodate the changing circumstances of our lives while preserving the rights and freedoms on which this country was founded. <p>Today is one of those moments when you can't help but appreciate the extraordinary success of their efforts. For nearly two centuries, there wasn't a single woman on the Supreme Court. When Elena was a clerk, there was just one. But when she takes her seat on that Bench, for the first time in history, there will be three women serving on our Nation's highest court. It is, as Justice Ginsburg recently put it, \\"one of the most exhilarating developments,\\" a sign of progress that I relish not just as a father who wants limitless possibilities for my daughters, but as an American proud that our Supreme Court will be a little more inclusive, a little more representative, more reflective of us as a people than ever before.<p>And it is yet another example of how our Union has become more, not less, perfect over time: more open, more fair, more free. That's not just a matter of accident or chance. While those founding truths about liberty and equality may have been self-evident, they were not self-perpetuating. And it is the members of our highest court who do the vital and constant work of ensuring that they endure. And that's work that I am confident Elena will carry out with integrity, with humanity, and an abiding commitment to the ideal inscribed above our courthouse doors: Equal justice under the law.<p>So it is now my great pleasure to introduce, as our next Supreme Court Justice, Elena Kagan. <p>[<i>At this point, Associate Justice Kagan made brief remarks.</i>]<p>I told Elena to go ahead and soak it in because I'm not sure they're allowed to clap in the Supreme Court. [<i>Laughter</i>] But thank you very much for joining us, and please enjoy the reception. Thank you.\" "
"224" "\"Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Please, everybody, have a seat. It is wonderful to be here. I want to acknowledge a couple folks who are present. First of all, we've got Representative Eleanor Holmes Norton right here, doing great work. I want to thank Mayor Adrian Fenty for being here. We've got local city council members who are here with us today. And I want to finally make sure to acknowledge Luc, Guy, and Neil Brami, the owner of Gelberg Signs. <p>I just had a chance to tour Gelberg Signs and see the outstanding work that they're doing. This is the last sign-making company in Washington, DC, I just learned, and the Brami brothers, their father worked here when they were young and they came to buy the company. So it's a wonderful story of entrepreneurship. And I've been told that they don't argue as much now as they used to when they were kids. That's the story I've gotten.<p>But the work ethic, the craftsmanship, the entrepreneurialism of this company is an example of what makes our country so great. And I really commend them for the fine company that they've built. I'll be speaking about the challenges facing small businesses like Gelberg Signs in a moment, but first, I want to say a word about where we are in our economy more broadly.<p>We know from economic statistics what the stories of America's families have been telling us for quite some time, that the recession that we're still recovering from is the most serious downturn since the Great Depression. We also know, from studying the lessons of past recessions, that climbing out of any recession, much less a hole as deep as this one, takes some time. The road to recovery doesn't follow a straight line. Some sectors bounce back faster than others. <p>So what we need to do is keep pushing forward. We can't go backwards. This morning, the Department of Labor released its monthly jobs report, showing that July marked the seventh straight month of job creation in the private sector. So jobs have been growing in the private sector for seven straight months.<p>July's jobs numbers reflect, in part, expected losses related to the census winding down. But the fact is we've now added private sector jobs every month this year, instead of losing them, as we did for the first 7 months of last year. And that's a good sign. <p>Meanwhile, our manufacturing sector that's been hit hard for as long as folks can remember has actually added 183,000 jobs so far this year. That's the most robust 7 months of manufacturing growth in over a decade. Just this morning there was a report about the growing trend of manufacturing plants returning to the United States from overseas, instead of the other way around. <p>Same time, each of the Big Three automakers--Ford, GM, and Chrysler, two of which were on the verge of bankruptcy a little over a year ago, a liquidation bankruptcy that would have destroyed those companies--all three U.S. automakers are now posting a profit for the first time since 2004. And since they emerged from bankruptcy, the auto industry as a whole has added 76,000 jobs. So there's some good trends out there.<p>That's the good news. But for America's workers, families, and small businesses, progress needs to come faster. Our job is to make sure that happens, not only to lay the foundation for private sector job creation, but also to accelerate hiring to fuel the small businesses that are the engines of economic growth, to speed our recovery so it reaches the people and places who need relief not a year from now, not 6 months from now, but now, right now. <p>And that's why I welcomed the news earlier this week that after a lot of partisan bickering and delay, the Senate passed a bill that will not only keep at least 160,000 teachers in the classroom this fall who would otherwise be out of a job, but will help States avoid making other painful layoffs of essential personnel, like police and firefighters. <p>One of the areas where we've been losing jobs even as we're gaining in manufacturing has actually been in State and local hiring, because their budgets have been plummeting. All the city council members are nodding here. And so this bill will help. Speaker Pelosi said she's going to bring the House back in session to pass this bill, and as soon as they do I'm ready to sign it into law. <p>We've also got to look at industries of the future. And that's why we're investing in a clean energy economy with the potential to create hundreds of thousands of jobs across the country by spurring two private sector dollars for every tax dollar we invest, strengthening our economy, at the same time cleaning up our planet and making all of us more secure in the process.<p>And that's why it's so important to pass a jobs bill for America's small businesses. Small businesses are where most jobs in this country are created, small businesses like the one I'm visiting today, Gelberg Signs. Now, our small businesses were especially hard hit by this recession and many are having a tough time getting back on their feet. <p>But Gelberg Signs actually is doing pretty well, and they're hopeful about the future. And that's mainly because of the people who work here, some of whom are standing with me today, but it's also because we've helped remove some of the obstacles that make it harder for small businesses like Gelberg Signs to grow and hire. <p>So, for example, they've taken advantage of a new hiring tax credit we created that says small businesses don't have to pay a dime of payroll tax when they hire a worker who's been out of a job for at least 60 days. So, in fact, almost half of the employees they've hired this year qualified for that tax credit, including one of the folks standing behind me today. <p>They've also taken out what's called 7(a) loans that are guaranteed by the Small Business Administration. And that's a lifeline for many small businesses that help them pay off old debts, buy new equipment, and bring on more workers. Last year, we took steps to cut fees and offer more robust guarantees on these loans. And partly as a result, the number of 7(a) loans offered to small businesses went up substantially. But since these enhancements expired, these loans have dried up, leaving many small-business owners in the lurch.<p>So the small-business jobs bill that's being debated in Congress right now would not only extend these successful policies, but the bill would also more than double the size of the loans that small businesses like Gelberg Signs can take out. It would create new small-business lending funds to unlock credit for entrepreneurs. It would provide new tax cuts to small-business men and women who want to accelerate investment in their companies and in our economy.<p>This is the right thing to do. We want Gelberg Signs not just to hang on, we want you guys to thrive and to grow and to hire more and more workers. And you know you create a great product. You know you provide great service. You stand behind what you do. But sometimes, it's hard to get financing, sometimes you need some help in terms of cutting your tax burden. That's what this bill does.<p>And yet a minority in the Senate is standing in the way of giving our small-businesspeople an up-or-down vote on this bill. And that's a shame. These kinds of delays mean contracts are being put off, debts are adding up, workers are going without a job, and we can't afford it. We need to do what's right, not what's political, and we need to do it right now. <p>We need to decide whether we're willing to do what's necessary to keep this economy moving in the right direction. Whether we're willing to rise above the election-time games and come together, all of us--Democrats and Republicans and Independents--all of us coming together not just to pass a jobs bill that is going to help small businesses like this one hire and grow, but also to secure a clean energy future and accelerate our recovery and rebuild our economy around three simple words: Made in America. That is what I'm committed to doing, and that's what I hope members of both parties will join me in doing in the days ahead and beyond.<p>So congratulations to this outstanding company for the great work you're doing. Congratulations to the workers, because ultimately, you are what makes this company. We want you to keep on growing and we want other companies like this one to keep on growing. And we want the next generation of young entrepreneurs, like these three brothers, who've got an idea to be able to buy a company and grow it just like they have. <p>That's our future. That's what I'm committed to doing. And I appreciate all of you being such great models for what America is all about. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"225" "\"Forty-five years ago, we made a solemn compact as a nation that senior citizens would not go without the health care they need. This is the promise we made when Medicare was born. And it's the responsibility of each generation to keep that promise.<p>That's why a report issued this week by the trustees who oversee Medicare was such good news. According to this report, the steps we took this year to reform the health care system have put Medicare on a sounder financial footing. Reform has actually added at least a dozen years to the solvency of Medicare, the single longest extension in history, while helping to preserve Medicare for generations to come.<p>We've made Medicare more solvent by going after waste, fraud, and abuse, not by changing seniors' guaranteed benefits. In fact, seniors are starting to see that because of health reform, their benefits are getting better all the time.<p>Seniors who fall into the doughnut hole, the gap in Medicare Part D drug coverage, are eligible right now for a $250 rebate to help cover the cost of their prescriptions. Now, I know for people facing drug costs far higher than that, they need more help. So starting next year, if you fall in the doughnut hole, you'll get a 50-percent discount on the brand-name medicine you need. And in the coming years, this law will close the doughnut hole completely once and for all.<p>Already, we've put insurance companies on notice that we have the authority to review and reject unreasonable rate increases for Medicare Advantage plans. And we've made it clear to the insurers that we won't hesitate to use this authority to protect seniors.<p>Beginning next year, preventive care, including annual physicals, wellness exams, and tests like mammograms, will be free for seniors as well. That will make it easier for folks to stay healthy. But it will also mean that doctors can catch things earlier, so treatment may be less invasive and less expensive.<p>And as reform ramps up in the coming years, we expect seniors to save an average of $200 per year in premiums and more than $200 each year in out of pocket costs too.<p>This is possible in part through reforms that target waste and abuse and redirect those resources to where they're supposed to go: our seniors. We're already on track to cut improper payments in half, including money that goes to criminals who steal taxpayer dollars by setting up insurance scams and other frauds. And we won't stop there, because by preventing the loss of these tax dollars, we can both address the runaway costs of Medicare and improve the quality of care seniors receive, and we can crack down on those who prey on seniors and take advantage of people.<p>So we are no longer accepting business as usual. We're making tough decisions to meet the challenges of our time. And as a result, Medicare is stronger and more secure. That's important, because Medicare isn't just a program. It's a commitment to America's seniors that after working your whole life, you've earned the security of quality health care you can afford. As long as I am President, that's a commitment this country is going to keep.<p>Thanks.\" "
"226" "\"Well, welcome, everybody. Please have a seat. Have a seat. It is wonderful to see all of you. Welcome, and congratulations to the 2009 [2010]* Super Bowl champions, the New Orleans Saints.<p>I want to start by recognizing some folks in my administration who are big fans of this team: Lisa Jackson from the EPA; Secretary Donovan from HUD; Craig Fugate from FEMA. We've got a few very proud Members of Congress with us: Senator Mary Landrieu and Representative Steve Scalise are in the house.<p>Congratulations to the owner, Tom Benson, who has led this team through times that would test anybody, and General Manager Mickey Loomis for building this extraordinary championship squad.<p>Congratulations to your outstanding head coach, Sean Payton, who's done just great work. I must point out, Sean is a Chicago guy--[<i>laughter</i>]--I'm just saying--[<i>laughter</i>]--by way of Naperville. You've got to be tough to be a Chicago guy. I make some tough decisions every day, but I never decided on an onside kick--[<i>laughter</i>]--in the second half of the Super Bowl. That I--that took some guts. Were you okay with that? Did he check off with you? [<i>Laughter</i>] Yes. I'm glad that thing went all right. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Coach Payton led this team to a remarkable season: 13-0 start, a franchise record for wins; a heck of an overtime win in the NFC Championship; and then, after falling behind in the Super Bowl, with the onside kick, huge second half, Tracy Porter's interception guaranteeing that the Lombardi Trophy would go to the city of New Orleans for the very first time. It was an unbelievable moment.<p>I want to congratulate the Super Bowl MVP, your quarterback, your captain, Drew Brees. Now, I have to say, all of us were very excited after the game. All my wife wanted to talk about was Baylen, that little boy sitting with Drew, and everybody going, \\"Aww\\"--[<i>laughter</i>]--which--I'm just saying, you made a lot of fans that day. [<i>Laughter</i>] Drew and his wife Brittany are expecting their second child in October. So congratulations to you both.<p>Drew threw six touchdowns in the opening weekend, making it pretty clear that the Saints were coming to play. And over the course of the season, he set a new NFL record for accuracy, completing more than 70 percent of his passes. I have a few staffers who were thrilled to have Drew on their fantasy team. [<i>Laughter</i>] So they are grateful for that.<p>And by the way, this is not Drew's first time to the White House. Last year, we filmed a PSA some of you may have seen, encouraging America's youth to get 60 minutes of physical activity every day. He tossed me a nice, tight spiral that I then lateraled to a kid on DeMarcus Ware's shoulders. Now, I also want to point out, I beat Troy Polamalu over the middle on that throw. [<i>Laughter</i>] You remember. [<i>Laughter</i>] Yes, yes. I mean, I'm not sure he was going top speed, but--[<i>laughter</i>].<p>Finally, Drew's agreed to serve as Cochair of the new President's Council on Fitness, Sports, and Nutrition. And I want to thank all the players who put on a clinic earlier this morning with children from the Boys and Girls Club as part of the \\"Let's Move!\\" and the NFL's Play 60 program. So thank you very much, guys, for participating in that.<p>So look, this was a unbelievable season. After decades of frustration, the Saints finally won the big one. The \\"Ain'ts\\" and the \\"Sad Sacks\\" gave way to the \\"Who Dats.\\" Local musicians even gave a jazz funeral to retire the \\"Ain'ts\\" nickname. But I think we all know that this season meant far more than that to the city of New Orleans, and to all Americans, really.<p>Look, I'm a Bears fan. I'm not going to lie. [<i>Laughter</i>] But this was a big win for the country, not just for New Orleans, because 5 years ago, this team played its entire season on the road. It didn't have a home field. The Superdome had been ruined by Hurricane Katrina. The heartbreaking tragedies that unfolded there when it was used as a shelter from that terrible storm lingered all too fresh in a lot of people's minds.<p>And back then, people didn't even know if the team was coming back. People didn't know if the city was coming back. Not only did the team come back, it took its city's hands and helped its city back on its feet. This team took the hopes and the dreams of a shattered city and placed them squarely on its shoulders.<p>And so these guys became more than leaders in the locker room, they became leaders of an entire region. And the victory parade that we saw earlier this year made one thing perfectly clear, that New Orleans and the New Orleans Saints are here to stay.<p>So plenty of cities carry their sports teams through a tough season. It's a rare thing when a sports team carries a city through tough times. And that's why there's such a deep bond between this organization and the city. I'm not sure there's any other city that feels that same way right now. And that's not just for what the Saints have done on the field, but what they've done off it to see that the city keeps rising. In fact, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell recently said that every team in professional sports should use the Saints as a model for how to interact with their community.<p>This entire team has worked with Habitat for Humanity to rebuild neighborhoods in New Orleans. Many of these guys and the coaches and the players run foundations to help children in need. All of them are off to Walter Reed later this morning to spend some time with wounded warriors who served our country.<p>And obviously, the Gulf region has spent the last few months besieged by yet another crisis. But last week, we received the news that we had hoped for. Yesterday the--we learned that a procedure to prevent any more oil from spilling with a cement plug appears to have succeeded. And the final steps will be taken later in August, when the relief well is completed. But what is clear is that the battle to stop the oil from flowing into the Gulf is just about over.<p>Our work goes on, though. I made a commitment to the people of the Gulf Coast that I would stand by them not just until the well was closed, but until they recovered from the damage that's been done. And that's a commitment my administration is going to keep.<p>So with the ongoing reopening of Gulf fisheries, we're excited that fishermen can go back to work and Americans can confidently and safely enjoy Gulf seafood once again. We're certainly going to enjoy it here at the White House. In fact, we had some yesterday.<p>While they're here today, several Saints players are going to spend some time teaching our staff their favorite Gulf seafood recipes. So who's cooking? [<i>Laughter</i>] Which one--it's you back there? All right. [<i>Laughter</i>] And Sam Kass, the White House--he's very excited. He's very excited. And after weeks of hearing about food from our response teams down in the Gulf, I can tell you that our staff's excited about the 30-foot po'boy we're serving at lunch today. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But let me just say in closing, we are very proud of this team, and we are very proud of the owner of this team, because it required a great commitment on your part to help pull this team and this city along. And so there is a heartfelt congratulations not just from those of us here in the White House, but, I think, all across America. These are big guys with big hearts and shoulders big enough to carry the hopes and dreams of an entire city with them. <p>So with that, congratulations to all of you. New Orleans Saints, 2009 [2010]* Super Bowl champions. Congratulations.\" "
"227" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you, everybody. Hello, Austin! Hello, Longhorns! It is good to be back. It is good to be back.<p><i>Audience member.</i> I love you, Obama!<p><i>The President.</i> I love you back. I love Austin. I love Austin. I remember--by the way, anybody who's got a seat, feel free to take a seat. [<i>Laughter</i>] I remember paying you a visit during the campaign. Mack Brown gave me a tour of the stadium, along with Colt and a couple other guys. And I got a photo with the Heisman. [<i>Laughter</i>] I rubbed the locker room's longhorns for good luck. And I'm just saying, it might have had something to do with how the election turned out. [<i>Laughter</i>] There might be a connection there.<p>I also remember the first time that I came to Austin on the campaign. And there are a number of friends who are here who have been great supporters; I want to make mention of them. Representative Lloyd Doggett is here, a great friend. Senator Kirk Watson is here. Congressman Sheila Jackson Lee is here. Mayor Leffingwell is here. And your own president, Bill Powers, is in the house.<p>But this is back in 2007, February 2007. It was just 2 weeks after I had announced my candidacy. I know it's hard to believe, but it's true--my hair was not gray back then. [<i>Laughter</i>] Not many people thought I had much of a shot at the White House. [<i>Applause</i>] All right, let me put it this way: A lot of folks in Washington didn't think I had a shot at the White House. [<i>Laughter</i>] A lot of people couldn't pronounce my name. [<i>Laughter</i>] They were still calling me \\"Alabama\\" or \\"Yo mama.\\" That was--[<i>laughter</i>].<p>So then I come to Austin; this was back in February of 2007. And it was a drizzly day, and that's--usually tamps down turnout. But when I got to the rally over at Auditorium Shores, there was a crowd of over 20,000 people--20,000 people. It was people of all ages and all races and all walks of life.<p>And I said that day, all these people, they hadn't gathered just for me. You were there because you were hungry to see some fundamental change in America, because you believed in an America where all of us, not just some of us, but all of us, no matter what we look like, no matter where we come from, all of us can reach for our dreams, all of us can make of our lives what we will, that we can determine our own destiny. And that's what we've been fighting for over the past 18 months.<p>I said then that we'd end the Iraq war as swiftly and as responsibly as possible, and that is a promise that we are keeping. This month, we will end combat operations in Iraq. <p>I said we'd make health care more affordable and give you more control over your health care, and that's a promise we're keeping. And by the way, young people are going to be able to stay on their parents' health insurance until they're 26 because of the laws that we passed.<p>I said we'd build an economy that can compete in the 21st century, because the economy that we had even before the recession, even before the financial crisis, wasn't working for too many Americans. Too many Americans had seen their wages flatline, their incomes flatline. We were falling behind and unable to compete internationally. And I said, we need an economy that puts Americans back to work, an economy that is built around three simple words: Made in America. Because we are not playing for second place; we are the United States of America, and like the Texas Longhorns, you play for first, we play for first.<p>Now, when it comes to the economy, I said that in today's world, we're being pushed as never before. From Beijing to Bangalore, from Seoul to Sao Paolo, new industries and innovations are flourishing. Our competition is growing fiercer. And while our ultimate success has and always will depend on the incredible industriousness of the American worker and the ingenuity of American businesses and the power of our free market system, we also know that as a nation, we've got to pull together and do some fundamental shifts in how we've been operating to make sure America remains number one.<p>So that's why I've set some ambitious goals for this country. I've called for doubling our exports within the next 5 years so that we're not just buying from other countries. I want us to sell to other countries. We've talked about doubling our Nation's capacity to generate renewable energy by 2012, because I'm absolutely convinced that if we control the clean energy future, then our economic future will be bright, building solar panels and wind turbines and biodiesel and--[<i>applause</i>]. And I want us to produce 8 million more college graduates by 2020, because America has to have the highest share of graduates compared to every other nation.<p>But, Texas, I want you to know, we have been slipping. In a single generation, we've fallen from 1st place to 12th place in college graduation rates for young adults. Think about that. In one generation, we went from number 1 to number 12.<p>Now, that's unacceptable, but it's not irreversible. We can retake the lead. If we're serious about making sure America's workers, and America itself, succeeds in the 21st century, the single most important step we can take is make--is to make sure that every one of our young people, here in Austin, here in Texas, here in the United States of America, has the best education that the world has to offer. That's the number-one thing we can do.<p>Now, when I talk about education, people say, well, you know what, right now we're going through this tough time. We've emerged from the worst recession since the Great Depression. So, Mr. President, you should only focus on jobs, on economic issues. And what I've tried to explain to people--I said this at the National Urban League the other week--education is an economic issue. Education is the economic issue of our time.<p>It's an economic issue when the unemployment rate for folks who've never gone to college is almost double what it is for those who have gone to college. Education is an economic issue when nearly 8 in 10 new jobs will require workforce training or a higher education by the end of this decade. Education is an economic issue when we know beyond a shadow of a doubt that countries that outeducate us today, they will outcompete us tomorrow.<p>The single most important thing we can do is to make sure we've got a world-class education system for everybody. That is a prerequisite for prosperity. It is an obligation that we have for the next generation.<p>And here is the interesting thing, Austin. The fact is, we know what to do to offer our children the best education possible. We know what works. It's just we're not doing it. And so what I've said is, let's get busy. Let's get started. We can't wait another generation. We can't afford to let our young people waste their most formative years. That's why we need to set up an early learning fund to challenge our States and make sure our young people, our children, are entering kindergarten ready for success. That's something we've got to do.<p>We can't accept anything but the best in America's classrooms. And that's why we've launched an initiative called Race to the Top, where we are challenging States to strengthen their commitment to excellence and hire outstanding teachers and train wonderful principals and create superior schools with higher standards and better assessments. And we're already seeing powerful results across the country.<p>But we also know that in the coming decades, a high school diploma's not going to be enough. Folks need a college degree. They need workforce training. They need a higher education. And so today I want to talk about the higher education strategy that we're pursuing not only to lead the world once more in college graduation rates but to make sure our graduates are ready for a career, ready to meet the challenges of a 21st-century economy.<p>Now, part one of our strategy is to make college more affordable. I suspect that that's something you're all interested in. I don't have to tell you why this is so important. Many of you are living each day with worries about how you're going to pay off your student loans. And we all know why. Even as family incomes have been essentially flat over the past 30 years, college costs have grown higher and higher and higher and higher. They have gone up faster than housing, gone up faster than transportation. They've even gone up faster than health care costs, and that's saying something. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So it's no wonder that the amount student borrowers owe has risen almost 25 percent just over the last 5 years. Think about that. Just in the last 5 years, the debt of students has gone up 25 percent.<p>And this isn't some abstract policy for me. I understand this personally, because Michelle and I, we had big loans to pay off when we graduated. I remember what that felt like, especially early in your career where you don't make much money and you're sending all those checks to all those companies. And that's why I'm absolutely committed to making sure that here in America, nobody is denied a college education, nobody is denied a chance to pursue their dreams, nobody is denied a chance to make the most of their lives just because they can't afford it. We are a better country than that, and we need to act like we're a better country than that. <p>Now, there are a couple of components to this. Part of the responsibility for controlling these costs falls on our colleges and universities. Some of them are stepping up. Public institutions like the University of Maryland, University of North Carolina, some private institutions like Cornell, they're all finding ways to combat rising tuition without compromising on quality. And I know that your president is looking at some of these same approaches to make sure that the actual costs of college are going down. I want to challenge every university and college president to get a handle on spiraling costs.<p>So university administrators need to do more to make college more affordable, but we as a nation have to do more as well. So that's why we fought so hard to win a battle that had been going on in Washington for years, and it had to do with the Federal student loan program.<p>See, under the old system, we'd pay banks and financial companies billions of dollars in subsidies to act as middlemen. See, these loans were guaranteed by the Federal Government, but we'd still pass them through banks, and they'd take out billions of dollars in profits. So it was a good deal for them, but it wasn't a very good deal for you. And because these special interests were so powerful, this boondoggle survived year after year, Congress after Congress.<p>This year, we said, enough is enough. We said we could not afford to continue subsidizing special interests to the tunes of billions of dollars a year at the expense of taxpayers and of students. So we went to battle against the lobbyists and a minority party that was united in their support of this outrageous status quo. And, Texas, I am here to report that we won. We won.<p>So as a result, instead of handing over $60 billion in subsidies to big banks and financial institutions over the next decade, we're redirecting that money to you to make college more affordable for nearly 8 million students and families across this country. Eight million students will get more help from financial aid because of these changes.<p>We're tripling how much we're investing in the largest college tax credit for our middle class families. And thanks to Austin's own Lloyd Doggett, that tax credit is now worth $2,500 a year for 2 years of college. And we want to make it permanent, so it's worth $10,000 over 4 years of college--$10,000.<p>And because the value of Pell grants has fallen as the cost of college keeps going up, the cap on how much Pell grants are worth, we have decided to offer more support for the future, so the value of Pell grants don't erode with inflation, they keep up with inflation. And we're also making loan repayments more manageable for over 1 million more students in the coming years, so students at UT Austin and across this country don't graduate with massive loan payments each month. All right, that's--we're working on that right now. <p>Now, I should mention, by the way, we're also making information more widely available about college costs and completion rates so you can make good decisions. You can comparison shop. And we're simplifying financial aid forms by eliminating dozens of unnecessary questions. You should not have to take--you should not have to have a Ph.D. to apply for financial aid. [<i>Laughter</i>] You shouldn't have to do it. I want a bunch of you to get Ph.D.'s--[<i>laughter</i>]--don't get me wrong. I just don't want you to have to do it for your financial aid form. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So if you're married, for example, you don't need to answer questions anymore about how much money your parents have made. If you've lived in the same place for at least 5 years, you don't need to answer questions about your place of residency. Soon, you'll no longer need to submit information you've already provided on your taxes. And that's part of the reason why we've seen a 20-percent jump in financial aid applications, because we're going to make it easier and make the system more accessible.<p>So college affordability is the first part of the strategy that we're pursuing. The second part is making sure that the education being offered to our college students, especially, by the way, our students at community colleges, is--that it's preparing them to graduate ready for a career. See, institutions like UT are essential to our future, but community colleges are too. They are great, underappreciated assets that we have to value and we have to support.<p>So that's why we're upgrading our community colleges by tying the skills taught in our classrooms to the needs of local businesses in the growth sectors of our economy. And we're giving companies an assurance that the workers they hire will be up to the job. We're giving students the best chance to succeed. We're also that way giving America the best chance to thrive and to prosper. And that's why we're also reinvesting in our HBCUs and Hispanic-Serving Institutions, like Huston-Tillotson and St. Edward's. <p>The third part of our strategy is making sure every student completes their course of studies. I want everybody to think about this. Over a third of America's college students and over half of our minority students don't earn a degree, even after 6 years. So we don't just need to open the doors of college to more Americans; we need to make sure they stick with it through graduation. That is critical.<p>And that means looking for some of the best models out there. There are community colleges like Tennessee's Cleveland State that are redesigning remedial math courses and boosting not only student achievement, but also graduation rates. And we ought to make a significant investment to help other States pick up on some of these models.<p>So we've got to lift graduation rates. We've got to prepare our graduates to succeed in this economy. We've got to make college more affordable. That's how we'll put a higher education within reach for anybody who's willing to work for it. That's how we'll reach our goal of once again leading the world in college graduation rates by the end of this decade. That's how we'll lead the global economy in this century, just like we did in the last century.<p>When I look out at all the young people here today, I think about the fact that you are entering into the workforce at a difficult time in this country's history. The economy took a body blow from this financial crisis and this great recession that we're going through. But I want everybody here to remember, at each and every juncture throughout our history, we've always recognized that essential truth that the way to move forward, in our own lives and as a nation, is to put education first.<p>It's what led Thomas Jefferson to leave as his legacy not just the Declaration of Independence, but a university in Virginia. It's what led a nation that was being torn apart by civil war to still set aside acreage, as a consequence of President Lincoln's vision, for the land-grant institutions to prepare farmers and factory workers to seize the promise of an industrial age. It's what led our parents and grandparents to put a generation of returning GIs through college and open the doors of our schools and universities to people of all races, which broadened opportunity and grew our middle class and produced a half a century of prosperity. <p>And that recognition that here in this great country of ours, education and opportunity, they always go hand in hand, that's what led the first president of the University of Texas to say, as he dedicated the cornerstone of the original Main Building, \\"Smite the rocks with the rod of knowledge and fountains of unstinted wealth will gush forth.\\"<p>That's the promise at the heart of UT Austin. But that is also the promise at the heart of our colleges and of our universities, and it is the promise at the heart of our country, the promise of a better life, the promise that our children will climb higher than we did. That promise is why so many of you are seeking a college degree in the first place. That's why your families scrimped and saved to pay for your education.<p>And I know that as we make our way through this economic storm, some of you may be worried about what your college degree will be worth when you graduate and how you're going to fare in this economy and what the future holds. But I want you to know, when I look out at you, when I look into the faces of America's young men and women, I see America's future, and it reaffirms my sense of hope. It reaffirms my sense of possibility. It reaffirms my belief that we will emerge from this storm and we will find brighter days ahead, because I am absolutely confident that if you keep pouring yourselves into your own education, and if we as a nation offer our children the best education possible, from cradle through career, not only will America--workers compete and succeed, America will compete and succeed.<p>And we will complete this improbable journey that so many of you took up over 3 years ago. And we're going to build an America where each of us, no matter what we look like or where we come from, can reach for our dreams and make of our lives what we will.<p>Thank you, Austin. Thank you, Texas. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you. Good luck to the T.\" "
"228" "\"Well, thank you very much, everybody. It is wonderful to be with you. And I just first of all want to thank Russell and Dori for the wonderful hospitality in a gorgeous home. So thank you very much. Give them a big round of applause.<p>And I want to also say thank you for doing such a great job training my Ambassador, Ron Kirk. [<i>Laughter</i>] He has been doing yeoman's work internationally, and I know it's because he has such good friends in Dallas who, along with Matrice, keep him straight. [<i>Laughter</i>] So we are pleased to have him in the administration. He is just a great friend as well as a great national leader.<p>And thanks to all of you who've done so much not only to help support my campaign in 2008, but to help Democrats here in Texas, here in Dallas County, and all across the United States of America.<p>I was down in Austin before we came here, and I mentioned that Austin was really the first big rally we had after I had just announced that I was running for President of the United States back in February of 2007. We had more than 20,000 people show up. And so I have a lot of friends in Texas, a lot of friends in Dallas, a lot of friends in Austin.<p>And I was reminded of a story Abraham Lincoln used to tell about a guy who came to see him looking for patronage work. He had really tried to get in to see the President, and back then, security was a little more lax than it is now. And eventually, he got an audience with the President. And he looked at Lincoln, and he said: \\"You know, I am responsible for you being in office. If it wasn't for me, you would not be here.\\" And Lincoln said, \\"Is that true?\\" He said, \\"Yes.\\" He said, \\"Well, I forgive you.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>There are times, given all the gray hairs that I've been accumulating here over the last 2 years, that I understand Lincoln's joke. But obviously, being President is the most extraordinary privilege that anyone could have, and with it comes such sober responsibilities. That's particularly at a time of great national challenge.<p>All of you remember the wonderful spirit that existed in Washington on that very cold January day when I was sworn in, but I think we also have to remind ourselves that in the previous 6 months, we had already lost 3 million jobs, that the financial system had all but locked up and was on the verge of meltdown. The month that I was sworn in, we lost 750,000 jobs; subsequently, we lost 600,000 jobs in each month after that. The stock market plunged, the country had lost trillions of dollars' worth of wealth, and people were talking about us possibly tipping into a Great Depression.<p>And so we knew we had to act quickly, and we did. And as a consequence of the actions we took, not all of which were popular at the time, we were able to stabilize the financial system and get finance circulating again. We were able to stabilize the economy, stop just the complete bloodletting of jobs throughout the economy. And whereas we were losing 750,000 jobs every single month, we're now--we have now seen private sector job growth for 7 consecutive months. Where we were contracting at a rate of 6 percent per quarter, we're now growing once again.<p>And so there is a sense that we are now moving in the right direction, but understanding that we've got to move a little faster. We've got to keep on going. Because there are a lot of people here in Dallas, there are a lot of people all across America, who are struggling. I see it every single time I pick up a letter from a constituent who's working hard, has sent out resume after resume, and yet just haven't gotten hired yet; or the person who was laid off just on the verge of retirement, and they're trying to figure out, how can I ever possibly afford to retire? What are we going to do, because our--we had saved for our child's college education, but now we're on the verge of losing our house, and we're having to make that horrible choice between our child's future and the needs of the present? <p>So we've got some big challenges out there. And the question we're going to have in this election is whether we're going to continue down a path of creating greater opportunity, making that opportunity available to all people. Are we going to become more competitive in this 21st-century economy, or are we are going to go backwards to the exact same policies that got us into this mess in the first place?<p>And if you don't think that's what the choice is, you haven't been paying attention to what the other side is offering for November. I mean, this is not a situation where the Republicans, having run the economy into the ground, having taken record surpluses when Bill Clinton left office and turned them into record deficits, this is not a situation where they've done a bunch of reflection here. They didn't go off into the desert and say to themselves, \\"Boy, we really screwed up.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"You know, I don't know exactly what we did wrong here, but gosh, things did not work out the way we expected. Let's come up with some new ideas for moving the country forward in how we're going to educate our kids and provide health care to all Americans and make sure that we've got the highest college graduation rates once again, that research and development and innovation here in this country is on the move.\\"<p>That's not what's happened. They are not offering a single idea that is new. All they are offering is retreads of what they've offered before.<p>And so what they're counting on in this election is amnesia. [<i>Laughter</i>] They're counting on you not remembering the disastrous consequences of economic policies that, by the way, had caused problems for working class families, for middle class families before the recession hit, before the crisis hit. We had had almost a decade of sluggish growth, sluggish job growth, and incomes and wages that had flatlined, even as the cost of health care, the cost of college tuition, the cost of energy had all skyrocketed.<p>And so they are not offering a single new idea. They are counting on you forgetting that it was a consequence of these policies that got us into this mess in the first place.<p>You know, I've been using the analogy of the folks who drove the car into the ditch. And so we decided, you know what, we're going to do the responsible thing. We put on our boots, we got into the mud, we got into the ditch. We pushed, we shoved, we're sweating. They're standing on the sidelines sipping a Slurpee--[<i>laughter</i>]--sort of watching us, saying, \\"Well, you're not pushing hard enough,\\" or, \\"Your shoulder is not positioned the right way,\\" giving us a whole bunch of advice on how to push, not lifting a finger to help.<p>And finally, we get this car up back on the road again, and finally, we're ready to move forward again. And these guys turn around and say, \\"Give us the keys.\\" Well, no, you can't have the keys back; you don't know how to drive. You don't know how to drive.<p>They don't know how to drive. And I also want to point out, by the way, when you want to go forward in a car, what do you do? You put it in \\"D.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] When you want to go backwards, you put it in \\"R.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] We cannot go backwards; we've got to move forwards. That's what we're fighting for in this election: moving forwards.<p>Think about what we've done over the last 20 months to move the country forward. Not only did we prevent another Great Depression, not only did we stabilize the financial system, but we have finally enshrined the idea that every American should be able to get health care that's affordable and nobody should be bankrupt when they get sick.<p>We've done so, by the way, combining those reform efforts with the strongest patient bill of rights than we've ever seen so that insurance companies can't drop your coverage; can't deny you coverage because you've got a preexisting condition; making sure that young people are able to stay on their parents' health insurance until they're 26 years old; eliminating lifetime limits that were causing people great hardship; and reducing costs, so that the Medicare trustees just last week said that as a consequence of health reform, we have extended the life of Medicare for another 12 years, meaning this was one of the most important deficit-reduction steps that we could have taken.<p>We have instituted a financial regulatory reform package that makes sure that we're not going to have taxpayers bailouts again, at the same time making sure that you as consumers are not being taken advantage of, so that credit card companies can't just raise your rates arbitrarily on existing balances or mortgage companies can't have hidden fees or mortgage brokers can't steer you into more expensive interest rates on your mortgage.<p>We have instituted housing reform. We have instituted credit card reform. We have made sure that tobacco companies can't market to our kids. We have raised national mileage standards on cars and trucks--the first time in 30 years--so that we have the opportunity now to make sure that the clean energy cars of the future are made right here in the United States of America.<p>We have created wind turbine plants and solar plants all across America and are creating an advanced battery manufacturing industry in this country. Where we used to have 2 percent of that market, we're going to have 40 percent of that market by 2015, in 5 years. Oh, and by the way, we've also appointed two Supreme Court Justices.<p>So that's what we've got to offer, and we're just getting started. Because we've got more work to do. The problem we've got right now is we've got folks on the other side of the aisle who have spent 20 months politicking, while we've spent those 20 months governing. They've been thinking about the next election instead of the next generation.<p>I mean, think about it. When the leader of the Republicans on the House side was asked, \\"What's your idea for job creation?\\" he said, \\"Repeal health care reform.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] I don't know what jobs that would create, except maybe for the guys who are paid to deny you claims.<p>When they asked them about Wall Street reform, they said, no, we think actually the status quo is okay. Now, think about this. You have the worst financial crisis since the 1930s, and they said no to reforming the system.<p>When we had a crisis down in the Gulf--unprecedented oil spill--and I went down there and I met with fishermen and small-business owners who were being devastated economically and were seeing their way of life potentially threatened, and we made sure that BP was going to be accountable to those folks and put together a $20 billion fund to make sure they were getting paid off, what happened? The guy who would be in line to chair the Energy Committee on behalf of the Republicans apologized to BP, said, \\"We are sorry about the President shaking you down.\\" That's how he characterized our efforts to make sure that people were treated fairly after a big oil company wrecked their livelihood.<p>So across the board, what you see is a governing philosophy on their part that basically comes down to, we're going to extend tax cuts for the wealthiest among us, folks who don't need those tax cuts and weren't even asking for them, which would cost $700 billion. These are the folks who say they're concerned about the deficit, but are willing to spent $700 to those who are luckiest and least in need in our society.<p>Their agenda is, we're going to eliminate rules and regulations that rein in special interests, and then we're going to cut the middle class loose--say, you're on your own. You can't afford health care? Tough luck, you're on your own. You can't afford to send your kids to college? Tough luck, you're on your own. You can't afford to retire? Too bad, you're on your own.<p>That is the philosophy that held sway in Washington for 8 years before I came in, and that is what they want to go back to.<p>So I just want everybody here to understand very clearly, this is a sharp and clear choice. If you are interested in a clean energy future in which we continue to build our solar industry and wind power and biodiesel and natural gas and we are shaping a strategy to wean ourselves off our dependence on foreign oil, then you better go out there and support those Democratic members of Congress. Because the other side is just going to say no to that.<p>If you are interested in ending tax cuts for companies that ship jobs overseas, and instead want tax cuts to go to small businesses--like the bill that we've got right now in the Senate that would eliminate capital gains for small businesses, would be additional tax cuts on top of the eight tax cuts we've already given to small businesses so far--then you'd better go out there and help some Democratic candidates. Because the other side is not interested in helping folks who are starting things up; they're interested in the special interests who can afford to hire lobbyist in Washington.<p>If you're interested in things like equal pay for equal work--because I've got two daughters, and I want to make sure they're treated just like any boys as they're coming up--then you better make sure that you're working on behalf of these Democratic candidates out here, because we've got a big job ahead of us.<p>I was just down in Austin talking about education. We have gone in a single generation from ranking number 1 in college graduates to ranking number 12 in this country. We cannot compete if we lose our edge when it comes to having the best colleges and the best universities in the country, but also the best trained workers. Which is why one of the things that we did--didn't get a lot of notice over the last 20 months, but one of the most important thing we did was we eliminated the middleman on the Federal student loan program and obtained an additional $60 billion to provide student loans to millions of more young people all across America. By the way, the other side said no to that. The other side wouldn't have anything to do with it. They thought it was a bad idea.<p>So we're going to have choice after choice on every single issue that you care deeply about. If you care about education, if you care about health care, if you care about civil rights and equal pay for equal work, if you care about consumer protections, if you care about jobs and growth in this economy, if you care about building a new foundation so that we're not just going back to the same tired, wornout theories that didn't work for the last decade, but are instead instituting something that's going to work for the 21st century, then we're going to need you to really step up and work hard in this election.<p>Now, that's hard to do at a time when people are feeling like, boy, this is a polarized electorate. And it makes people dispirited--all the yelling and the shouting and the cable chatter and the punditry. And I'll be honest with you, sometimes Democrats, we're our own worst enemies, because we can do great stuff and somehow still feel depressed. [<i>Laughter</i>] You know, there's--sometimes we do a little too much handwringing--say, well, you know, I don't know; I wish we had gotten that public option. Well, that's great, but we got 31 million people health insurance, and we're reducing costs for people, and we are--[<i>applause</i>]--consumer protections when it comes to the health insurance industry.<p>We have had an extraordinary record of accomplishment over the last 20 months, and we can continue those efforts, but we're going to need you in this election season. We've got to have you talking to your friends; we've got to have you talking to your neighbors, your coworkers. We're going to need you to contribute to congressional candidates, who are going to have very tough races out there.<p>And part of what's happened in this landscape is the Supreme Court--those of you who don't think the Supreme Court matters, their ruling in Citizens United, which said that corporations, including potentially foreign corporations, can go ahead and spend unlimited amounts, without disclosing who they are, during election season, means that you're going to have a whole bunch of organizations like Americans for Prosperity--[<i>laughter</i>]--spending millions of dollars trying to roll back reforms that we've initiated. And you won't even know who they are, because right now the law says they don't have to disclose who they are.<p>Now, we're going to try to change that. We've got legislation in the Senate and the House that says, you know what, the least we can do is--on behalf of our democracy--is to make sure that if somebody is spending millions of dollars to try to influence an election, they've got to disclose who they are. That's the least we can do so the American people know who's out there making these arguments.<p>But the other side won't have any of that, because they want help and support from those special interests, and they don't want to face up to the consequences if the American people knew who was paying for these ads.<p>So we've got some tough work ahead of us. We've got some headwinds because we're still working our way out of this hole. We're going to have a lot of money on the other side. They think that the American people have forgotten how badly they mismanaged this economy. And the only way we are going to win is if all of you are engaged and informed and are out there engaging and informing other people.<p>But in the end, I'm confident you can do that. Remember when I started this fascinating journey, not a lot of people knew who I was. In fact, nobody could pronounce my name. But there were people all across America who had this basic sense that we had put off for too long some things that were holding this country back and who believed that there's nothing we can't accomplish when a group of citizens decide it's time to go out and about and bring about change.<p>That sense of fundamental optimism, that sense that this country still has its best days ahead of it, that belief that if we make sure that our young people get the educational opportunities they deserve, if we are spurring innovation, if we are making sure that we have a free market that works because it's got rules of the road that work for everybody and not just those who are well connected in Washington, that belief that America works best when it's inclusive and everybody has a shot at the American Dream, that's what propelled me into office. That's what moved so many of you to get involved. That's what we're going to have to rekindle over the next several months.<p>I'm confident we can do it. And when we do--if you guys are working hard, if you're making those phone calls and sending out those e-mails and doing what needs to be done--I feel very optimistic not just about the next election, but more importantly, I feel optimistic about the next generation.<p>Thank you very much everybody. God bless you.\" "
"229" "\"Good morning, everybody. One of the biggest challenges of this recession has been its impact on State and local communities. With so many Americans unemployed or struggling to get by, States have been forced to balance their budgets with fewer tax dollars, which means that they've got to cut critical services and lay off teachers and police officers and firefighters.<p>Now, it's one thing for States to get their fiscal houses in order and tighten their belts like families across America. Because families have been doing it, there's no reason that States can't do it too. That's a welcome thing. But we can't stand by and do nothing while pink slips are given to the men and women who educate our children or keep our communities safe. That doesn't make sense. And that's why a significant part of the economic plan that we passed last year provided relief for struggling States, relief that has already prevented hundreds of thousands of layoffs.<p>And that's why today we're trying to pass a law that will save hundreds of thousands of additional jobs in the coming year. It will help States avoid laying off police officers, firefighters, nurses, and first-responders. And it will save the jobs of teachers like the ones who are standing with me today. If we do nothing, these educators won't be returning to the classroom this fall. And that won't just deprive them of a paycheck, it will deprive the children and parents who are counting on them to provide a decent education. It means that students in Illinois and West Virginia who count on Rachel and Shannon are going to be not getting the education that they deserve. It will deprive countless cities and towns of the law enforcement officials and first-responders who risk their lives to keep us out of harm's way. It will cost us jobs at a time when we need to be creating jobs. In other words, it will take us backwards at a time when we need to keep this country moving forward.<p>Now, this proposal is fully paid for, in part by closing tax loopholes that encourage corporations to ships American jobs overseas. So it will not add to our deficit. And the money will only go toward saving the jobs of teachers and other essential professionals.<p>It should not be a partisan issue. I heard the Republican leader in the House say the other day that this is a special interest bill. And I suppose if America's children and the safety of our communities are your special interests, then it is a special interest bill. But I think those interests are widely shared throughout this country. A challenge that affects parents, children, and citizens in almost every community in America should not be a Democratic problem or a Republican problem. It is an American problem.<p>I'm grateful that two Republicans joined Democrats to pass this proposal in the Senate last week. And I'm equally grateful that Speaker Pelosi has called back the House of Representatives to a special session so that they can vote as well.<p>I urge members of both parties to come together and get this done so that I can sign this bill into law. I urge Congress to pass this proposal so that the outstanding teachers who are here today can go back to educating our children. America's watching, and America's waiting for Washington to act. So let's show the Nation that we can.<p>I want to thank Rachel as well as Shannon not only for being here today but for the extraordinary work that they're doing each and every day with special education children, with kindergarteners so that they're getting off to a right start. And I also want to thank Arne Duncan, who has been doing as much as anybody all across the country to try to emphasize how important it is to make sure that we are providing a first-class education to every single one of our children.<p>This bill helps us do that. And so it's time for Democrats and Republicans to come together and get it done.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"230" "\"Thank you very much. Everybody, please have a seat. Good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to the White House. <p>From the day I took office, my administration's highest priority has been to rescue our economy from crisis, rebuild it on a new foundation for lasting growth, and do everything we can, every single day, to help the American people whose lives have been upended by a brutal recession.<p>Now, we knew from the beginning that reversing the damage done by the worst financial crisis and the deepest recession in generations would take some time, more time than anyone would like. And we knew that it would require an ongoing effort across all fronts.<p>Now, the challenges we face have been confirmed not just by the economic data that we've seen since last spring, when events in Europe roiled the markets and created headwinds for our economic recovery. They're also confirmed every day in the conversations that I have with folks around the country and in the letters that I read at night, stories of Americans who are still looking for work and the men and women who are still struggling to grow their businesses and hire in these challenging times.<p>So while we have fought back from the worst of this recession, we've still got a lot of work to do. We've still got a long way to go. And I'm more determined than ever to do every single thing we can to hasten our economic recovery and get our people back to work. So that's why I'm pleased today to sign into law a bill that will strengthen American manufacturing and American jobs. And as I do, I'm joined by two members of my economic team, Secretary of Commerce Gary Locke, who's been a tireless advocate for America's manufacturers, and Ambassador Ron Kirk, who's been doing a great job and putting in a lot of miles as our U.S. Trade Representative.<p>A few areas of our economy have been as hard hit as manufacturing, not just in recent years, but in recent decades. Throughout the 20th century, manufacturing was the ticket to a better life for generations of American workers. It was the furnace that forged our middle class. But over time, the jobs dried up. Companies learned to do more with less and outsourced whatever they could. Other nations didn't always live up to trade agreements and we didn't always enforce them. And over the last decade, the manufacturing workforce shrank by 33 percent, leaving millions of skilled, hard-working Americans sitting as idle as the plants that they once worked in. This was before the recent recession left them and millions more struggling in ways they never imagined.<p>Now, some suggest this decline is inevitable, that the only way for America to get ahead is to leave manufacturing communities and their workers behind. I do not see it that way. The answer isn't to stop building things, to stop making things; the answer is to build things better, make things better, right here in the United States. We will rebuild this economy stronger than before, and at its heart will be three powerful words: Made in America.<p>For too long, we've been buying too much from the rest of the world, when we should be selling more to the rest of the world. That's why in my State of the Union Address, I set an ambitious goal for this country. Over the next 5 years, we are going to double our exports of goods and services, an increase that will grow our economy and support millions of American jobs. We've got a lot of work to do to reach this goal. Our economy has fallen into the habit of buying from overseas and not selling the way it needs to. But it is vitally important that we reverse that trend. After all, 95 percent of the world's customers and the world's fastest growing markets are beyond our borders. And when the playing field is even, American workers can compete with anybody. And we're going to compete aggressively for every job, for every industry, and every market out there.<p>That's why we fought for and passed tax breaks for companies that are investing here in the United States rather than companies that are keeping profits offshore. That's why we closed loopholes that encourage corporations to ship American jobs overseas. That's why we're enforcing our trade laws, in some cases, for the very first time. That's why we told America's automakers that if they made the tough decisions required to compete in the future, that America would stand by them. And that's why we're investing in a clean energy industry and the jobs that come with it, jobs that pay well and carry America to a cleaner, more secure, and more energy-independent future.<p>Now, already we're beginning to see some of these investments pay off. I've seen it myself in factories where American workers are now manufacturing wind turbines and solar panels, components for the advanced batteries of tomorrow. <p>I've seen it in retooled auto plants where American workers are building high-quality, fuel-efficient cars and trucks that can go toe to toe with any in the world. In fact, for the first time in more than 5 years, the Big Three are operating at a profit. And the auto industry has added 76,000 jobs since last June. That's the strongest period of job growth in more than 10 years. <p>So overall, the manufacturing sector has actually added 183,000 jobs so far this year. That's the strongest 7 months of manufacturing job growth in more than a decade. Instead of plants leaving America to set up shop overseas, we've actually begun to see the opposite: a growing number of firms setting up shop and hiring here at home.<p>So we're not yet where we need to be, but there are some good trends out there. And we can't let up. We've got to keep moving forward. And that's why today I'm signing a bill into law that will make it cheaper and easier for American manufacturers and American workers to do what they do best: build great products and sell them around the world. <p>The Manufacturing Enhancement Act of 2010 will create jobs, help American companies compete, and strengthen manufacturing as a key driver of our economic recovery. And here's how it works. To make their products, manufacturers--some of whom are represented here today--often have to import certain materials from other countries and pay tariffs on those materials. This legislation will reduce or eliminate some of those tariffs, which will significantly lower costs for American companies across the manufacturing landscape, from cars to chemicals, medical devices to sporting goods. And that will boost output, support good jobs here at home, and lower prices for American consumers.<p>This bill passed both Houses of Congress on an overwhelmingly bipartisan basis, and I want to thank Democrats and Republicans for coming together on behalf of America's businesses and workers. And before I sign it into law, I want to take this opportunity to encourage that same kind of bipartisan spirit on another step that will create jobs and move America forward.<p>The extraordinary growth we've seen in the clean energy sector is due first and foremost to the entrepreneurial drive of our businesses and our workers. But it's also due to the fact that we invested in them. One of these investments came in the form of clean energy manufacturing tax credits. What we said to clean energy firms was, if you're willing to put up 70 percent of the capital for a worthy endeavor, we'll put up the other 30 percent. That means that for every dollar we invest, we leverage more than two private sector dollars. <p>The only problem we have is these credits worked so well, there weren't enough to go around. More than 180 clean energy projects in over 40 States received $2.3 billion in tax credits, but the program was such a success that we received 500 qualified applications for $8 billion in tax credits.<p>So I believe that if an American company wants to innovate, grow, and create jobs right here in the United States, we should give them the support they need to do it. That's why I'm urging Congress, once again, to invest $5 billion in these clean energy manufacturing tax credits. It's an investment that will generate $12 billion or more in private sector investment and tens of thousands of new jobs. <p>And as I've said before, the nation that wins the race for the clean energy economy will lead the 21st-century economy. Other nations know this. They've been investing heavily in that future. They want those jobs. But the United States of America doesn't play for second place. We compete to win. And we will win this if we move forward free of politics and are focused on just what it takes to get the job done.<p>This is an idea that already has bipartisan support, but it's been delayed for months. So my simple message is, don't let politics get in the way of doing what's right for our economy and for our future, and don't bet against the American worker or lose faith in American industry. This is a nation that has always been proud of what it builds, and it is that spirit that's going to lead our recovery forward. <p>We've been through tough times before, and it is precisely in those times that we rebuilt, we retooled, we recaptured the ingenuity and resilience that makes this Nation so great. That's how our predecessors built the first American century. That's how we'll build the next. And it's in that spirit that I will now sign this bill into law. Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"231" "\"Good evening, everybody. Welcome. Please, have a seat. Well, welcome to the White House. To you, to Muslim Americans across our country, and to more than 1 billion Muslims around the world, I extend my best wishes on this holy month. Ramadan Kareem.<p>I want to welcome members of the diplomatic corps, members of my administration, and Members of Congress, including Rush Holt, John Conyers, and Andre Carson, who is one of the two Muslim American Members of Congress, along with Keith Ellison. So welcome, all of you.<p>Here at the White House, we have a tradition of hosting iftars that goes back several years, just as we host Christmas parties and Seders and Diwali celebrations. And these events celebrate the role of faith in the lives of the American people. They remind us of the basic truth that we are all children of God and we all draw strength and a sense of purpose from our beliefs.<p>Now, these events are also an affirmation of who we are as Americans. Our Founders understood that the best way to honor the place of faith in the lives of our people was to protect their freedom to practice religion. In the Virginia Act of Establishing Religious Freedom, Thomas Jefferson wrote that \\"all men shall be free to profess, and by argument to maintain, their opinions in matters of religion.\\" The First Amendment of our Constitution established the freedom of religion as the law of the land, and that right has been upheld ever since.<p>Indeed, over the course of our history, religion has flourished within our borders precisely because Americans have had the right to worship as they choose, including the right to believe in no religion at all. And it is a testament to the wisdom of our Founders that America remains deeply religious, a nation where the ability of peoples of different faiths to coexist peacefully and with mutual respect for one another stands in stark contrast to the religious conflict that persists elsewhere around the globe.<p>Now, that's not to say that religion is without controversy. Recently, attention's been focused on the construction of mosques in certain communities, particularly New York. Now, we must all recognize and respect the sensitivities surrounding the development of Lower Manhattan. The 9/11 attacks were a deeply traumatic event for our country. And the pain and the experience of suffering by those who lost loved ones is just unimaginable. So I understand the emotions that this issue engenders. And Ground Zero is, indeed, hallowed ground.<p>But let me be clear. As a citizen and as President, I believe that Muslims have the right to practice their religion as everyone else in this country. And that includes the right to build a place of worship and a community center on private property in Lower Manhattan, in accordance with local laws and ordinances. This is America. And our commitment to religious freedom must be unshakeable. The principle that people of all faiths are welcome in this country and that they will not be treated differently by their government is essential to who we are. The writ of the Founders must endure.<p>We must never forget those who we lost so tragically on 9/11, and we must always honor those who led the response to that attack, from the firefighters who charged up smoke-filled staircases to our troops who are serving in Afghanistan today. But let us also remember who we're fighting against and what we're fighting for. Our enemies respect no religious freedom. Al Qaida's cause is not Islam; it's a gross distortion of Islam. These are not religious leaders; they're terrorists who murder innocent men and women and children. In fact, Al Qaida has killed more Muslims than people of any other religion, and that list of victims includes innocent Muslims who were killed on 9/11.<p>So that's who we're fighting against. And the reason that we will win this fight is not simply the strength of our arms; it is the strength of our values, the democracy that we uphold, the freedoms that we cherish, the laws that we apply without regard to race or religion or wealth or status. Our capacity to show not merely tolerance, but respect towards those who are different from us, and that way of life, that quintessentially American creed, stands in stark contrast to the nihilism of those who attacked us on that September morning and who continue to plot against us today.<p>In my Inaugural Address, I said that our patchwork heritage is a strength, not a weakness. We are a nation of Christians and Muslims, Jews and Hindus, and nonbelievers. We are shaped by every language and every culture, drawn from every end of this Earth. And that diversity can bring difficult debates. Our--this is not unique to our time. Past eras have seen controversies about the construction of synagogues or Catholic churches. But time and again, the American people have demonstrated that we can work through these issues and stay true to our core values and emerge stronger for it. So it must be--and will be--today.<p>And tonight we are reminded that Ramadan is a celebration of a faith known for great diversity. And Ramadan is a reminder that Islam has always been a part of America. The first Muslim Ambassador to the United States, from Tunisia, was hosted by President Jefferson, who arranged a sunset dinner for his guest because it was Ramadan, making it the first known iftar at the White House, more than 200 years ago.<p>Like so many other immigrants, generations of Muslims came to forge their future here. They became farmers and merchants, worked in mills and factories. They helped lay the railroads. They helped to build America. They founded the first Islamic center in New York City in the 19--in the 1890s. They built America's first mosque on the prairie of North Dakota. And perhaps the oldest surviving mosque in America, still in use today, is in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.<p>Today, our Nation is strengthened by millions of Muslim Americans. They excel in every walk of life. Muslim American communities, including mosques in all 50 States, also serve their neighbors. Muslim Americans protect our communities as police officers and firefighters and first-responders. Muslim American clerics have spoken out against terror and extremism, reaffirming that Islam teaches that one must save human life, not take it.<p>And Muslim Americans serve with honor in our military. At next week's iftar at the Pentagon, tribute will be paid to three soldiers who gave their lives in Iraq and now rest among the heroes of Arlington National Cemetery. These Muslim Americans died for the security that we depend on and the freedoms that we cherish. They're part of an unbroken line of Americans that stretches back to our founding, Americans of all faiths who have served and sacrificed to extend the promise of America to new generations and to ensure that what is exceptional about America is protected: our commitment to stay true to our core values and our ability, slowly but surely, to perfect our Union.<p>For in the end, we remain \\"one Nation, under God, indivisible.\\" And we can only achieve \\"liberty and justice for all\\" if we live by that one rule at the heart of every great religion, including Islam, that we do unto others as we would have them do unto us.<p>So thank you all for being here. I wish you a blessed Ramadan. And with that, let us eat.\" "
"232" "\"Seventy-five years ago today, in the midst of the Great Depression, Franklin Roosevelt signed Social Security into law, laying a cornerstone in the foundation of America's middle class and assuring generations of America's seniors that after a lifetime of hard work, they'd have a chance to retire with dignity. We have an obligation to keep that promise, to safeguard Social Security for our seniors, people with disabilities, and for all Americans, today, tomorrow, and forever.<p>Now, we've been talking for a long time about how to do that, about how to make sure Social Security is healthy enough to cover the higher costs that are kicking in now that baby boomers are retiring. And I'm committed to working with anyone, Democrat or Republican, who wants to strengthen Social Security. I'm also encouraged by the reports of serious bipartisan work being done on this and other issues in the fiscal commission that I set up several months ago.<p>One thing we can't afford to do though is privatize Social Security, an ill-conceived idea that would add trillions of dollars to our budget deficit while tying your benefits to the whims of Wall Street traders and the ups and downs of the stock market.<p>A few years ago, we had a debate about privatizing Social Security. And I'd have thought that debate would've been put to rest once and for all by the financial crisis we've just experienced. I'd have thought, after being reminded how quickly the stock market can tumble, after seeing the wealth people worked a lifetime to earn wiped out in a matter of days, that no one would want to place bets with Social Security on Wall Street, that everyone would understand why we need to be prudent about investing the retirement money of tens of millions of Americans.<p>But some Republican leaders in Congress don't seem to have learned any lessons from the past few years. They're pushing to make privatizing Social Security a key part of their legislative agenda if they win a majority in Congress this fall. It's right up there on their to-do list with repealing some of the Medicare benefits and reforms that are adding at least a dozen years to the fiscal health of Medicare, the single longest extension in history.<p>That agenda is wrong for seniors, it's wrong for America, and I won't let it happen, not while I'm President. I'll fight with everything I've got to stop those who would gamble your Social Security on Wall Street. Because you shouldn't be worried that a sudden downturn in the stock market will put all you've worked so hard for, all you've earned, at risk. You should have the peace of mind of knowing that after meeting your responsibilities and paying into the system all your lives, you'll get the benefits you deserve.<p>Seventy-five years ago today, Franklin Roosevelt made a promise. He promised that from that day forward, we'd offer, \\"some measure of protection to the average citizen and to his family against . . . poverty-stricken old age.\\" That's a promise each generation of Americans has kept. And it's a promise America will continue to keep so long as I have the honor of serving as President. <p>Thanks for listening. Thanks for watching. And have a wonderful weekend.\" "
"233" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. It is a privilege to be here in Panama City Beach with the men and women of the United States Coast Guard. I wanted to come here personally and express my gratitude to you for the effort that you've waged in response to the BP oil spill. And I know Michelle wanted to do the same, so we're looking forward to having a chance to shake hands with you and thank you personally for this great work that you've been doing day in, day out.<p>Michelle, just last month, was down in Mississippi, where she met folks from the Coast Guard about the spill, and she had the chance to christen the new cutter the Stratton.<p>The Coast Guard was the first on the scene, immediately launching a search-and-rescue operation for the missing. You were the first to recognize that we were potentially looking at a massive spill even before the rig collapsed and the oil began to leak from the seafloor. And a day and a half later, in a meeting with Thad Allen and others, I instructed the Coast Guard, the Department of Homeland Security, and other agencies to treat this response as their number-one priority. And that's exactly what all of you have done.<p>Under the leadership of Admiral Allen, the Coast Guard, along with other Federal agencies and State and local governments, has directed the largest response to an environmental disaster in American history. The response has included more than 7,000 vessels and more than 47,000 people on the ground. And I know that two cutters, the Aspen and the Juniper, are here in port this week, after tours skimming and performing other recovery work. As I said before, many of the folks here have toiled day and night, spending weeks, even months, away from their families to stop the leak, remove the oil, and protect waters and coastline. So I want to thank all those who continue to participate in this effort.<p>I also want to make mention and thank Dr. Steven Chu and our team of scientists assembled from across Federal agencies, around the country, and all over the world, who have been working nonstop to kill the well once and for all. This has not only been the biggest oil spill in our history; it's also been the most technologically complex. It pushed the boundaries of our scientific know-how, as engineers wrestled with a massive and unpredictable leak and faced setbacks, faced complications, all in pitch-black waters nearly a mile beneath the surface of the Gulf.<p>Well, today the well is capped. Oil is no longer flowing into the Gulf. It has not been flowing for a month. And I'm here to tell you that our job is not finished, and we are not going anywhere until it is. That's a message that I wanted to come here and deliver directly to the people along the Gulf Coast, because it's the men and women of this region who have felt the burden of this disaster. They've watched with anger and dismay as their livelihoods and their way of life was threatened these past few months. And that's why I made a commitment in my visits here that I was going to stand with you not just until the well was closed, not just until the oil was cleaned up, but until you have fully recovered from the damage that's been done. And that is a commitment that my administration is going to keep.<p>That also is why my Secretary of the Navy, Ray Mabus, is here. A former Governor of Mississippi, a son of the Gulf, he has been traveling all across this region, gathering up information and data to make sure that we are following through on our commitments for rebuilding.<p>I reiterated this just now when I met with a few small-business owners from the Panama City area, along with Governor Charlie Crist, and not only the mayors of this region, but also some of the business owners who are affected, folks like Captain Gary Jarvis, a charter boat operator from Destin. Gary started fishing as a deckhand back in 1978, and he's been captain for the past three decades, making his living on the water. He's lost fully half of his business because of the spill, though he's been able to use his boat as a vessel of opportunity to make some money in the past few months. And he's extraordinarily knowledgeable about these waters, being both a charter fisherman and a commercial fisherman. And he had some terrific suggestions about how, working with scientists from NOAA and other Federal agencies, we can do even more to make sure that we are monitoring and maintaining and improving the fishing off the coast of Florida and across the Gulf.<p>I also had a chance to speak to Lee Ann Leonard, general manager of By the Sea Resorts. She's seen a big decline in tourism. June wasn't too bad, but July was tough. And she's now hoping that August, September, and October can help them rebound from what have been significant losses.<p>I met with Carolyn Holman, who's got two commercial fishing boats and owns the Captain's Table Fish House in Panama City Beach with her husband. And I appreciated the chance to sit down with them to hear firsthand what they've been going through and to make clear that we're going to keep standing by them. Part of the concern that Carolyn expressed was the issue of seafood and our testing and making sure that it's safe. And we are all over that and monitoring that carefully each and every day, hopefully continuing to deliver good news as the days go on. And I mentioned to her that we already had some seafood in the White House. When the New Orleans Saints came up, we had a couple of po' boys. So right now we're feeling pretty good.<p>I also want to recognize that Mayor Gayle Oberst and Mayor Scott Clemons had some terrific suggestions about how we might help to diversify the economies down here so that they're in a better position to, if we ever had a crisis again, manage it, but more importantly, to provide more jobs and opportunity in this extraordinary and beautiful region.<p>Now, I want to go over a couple of the steps that we are going to be focused on over the next several weeks. First and foremost, we're going to continue to monitor and remove any oil that reaches the surface and clean up any oil that hits the shore. As I mentioned, Gary has been offering up his ship as a vessel of opportunity, and he confirms what you've been seeing in the news reports, which is there aren't a lot of patches out there that are visible right now. But we've got to constantly anticipate that at any given time you might see a patch of oil that starts coming in, and we've got to be able to capture that before it hits these beautiful beaches around here.<p>As a result of the massive cleanup operation that's already taken place, a recent report by our top scientists found that the majority of oil has now evaporated or dispersed or it's been burned, skimmed, or recovered from the wellhead. And the dispersed oil is in the process of degrading. But I will not be satisfied until the environment has been restored, no matter how long it takes. <p>I also want to point out that as a result of the cleanup effort, beaches all along the Gulf Coast are clean, they are safe, and they are open for business. That's one of the reasons Michelle, Sasha, and I are here. The Governor and the mayors and others invited us down to enjoy the beach and the water, to let our fellow Americans know that they should come on down here. It is spectacular. Not just to support the region; come down here because it's just a beautiful place to visit.<p>Next, we're going to continue testing fisheries, and we'll be reopening more areas for fishing as tests show that the waters are safe. Already, more than 26,000 square miles were reopened at the end of July and another 5,000 were reopened earlier this week. I know this takes some time, and it's been incredibly hard on the people who earn their living on the water. Carolyn's boats, for example, have had to find different areas to fish that are further away and require more fuel, so she's been having to make some decisions, maybe I don't send out my boat this time out. But their livelihoods, not to mention the health of the people across this country, obviously depends on making sure that folks can trust the seafood coming from the Gulf, trust that it's safe, as it always has been.<p>And as I told Carolyn, we've already been enjoying Gulf seafood, but we are going to keep on monitoring this to make sure that everybody's favorite seafood from the Gulf and favorite recipes are going to be treated--are going to be just fine.<p>The third thing we're focused on is claims. When I came down to the Gulf previously, I heard a lot of frustration about the way BP was handling claims. So in June I met with BP's executives, and in that meeting they agreed to put aside $20 billion in a special fund to pay damages. It's being run by an independent overseer so that people can trust that they'll get a fair shake. Now we need to make sure claims are processed quickly, because many who have lost their only source of income, they don't have a lot of leeway. They don't have months to wait to be compensated. The folks we just met with--Lee Ann, Gary, Carolyn--they've all got outstanding claims. So I want to be clear about this. Any delay by BP or those managing the new funds are unacceptable. And I will keep pushing to get these claims expedited.<p>Finally, I have charged, as I mentioned earlier, Ray Mabus to develop a long-term Gulf Coast restoration plan as soon as possible. That plan needs to come from the people in the Gulf, which is why he's been meeting with folks from across the region to develop this plan of action. That's how we can ensure that we do everything in our power to restore the environment and reverse the economic damage caused by the spill.<p>So with the closure of the well, we mark an important milestone. But this is not the end of the journey. And in completing the work ahead I'm reminded of what I heard when I was in Louisiana back in June. I spent time with folks on Grand Isle, meeting with fishermen and small-business owners and the town's mayor, David Camardelle. And he told me what his friends and neighbors were going through. He talked about how hard things had been. But he also explained the way folks rallied to support one another, he said, the people in this community may not have a lot of money, but that didn't matter. \\"We help each other,\\" he said. \\"That's what we do.\\"<p>That's what folks do for one another in the Gulf. That's what the Coast Guard has been doing for folks in need. That's what we do as Americans. And my job is to make sure that we live up to this responsibility, that we keep up our efforts until the environment is clean, polluters are held accountable, businesses and communities are made whole, and the people of the Gulf Coast are back on their feet.<p>So, to the men and women of the Coast Guard, thank you again for your extraordinary service. To the people here in the Gulf, we are going to be standing by your side. And to Americans all across the country, come on down and visit.<p>Thank you.\" "
"234" "\"Hello, everybody. What a spectacular evening. Let's just hang out. [<i>Laughter</i>] We don't need to make speeches. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Well, it is wonderful to see all of you. There are a lot of friends here. There are a couple of people I've got to make special mention of. First of all, obviously, thanks to John and Marilyn for their incredible hospitality. Thank you very much. Please give them a big round of applause. <p>To the best Speaker of the House that I can imagine working with, she has just been a fighter day in and day out, I couldn't have a better partner in Washington than Nancy Pelosi. Please give her a big round of applause.<p>My Secretary of Labor is here, California's own Hilda Solis; Democratic Congressional Committee chairman, a thankless job, and he is handling it with grace, Chris Van Hollen; all of the members of California's congressional delegation who are here, I want to just say thank you for your outstanding work. <p>I'm going to make mention of one person who is not yet member of the congressional delegation, but is going to be soon, the former speaker of the house who is soon going to be the Congresswoman from this district, Karen Bass, is here. Give Karen a big round of applause.<p>The mayor of Los Angeles, Antonio Villaraigosa, is here. We're not going to let him on a bike any time soon. [<i>Laughter</i>] City Council President Eric Garcetti is here. Please give him a round of applause.<p>And there are at least--just at least two Members of Congress who are here that I just want to make special mention of: Barbara Lee, because she is the chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus and is doing outstanding work; and Howard Berman, who is helping to guide us through so many difficult foreign policy challenges, and I'm so grateful to him for his leadership. Please give Howard a big round of applause. <p>So it is wonderful to be back in Los Angeles. And I look out on this crowd and I see so many friends who helped me to get to the White House. I am reminded of Lincoln's story. He used to tell a story about a guy who showed up at the White House. Security was a little more lax at that time. [<i>Laughter</i>] He insists on seeing the President during his office hours, says, \\"I am the guy who got Lincoln elected.\\" And he kept on badgering whoever was at the door. And finally, Lincoln lets him in. And Lincoln says, \\"So, sir, I understand you are responsible for me having this job.\\" He says, \\"That's right.\\" And Lincoln says, \\"I forgive you.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>No, I--it is obviously an extraordinary honor to be the President, and an extraordinary privilege to be the President at this moment in history. A lot of people have said to me, \\"I just can't imagine all the things that you're juggling right now. We've got two wars, coming out of this extraordinary recession that we've gone through.\\" And I say, \\"This is exactly when you want to be President.\\" This is why I ran, because we have the opportunity to shape history for the better, to create an America that will serve our children and our grandchildren and our great-great-grandchildren well for--if we are taking the right steps, if we recognize this is an inflection point.<p>And that means it's difficult. That means it's contentious. And that means there's going to be passions that are stirred up that a quieter, more stable time might not. But it's also exactly when I'd want to be in Washington, because I think we have the opportunity to make such a difference for so many people who need that help right now. And I know Nancy feels the same way about being Speaker of the House. <p>Now, I want to make special mention of what Congress has done and the House of Representatives have done. When you're President, you've got the bully pulpit. And when you're President, you've got 4 years. And as a consequence, I think there are a lot of things I'm very proud of that we've done over the last 2 years. But the pressures on me are different than the pressures on some of these congressional Members.<p>Nancy has experienced the same thing that Harry Reid has experienced on the Senate side, which is just constant, nonstop opposition on everything. There hasn't been an item that has come up in which there has not been just uniform insistence on the other side that it was a bad idea, that it was going to wreck the country, and that we shouldn't be doing it. <p>And so for people like Nancy and Chris and all the Members here to have stood up again and again and again under just fierce, withering criticism and opposition, and to do so with a smile on Nancy's face and with the grace with which she's done it, and for the Members who've taken tough vote after tough vote over the course of the last 2 years because they knew it was the right thing to do even when it wasn't the popular thing to do, that's why we're here tonight. <p>That's my focus over the next several months, because when I ran for the Presidency, my firm belief was, if you did the right thing, then eventually that was going to be good politics. It might not be good politics in the short term, but it was going to be good politics in the long term. I believe that now, just like I believed it then. But we've got to make sure that all those Members in the House of Representatives who believed it and took a lot of big political risks over the last 2 years are rewarded for it. <p>So I hope you understand why we're here tonight. It's not to take a picture with the President. You know, those--you know, I'm a lot grayer now and--[<i>laughter</i>]. But we're here because we want to make sure that those folks who have taken the tough votes are supported.<p>I want to just remind everybody, because sometimes we've got short memories, of where we've been, the journey we've traveled over the last 20 months. When I was sworn in--a few of you were there; it was very cold that day--in January of 2009--you remember, it was cold--[<i>laughter</i>]--yes--that same month, we lost 750,000 jobs. In the 6 months leading up to my Inauguration, we had lost 3 million jobs. In subsequent months, we were losing 600,000, 500,000. Before any of the steps we could take were put into place, we had already seen 8 million jobs lost, the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, the entire financial system on the verge of meltdown. <p>And I think it's a good thing that we tend not to remember how worried everybody was. But people were worried. In March, when the stock market was dropping 3, 400 points, people were not sure whether or not we were going to be dipping into a Great Depression. <p>And so we had to take action, and we had to take action quickly. And not everything we did was popular. But we knew that if we didn't act, if we were thinking about the next election instead of the next generation, then we were putting the country at risk.<p>So immediately, we took steps to shore up the economy, to lift up demand, to make sure that people who were vulnerable got support, to make sure that States like California were getting enough help that they didn't have to lay off teachers and firefighters and police officers across the board. And it worked. We were able to stabilize the economy.<p>But that still left all the damage that had already occurred. Eight million jobs had still been lost. And more than that, it still left undone the task that I had been running on as President, which was to create the kind of foundation for economic growth that had been missing for 10 years. <p>Part of what has made this recession so tough is middle class families were struggling before the crisis hit. They were hurting before the storm struck. They had seen a decade of sluggish growth. They had seen a decade of sluggish job growth. Incomes and wages had gone down for most families when you factored in inflation, at the same time that health care and tuition were all skyrocketing. <p>So people felt less secure than they'd ever felt. And they kept on seeing jobs moving overseas. And they had a sense that nobody was thinking about them. And you know what? They were right. They were right.<p>The previous administration and the Republican Congress that had been in charge, they had a simple philosophy. They put a fancy name on it. They called it the \\"ownership society.\\" But when it came down to it, the philosophy was simple: We are going to cut taxes for millionaires and billionaires, folks who don't need it and weren't even asking for it, we're going to cut regulations and rules that provide some check on special interests, and then we're going to cut loose ordinary folks and tell them, you're on your own. You don't have health care, tough luck, you're on your own. You're a young person and you didn't choose your parents properly and so--[<i>laughter</i>]--you're poor, maybe can't afford college, too bad, you're on your own. You got laid off just short of retirement; you don't know what to do, too bad, you're on your own.<p>That was the reigning philosophy before this recession hit. And that's why I went to Washington, to change that. So our job wasn't just to make sure that we didn't go into a depression; our job was to figure out how are we going to put this economy back on track so it works for everybody, not just some, but for everybody. So every kid here in California is able to say to themselves, if I work hard, if I'm studying, I'm going to be able to afford to go to college. And if I go to college, then I'm going to be able to get a job that pays me a decent wage. And if I've got a job, I'm going to be able to get health care and protect my family. And if I do those right things during the course of my life, I'm going to be able to retire with some dignity and some respect. <p>That's why we went to Washington. That's why so many of you worked so hard to send me there. And so we had a tough task. We had to rescue the economy, but we also had to remind ourselves that we've got to put this country on a different trajectory than we've been on. And we went about the business of doing that, with the help of Nancy, with the help of Chris, with the help of every Member of Congress here, but with no help from the other side. And as a consequence, we have been able to deliver the most progressive legislative agenda, one that helps working families in not just one generation, maybe two, maybe three. <p>So we were able to deliver on health care reform so that we enshrine the principle in this country, the wealthiest on Earth, that nobody should be bankrupt when they get sick. And we were able to make sure that we've got a financial system in which everybody follows the basic rules of the road and you don't make money by cheating people, you make money by offering them decent services.<p>And then we said, you know what, we're going to make sure that college is accessible to every young person in America. And so we transformed how our student loan program works so that millions more kids are able to get health--able to get help on their student loans and their tuition.<p>Item after item after item, when you look at what Nancy and the House have done, in combination with Harry Reid in the Senate, what we've delivered is a package of changes that are going to help bolster security for middle class families. And then we looked at the long term, and we said, look, what are we going to do about energy? And as a consequence, invested--made the biggest investments in clean energy in our history, building solar panels and wind turbines and advanced battery manufacturing plants and biodiesel all across the country. And we said, we're going to make the biggest investment in research and development in our history, and we did that. All designed to make sure that we are competitive in a 21st-century economy. And we did all this without any help from the other side.<p>Now, here's the challenge that we've got. We've got a long way to go. People are still hurting. All across America, I meet folks or I read letters that are sent to me every night: single moms who are sending out application after application and getting no response from potential employers; people who have been laid off their jobs and have been out of work for a year, year and a half, and now they've depleted all their savings and don't know where to turn. <p>And so in that environment, you can talk about saving the economy from a potential depression and you can talk about the long-term vision that makes me so optimistic about America, but right here, right now we've still got a lot of work to do. And that's what makes this election so challenging. <p>But having said that, I am absolutely confident that we will do well in this election as long as we understand what this election is about, and that is, we have a choice between the policies that got us into this mess and the policies that are getting us out of this mess. It's a very simple choice. It's pretty straightforward. <p>I've used this analogy before. You had a group of folks who drove the economy, drove the country, drove our car into the ditch. And so Nancy and Chris and Barbara and Howard and me, we put on our boots and walked down into the ditch. It's muddy and hot and dusty, and bugs everywhere, and--[<i>laughter</i>]--we're pushing and got our shoulders up, and we're slipping and sliding and sweating, and the other side, the Republicans, they're standing there with their Slurpees--[<i>laughter</i>]--watching us, \\"You're not pushing fast enough.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"That's not how you do it. You do it this way.\\" And so every once in a while, we'd offer, \\"Why don't you guys come down here\\"--[<i>laughter</i>]--\\"help us push?\\" \\"No, no, no.\\"<p>Finally, we get this car to level ground. Finally, we're ready to move forward, go down that road once again of American prosperity, and what happens? They want the keys back. [<i>Laughter</i>] And what this election is about is saying to them, you cannot have the keys back. You do not know how to drive. You don't know how to drive. We're not going to let you go us--take us in the ditch again. <p>I would make this observation. When you are driving and you want to go forward, what do you do? You put your car in \\"D.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] You want to go backwards? You put your car in \\"R.\\" We can't afford to reverse back into the ditch. We've got to go forward. That's what this election is about. That's what this election is about. <p>Now, the Republicans don't have an affirmative agenda. They're counting on two things: They're counting on fear, and they're counting on amnesia. [<i>Laughter</i>] They understand the very legitimate fears that people have about the future. And so rather than offer solutions, practical solutions about how we are going to rework our energy policies so that we can deal not only with our national security challenges, not only with our economic challenges, but also create jobs right here in the United States of America--and by the way, maybe save the planet in the process--they don't have an answer for that, just more of the same, same policies. Drill more; that's, I think, basically all we've heard from them.<p>When it comes to education, we haven't heard new ideas out of them. When it comes to how we're going to spur on innovation in research and development, they're not talking about that. That's not what they are talking about.<p>When it comes to, supposedly, their signature issue--they want to do something about the big-spending Democrats, \\"We're going to do something about the deficit.\\" And you keep on asking them, \\"Okay, well, what are you going to do?\\" \\"Well, we're going to cut waste, fraud, and abuse.\\" \\"Okay, what exactly waste, fraud, and abuse are you going to cut?\\" \\"Well, we'll get to that later.\\" <p>They're offering fear, and they're offering amnesia. They are counting on the notion that you won't remember what happened when they were in charge. I think the American people do remember. I think they understand exactly what happened when Republicans were in charge. And they've also been watching over the last several months, over the last 2 years. <p>My campaign, you'll recall, our slogan was, \\"Yes, we can.\\" Their slogan is, \\"No, we can't,\\" on every item. On health care, how many times, Nancy, did we reach out to them and say, you know what, we are willing to work with you to come up with some sort of cooperative way to make sure that people aren't prohibited from getting health care because of preexisting conditions and to take seriously how we're going to cut costs in our health care system and strengthen Medicare and make sure that people aren't having unnecessary tests when their results could just be e-mailed to doctors because of electronic medical records? All kinds of ideas that we kept on offering up, and, \\"No, we can't.\\"<p>On energy, we're willing to compromise on a whole host of different issues, but we've got to have a strategy that starts reducing carbon, because we want those clean energy jobs built here in the United States, not in China, not in Germany. What did they say? \\"No, no, we can't.\\"<p>When the auto crisis struck, and we said, we can't afford to lose a million jobs in the Midwest in the midst of this huge downturn, and rather than just write checks to the auto companies, which is what had been happening before our administration took over, what we said was, we're going to force the auto companies to restructure and hold them accountable and make sure management is producing the kinds of cars and trucks that speak to the future and not just the past. And we raised fuel efficiency standards on cars and trucks for the first time in 30 years. And we said to the Republicans, \\"This represents something iconic about America, the fact that we make things right here in the United States of America. Help us.\\" \\"No, we can't.\\"<p>On issue after issue, they've just said no. Mitch McConnell was quoted, I think, last week--maybe it was this week. He said, \\"If we could have obstructed even more, we would have.\\" Is that even possible? [<i>Laughter</i>] How could you obstruct more?<p>And so that's what the choice in this election is going to be all about. Tax policy is going to be a major issue next year. The Democrats, Nancy, Chris, we want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas and give those tax breaks to companies that are creating jobs right here in the United States of America. That's common sense. <p>And we've got a track record. Right now we've got a bill pending to provide tax breaks, including the elimination of capital gains for small, startup businesses. We've been debating this thing how long now, 6 months, a year? And these guys still aren't going for it. The Chamber of Commerce is for it. [<i>Laughter</i>] You know, now, they usually don't side with me on a lot of things--[<i>laughter</i>]--although they sided with me on the Recovery Act, and they've conveniently forgot about that.<p>So on issue after issue, the choice is going to be, are we moving forward or are we moving backwards? Now, I think that the American people want to move forward. I'm positive of it. And one of the things I've been saying as I travel around the country is, as tough as these times have been, we've been through tougher times. Our grandparents, our great-grandparents, the parents before them, they've gone through revolutionary war, civil wars, slavery and segregation, World War II, great depressions. This country has been through some tough stuff. There have been times where the naysayers and the cynics and the pessimists said, our better days are behind us. There have been times where the main currency of politics was making people afraid, trying to divide them, not offering up a way forward and a way to bring people together, but rather trying to point out who's to blame. We've seen that before. <p>But time after time, decade after decade, somehow we've always found it in ourselves to reach for what's best in us. We've always been able to set our sights on the future. And as tough and sometimes depressing as our politics can get, in opposition to this notion that we can't, somebody said, we can. <p>That's the choice in this election. And if all of you who 2 years ago or 4 years ago or 6 years ago, if all of you remember why we worked so hard and what's at stake and understand that our task is not yet done, but also recognize the enormous progress that we've made because of the leadership of these Members of Congress right here, then we're going to do just fine, and this country is going to be just fine. <p>While I was taking photos, a woman came up to me. She said, \\"Thank you for health care, because my child has type 1 diabetes, couldn't get health insurance once he graduated, and now I know that he's going to be covered.\\"<p>Today I was in an advanced battery plant outside of Milwaukee where they are adding manufacturing jobs, stamping green technology \\"Made in America.\\" Across the country, we're seeing States suddenly reforming their education systems to make sure that we're lifting up those who are underperforming, because we know that we've got to have the best possible workforce to compete in the 21st century. We are making progress. We are moving forward.<p>And so even as the other side wants to offer fear, we're going to offer hope. And I want to make sure everybody here understands, don't bet against the American worker. Don't bet against American businesses. Don't bet against Nancy Pelosi. [<i>Laughter</i>] We are going to move this country forward with your help. We're going to move this country forward with your help, but we are going to need your help. We're going to need your phone calls. We are going to need your knocking on doors. We need your enthusiasm. We need your spirit. We need your confidence that we can continue to make this country even better than it already is, all right? And if everybody here is able to marshal that spirit once again, I'm absolutely positive we're not just going to do well in this election, we're going to do right by the next generation.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"235" "\"Thank you very much. Everybody, please have a seat. Thank you very much. It is wonderful to be at ZBB Energy. And thanks for your hospitality, and thanks for helping to build a future.<p>I've got a couple of people I want to acknowledge. First of all, your wonderful Governor and first lady, Jim and Jessica Doyle, are here. Please give them a big round of applause. We got somebody who is fighting on behalf of Wisconsin families each and every day, Russ Feingold, your wonderful U.S. Senator, a great friend and somebody who has been really doing great work over her first couple of years in Congress, Congresswoman Gwen Moore. Please give her a big round of applause. And thank you, Eric, for the wonderful tour that you provided to us. Please give Eric Apfelbach a big round of applause, CEO of ZBB. <p>Now, it is great to be here. I just had a chance to see some of the batteries that you're manufacturing and talk to a few of the men and women who are building them. And the reason I'm here today is because at this plant, you're doing more than just making high-tech batteries; you're pointing the country towards a brighter economic future.<p>Now, that's not easy. We've been through a terrible recession, the worst that we've seen since the Great Depression. And this recession was the culmination of a decade that fell like a sledge hammer on middle class families. For the better part of 10 years, people were seeing stagnant incomes and sluggish growth and skyrocketing health care costs and skyrocketing tuition bills, and people were feeling less secure economically.<p>And few parts of the economy were hit harder than manufacturing. Over the last 10 years, the number of people working in manufacturing shrank by a third. And that left millions of skilled, hard-working Americans sitting idle, just like their plants were sitting idle. That was before the recession hit. Obviously, once the recession took hold, millions more were struggling in ways that they never imagined. And there's nobody here who hasn't been touched in some way by this recession. And certainly a State like Wisconsin or my home State of Illinois can tell a lot of stories about how badly hit manufacturing was, particularly in the Midwest.<p>Now, there's some who suggest this decline is inevitable. But I don't see it that way, and I know neither do you. Yes, times are tough, but we've been through tough times before, and we've made it through because we are resilient. Americans are resilient. We don't give in to pessimism. We don't give in to cynicism. We fight for our future. We work to shape our own destiny as a country.<p>And that's what we've been trying to do since I took office. We've been fighting on all fronts--inch by inch, foot by foot, mile by mile--to get this country moving forward again and going after every single job we can create right here in the United States of America.<p>So we're investing in 21st-century infrastructure, roads and bridges, faster Internet access, high-speed railroads, projects that will lead to hundreds of thousands of private sector jobs but will also lay the groundwork so that our kids and our grandkids can keep prospering.<p>We've cut taxes for small businesses that hire unemployed workers. In fact, I've signed seven other small-business tax cuts so that entrepreneurs can help expand and buy new equipment and add more employees. We've taken emergency steps to prevent layoffs of hundreds of thousands of teachers and firefighters and police officers and other critical public servants in our communities. And I think that Governor Doyle will testify that we have made progress in part because everybody has pulled together. There was a great danger of even greater layoffs all across this State for vital services that would affect our kids and our families. These folks would have otherwise lost their jobs because of State and local budget cuts.<p>And at the same time, what we've been trying to do--and that's why I'm here at ZBB--is to jump-start a homegrown clean energy industry, building on the good work of your Governor and others in this State. That's why I'm here today. Because of the steps we've taken to strengthen the economy, ZBB received a loan that's helping to fund an expansion of your operations. Already it's allowed ZBB to retain nearly a dozen workers. And over time, the company expects to hire about 80 new workers. And this is leading to new business for your suppliers, including MGS Plastics and other manufacturers here in Wisconsin.<p>And ZBB is also planning to take advantage of a special tax credit to build another factory in southeastern Wisconsin, so we can create even more jobs and more opportunity. And Eric's confident that you can expand because you're seeing rising demand for advanced batteries. And all this is part of steps we've taken in clean energy, steps that have led to jobs manufacturing wind turbines and solar panels, building hybrid and electric vehicles, modernizing our electric grid so that we have more sources of renewable energy, but we can also use it more effectively.<p>We expect our commitment to clean energy to lead to more than 800,000 jobs by 2012. And that's not just creating work in the short term; that's going to help lay the foundation for lasting economic growth. I just want everybody to understand, just a few years ago, American businesses could only make 2 percent of the world's advanced batteries for hybrid and electric vehicles--2 percent. In just a few years, we'll have up to 40 percent of the world's capacity.<p>Here at ZBB, you're building batteries to store electricity from solar cells and wind turbines. And you've been able to export batteries around the globe, and that's helping lead this new industry. For years, we've heard about manufacturing jobs disappearing overseas. Well, companies like this are showing us how manufacturing's--can come back right here in the United States of America, right back here to Wisconsin. <p>Now, obviously, we've got a lot more work to do. The damage that was done by this recession was enormous. Eight million people lost their job; 750,000 lost jobs the month I was sworn into office; 3 million had lost their jobs by the time we took office, and several more million in those first few months of 2009. So too many of our family members and our friends and our neighbors are still having a tough time finding work. And some of them have been out of work a long time.<p>And I've said before and I'll say it again: My administration will not rest till every American who is willing to work can find a job, and a job that pays decent wages and decent benefits to support a family.<p>But what's clear is that we're headed in the right direction. A year and a half ago, this economy was shrinking rapidly. The economy is now growing. A year and a half ago, we were losing jobs every month in the private sector. We've now added private sector jobs for 7 months in a row. And that means the worst mistake we could make is to go back to doing what we were doing that got us into the mess that we were in. We can't turn back. We've got to keep going forward. We've got to keep going forward.<p>Now, I'll be honest with you, there's going to be a big debate about where we go. There are folks in Washington right now who think we should abandon our efforts to support clean energy. They've made the political calculation that it's better to stand on the sidelines than work as a team to help American businesses and American workers.<p>So they said no to the small-business tax cuts I talked about. They said no to rebuilding infrastructure. And they said no to clean energy projects. They even voted against getting rid of tax breaks for shipping jobs overseas so we could give those tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in Wisconsin. <p>And my answer to people who've been playing politics the past year and a half is, they should come to this plant. They should go to any of the dozen new battery factories or the new electric vehicle manufacturers or the new wind turbine makers or to the solar plants that are popping up all over this country, and they should have to explain why they think these clean energy jobs are better off being made in Germany or China or Spain, instead of right here in the United States.<p>See, when folks lift up the hoods on the cars of the future, I want them to see engines stamped \\" Made in America.\\" When new batteries to store solar power come off the line, I want to see printed on the side \\"Made in America.\\" When new technologies are developed and new industries are formed, I want them made right here in America. That's what we're fighting for. That's what this is about.<p>So, ZBB, you're part of that process. You guys are at the cutting edge. You're how we're going to strengthen this economy.<p>These have been a couple of very hard years for America, and we're not completely out of the woods yet. There are going to be some more tough days ahead. It would be a mistake to pretend otherwise. But we are headed in the right direction. You're pointing us in the right direction. And I am confident about our future because of what I have seen at this plant and what I see when I talk to workers like all of you, what I've seen all across this country. When the chips are down, it's always a mistake to bet against the American worker; it's a mistake to bet against American businesses; it's a mistake to bet against the American people.<p>This is the home to the most skilled, hard-working people on Earth. There's nothing we cannot achieve when we set our minds to it. All we've got to do is harness the potential that's always been central to our success. That's not just how we're going to come through the storms we've been in recently; that's how we're going to emerge even stronger than before.<p>So I want to say thank you to Eric. I want to thank ZBB for hosting us. More importantly, I want to thank all of you for setting a model for how we're going to create the kind of lasting economy that's going to be good not just for this generation, but for the next generation.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless America. Thank you.\" "
"236" "\"<i>The President.</i> All right. Hello, everybody. I just sat down here at Grand Central Bakery with the Secretary of Commerce and the former Governor of this great State, Gary Locke, the wonderful senior Senator from the great State of Washington, Patty Murray, as well as these three terrific small-business owners for a good discussion about the challenges that our small businesses face in this very tough economy.<p>And I have to say before we start, I also had a sandwich, a turkey sandwich here that was outstanding. So if you guys need to eat before we leave, try it out.<p>Gillian Allen-White and the founders of this bakery like to say that they built this business just like they bake everything, from scratch. What began as a little sandwich shop right here in this building nearly 40 years ago is today 8 cafes in Seattle and Portland that employ 250 people, and they are going to open their ninth cafe on Friday, which we're very excited about.<p>Tiffany Turner and her husband Brady gave up their careers in teaching and insurance to open their own inn on the coast. And despite the recession, business has been good. They're even looking to expand and hire new employees. For a time, their community bank couldn't give them the loan they needed to grow, but recently that changed. In fact, many banks like theirs have begun to open the flow of credit to small businesses for the first time in 4 years, and that's good news.<p>Joe--I'm going to make sure I get this right--Fugere----<p><i>Joe Fugere.</i> Fugere.<p><i>The President.</i> Fugere--see, I thought I had it right--put everything on the line--his savings, his 401(k), even a second mortgage--to open his first pizzeria. With a little hard work, it succeeded. And he opened two more. After the crisis hit, he sought a loan to open a fourth because business was good. But at bank after bank, Joe heard no. The same big banks whose reckless actions nearly brought down the economy told Joe that loaning money to a restaurant, even one as successful as his, was too risky. Finally, a community bank invested in Joe, and his fourth restaurant has been his most successful opening yet. And recently, an SBA loan under the Recovery Act helped him to improve his cashflow.<p>So stories like this are at the core of the American experience. This has always been a country where anyone with a good idea and the guts to see it through can succeed. It's what gives a worker the courage to leave her job to become her own boss or somebody with a dream to risk it all on a great idea. But these are tough times for a lot of small-business owners. The financial crisis has made it particularly difficult for them to get the loans they need to grow. The recession has meant that folks are spending less. And across the country, many small businesses that were once the beating heart of the community are now empty storefronts haunting our Main Streets.<p>So we've all got a stake in helping our small businesses succeed. And because small businesses create two out of every three new jobs in this country, our economic recovery depends on it.<p>And that's why when I took office, we put in place an economic plan to help small businesses. And Patty Murray was there every step of the way in us putting forward these initiatives. At its heart was a simple idea: While Government can't guarantee their success, Government can knock down the barriers that stand in the way and help create the conditions to help small businesses grow and to hire.<p>And that's why we've passed eight tax cuts for America's small businesses: tax cuts for hiring unemployed workers, tax cuts for investing in new equipment. As part of health insurance reform, 4 million small-business owners recently received a postcard in their mailboxes telling them that they could be eligible for a health care tax credit worth perhaps tens of thousands of dollars. And I know that Tiffany and her husband are looking now about the possibilities, because of these incentives, to be able to maybe provide health insurance to their workers. Under the Recovery Act, we supported nearly 700--nearly 70,000 new loans to small businesses like Joe's, and we waived fees on new SBA loans so people like Joe save money, up to $20,000 with the SBA arrangement that Joe had.<p>These steps and others are making some difference. But when you listen to these three business owners and you talk to small-business owners across the country, it's clear that we've got to do more. And that's why I'm urging the Senate once again to approve a jobs bill that will do two big things for small businesses: cut more taxes and make available more loans. That's what folks like the three people standing behind me say would be helpful. That's what I've heard from small-business owners across America.<p>Joe and Tiffany could tell you firsthand just how critical community banks are to helping small businesses grow and create jobs. Well, this bill will help those banks access more capital so they can offer more small businesses the loans that they need. It will make sure we continue to waive some of the fees for SBA-backed loans. It will increase deductions small businesses can take for new equipment and other expenses. And it will finally do what I've championed since I ran for President, and that's eliminate capital gains taxes on investments in small businesses.<p>The bottom line is this: America's small businesses are the backbone of our economy and the cornerstones of our communities. The folks who own them work hard, meet their responsibilities. As Gillian pointed out, nobody here is getting too fat and happy; everybody here is operating on very lean margins, and they are constantly thinking about their employees and their obligations and responsibilities to them. So in the same way that they're looking out for their employees, we need to be looking out for these small businesses. They are who this bill is for. They will see the positive benefits right away. <p>Now, unfortunately, a partisan minority in the Senate has been standing in the way of giving our small-businesspeople a simple up-or-down vote on this bill. They won't even let it go to vote. And every day this obstruction goes on is another day a small business somewhere in the country can't get a loan or can't get the tax cuts that it needs to grow and to hire. <p>I think Patty would agree with me when I say there will be plenty of time between now and November to play politics, but the small-business owners beside me and around the country don't have time for political games. They're not interested in what's best for a political party; they're interested in what's best for their employees and their communities and for the country. <p>So when Congress reconvenes, this jobs bill will be the first business out of the gate, and I ask Senate Republicans to drop their efforts to block it. I believe we can work together to get this done for the folks standing beside me and for small businesses, their employees, and communities that depend on them all across the country.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"237" "\"Thank you. It is good to be in Washington; it is good to be in Seattle. Seattle just looks terrific. I just want to go take a stroll, but Secret Service said no. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I am just thrilled to be here. I want to acknowledge some of the folks who are here who are so important to the life of this State, but also to what's taking place throughout the country. First of all, your wonderful Governor, Chris Gregoire, please give her a big round of applause. Your outstanding congressional delegation: Jim McDermott is in the house; Norm Dicks is here; Jay Inslee is here; Rick Larsen is here; Brian Baird is here. <p>To the mayor of Seattle, Mike McGinn, thank you so much. To the King County executive; Dow Constantine is here. And to somebody who I just adore, who I just think is terrific, your senior Senator from the great State of Washington, Patty Murray. <p>As I look out on the crowd, I see a lot of people who helped so much during the course of the campaign. You were with us when we were up, and you were with us when we were down. But you always were there, understanding that we were at a critical point in our history, and we needed to make some fundamental changes in order to deliver that promise to the next generation. And so to everybody here who supported me during my campaign and helped me become the President, thank you so much for your outstanding efforts. <p>Now, I am here to say thank you not only for my own election, but for having the wisdom to send Patty Murray to Washington. And when this State sent Patty to the Senate, she wasn't one of these lifelong politicians who wanted the job or the position for a fancy title or a nice office. She was a self-described \\"mom in tennis shoes\\" who was just looking to help a few people solve a few problems. And all these years later, Patty is that same person, except she's helped a whole lot of people solve a whole lot of big problems. <p>When I was in the Senate, I sat next to Patty on the Veterans Affairs Committee. And I can tell you there is no fiercer advocate for our veterans than Patty Murray--nobody. Whether it was keeping three VA hospitals open here in Washington or helping a World War II veteran break through the bureaucracy so he could receive his Purple Heart, no problem is too big, no problem is too small for Patty to fight for you. <p>And the same is true when it comes to fighting for jobs and opportunity for the people of this State. You've seen her go to bat to keep Boeing jobs and aerospace jobs right here in Washington. You've seen her fight for clean energy jobs and new infrastructure jobs right here in Washington. She's a Senator who still flies across the country every weekend to come home to listen, to listen to you and the cares and concerns of her constituents. So this is the kind of person you want representing you. Especially in a time like this, this is the kind of leader you need. The country needs Patty. <p>So I want everybody to understand, I'm asking you to cast a primary vote today. I know she's unopposed, but it doesn't hurt to practice. [<i>Laughter</i>] And then we need a whole bunch of votes in November, because we have to have a leader like Patty continuing to do battle on behalf of middle class families, working families all across this country. <p>She is rooted here in Washington, but her concerns, her vision, her passion for people, that's important for the country as a whole. And I am proud to call her a friend, and I can tell you we would not have been able to get some of the critical things we got done this year had it not been for her leadership. So make sure you send her back to Washington, please.<p>Now, look, this is obviously an incredibly challenging time for America. Eighteen months ago, I took office after nearly a decade of economic policies that had given us sluggish growth, sluggish job growth, falling incomes, falling wages, and a record deficit. And all those policies culminated in the worst recession in our lifetimes and, I think it's fair to say, the worst crisis that we've had economically since the Great Depression.<p>In the last 6 months of 2008, while I was still campaigning for the Presidency, 3 million American jobs were lost. The month I was sworn in, 800,000 jobs were lost; subsequent months, 600,000--600,000. Eight million jobs were lost, all told. And behind each of these numbers is a story of heartache and a story of frustration: the factory worker who gets laid off just a couple of years before retirement, the single mom who's sent out job application after job application and doesn't hear the phone ring day after day, a college graduate who thought that a degree would land her a good job with a decent paycheck and instead has just gotten her a mountain of debt, or somebody who aspires to college and then discovered that they just wouldn't be able to afford it because their family has fallen on tough times.<p>I hear these stories every day. I read them in letters each night. The struggles and the hopes of the American people are why I ran for this office in the first place. It's the reason that Patty ran for the Senate in the first place. And that's why we intend to keep fighting as hard as we can for as long as it takes to turn this economy around. That's why I'm here. That's why Patty's here. And we are going to succeed. <p>Now, we're not there yet. We've got a lot more work to do; we know that. The truth is, it's going to take a few years to fully dig ourselves out of this recession. It's going to take time to bring back 8 million jobs. Anybody who tells you otherwise is just looking for your vote. But here's what I can tell you: After 18 months, I have never been more confident that our Nation is headed in the right direction. We are doing what is needed to move forward. And we're doing what's necessary not just to rebuild the economy for the short term; we want to rebuild it for the long term, for our children, for our grandchildren. <p>We did not become the most prosperous nation on Earth by rewarding greed and recklessness of the sort that helped cause this financial crisis. We didn't come this far by just allowing a handful of banks and insurance companies and special interests to run wild. We did it by rewarding the values of hard work and responsibility. We did it by investing in the people who have built this country from the ground up, workers and families and small-business owners and responsible entrepreneurs. We did it because we outworked and we outeducated and outcompeted other nations. <p>That's who we are; that's who we need to be. Because right now countries like China and India and South Korea and Germany, they are fighting as hard as they can for the jobs of the future. They're trying to outcompete us when it comes to clean energy. They're trying to outcompete us when it comes to producing engineers and scientists. And frankly, in some cases, they've been catching up and even propelling forward ahead of us. <p>And I said this at the State of the Union a while back, and I will repeat it: The United States does not play for second place; we play for first. We are going to rebuild this economy stronger than it was before. And at the heart of this rebuilding effort are three simple words: Made in America. Made in America. <p>Instead of giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas, we want to cut taxes for companies that create jobs right here in the United States of America. We want to give tax cuts to small-business owners. We want to give tax breaks to clean energy companies. We also want to make sure that we keep taxes low for middle class families, and that's why we cut taxes for 95 percent of workers right at the beginning of my term, because they had been going through a tough time, and they needed to have a chance to deal with this economic crisis. <p>Instead of prolonging an addiction to oil that endangers everything from our security to our coastlines, we are jump-starting a homegrown energy industry in this country. I don't want to see solar panels and wind turbines and advanced batteries and electric cars manufactured in Europe or Asia. I want to see them made right here in the United States of America, by American workers.<p>We need a 21st-century infrastructure, not just roads and bridges, but faster Internet access and high-speed rail, projects that can lead to hundreds of thousands of new, private sector jobs. <p>And we're helping the U.S. auto industry get back on its feet and retool for the 21st century. This was an industry that lost hundreds of thousands of jobs in the year before I took office and were getting bailouts, but never asked to restructure to figure out how they could compete. So we had to make some tough decisions about whether to help them out or walk away from possibly a million jobs lost. And I decided we couldn't walk away. And by the way, this was not very popular. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>You know, the--it's interesting in Washington, people keep asking me, \\"Gosh, why are you doing these things that don't poll well?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And I have to keep on explaining, I have pollsters. [<i>Laughter</i>] I know when things don't poll well. But I wasn't sent to Washington, you did not send me to the Oval Office to just do what was popular; you sent me there to do what was right. That's why you sent me. That's why you sent me to Washington, to stand up for things that were right. <p>So it turns out, lo and behold, all three U.S. automakers are now operating at a profit for the first time in years. They've got the strongest job growth in more than a decade. And when I visited--I went to a Chrysler plant in Detroit. This had been shut--it was on the verge of being shut down. And I had a chance to meet 14 workers who had just won the lottery. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, you would think they might want to retire. But most of them had stayed on because they love their job, and they're proud of what they do. <p>In fact, one guy had used some of his winnings to buy a car, a Jeep Grand Cherokee, from the plant where he worked. He had helped build that car. He bought it for his wife, then bought a whole bunch of American flags for his hometown because he loves his country. He loves his company, and he loves his coworkers. And it captured the essence of who we are, coming out of tough times. Do not bet against the American worker. Do not bet against American businesses. Don't bet against American ingenuity. <p>That's the message that he was sending, and that's the message I want to send to you. We can compete. But we're going to have to take some steps to deal with longstanding problems, not ignore them, not pretend that they don't exist, to confront them.<p>We've got to make sure that our workers can compete on--with any other workers on Earth. And that's why we're reforming our education system based on what works for our children, not what works for the status quo. We've eliminated billions of dollars in taxpayer subsidies to the big banks that provide college loans so that all those billions of dollars can go to make a college education more affordable for millions of students. Patty was one of the people who took the lead in that critical change. <p>To lower costs for families and for businesses, we passed health insurance reform that will finally make coverage affordable and stop insurance companies from jacking up your premiums or refusing to cover you just because you're sick. <p>You just saw Marcelas Owens come up here. What a wonderful young man with a powerful story. And when he was standing next to me as we were signing that piece of legislation, I thought about his mom, and I thought about my mom, a single mom who didn't always have the kind of job that provided health insurance.<p>To ensure that a financial crisis like the one we just had doesn't happen again, we passed Wall Street reform that demands new accountability and tough oversight, reform that will stop credit card companies from charging you hidden fees and unfair rate hikes and that ends the era of Wall Street bailouts once and for all. <p>Patty was in the lead on all these measures. And all these reforms make America more competitive in the 21st century. They move us forward. And on each of these reforms, we reached out to Democrats and Republicans for ideas and support. But in just about every instance--I'm sure there's an exception that's escaping my mind--[<i>laughter</i>]--in almost every instance, Republicans in Congress said no: no on help for small businesses, no on middle class tax cuts, no on clean energy jobs, no on making college more affordable, no on Wall Street reform. <p>You remember our slogan during the campaign, \\"Yes, we can\\"? Their slogan is, \\"No, we can't.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"No, we can't.\\" That's really inspiring. [<i>Laughter</i>] This vision they have for the future--[<i>laughter</i>]--gives you a little pep in your step when you hear it, doesn't it? [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"No, we can't.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now, what--let's unpack why they're doing this. I mean, part of it is, they refuse to give up on the economic philosophy that they've been peddling for much of the last decade. And their agenda was pretty straightforward. You remember it. You voted against it. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's why I'm President. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Their basic philosophy goes something like this: We're going to cut taxes for millionaires and billionaires, folks who don't need it, weren't even asking for it. And we're going to cut rules for special interests, gut regulations that protect clean air and clean water and things that most of us value. And then you're going to cut working folks loose to fend for themselves. So if you can't find a job or you can't afford college or you don't have health insurance, tough luck, you are on your own. Now, if you're a Wall Street bank or an insurance company or an oil company like BP, come on in, help us write the regulations. <p>Now, I think you may have noticed that their philosophy did not--didn't work out too well. It's not like we didn't test it, right? [<i>Laughter</i>] No, we--the American people tried it out. They said, all right, we'll go with that for 8 years. And it didn't work. It gave us record deficits and ultimately led to the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Remember that, it gave us record deficits. Remember, when they came in with this theory, we had record surpluses. You remember that, right? Yes. And at the end, wrapped up in a big bow for me when I arrived was a $1.3 trillion deficit. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So when these guys are going out talking about spending and deficits and debt, I'm thinking, well, what are you talking about? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now, I bring all this stuff up not because I want to relitigate the past. I just don't want to relive the past. I don't want to go through that again. I mean, it would be one thing if the Republicans had gone through a period of soul-searching, right? If they had said, \\"Boy, we really messed up,\\" and had kind of gone off into the wilderness and thought long and hard about their economic approach, and then came back and said, \\"You know what, we didn't know what we were doing, but now we've got some new ideas, we've got some new policies, we've learned from our mistakes, we're going to do something different this time,\\" that would be a plausible argument. But that's not what they're doing. <p>One of their leaders in Congress was asked what his party would do if they took over Congress. He actually said they'd pursue \\"the exact same agenda\\" as before I took office. That's a quote, \\"the exact same agenda\\"--that didn't work.<p>So basically, what this campaign is coming down to is that between now and November, they're betting that you will all come down with a case of amnesia. [<i>Laughter</i>] They're basically--they're counting on the fact that you don't remember, that you're going to forget what happened when they were in charge for the--for 8 years. <p>They spent almost a decade driving the economy into a ditch. I mean, think about it if this--if the economy was a car and they drove it into the ditch. [<i>Laughter</i>] And so me and Patty and a bunch of others, we go down there and we put on our boots, and we're pushing and shoving. And it's muddy, and there are bugs, and we're sweating--[<i>laughter</i>]--and shoving, pushing hard. And they're all standing there sipping Slurpees--[<i>laughter</i>]--and watching and--\\"You're not pushing hard enough.\\" \\"That's not the right way to push.\\" <p>[<i>At this point, the President pretended to sip a Slurpee.</i>]<p>Right? So finally--finally--Patty and I and everybody, we finally get the car up on level ground, and we're about to go forward. And these guys come and tap us on the shoulder, and they say, \\"We want the keys back.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>You can't have the keys back. You don't know how to drive. You don't know how to drive. You can't have them back. Can't have them back. You can't have them back. We are trying to go forward. We do not want to go backwards into the ditch again. <p>You notice, when you want to move forward in your car, what do you do? You put your car in \\"D.\\" When you want to go backwards, you put it in \\"R,\\" back into the ditch. Keep that in mind in November. That's not a coincidence. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So that's the choice in this election: Do we go back to the policies that got us into this mess, or do we keep moving forward? I believe we move forward. America always moves forward. <p>Do you want to know what will happen if the other party takes control of Congress in November? All you have to do is look what they've done over the last 18 months. I mean, they--one thing I will give them credit for, they have not been bashful, right? On issue after issue, they have sided with special interests over middle class families. <p>Name me an issue. They voted to keep giving tax breaks to corporations that ship jobs overseas. They voted to give insurance companies the power to keep denying coverage to people who are sick. The top Republican on the Energy Committee actually apologized to BP for us making sure the $20 billion was secured to help fishermen and small-businesspeople in the Gulf whose livelihoods were almost decimated. This guy called it a \\"shakedown.\\" I think he said \\"Chicago shakedown,\\" just to kind of underscore it. Apologized to BP.<p>They voted en masse against Wall Street reform. And now Patty Murray's opponent has earned the distinction of being the first candidate in the country to call for repeal of Wall Street reform. Think about this. He wants to go back to the old rules and the lack of oversight that caused the worst crisis since the Great Depression. That is--don't you think that's strange? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I mean, I could see him saying, well, here are certain provisions I might modify. But to just say we didn't need it, when we almost had a complete financial meltdown--he's counting on amnesia.<p>So this is what's at stake in this election: If we give them the keys back, they will drive us right back into the ditch. And riding shotgun will be every other special interest group under the Sun. And I want to be clear, because I just--Patty and I just had a wonderful meeting with three small-businesspeople, local folks right here, over at Grand Central--it was very good. They had this turkey sandwich--very tasty. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So I want businesses in this country to succeed. If you are a responsible business owner, I will do everything I can to help you grow and prosper and hire more employees--and Patty doing the same thing--helping to open up credit, help to keep your taxes low. <p>But I don't--it's not antibusiness to say that we should make sure an oil rig is safe before we start drilling. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's not antibusiness to say that Wall Street banks should play by the same rules as everybody else. It's not antibusiness to say insurance companies shouldn't be able to deny care to people just because they get sick. We can't go back to an attitude of what's good enough for me is just good enough. We've got to be asking, what's good for America? What's good for the people of Washington? What's good for Marcelas? What's good for the next generation? What's good for America? <p>That's what we do in this country. That's how we've always moved forward, as one people and as one Nation. So Washington, I want everybody to know, look, I know times are tough. And when times are tough, it can be easy to give in to cynicism and to fear, to set our sights lower, to settle for the status quo, to try to make us afraid of each other, drive wedges. That's--we've all seen that movie before. And that's what the other side is counting on in this election. They're not offering new plans. They're not offering new ideas. They're offering cynicism, and they're offering fear.<p>That's not who we are. That's not the country I know. We are Americans. We don't give in to fear. We do not give up. We do not quit. We don't shy away from the future. We don't look backwards. We shape the future. We seize our own destiny.<p>So I need you to join me, and I need you to join Patty, in building a future where our small businesses flourish on the power of their ideas and ingenuity; a future where clean energy powers not just America, but powers the world, produced in the fields and the factories of the United States; a future where our children get the education and training they need to compete with anyone and anywhere. I want to build a future where we recapture a sense of optimism and confidence, hope that's made America a beacon to the world. <p>That's how we built the last American century. That is how we are going to build the next American century. The American people don't believe in \\"No, we can't.\\" In times of great challenge, we push forward with the unyielding faith that we can.<p>Thank you, everybody. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"238" "\"Thank you, everybody. Thank you. This is a pretty good view. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's not bad. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I want to just say that Rob and Cori, they have been such great friends for so long. When we first met and they agreed to help on my Senate campaign, people could not pronounce my name. They were calling me \\"Alabama\\" and \\"Yo mama\\"--[<i>laughter</i>]--and yet they took a risk in supporting me, and I'm extraordinarily grateful.<p>I will also add, they did not have this huge brood that they now have--[<i>laughter</i>]--all these young ones running around. And so thank you, guys, for all the support, and congratulations on the beautiful family that you guys have.<p>To all of you who are here--I see some old friends and some new friends, people who were probably at that first fundraiser and people who have subsequently helped me in so many ways. I am reminded of the story that President Lincoln told, apparently at a time when security around the White House wasn't quite as strict. So a guy shows up at the door, and he says, \\"I want to see the President. I worked for him; I am responsible for him being in the White House.\\" He was looking for a job of some sort. And finally, Lincoln says, \\"All right, let the guy in.\\" He comes in, and he says, \\"Mr. President, I am responsible for you being here.\\" \\"Is that right?\\" Lincoln says. He says, \\"Well, I forgive you.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I don't need to forgive you, obviously. It's an unbelievable privilege to be President. In fact, this is the time when you want to be President, because we are at one of these inflection points in our history where, after for decades putting off tough challenges, for decades not addressing problems that were structural in our economy, in how we are training our young people for the 21st-century economy, we now have the necessity to step up and do right not just for the next election, but for the next generation.<p>We also have--at a time when our leadership had been waning internationally, we've got an opportunity to step up and say that just as the 20th century was the American century, the 21st century will be the American century, but that our power is not just going to come from the might of our military, it's also going to come from the strength of our values and our ability to project core beliefs about democracy and equality and freedom around the world.<p>And so we've done a big job over the last 18 months. And I have to tell you, when I think about that month when we were first sworn in--some of you may have been at the Inauguration--it was cold that day. It was cold. [<i>Laughter</i>] But there was an incredibly warm spirit, and there was a sense of hopefulness.<p>But what we have to remind ourselves is, that same month that I was sworn in, we lost 800,000 jobs. We had lost 3 million jobs in the previous 6 months. And we would lose another several million jobs in the next 3 months before any of our economic policies had a chance to actually take root. So all together, we lost 8 million jobs. The financial system was on the verge of meltdown, and most economists thought that there were decent odds we might tip into the next Great Depression.<p>Because of the swift action that we took, we were able to stabilize the economy and stabilize the financial system. But that was not just because we drafted a whole bunch of clever plans on paper. We had to move all that stuff through Congress. And that brings me to your senior Senator, Patty Murray.<p>If I did not have a partner like Patty, we would not have been able to invest in clean energy like never before in our history. If I didn't have Patty Murray, we would not have been able to get small-business loans out at a time when most banks had completely contracted and a lot of folks were on the verge of going under. If it hadn't been for Patty, States like Washington would have had to lay off tens of thousands of teachers and firefighters and police officers. Because of Patty, we were able to get help that States and local governments needed.<p>So when I think about Patty, I think about one of the generals who helped to stave off what could have been a much worse crisis than we had. And partly because I served with her, I know how effective she is not just in coming home and listening to people, but how effective she is in fighting for them when she gets back into Washington.<p>I'm also always sympathetic to Patty because she was always trying to catch the plane back home, and when the votes went late, she'd be looking at her watch and thinking: Well, that one just left, and there's one more, and I've got 10 minutes, and Jim DeMint is talking. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And I know it's tough, but here's the thing, though. Our job was not just to rescue the economy. Our job, as I said, was to deal with a decade of putting off tough decisions. I'm not just interested in saving the economy in the short term. I'm interested in rebuilding the economy for the long term, for the next generation, for Rob and Cori's kids and for my kids and for your kids and for your grandkids. And that means taking on some tough stuff and stuff that's not always popular.<p>If we did not deal with our health care system now, we were looking at the possibility that health care alone, Medicare and Medicaid, would consume all of our discretionary spending at the Federal level--all of it--because of the direction that health care cost was going. If we didn't tackle the education system now, then not only have we slipped already from 1st to 12th in college graduation rates, we might have slipped even further.<p>If we did not tackle energy now, then we don't know what this view will look like 50 years from now or 70 years from now or maybe even 20 years from now because of the impact it has on the environment. But we also don't know what kind of impact the next crisis in terms of oil supplies might have on our economy or our national security.<p>So we had to take on these tough problems now. And they weren't always popular. They didn't always poll well. And people in Washington would always get surprised. They'd say: \\"Well, why is the President doing this? It doesn't poll well.\\" And I would have to explain to people, you know, I actually have pollsters, so I know when things aren't popular. I know when they don't poll well. But I was not sent to Washington just to do what was popular; I was sent to do what was right. That's why so many of you supported me in the election. And I know Patty feels the same way.<p>So as a consequence, if you take a look at what we've accomplished over the last 18 months--in addition to staving off a Great Depression--we can just tick it off: We finally have enshrined the basic core principle that everybody in America should have decent, affordable health care; that people should not be bankrupt just because they get sick; and that we should be able to get good bang for our health care dollars, and thereby slow the costs and the burdens on families and on businesses.<p>We revamped our student loan system so that, instead of sending tens of billions of dollars to the banks as middlemen for guaranteed loans, where they were taking no risk, we were able to cut out the middleman. And now millions more young people here in Washington State and all across the country are going to be able to get assistance to go to college, which means they're going to be able to go to work for Microsoft or all these other wonderful companies that are up here. And we'll be able to maintain our cutting edge--which reminds me, we also made the largest investment in research and development in our history, because the essence of America is innovation and entrepreneurship and technological leadership.<p>We decided that it was time for us to make sure that even as we're sending young men and women to fight in Iraq and Afghanistan, that we've got to make sure that we're doing right by our veterans. And nobody has been a fiercer advocate on behalf of veterans than Patty Murray. And with her help, we saw the largest increase in funding for veterans in at least 30 years. And we helped to pass a post-9/11 GI bill.<p>My grandfather, who actually lived here in Puget Sound when my mom was going to Mercer Island High School, well, he was a beneficiary of the original GI bill. And it was because of that GI bill that we built an entire middle class, educating folks, investing in people. Well, with Patty's help, we're doing the same thing with this next generation of veterans who are coming back home. And they're going to have opportunity.<p>On issue after issue--from making sure that tobacco companies can't market to kids to making sure that credit card companies can't arbitrarily raise your rates or impose hidden fees, to making sure that we're expanding national service for our young people, to making sure that housing programs and mortgages aren't taking advantage of people, to making sure that women are paid equally for doing the same work as men, to getting a couple of pretty smart women on the Supreme Court--on issue after issue, we've been able to make progress. And you know what, what's remarkable is we've done it without a single bit of help from the other side.<p>You remember, I campaigned on \\"Yes, we can.\\" Their philosophy has been, \\"We can't.\\" They said no to clean energy investment. They said no to health care. They want to go--in fact, they want to repeal it so that we can have a situation where people with preexisting conditions can't get health insurance.<p>They said no to Wall Street reform. Now, think about this. We had a complete utter meltdown of our financial system, and you would think that they would say, \\"Well, maybe we should at least cooperate on this one.\\" They said no. Didn't get any help.<p>On issue after issue, their only response has been, let's go back to the same policies that got us into this mess in the first place. It's not like they, after presiding over 8 years of failed economic policies, they said, \\"You know what, we better reflect a little bit and see what we're doing wrong here,\\" and they went off into the wilderness and meditated, and then they finally came back and said, \\"Well, we realize the error of our ways, but now we've got a whole new set of proposals to try.\\" That's not what they're doing.<p>They're coming back and basically peddling the same old snake oil they were peddling before. They want to give tax breaks to folks who don't need them and weren't even asking for them. They want to keep on giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. They want to deregulate so that oil companies, for example, could drill with minimum oversight. And they're basically saying to most middle class families, you're on your own.<p>And the excuse they give for these policies is, well, we can't afford any of these initiatives. And yet this is the same group of folks who took a record surplus from Bill Clinton and turned it into record deficits, so that I had a $1.3 trillion deficit wrapped in a big bow when I arrived in the White House. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So I was just talking to a group over at the Westin, and I used the analogy, imagine that our economy is a car. These guys drove it into a ditch. And so Patty and I have been down there in the ditch. We've been pushing and shoving. We've put our boots on and we're trying to get that car out of the ditch. And these Republicans have been standing, watching, drinking a Slurpee--[<i>laughter</i>]--and giving us advice. \\"You're not pushing hard enough. Push this way.\\" And we finally get that car on level ground and we're about to move forward, and they say, \\"We want the keys back.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And we say, \\"No, you can't have the keys back; you can't drive.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now is not the time to reverse course and go back to the things that got us into this mess in the first place. We've got to move forward. And that's why your support is so important.<p>Now, we've still got a lot of work to do. The economy is stabilized, but it's stabilized at a very weak level. So Patty and I just had some lunch with some wonderful small-businesspeople who were talking about how it's still difficult for small businesses to access credit, which is why we've got initiatives in the Senate right now to make sure that small community banks are able to provide lending to small businesses. We want to cut taxes smartly--so, for example, eliminating capital gains taxes on investments in startup businesses.<p>We want to make sure that we are still pursuing a vision for clean energy, because I believe that whoever wins that race for clean energy in the 21st century, they are going to own the 21st-century economy. And so I want solar panels and wind turbines and biodiesel and hydroelectric power; I want that here in the United States of America. And I want a smart grid that can transmit it all across the country.<p>And I want the cars of the future built here in the United States, which is why we made an investment in Detroit. A lot of people thought that was a bad idea, but we said, look, instead of giving bailouts year after year without asking anything in return, which is what the previous administration had been doing, we said, here's some help, but you're going to have to restructure so you can compete.<p>And we were able to mobilize the car companies, autoworkers, all the stakeholders involved, to actually negotiate the first increase in fuel efficiency standards in 30 years on both cars and trucks. And now we've got every U.S. automaker posting a profit, the best job growth in that industry in a decade. And they're building the cars of tomorrow, cars that people will want to drive, that get 40 miles a gallon or 50 miles a gallon or, ultimately, don't take any gallons in order to move.<p>So those are the kinds of things that we're going to have to work on. We've still got infrastructure that we've got to build. We're falling behind other countries not just in roads and bridges and ports and airports, all of which of important, but in broadband access and coverage, or in high-speed rail.<p>And in order for me to succeed over the next couple of years, I'm going to need Patty Murray. And there are a whole bunch of folks in Congress who are in tough races this year who stood up and did the right thing, without a lot of fanfare, knowing that they were going to be making themselves politically vulnerable. But they remembered why they went to Washington.<p>They remembered they didn't go to Washington to have a fancy office or to have a fancy title. They didn't go to Washington to take polls and put their finger out to the wind and figure out what's going to be the right thing to do at this particular moment because the cable chatter is moving in this direction or that direction.<p>They went to Washington because they believed that what makes this country special is our ability to provide every single person an opportunity to pursue their dreams. If they're willing to work hard enough and apply themselves, if they've got a big enough imagination and some pluck and some drive, whether it's starting a high-tech company or being a rock-and-roll star, that what makes this place special is that you can go as far as your dreams carry you.<p>And we've got to make sure that America is there not just for this generation, but for the next generation and the generation after that. And that means we've got to think not about the next election, but about the next generation. That's what Patty Murray does. That's what a whole bunch of folks who have helped us over the last 18 months do.<p>And that's why I'm so pleased that you are here to support them. If you stay with us, if you're willing to see this thing through, I'm confident that we're going to be able to look back, despite all the ups and all the downs, we're going to be able to look back and say that what we did mattered, that this was a moment that counted, and that you were standing there to be counted at that critical moment in this country's history.<p>Thanks so much, everybody. God bless you. Thank you.\" "
"239" "\"Thank you, everybody! Thank you, Ohio! Please, have a seat. Have a seat. Thank you so much. It is great to be here.<p>There are a couple of people I want to make sure to acknowledge. They may have already been acknowledged, but not by me. So I'm going to acknowledge them because they are doing outstanding work: First of all, the mayor of the great city of Columbus, Michael Coleman; a champion of working families not just in Ohio, but all across the country, Senator Sherrod Brown; a wonderful Member of Congress who's fighting day in, day out, Mary Jo Kilroy is here; and although he is not on the list, he's down a little south from here but he's here, I saw him, so I want to acknowledge him because he is just an outstanding, outstanding young Member of Congress, Steve Driehaus is in the house. There he is.<p>Lieutenant Governor and soon to be Senator, Lee Fisher is here. Attorney General Rich Cordray is here. Treasurer Kevin Boyce is in the house. And candidate for Lieutenant Governor, Yvette McGee Brown is here. <p>It is good to be back in Ohio. And it is good to be among such good friends, because as I look out over the audience, I know so many of you worked so hard on behalf of our campaign. You were there when we were up; you were there when we were down. I might not be standing here if it weren't for the incredible efforts that all of you put in here in this State and around the country. So thank you so much for everything that you've done. It truly means a lot. <p>I have to say, by the way, that earlier today we had a wonderful little mini-town hall in the backyard of some folks, the Weithmans. And you will be pleased to know that for using their backyard, the price they charged was they made me be the \\"O\\" in O-H-I-O. [<i>Laughter</i>] The--this is true. This is true. This is on videotape--[<i>laughter</i>]--which I'm worried about when I go to Michigan. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I did their commencement, so hopefully things kind of will balance out. <p>Look, the main reason I'm here is to stand with somebody who I genuinely believe is one of the best public servants in the country, your Governor, Ted Strickland. <p>Ted took office during an enormously difficult time in Ohio's history. And this State had been hit harder than almost anyplace else by the loss of manufacturing. And when the recession hit in 2008, times got even tougher. But from the day he stepped in as Governor, Ted Strickland has not wasted a single, solitary minute fighting to turn this economy around. Not a minute has gone by that he hasn't thought about how do we build an economy not just for the present, but for future generations. <p>And under Ted's watch, Ohio has invested in high-growth industries; he has invested in new infrastructure. He's provided new skills and job training to more than 150,000 workers. There are over 65,000 more students in college than when Ted took office. He's cut redtape. He's kept taxes low so this State can be a better place to do business.<p>And he hasn't just been concerned about the next election, he's been concerned about the next generation of Ohio families. And his work is not yet done. So I know I'm preaching to the choir in this room, but I want everybody who's going to be hearing me through the television, I want you guys to know Ted Strickland has done an outstanding job for Ohio, and he needs another term to finish what he has started here. You've got to turn out for Ted Strickland.<p>Now, we need leaders like Ted in this country--and like Sherrod and Mary Jo and Steve. We need them because we face an incredibly challenging time for America. Eighteen months ago, when I took office, after nearly a decade of economic policies that had given us sluggish growth and falling incomes and falling wages and a record deficit, we knew that it was going to be tough to rebuild this economy. But when I was sworn in, nobody fully, I think, appreciated at that point how bad this recession had become. It turned out this was the worst financial crisis and the worst recession since the Great Depression. <p>In the last 6 months of 2008, while I was still campaigning, 3 million Americans lost their jobs. In the month that I was sworn in, nearly 800,000 people lost their jobs, 600,000 a month after that, 600,000 a month after that. Before we had any opportunity to put in our economic policies, we had already seen millions of jobs lost, ultimately, 8 million jobs. <p>And these aren't just statistics. Behind each of these stories--behind these statistics is a story of heartache; it's a story of frustration. You got workers, midlife, who are suddenly laid off and don't know what they're going to do next; single moms sending out job application after job application, waiting for the phone to ring, trying to figure out how they're going to pay the bills; college graduates who thought, having worked hard in school, that a degree would land a good job and a decent paycheck, and instead just have a mountain of debt to show for it; and some young people who made the decision to forego college because their families couldn't afford it. <p>I hear these stories every single day. I read them in the letters that I get each night. The struggles and the hopes of these Americans are the reason I ran for office in the first place. They're the reason that Ted ran for office in the first place. That's why I intend to keep fighting as hard as I can, as long as it takes, to make sure that this economy is working for every single American. Anybody who wants a job got to be able to go out there and get one, and we're not going to be done until we get that result. <p>Now, we're not there yet. We know that. It will take a few years to fully dig ourselves out of this recession. It will take time to bring back 8 million jobs that have been lost. That's the hard truth. Anybody who's telling you otherwise, they're just running for office. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But here's what I can tell you: After 18 months, I have never been more confident that our Nation is headed in the right direction. We are doing what is needed to move the country forward. We're rebuilding this economy not just in the short term, but for the long term, for our children, for our grandchildren, for our great-grandchildren. <p>You see, we did not become the most prosperous country on Earth by rewarding greed and recklessness of the sort that helped cause this financial crisis. We didn't come this far by letting a handful of irresponsible folks on Wall Street or insurance companies or special interests run wild. We did it by rewarding the values of hard work and responsibility, by investing in people who've built this country from the ground up, middle class families and small-business owners. We did it by outworking and outeducating and outcompeting every nation on Earth. That's what we are going to do again. <p>But we've got to--but we're going to have to buckle down. We're going to have to buckle down because the competition is fierce out there. Right now countries like China and India and South Korea and Germany, they are fighting as hard as they can for the jobs of the future. They are trying to outcompete us when it comes to clean energy. They're trying to outcompete us when it comes to how many engineers they're producing and how many entrepreneurs they're producing. And frankly, in some cases, they've pulled ahead. We used to be ranked number one in the number of college graduates. We have slipped to number 12 in a single generation. That's unacceptable. <p>The United States of America does not play for second place. We play for first place. We are going to rebuild this economy stronger than it was before. We're going to rebuild this economy stronger than it was before, and at its heart are going to be three powerful words: Made in America. Made in America.<p>We got to make stuff here and ship it over there, not the other way around. And that means instead of giving tax breaks to corporations that are shipping our jobs overseas, we need to cut taxes for companies that create jobs right here in the United States of America. It means giving smart tax breaks to small-business owners, tax cuts to clean energy companies. And yes, it means tax cuts, but for middle class families, the 95 percent of our workers that I pledged I would provide a tax cut to, and we delivered on that pledge. <p>And instead of prolonging an addiction to oil that endangers everything from our security to our coastlines, we're now jump-starting a homegrown clean energy industry in this country. I don't want to see solar panels and wind turbines and electric cars manufactured in Europe or in Asia. I want to see them made right here in the United States of America, by American workers. And that's starting to happen all across the Midwest. <p>Because of the clean energy investments we've made, you're seeing solar plants and wind turbine plants popping up, advanced battery manufacturing right here in the Midwest. But we've also got to not only spur on clean energy, we've got to build a 21st-century infrastructure. Yes, new roads, new bridges, but also faster Internet access, high-speed railroads, projects that will lead to hundreds of thousands of new private sector jobs. <p>And we're helping to get the American auto industry back on its feet and retool for the 21st century. Now, this is an industry that had lost hundreds of thousands of jobs in the year before I took office. We had to make a tough decision about whether to help them out or walk away from what could have potentially been another million jobs lost. And I decided we couldn't walk away. <p>And you'll recall that was not necessarily a popular decision. Folks in Washington are always puzzled by me doing things that don't poll well. [<i>Laughter</i>] But let's take the case of the automakers. They said, couldn't be done, it was better to just walk away. Instead of providing them bailouts with no obligations in return, like it had happened in the previous administration, we said, we'll help you out, but you got to restructure, because we want you to be able to compete in the 21st century.<p>And today all three U.S. automakers are operating at a profit for the first time in years. They've had the strongest job growth in more than 10 years. Folks are working across the Midwest because of the decision that we made.<p>I visited a Chrysler plant in Detroit a few weeks back. Turns out 14 workers had won the lottery. Now, you would have thought they might have decided to retire. But instead of quitting, most of them had stayed on their jobs because they love their work. They're proud of what they do. In fact, the guy who had bought the winning lottery ticket, not only is he staying on his job, but he used the money to buy a new Grand Cherokee that he had built for his wife. <p>So my message to the naysayers in Washington is this: Don't bet against the American worker. Don't bet against the American people. Don't bet against American businesses. Don't bet against American ingenuity. We are coming back, and we are coming back strong. We're moving forward, and Ohio is moving forward. <p>To ensure that our workers can compete with any workers on Earth, we are reforming our education system based on what works for our children, not on what works for the status quo. We've eliminated billions of dollars in taxpayer subsidies to the big banks that were providing college loans to take that money, the savings, and use it to make college more affordable for millions of students.<p>To lower the costs for families and businesses, we passed health insurance reform that is finally going to make coverage affordable and stop insurance companies from jacking up your premiums or refusing to cover you just because you're sick. To ensure that an equal day of work means an equal day of pay, I signed a law that will help end pay discrimination in the workforce. To keep faith with the brave men and women who risk their lives for ours, we are increasing access to health care and benefits and education for our veterans and their families. <p>And we are keeping the promise I made when I began my campaign for the Presidency: By the end of this month, we will have removed 100,000 troops from Iraq and our combat mission will be over in Iraq. <p>To ensure that a financial crisis like the one we just went through doesn't happen again, we passed financial reform that provides new accountability and tough oversight of Wall Street, reform that will stop credit card companies from charging you hidden fees or unfair rate hikes and that will end Wall Street bailouts once and for all. <p>All these reforms will make America more competitive in the 21st century. All these reforms are helping to move us forward. And on each of these reforms, we reached out to Democrats and Republicans for ideas and support. But in just about every instance, almost every Republican in Congress said no. They said no to help for small businesses. They're still saying no. They said no on middle class tax cuts. This is supposed to be the party of tax cuts--said no when it came to tax cuts for folks who needed them, no on clean energy jobs right here in Ohio and across the country, no on making college more affordable, no on Wall Street reform. <p>You remember our slogan during the campaign, \\"Yes, we can\\"? This year, their slogan is, \\"No, we can't.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] It's catchy. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's really inspiring. It puts a little pep in your step--\\"No, we can't.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] That's their philosophy. <p>And the reason they're saying no is because they won't give up on the economic policies, the philosophy that they've been peddling for most of this decade. And their agenda is pretty straightforward: You cut taxes for millionaires and billionaires, you cut rules for special interests, and then you cut working folks loose to fend for themselves. If you can't find a job or you can't afford college or you don't have health insurance or your child doesn't have health insurance, tough luck, you are on your own. <p>The thing is, we tried this philosophy, remember? For 8 years. And it didn't work out real well. All it gave us was record deficits and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. <p>Now, I bring this up not to relitigate the past. I bring it up because I don't want to relive the past. [<i>Laughter</i>] It would be one thing if Republicans, after y'all voted them out, had said, \\"You know what, maybe our philosophy doesn't work,\\" they'd gone off into the desert and kind of meditated and came back: \\"We've learned from our mistakes; we promise to do things differently this time; we've got some new ideas we want you to try.\\" I would have gladly said, \\"All right, come on, let's work together.\\" But that's not what they're doing.<p>One of the leaders in Congress was asked what his party would do if he took over Congress. He said, we will pursue \\"the exact same agenda\\" as before President Obama took office--the exact same agenda. Now, think about that. Basically, they're betting on--between now and November--they're betting on you coming down with a case of amnesia. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's their strategy. They figure you're going to forget what their agenda did to this country over the last 8 years. <p>Now, I was using an analogy--I was talking out in California--it's--imagine our economy is a car. And these guys, I don't know what they were doing. I don't know whether they were on their BlackBerry while they were driving or they were doing something else irresponsible. They drive it into the ditch. <p>And so me and Sherrod and Mary Jo and Steve and Ted and a whole bunch of folks, we're all putting our boots on, and we go down into the ditch. And it's muddy down there, and it's hot, and there are bugs swirling around. And we're pushing on the car, trying to get it out of the ditch, putting our shoulder--shoving it, pushing it. And the Republicans are up there looking at us, sipping on their Slurpees. [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"You're not pushing hard enough. You're not pushing the right way. Push harder.\\" And we invite them to come down and help us out, and they just sort of said: \\"No, we don't want to. No, we can't.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And then finally we get this car up on level ground, and it's ready to finally move forward. And we feel this tap on our shoulders, and we turn around, and it's those Republicans, and they're saying, \\"We want the keys back.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Well, no, you cannot have the keys to the car back. You drove it into the ditch. You don't know how to drive. We worked hard to get it out of the ditch. We now want to move forward; we don't want to move backwards. We don't want to move backwards. We don't want to move backwards. If you want, you can sit in the back. [<i>Laughter</i>] We're happy to have you along for the ride. But we're moving forward. <p>And I just want to point out, when you want your car to go forward, what do you do? You put it into \\"D.\\" When you want it going backwards, what do you do? You put it into \\"R.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] We don't want to go into reverse. We don't want to go back into the ditch. That's not a coincidence. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's not a coincidence. That's not a coincidence. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Let me tell you what will happen if the other party takes over Congress in November. If you want to know what will happen if the other party takes over Congress, all you've got to do is look what they've done over the last 18 months on issue after issue. They've sided with special interests over the middle class families; voted to keep giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas, despite folks like Sherrod Brown, who fought hard on this issue; voted to give insurance companies the power to keep denying coverage to people who are sick. <p>The top Republican on the Energy Committee, you may recall--this is the guy who would be in charge of the Energy Committee in the House of Representatives--apologized after the oil spill to BP. [<i>Laughter</i>] Remember this? He apologized because I had said to BP, you need to set aside $20 billion to make sure that we're making fishermen and small-business owners whole as a consequence of your mistakes. This guy, he apologized to BP. He said, \\"Oh, the President shook you down,\\" a \\"Chicago-style shakedown.\\" That's what he called it. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's what he called it. He had to throw in the Chicago thing in there. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Imagine that. That's what's at stake in this election. If we give them the keys back, they will drive right back into the ditch. And riding shotgun with them will be every other special interest under the Sun. <p>And by the way, let me make this point: I want business in this country to succeed. The free market is the greatest wealth producer in our history. We were built on entrepreneurship and private enterprise. And if you are a responsible business owner, I will do everything I can to help you grow and prosper and hire more employees. And Ted Strickland will do the same. But I don't think it's antibusiness to say we should make sure an oil rig is safe before we start drilling. I don't think it's antibusiness to say that Wall Street banks should play by the same rules as everybody else. I don't think it's antibusiness to say that insurance companies shouldn't deny people care just because they get sick. <p>We can't have an attitude that what's good enough for me is good enough. We've got to have an attitude that says, what's good for America? What's good for everybody? What's best for all of our businesses? What's best for all of our people? That's what we do in this country. That's how we move forward as one people, as one Nation. And that is what we've got to get back to, those core American values that moves everybody forward and builds a broad middle class where everybody can prosper.<p>Now, I know times are tough, Columbus. And when times are tough, it can be easy to give in to cynicism and it can be easy to give in to fear, to set our sights lower, to settle for the status quo, to pit people against each other, to find wedge issues, to focus on those things that appear to give a tactical advantage, but have nothing to do with whether or not our country is going to be successful over the long term. That's--let's face it, that's how politics works too much.<p>That's what the other side is counting on in this election. They're not offering new plans. They're not offering new ideas. They're just offering cynicism, and they're offering fear. <p>But that's not who we are. That's not the country I know. We are Americans. We do not give up. We do not quit. We do not fear the future. We shape the future. We seize our own destiny. <p>That's what this election is about. And so I need all of you, every single one of you, to go out there and join me and Ted Strickland in building a future. Let's build a future where our small businesses flourish on the power of ideas and ingenuity and a future where clean energy powers the world, produced right here in factories and fields in America. Let's build a future where our children are getting the best education possible so they're competing with anybody. Let's build a future where we are bound by our sense of optimism and our confidence and our hopefulness, our fearlessness, all that's made America the most dynamic country on Earth.<p>That's how we built the last American century. That is how we are going to build the next American century. The American people do not believe in the words, \\"No, we can't.\\" That's not how this country got built. In times of great challenge, we push forward with the unyielding faith that, yes, we can.<p>Thank you very much, Ohio. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"240" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hey! Hello, Florida! Hello, Miami! It is good to be back. It is good to be back in Miami. I was just in Florida, and it is true that Sasha outscored me on the first hole. [<i>Laughter</i>] I took her, I think, on the third. It was tight the whole way, though. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it is wonderful to see all of you. Looking out at this crowd, I know how many of you worked so hard on my campaign, have been--[<i>applause</i>]--worked hard on behalf of Democrats for years here in Florida, and are going to be working hard on behalf of the great ticket that we're going to be having this year.<p>There are a number of people that I want to acknowledge. Obviously, first of all, you have got a wonderful senior Senator right here in Florida, who's working hard every day, give Bill Nelson a big round of applause. An outstanding congressional delegation: Ron Klein is here; Alan Grayson is here; Ted Deutch is here; Debbie Wasserman Schultz is here; soon-to-be Member of Congress Joe Garcia, running in Florida's 25th. Running for Florida attorney general, Dan Gelber is here--State senator. Also running for Florida attorney general, Dave Aronberg--also State senator--is here. We've got Scott Maddox, who's running for agricultural commissioner for the State. And we've got Matti Bower, mayor of Miami Beach, in the house.<p>So as I said, it's just great to be with friends. And you were with me when we were up; you were with me when we were down. If it weren't for you, I would not be standing here as President of the United States. And as your President, it is my honor to stand in support of the next Governor of the great State of Florida, Alex Sink.<p>At a difficult time like this, you need somebody in Tallahassee like Alex. She combines the sensibility of a successful businesswoman with the tenacity of a consumer watchdog, which is what she's been for the last 4 years as Florida's CFO. She's cut waste; she's eliminated unnecessary contracts; she's saved the State tens of millions of dollars. She's protected countless seniors and homeowners from being taken advantage of by predatory lenders. She's put this State's entire checkbook online so you know exactly how your tax dollars are being spent. And now she's running to be the economic ambassador for this State, with a plan to attract new companies and new jobs and new opportunities to the Sunshine State.<p>So Alex knows what it takes to change business as usual in Tallahassee. She's not afraid to take on the status quo. She's done it before; she's going to do it again. So I want all of you to do me a favor. I know everybody here, I'm preaching to the choir. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I need you to talk to your friends, I need you to talk to your neighbors, I need you to send out e-mail blasts, I need you to raise money, I need you to walk and knock on doors, whatever it takes to make sure that Alex Sink is the next Governor of Florida. We need to move forward in this State.<p>And let me also say something about the next Senator from the State of Florida, Kendrick Meek. Now, Kendrick has been a champion of middle class families and somebody who has not been afraid to stand up to the status quo and special interests. So we need that kind of fighter in the United States Senate. I need you to help him get there. <p>We need leaders like Alex and Kendrick in this country because we are facing an incredibly challenging time. Eighteen months ago, I took office after nearly a decade of economic policies that produced sluggish growth and falling incomes and falling wages and took a record surplus to a record deficit. And these policies culminated in the worst recession of our lifetimes. In the last 6 months of 2008, 3 million Americans lost their jobs. The month I was sworn in, 800,000 more Americans lost their jobs; the month after that, 600,000; the month after that, 600,000. Before we could even get our economic policies in place, we had already seen devastation across this country.<p>And behind these numbers, behind these statistics, there's a story of heartache and frustration: a factory worker who was just a few years shy of retirement suddenly seeing his plant closed and not knowing where to turn; or a single mom who sends out application after application, but doesn't get a call back and wonders how she's going to pay the bills; or a college graduate who worked hard, got a degree, and all they've got to show for it is a mountain of debt; and then some kids planning to go to college decided they couldn't afford it because their family needed their help.<p>I hear these stories every day. I read them in letters every night. The struggles and the hopes of these Americans are why I ran for office in the first place. That's why I am going to work as hard as I can for as long as it takes to turn this economy around. That's why I ran for office. That's why Alex is here. That's our goal. <p>Now, Florida, we're not there yet. We are not there yet. We know that. It took us close to a decade to dig ourselves into this hole; it's going to take some time to dig ourselves out of it.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Eight years! [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> It takes time to bring back 8 million jobs. That's the hard truth. Somebody tells you different, they're probably running for office. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But here's what I can tell you: After 18 months, I have never been more confident that we are headed in the right direction. We are doing what's needed to move forward. We are rebuilding this economy not just for the short term--we had to rescue the economy short term, but we're also building the economy for the long run, for our children and our grandchildren.<p>We did not become the most prosperous country in the world by rewarding greed and recklessness of the sort that helped cause this financial crisis. We did not come this far by letting special interests run wild in Washington, writing their own rules. We did not get here by just looking after ourselves and not looking after our neighbors. We got here by rewarding the values of hard work and responsibility and by investing in our people and making sure that economic growth happened from the bottom up--middle class families and small-business owners. We did it by outworking and outeducating and outcompeting every nation on Earth. That's who we are. That's who we need to be.<p>This is a serious time. Right now countries like China and India and South Korea, Germany, they are fighting as hard as they can for the jobs of the future. They are trying to outcompete us on things like clean energy. They're trying to outcompete us on education and how many engineers they produce. And frankly, in some cases, we've been slipping. We used to be number 1 in the number of college graduates; we now rank number 12.<p>Now, let me tell you, Florida, the United States of America, we do not play for second place. We play for first place. We've got to rebuild this economy stronger than it was before. And at the center of that agenda are three powerful words: Made in America. We've got to start making things here in the United States. Instead of giving tax breaks to companies that ship our jobs overseas, we've got to cut taxes for companies that create jobs right here in the United States of America. We've got to give tax cuts to small-business owners and tax cuts to clean energy companies and tax cuts to middle class families, which is what we did. Ninety-five percent of American workers got a tax cut under my administration. That was the right thing to do.<p>And we've got to have an energy strategy in this country. Instead of prolonging an addiction to oil that endangers everything from our security to our coastlines, we're jump-starting a homegrown clean energy industry in this country. I don't want to see solar panels and wind turbines and advanced batteries that go into electric cars--I don't want them manufactured elsewhere. I want them manufactured right here in the United States of America, by American workers.<p>We've got to invest in 21st-century infrastructure. That means new bridges and new roads, but it also means faster Internet, high-speed railroad, projects that will lay the foundation for long-term economic growth, but also produce hundreds of thousands of new private sector jobs. And we are helping old industries like the American auto industry get back on its feet and retool for the 21st century. <p>Now, you will remember, a while back, this was an industry--the auto industry--that had lost hundreds of thousands of jobs in the year before I took office. And we had to make a tough decision about whether to help them out or walk away, which might have cost another million jobs. And a lot of folks said we should walk away. We decided, no, we're going to take a different approach. Instead of continuing to give bailouts to the auto companies and asking nothing in return, we said, we are going to make sure you restructure so you can compete over the long haul. And we got all the stakeholders together and worked hard, helped GM through bankruptcy, helped Chrysler through bankruptcy. And today, all three automakers are operating at a profit for the first time in years. They've had the strongest job growth in more than 10 years. GM just announced it's going public again.<p>I visited a Chrysler plant in Detroit a few weeks back, and this was a plant that would have shut down had we not moved forward. And now they're producing these outstanding cars. And 14 workers had just won the lottery at this plant. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, instead of cashing out, quitting their jobs, most of them stayed, because they love their work. They're proud of what they do. The guy who bought the winning ticket, he bought one of the cars that he helps assemble, for his wife. And then he bought flags for his hometown, because he loves his country and he loves his workers and he loves the company he works for. And that symbolizes something. It sends a message that sometimes the naysayers in Washington don't understand: Do not bet against the American worker. Do not bet against American businesses. Do not bet against the American people. Don't bet against American ingenuity. We are coming back, and we're coming back strong.<p>But to come back strong, to rebuild for the long run, we've got work. We've got to ensure that our workers can compete with any workers on Earth. And that's why we're reforming our education system based on what works for kids, not what works for the status quo. We eliminated billions of dollars in taxpayer subsidies to the big banks that were acting as middlemen on the college loan program. And as a consequence of this, we saved tens of billions of dollars that are now making college educations more affordable for millions of more students.<p>To lower the costs to families and businesses, we passed health insurance reform that will finally make coverage affordable and stop insurance companies from jacking up your premiums or refusing to cover you before you're sick--because you're sick.<p>To make sure that everybody is participating in our economy, I signed into law legislation that makes sure we've got equal pay for equal work, because we want our women getting paid just like men are getting paid on the workforce.<p>To keep faith with the brave men and women who risk their lives for ours and to help build the middle class like the greatest generation built itself up, we are increasing access to health care and benefits and education for our veterans and their families. And we're keeping the promise I made when I began campaigning for the Presidency. By the end of this month, we'll have removed 100,000 troops from Iraq and our combat mission will be over.<p>To ensure that a financial crisis like this one doesn't happen again, we passed financial reform that provides new accountability and tough oversight of Wall Street. It's going to stop credit card companies from charging hidden fees or unfair rate hikes. It's going to end the era of Wall Street bailouts once and for all.<p>And these reforms--all these reforms taken together are going to make America more competitive in the 21st century. They move us forward. And on each of these reforms, we reached out to Democrats and Republicans for ideas and for support. But I have to tell you, in just about every instance, almost every Republican in Congress said no: no on help for small businesses, no on middle class tax cuts, no on clean energy jobs, no on making college more affordable, no on Wall Street reform.<p>You remember our campaign slogan, \\"Yes, we can\\"? This year, their campaign slogan is, \\"No, we can't.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] It's pretty inspiring, huh? [<i>Laughter</i>] You know, you wake up in the morning and you hear \\"No!\\"--that just puts a little pep in your step. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Why do they keep on saying no? Well, part of it is, is that they just can't give up on the bankrupt economic policies that they have been peddling for much of the last decade. I mean, this agenda is pretty straightforward. And I give them credit, you know, they keep on coming back with it: You cut taxes for millionaires and billionaires, you cut rules for special interests, you cut working folks loose to fend for themselves. So if you don't have a job or you can't afford college or you don't have health insurance or you can't get health insurance for your kid, tough luck, you're on your own.<p>Now, the advantage of this economic philosophy is it's simple. [<i>Laughter</i>] The disadvantage of this philosophy is it doesn't work out real well. I mean, think about--we tried this for 8 years, and here's what it gave us: It gave us the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, and it took us from record surpluses to record deficits.<p>These guys now, they're all running on, well, Democrats are the spending party. Think about this. We had record surpluses. When I arrived in the White House, I had a $1.3 trillion deficit wrapped in a bow waiting for me. [<i>Laughter</i>] So yes, we had to spend money to get us out of what could have been a depression. So we spent money on high-speed rail and we spent money on clean energy and we spent money making sure teachers and cops and firefighters weren't laid off. What did they have to show for the $1.3 trillion deficit that they delivered to us?<p><i>Audience members.</i> War.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Two wars.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Bad President. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> All right, we've got a lot of options here. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it's not a real attractive list. [<i>Laughter</i>] So when these guys get on their high horse about spending, it's like, hold on a second.<p>Now, I'm bringing this up not to relitigate the past. I just don't want to relive the past. [<i>Laughter</i>] It was hard enough--it's been hard enough trying to rescue this economy the first time. I don't want to have to do it a second time. I mean, it would be one thing if Republicans, they all said to themselves, gosh, you know, what we did really didn't work out, so let's go off and let's meditate a little bit--[<i>laughter</i>]--and see where we went wrong, come up with some new ideas, come up with a new philosophy, acknowledge the mistakes that we made, promise to do things differently. If that was their message, that would be plausible.<p>And I would embrace it. I would say, great, you've got new ideas? Come on, let's work together. Let's figure out how we can move the country forward. But that's not what they're saying. One of their leaders was asked what would he do if they took over Congress again, and he said--I'm quoting here--\\"We're going to pursue the exact same agenda as before Obama took office,\\" the exact same agenda.<p>So basically, what they're really betting on--I mean, their whole campaign strategy is that all of you have come down with a case of amnesia. [<i>Laughter</i>] They are banking on the fact that you'll forget what their agenda did to this country over 8 years.<p>Imagine the economy is a car. And they're driving along, and I don't know what they're doing. They're not paying much attention to the road. Maybe they're on their BlackBerry. I don't know. [<i>Laughter</i>] They're talking on the phone--something. But they drive the economy into the ditch. And so now me and Bill Nelson and the congressional delegation here and all of us, we got to put on our boots, and we climb down into the ditch, and it's muddy down there and hot, bugs. [<i>Laughter</i>] We're pushing, we're shoving, trying to get this car out of the ditch. Republicans, they're standing there, watching us--[<i>laughter</i>]--sipping on a Slurpee or something. [<i>Laughter</i>] They're like--we say, \\"You guys want to come down and help push?\\" \\"No, no, that's okay. Push harder, though.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"You're not pushing right.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"If we were pushing, we'd be doing it differently.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Finally--finally--after all this work, we get the car back up on level ground. We're ready to move forward. Suddenly, these guys tap us on the shoulder. We turn around, they say, \\"We want the keys back.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] You can't have the keys back. You don't know how to drive. We don't want to go back into the ditch. <p>I don't know if any of you have thought of this, but when you want your car going forward, what do you do? <p><i>Audience members.</i> \\"D\\"!<p><i>The President.</i> You put it into \\"D.\\" When you want to go reverse, what do you do? <p><i>Audience members.</i> \\"R\\"!<p><i>The President.</i> Put it into \\"R.\\" We don't want to go backwards, we want to go forwards. And that's why we're going to vote for Alex Sink. We need to go forward. That's what this election is about, moving forward. America always moves forward.<p>If you want to know what will happen if the other party takes over Congress, all you've got to do is take a look at what they've done the last 18 months. On issue after issue, they've sided with special interests over the middle class. They voted to give tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas. They voted to give insurance companies the power to deny you coverage if you've had a preexisting condition. <p>The top Republican on the Energy Committee, the guy who would be in charge of energy policy in this country if they take over--after the oil spill happened, he apologized, not to the people of Florida, he apologized to BP--[<i>laughter</i>]--said he was so sorry that the President forced them to put a $20 billion trust fund together so that fishermen and small-business owners and hotel owners would be compensated; called it a \\"shakedown,\\" called it a \\"Chicago shakedown.\\" That's--[<i>laughter</i>]. Are you serious? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>On Wall Street reform, I mean, think about this: The worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, and they want to go back to doing the same things. How can that be? [<i>Laughter</i>] How can that be? The economy was almost brought to its knees. And we put together a very sensible, mainstream approach for making sure we wouldn't have taxpayer bailouts, making sure that consumers were protected. We kept on reaching out to them: Work with us. Wouldn't do it, because the special interests in Washington didn't want them to do it.<p>That's what's at stake in this election. If we give them the keys back, they will drive this economy right back into the ditch. And riding shotgun will be every special interest under the Sun.<p>And let me be clear about how we're going to move our economy forward. The key to moving this economy forward is going to be the private sector. Government is not going to be the primary driver of job creation in this country. We want businesses to succeed. The free market is the greatest instrument of wealth production in our history. But--[<i>applause</i>]--so if you're a responsible business owner, I want to do everything I can to help you grow and prosper and hire more employees. But I don't think it's antibusiness to say we should make sure an oil rig is safe before you start drilling. I don't think it's antibusiness to say Wall Street banks should play by the same rules as everybody else. I don't think it's antibusiness to say that insurance companies should deny people care just because they get sick, to make sure that we say to insurance companies, you got to treat people fairly. That's not being antibusiness; that's just being commonsense.<p>We can't go back to an attitude where whatever is good for me is good enough. We've got to start asking, what's good for America? What's best for all our businesses? What's best for all our people? What's best for the next generation, not just the next election? How do we move this country forward as one people and as one Nation?<p>So, Florida, I know times are tough. And when times are tough, it can be easy to give in to cynicism, it can be easy to give in to fear. Sometimes we set our sights lower, we settle for the status quo. And that's what the other side is counting on in this election. They're not offering new plans. They're not offering new ideas. They're offering cynicism, and they're offering fear. They're offering distractions and wedge issues.<p>You know, during the course of the last 18 months, there have been times where I've taken positions that surprise people in Washington. All the pundits, they say, boy, you know, what he's doing, it doesn't poll well. [<i>Laughter</i>] I know it doesn't poll well. I've got pollsters. [<i>Laughter</i>] But you didn't send me to Washington to do what was popular. You sent me to do what was right. That's who we are as a country. We are Americans. We do not give up. We do not quit. We do not fear the future, we shape the future.<p>And if you'll join Alex Sink and if you'll join Kendrick Meeks and you'll join me to build a future where all our kids are getting educated and small businesses are flourishing because of their ideas and their ingenuity and we're creating clean energy jobs all across America, if you'll join me in building a future that thinks about more than just politics, but thinks about how are we going to meet this solemn obligation we have to those who are coming after us, I'm absolutely positive that the 21st century is going to be the American century, just like the 20th.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"241" "\"Good morning, everybody. For the last several months, I have been urging Congress to pass a jobs bill that will do two big things for small businesses: cut their taxes and make loans more available.<p>I have been adamant about this because small businesses are the backbone of our economy. They create two out of every three new jobs in this country. And while a lot of big businesses and big banks have started recovering from this recession, small businesses and community banks that loan to small businesses have been lagging behind. They need help. And if we want this economy to create more jobs more quickly, we need to help them.<p>A report yesterday from the Labor Department underscores why this is so critical. In the final few months of last year, small businesses with fewer than 50 employees accounted for more than 60 percent of the job losses in America--more than 60 percent. These are the businesses that usually create most of the jobs in this country. And this report, combined with this morning's news that unemployment claims rose again, compels us to act. It compels us to stand with the small-business men and women who are trying to grow their companies and make payroll and hire new workers.<p>The jobs bill that is stalled in Congress would completely eliminate taxes on key investments in small businesses. It would allow small-business owners to write off more expenses. And it would make it easier for community banks to do more lending to small businesses, while allowing small firms to take out larger SBA loans with fewer fees, which countless entrepreneurs have told me would make a big difference in their companies. I'd also like to point out this legislation is fully paid for and will not add one single dime to our deficit.<p>So this is a bill that makes sense, and normally we would expect Democrats and Republicans to join together. Unfortunately, a partisan minority in the Senate so far has refused to allow this jobs bill to come up for a vote.<p>Now, I recognize that there are times when Democrats and Republicans have legitimate differences rooted in different views about what's best for this country. There are times when good people disagree in good faith. But this is not one of those times. This small-business jobs bill is based on ideas both Democrat and Republican. In fact, many provisions in the bill were actually authored by Republican Senators. It has been praised as being good for small business by groups like the Chamber of Commerce and the National Federation of Independent Businesses.<p>A majority of Senators are in favor of the bill and yet the obstruction continues. It's obstruction that stands in the way of small-business owners getting the loans and the tax cuts that they need to prosper. It's obstruction that defies common sense.<p>So let me just make this simple point: There will be plenty of time between now and November to play politics. But the small-business owners I met with this week, the ones that I've met with across the country this year, they don't have time for political games. They're not interested in what's best for a political party. They're interested in what's best for the country.<p>When Congress reconvenes, this jobs bill will be the first business out of the gate. And the Senate Republican leadership needs to stop its efforts to block it. Let's put aside the partisanship for a while and work together for small businesses, for employees, and the communities that depend on them across this great country.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"242" "\"As the political season heats up, Americans are already being inundated with the usual phone calls and mailings and TV ads from campaigns all across the country. But this summer, they're also seeing a flood of attack ads run by shadowy groups with harmless-sounding names. We don't know who's behind these ads, and we don't know who's paying for them.<p>The reason this is happening is because of a decision by the Supreme Court in the Citizens United case, a decision that now allows big corporations to spend unlimited amounts of money to influence our elections. They can buy millions of dollars' worth of TV ads, and worst of all, they don't even have to reveal who is actually paying for them. You don't know if it's a foreign-controlled corporation. You don't know if it's BP. You don't know if it's a big insurance company or a Wall Street bank. A group can hide behind a phony name like Citizens for a Better Future, even if a more accurate name would be \\"Corporations for Weaker Oversight.\\"<p>We tried to fix this last month. There was a proposal supported by Democrats and Republicans that would have required corporate political advertisers to reveal who's funding their activities. When special interests take to the airwaves, whoever's running and funding the ad would have to appear in the advertisement and take responsibility for it, like a company's CEO or an organization's biggest contributor. And foreign-controlled corporations and entities would be restricted from spending money to influence American elections, just as they were in the past.<p>You would think that making these reforms would be a matter of common sense. You'd think that reducing corporate and even foreign influence over our elections wouldn't be a partisan issue. But the Republican leaders in Congress said no. In fact, they used their power to block the issue from even coming up for a vote.<p>This can only mean that the leaders of the other party want to keep the public in the dark. They don't want you to know which interests are paying for the ads. The only people who don't want to disclose the truth are people with something to hide.<p>Well, we cannot allow the corporate takeover of our democracy. So we're going to continue to fight for reform and transparency. And I urge all of you to take up the same fight. Let's challenge every elected official who benefits from these ads to defend this practice or join us in stopping it.<p>At a time of such challenge for America, we can't afford these political games. Millions of Americans are struggling to get by, and their voices shouldn't be drowned out by millions of dollars in secret, special interest advertising. Their voices should be heard.<p>Let's not forget that a century ago, it was a Republican President, Teddy Roosevelt, who first tried to tackle the issue of corporate influence on our elections. He actually called it \\"one of the principal sources of corruption in our political affairs.\\" And he proposed strict limits on corporate influence in elections. \\"Every special interest is entitled to justice,\\" he said, \\"but not one is entitled to a vote in Congress, to a voice on the bench, or to representation in any public office.\\"<p>We now face a similar challenge and a similar opportunity to prevent special interests from gaining even more clout in Washington. This shouldn't be a Democratic issue or a Republican issue. This is an issue that goes to whether or not we have a democracy that works for ordinary Americans, a government of, by, and for the people. Let's show the cynics and the special interests that we still can.\" "
"243" "\"On Tuesday, after more than 7 years, the United States of America will end its combat mission in Iraq and take an important step forward in responsibly ending the Iraq war.<p>As a candidate for this office, I pledged I would end this war. As President, that's what I'm doing. I've brought home more than 90,000 troops since I took office. We have closed or turned over to Iraq hundreds of bases. In many parts of the country, Iraqis have already taken the lead for security.<p>In the months ahead, our troops will continue to support and train Iraqi forces, partner with Iraqis in counterterrorism missions, and protect our civilians and military efforts. But the bottom line is this: The war is ending. Like any sovereign, independent nation, Iraq is free to chart its own course. And by the end of next year, all of our troops will be home.<p>As we mark the end of America's combat mission in Iraq, a grateful nation must pay tribute to all who have served there, because part of responsibly ending this war is meeting our responsibility to those who have fought it.<p>The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan now make up America's longest continuous combat engagement. For the better part of a decade, our troops and their families have served tour after tour with honor and heroism, risking and often giving their lives for the defense of our freedom and security. More than 1 million Americans in uniform have served in Iraq, far more than any conflict since Vietnam. And more than 1 million who have served in both wars have now finished their service and joined the proud ranks of America's veterans.<p>What this new generation of veterans must know is this: Our Nation's commitment to all who wear its uniform is a sacred trust that is as old as our Republic itself. It is one that, as President, I consider a moral obligation to uphold.<p>At the same time, these are new wars with new missions, new methods, and new perils. And what today's veterans have earned--what they have every right to expect--is new care, new opportunity, and a new commitment to their service when they come home.<p>That's why, from the earliest days of my administration, we've been strengthening that sacred trust with our veterans by making our veterans policy more responsive and ready for this new century.<p>We're building a 21st-century VA, modernizing and expanding VA hospitals and health care and adapting care to better meet the unique needs of female veterans. We're creating a single electronic health record that our troops and veterans can keep for life. We're breaking the claims backlog and reforming the process with new paperless systems. And we're building new wounded warrior facilities through the Department of Defense.<p>But for many of our troops and their families, the war doesn't end when they come home. Too many suffer from traumatic brain injury and posttraumatic stress disorder, the signature injuries of today's wars, and too few receive proper screening or care. Well, we're changing that. We're directing significant resources to treatment, hiring more mental health professionals, and making major investments in awareness, outreach, and suicide prevention. And we're making it easier for a vet with PTSD to get the benefits he or she needs.<p>To make sure our troops, veterans, and their families have full access to the American Dreams they've fought to defend, we're working to extend them new opportunity. Michelle and Jill Biden have forged a national commitment to support military families while a loved one is away. We've guaranteed new support to caregivers who put their lives on hold for a loved one's long recovery. We're funding and implementing the post-9/11 GI bill, which is already helping some 300,000 veterans and their family members pursue their dream of a college education.<p>And for veterans trying to find work in a very tough economy, we've devoted new resources to job training and placement. I've directed the Federal Government to hire more veterans, including disabled veterans, and I encourage every business in America to follow suit. This new generation of veterans has proven itself to be a new generation of leaders. They have unmatched training and skills, they're ready to work, and our country is stronger when we tap their extraordinary talents.<p>New care, new opportunity, a new commitment to our veterans. <p>If you'd like to send our troops and veterans a message of thanks and support, just visit whitehouse.gov. There, you'll find an easy way to upload your own text or video. <p>Let them know that they have the respect and support of a grateful nation, that when their tour ends, when they see our flag, when they touch our soil, they'll always be home in an America that is forever here for them, just as they've been there for us. That's the promise our Nation makes to those who serve. And as long as I'm Commander in Chief, it's a promise we will keep.<p>Thank you.\" "
"244" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. It is good to be back. It is good to be back----<p><i>Audience member.</i> It's good to have you back!<p><i>The President.</i> I'm glad. [<i>Laughter</i>] And due to popular demand, I decided to bring the First Lady down here.<p>We have just an extraordinary number of dedicated public servants who are here. If you will be patient with me, I want to make sure that all of them are acknowledged. First of all, you've got the Governor of the great State of Louisiana, Bobby Jindal is here. We have the outstanding mayor of New Orleans, Mitch Landrieu. We have the better looking and younger Senator from Louisiana, Mary Landrieu.<p>I believe that Senator David Vitter is here. David, right here. We have--[<i>applause</i>]--hold on a second now. We've got--Congressman Joe Cao is here. Congressman Charlie Melancon is here. Congressman Steve Scalise is here.<p>Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, who has been working tirelessly down here in Louisiana, Shaun Donovan. We've got our EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson here--home girl. Administrator of FEMA Craig Fugate is here. The person who's heading up our community service efforts all across the country, Patrick Corvington is here. Louisiana's own Regina Benjamin, the Surgeon General, a Xavier grad, I might add. We are very proud to have all of these terrific public servants here.<p>It is wonderful to be back in New Orleans, and it is a great honor----<p><i>Audience member.</i> We can't see you!<p><i>The President.</i> It is a great honor--[<i>laughter</i>]--you can see me now? Okay. It is a great honor to be back at Xavier University. And I--it's just inspiring to spend time with people who've demonstrated what it means to persevere in the face of tragedy, to rebuild in the face of ruin.<p>I'm grateful to Jade for her introduction and congratulate you on being crowned Miss Xavier. I hope everybody heard during the introduction, she was a junior at Ben Franklin High School 5 years ago when the storm came. And after Katrina, Ben Franklin High was terribly damaged by wind and water. Millions of dollars were needed to rebuild the school. Many feared it would take years to reopen, if it could be reopened at all.<p>But something remarkable happened: Parents, teachers, students, volunteers, they all got to work making repairs. And donations came in from across New Orleans and around the world. And soon those silent and darkened corridors, they were bright, and they were filled with the sounds of young men and women, including Jade, who were going back to class. And then Jade committed to Xavier, a university that likewise refused to succumb to despair. So Jade, like so many students here at this university, embody hope. That sense of hope in difficult times, that's what I came to talk about today.<p>It's been 5 years since Katrina ravaged the Gulf Coast. There's no need to dwell on what you experienced and what the world witnessed. We all remember it keenly: water pouring through broken levees, mothers holding their children above the waterline, people stranded on rooftops begging for help, bodies lying in the streets of a great American city. It was a natural disaster, but also a manmade catastrophe, a shameful breakdown in government that left countless men and women and children abandoned and alone.<p>And shortly after the storm, I came down to Houston to spend time with some of the folks who had taken shelter there. And I'll never forget what one woman told me. She said, \\"We had nothing before the hurricane, and now we've got less than nothing.\\"<p>In the years that followed, New Orleans could have remained a symbol of destruction and decay, of a storm that came and the inadequate response that followed. It was not hard to imagine a day when we'd tell our children that a once vibrant and wonderful city had been laid low by indifference and neglect. But that's not what happened. It's not what happened at Ben Franklin. It's not what happened here at Xavier. It's not what happened across New Orleans and across the Gulf Coast. Instead, this city has become a symbol of resilience and of community and of the fundamental responsibility that we have to one another.<p>And we see that here at Xavier. Less than a month after the storm struck, amidst debris and flood-damaged buildings, President Francis promised that this university would reopen in a matter of months. Some said he was crazy; some said it couldn't happen. But they didn't count on what happens when one force of nature meets another. And by January, 4 months later, class was in session. Less than a year after the storm, I had the privilege of delivering a commencement address to the largest graduating class in Xavier's history. That is a symbol of what New Orleans is all about.<p>We see New Orleans in the efforts of Joycelyn Heintz, who's here today. Katrina left her house 14 feet underwater. But after volunteers helped her rebuild, she joined AmeriCorps to serve the community herself, part of a wave of AmeriCorps members who've been critical to the rebirth of this city and the rebuilding of this region. So today, she manages a local center for mental health and wellness.<p>We see the symbol that this city has become in the St. Bernard Project, whose founder, Liz McCartney, is with us. This endeavor has drawn volunteers from across the country to rebuild hundreds of homes throughout St. Bernard Parish and the Lower Ninth Ward.<p>I've seen the sense of purpose people felt after the storm when I visited Musicians' Village in the Ninth Ward back in 2006. Volunteers were not only constructing houses, they were coming together to preserve the culture of music and art that's part of the soul of this city and the soul of this country. And today, more than 70 homes are complete, and construction's underway on the Ellis Marsalis Center for Music.<p>We see the dedication to the community in the efforts of Xavier grad Dr. Regina Benjamin, who mortgaged her home, maxed out her credit cards, so she could reopen her Bayou La Batre clinic to care for victims of the storm, and who is now our Nation's Surgeon General.<p>And we see resilience and hope exemplified by students at Carver High School, who have helped to raise more than a million dollars to build a new community track and football field--their Field of Dreams--for the Ninth Ward.<p>So because of all of you--all the advocates, all the organizers who are here today, folks standing behind me who've worked so hard, who never gave up hope--you are all leading the way toward a better future for this city with innovative approaches to fight poverty and improve health care, reduce crime, and create opportunities for young people. Because of you, New Orleans is coming back.<p>And I just came from Parkway Bakery and Tavern. And 5 years ago, the storm nearly destroyed that neighborhood institution. I saw the pictures. Now they're open, business is booming, and that's some good eats. I had the shrimp po'boy and some of the gumbo. But I skipped the bread pudding because I thought I might fall asleep while I was speaking. But I've got it saved for later. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Five years ago, many questioned whether people could ever return to this city. Today, New Orleans is one of the fastest growing cities in America, with a big new surge in small businesses. Five years ago, the Saints had to play every game on the road because of the damage to the Superdome. Two weeks ago, we welcomed the Saints to the White House as Super Bowl champions. There was also food associated with that. We marked the occasion with a 30-foot po'boy made with shrimps and oysters from the Gulf. And you'll be pleased to know there were no leftovers.<p>Now, I don't have to tell you that there's still too many vacant and overgrown lots. There's still too many students attending classes in trailers. There's still too many people unable to find work. And there's still too many New Orleans folks who haven't been able to come home. So while an incredible amount of progress has been made, on this fifth anniversary, I wanted to come here and tell the people of this city directly, my administration is going to stand with you and fight alongside you until the job is done, until New Orleans is all the way back--all the way.<p>When I took office, I directed my Cabinet to redouble our efforts to put an end to the turf wars between agencies, to cut the redtape, and cut the bureaucracy. I wanted to make sure that the Federal Government was a partner, not an obstacle, to recovery here in the Gulf Coast. And members of my Cabinet, including EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson, who grew up in Pontchartrain Park, they have come down here dozens of times. Shaun Donovan's come down here dozens of times. This is not just to make appearances; it's not just to get photo ops. They came down here to listen and to learn and make real the changes that were necessary, so that Government was actually working for you.<p>So, for example, efforts to rebuild schools and hospitals, to repair damaged roads and bridges, to get people back to their homes, they were tied up for years in a tangle of disagreements and byzantine rules. So when I took office, working with your outstanding delegation, particularly Senator Mary Landrieu, we put in place a new way of resolving disputes so that funds set aside for rebuilding efforts actually went toward rebuilding efforts. And as a result, more than 170 projects are getting underway: work on firehouses and police stations and roads and sewer systems and health clinics and libraries and universities.<p>We're tackling the corruption and inefficiency that has long plagued the New Orleans Housing Authority. We're helping homeowners rebuild and making it easier for renters to find affordable options. And we're helping people to move out of temporary homes. You know, when I took office, more than 3 years after the storm, tens of thousands of families were still stuck in disaster housing, many still living in small trailers that had been provided by FEMA. We were spending huge sums of money on temporary shelters when we knew it would be better for families and less costly for taxpayers to help people get into affordable, stable, and more permanent housing. So we've helped make it possible for people to find those homes, and we've dramatically reduced the number of families in emergency housing.<p>On the health care front, as a candidate for President, I pledged to make sure we were helping New Orleans recruit doctors and nurses and rebuild medical facilities, including a new veterans hospital. Well, we've resolved a longstanding dispute, one that had tied up hundreds of millions of dollars, to fund the replacement for Charity Hospital. And in June, Veterans Secretary Ric Shinseki came to New Orleans for the groundbreaking of that new VA hospital.<p>In education, we've made strides as well. As you know, schools in New Orleans were falling behind long before Katrina. But in the years since the storm, a lot of public schools opened themselves up to innovation and to reform. And as a result, we're actually seeing rising achievement, and New Orleans is becoming a model of innovation for the Nation. This is yet another sign that you're not just rebuilding, you're rebuilding stronger than before. Just this Friday, my administration announced a final agreement on $1.8 billion for Orleans Parish schools. This is money that had been locked up for years, but now it's freed up, so folks here can determine best how to restore the school system.<p>And in a city that's known too much violence, that's seen too many young people lost to drugs and criminal activity, we've got a Justice Department that's committed to working with New Orleans to fight the scourge of violent crime and to weed out corruption in the police force and to ensure the criminal justice system works for everyone in this city. And I want everybody to hear--to know and to hear me thank Mitch Landrieu, your new mayor, for his commitment to that partnership.<p>Now, even as we continue our recovery efforts, we're also focusing on preparing for future threats so that there's never another disaster like Katrina. The largest civil works project in American history is underway to build a fortified levee system. And as a--just as I pledged as a candidate, we're going to finish this system by next year so that this city is protected against a 100-year storm. We should not be playing Russian roulette every hurricane season. And we're also working to restore protective wetlands and natural barriers that were not only damaged by Katrina--were not just damaged by Katrina, but had been rapidly disappearing for decades.<p>In Washington, we are restoring competence and accountability. I am proud that my FEMA Director, Craig Fugate, has 25 years of experience in disaster management in Florida. He came from Florida, a State that has known its share of hurricanes. We've put together a group led by Secretary Donovan and Secretary Napolitano to look at disaster recovery across the country. We're improving coordination on the ground and modernizing emergency communications, helping families plan for a crisis. And we're putting in place reforms so that never again in America is somebody left behind in a disaster because they're living with a disability or because they're elderly or because they're infirm. That will not happen again.<p>Finally, even as you've been buffeted by Katrina and Rita, even as you've been impacted by the broader recession that has devastated communities across the country, in recent months the Gulf Coast has seen new hardship as a result of the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill. And just as we've sought to ensure that we're doing what it takes to recover from Katrina, my administration has worked hard to match our efforts on the spill to what you need on the ground. And we've been in close consultation with your Governor, your mayors, your parish presidents, your local government officials.<p>And from the start, I promised you two things. One is that we would see to it that the leak was stopped, and it has been. The second promise I made was that we would stick with our efforts and stay on BP until the damage to the Gulf and to the lives of the people in this region was reversed. And this too is a promise that we will keep. We are not going to forget. We're going to stay on it until this area is fully recovered.<p>That's why we rapidly launched the largest response to an environmental disaster in American history--47,000 people on the ground, 5,700 vessels on the water--to contain and clean up the oil. When BP was not moving fast enough on claims, we told BP to set aside $20 billion in a fund, managed by an independent third party, to help all those whose lives have been turned upside down by the spill.<p>And we will continue to rely on sound science, carefully monitoring waters and coastlines, as well as the health of the people along the Gulf, to deal with any long-term effects of the oil spill. We are going to stand with you until the oil is cleaned up, until the environment is restored, until polluters are held accountable, until communities are made whole, and until this region is all the way back on its feet.<p>So that's how we're helping this city and this State and this region to recover from the worst natural disaster in our Nation's history. We're cutting through the redtape that has impeded rebuilding efforts for years. We're making government work better and smarter in coordination with one of the most expansive nonprofit efforts in American history. We're helping State and local leaders to address serious problems that had been neglected for decades, problems that existed before the storm came and have continued after the waters receded, from the levee system to the justice system, from the health care system to the education system.<p>And together, we are helping to make New Orleans a place that stands for what we can do in America, not just for what we can't do. Ultimately, that must be the legacy of Katrina: not one of neglect, but of action; not one of indifference, but of empathy; not of abandonment, but of a community working together to meet shared challenges.<p>The truth is, there are some wounds that have not yet healed. And there are some losses that can't be repaid. And for many who lived through those harrowing days 5 years ago, there's searing memories that time may not erase. But even amid so much tragedy, we saw stirrings of a brighter day. Five years ago, we saw men and women risking their own safety to save strangers. We saw nurses staying behind to care for the sick and the injured. We saw families coming home to clean up and rebuild not just their own homes, but their neighbors' homes as well. And we saw music and Mardi Gras and the vibrancy, the fun of this town undiminished. And we've seen many return to their beloved city with a newfound sense of appreciation and obligation to this community.<p>And when I came here 4 years ago, one thing I found striking was all the greenery that had begun to come back. And I was reminded of a passage from the Book of Job: \\"There is hope for a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again and that its tender branch will not cease.\\" The work ahead will not be easy, and there will be setbacks. There will be challenges along the way. But thanks to you, thanks to the great people of this great city, New Orleans is blossoming again.<p>Thank you, everybody. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"245" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. I just finished a meeting with my economic team about the current state of our economy and some of the additional steps that we should take to move forward. <p>It's been nearly 2 years since that terrible September when our economy teetered on the brink of collapse. And at the time, no one knew just how deep the recession would go or the havoc that it would wreak on families and businesses across this country. What we did know was that it took nearly a decade----<p>[<i>At this point, the President experienced technical difficulties.</i>]<p>How are we doing on sound, guys? Is it still going in the press? Okay. <p>What we did know was that it was going to take nearly a decade in order for----<p>[<i>The President continued to experience technical difficulties.</i>]<p>Can you guys still hear us? Okay. Let me try this one more time.<p>What we did know was that it took nearly a decade to dig the hole that we're in and that it would take longer than any of us would like to climb our way out. And while we have taken a series of measures and come a long way since then, the fact is that too many businesses are still struggling, too many Americans are still looking for work, and too many communities are far from being whole again.<p>And that's why my administration remains focused every single day on pushing this economy forward, repairing the damage that's been done to the middle class over the past decade, and promoting the growth we need to get our people back to work.<p>So as Congress prepares to return to session, my economic team is hard at work in identifying additional measures that could make a difference in both promoting growth and hiring in the short term and increasing our economy's competitiveness in the long term, steps like extending the tax cuts for the middle class that are set to expire this year, redoubling our investment in clean energy and R& D, rebuilding more of our infrastructure for the future, further tax cuts to encourage businesses to put their capital to work creating jobs here in the United States. And I'll be addressing these proposals in further detail in the days and weeks to come.<p>In the meantime, there's one thing we know we should do, something that should be Congress's first order of business when it gets back, and that is making it easier for our small businesses to grow and hire.<p>We know that in the final few months of last year, small businesses accounted for more than 60 percent of the job losses in America. That's why we've passed eight different tax cuts for small businesses and worked to expand credit for them. <p>But we have to do more. And there's currently a jobs bill before Congress that would do two big things for small-business owners: cut more taxes and make available more loans. It would help them get the credit they need and eliminate capital gains taxes on key investments so they have more incentive to invest right now. And it would accelerate $55 billion of tax relief to encourage American businesses, small and large, to expand their investments over the next 14 months.<p>Unfortunately, this bill has been languishing in the Senate for months, held up by a partisan minority that won't even allow it to go to a vote. That makes no sense. This bill is fully paid for, it will not add to the deficit, and there is no reason to block it besides pure partisan politics. <p>The small-business owners and the communities that rely on them, they don't have time for political games. They shouldn't have to wait any longer. In fact, just this morning a story showed that small businesses have put hiring and expanding on hold while waiting for the Senate to act on this bill. Simply put, holding this bill hostage is directly detrimental to our economic growth.<p>So I ask Senate Republicans to drop the blockade. I know we're entering election season, but the people who sent us here expect us to work together to get things done and improve this economy.<p>Now, no single step is the silver bullet that will reverse the damage done by the bubble-and-bust cycles that caused our economy into this slide. It's going to take a full-scale effort, a full-scale attack that not only helps in the short term, but builds a firmer foundation that makes our Nation stronger for the long haul. But this step will benefit small-business owners and our economy right away. That's why it's got to get done.<p>There's no doubt we still face serious challenges. But if we rise above the politics of the moment to summon an equal seriousness of purpose, I'm absolutely confident that we will meet them. I've got confidence in the American economy, and most importantly, I've got confidence in the American people. We've just got to start working together to get this done. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"246" "\"Hello, everyone. I'm sorry I'm not able to be with you in person today, but I'm pleased to have the chance to join you by video to talk about our export control reform initiative.<p>About a year ago, we launched a comprehensive review of our export controls and determined that we needed fundamental reform in all four areas of our current system: in what we control, how we control it, how we enforce those controls, and how we manage our controls. I want to thank Secretary Locke, Secretary Gates, Secretary Clinton, and many others for their work on this initiative. And today I want to highlight the key elements of our new approach and the first steps towards its implementation.<p>For too long, we've had two very different control lists, with agencies fighting over who has jurisdiction. Decisions were delayed, sometimes for years, and industries lost their edge or moved abroad. Going forward, we will have a single, tiered, positive list, one which will allow us to build higher walls around the export of our most sensitive items while allowing the export of less critical ones under less restrictive conditions.<p>In the past, there was a lot of confusion about when a license was required. It depended on which agency you asked. Now we will have a single set of licensing policies that will apply to each tier of control, bringing clarity and consistency across our system.<p>In addition, I plan to sign an Executive order that creates an Export Enforcement Coordination Center to coordinate and strengthen our enforcement efforts and eliminate gaps and duplication across all relevant departments and agencies.<p>Finally, right now export control licenses are managed by multiple, different IT systems or, in some cases, even on paper. Going forward, all agencies will transition to a single IT system, making it easier for exporters to seek licenses and ensuring that the Government has the full information needed to make informed decisions.<p>While there is still more work to be done, taken together, these reforms will focus our resources on the threats that matter most and help us work more effectively with our allies in the field. They'll bring transparency and coherence to a field of regulation which has long been lacking both. And by enhancing the competitiveness of our manufacturing and technology sectors, they'll help us not just increase exports and create jobs, but strengthen our national security as well.<p>All this represents significant progress. And as we implement these reforms and take further steps, including working to create a single licensing agency, I look forward to working with both Congress and the export control community to ensure their success.<p>Thanks so much.\" "
"247" "\"Good evening. Tonight I'd like to talk to you about the end of our combat mission in Iraq, the ongoing security challenges we face, and the need to rebuild our Nation here at home.<p>I know this historic moment comes at a time of great uncertainty for many Americans. We've now been through nearly a decade of war. We've endured a long and painful recession. And sometimes in the midst of these storms, the future that we're trying to build for our Nation, a future of lasting peace and long-term prosperity, may seem beyond our reach.<p>But this milestone should serve as a reminder to all Americans that the future is ours to shape if we move forward with confidence and commitment. It should also serve as a message to the world that the United States of America intends to sustain and strengthen our leadership in this young century.<p>From this desk 7 1/2 years ago, President Bush announced the beginning of military operations in Iraq. Much has changed since that night. A war to disarm a state became a fight against an insurgency. Terrorism and sectarian warfare threatened to tear Iraq apart. Thousands of Americans gave their lives; tens of thousands have been wounded. Our relations abroad were strained. Our unity at home was tested.<p>These are the rough waters encountered during the course of one of America's longest wars. Yet there has been one constant amidst these shifting tides. At every turn, America's men and women in uniform have served with courage and resolve. As Commander in Chief, I am incredibly proud of their service. And like all Americans, I'm awed by their sacrifice and by the sacrifices of their families.<p>The Americans who have served in Iraq completed every mission they were given. They defeated a regime that had terrorized its people. Together with Iraqis and coalition partners, who made huge sacrifices of their own, our troops fought block by block to help Iraq seize the chance for a better future. They shifted tactics to protect the Iraqi people, trained Iraqi security forces, and took out terrorist leaders. Because of our troops and civilians and because of the resilience of the Iraqi people, Iraq has the opportunity to embrace a new destiny, even though many challenges remain. <p>So tonight I am announcing that the American combat mission in Iraq has ended. Operation Iraqi Freedom is over, and the Iraqi people now have lead responsibility for the security of their country.<p>This was my pledge to the American people as a candidate for this office. Last February, I announced a plan that would bring our combat brigades out of Iraq, while redoubling our efforts to strengthen Iraq's security forces and support its Government and people.<p>That's what we've done. We've removed nearly 100,000 U.S. troops from Iraq. We've closed or transferred to the Iraqis hundreds of bases. And we have moved millions of pieces of equipment out of Iraq.<p>This completes a transition to Iraqi responsibility for their own security. U.S. troops pulled out of Iraq's cities last summer, and Iraqi forces have moved into the lead with considerable skill and commitment to their fellow citizens. Even as Iraq continues to suffer terrorist attacks, security incidents have been near the lowest on record since the war began. And Iraqi forces have taken the fight to Al Qaida, removing much of its leadership in Iraqi-led operations.<p>This year also saw Iraq hold credible elections that drew a strong turnout. A caretaker administration is in place as Iraqis form a Government based on the results of that election. Tonight I encourage Iraq's leaders to move forward with a sense of urgency to form an inclusive Government that is just, representative, and accountable to the Iraqi people. And when that Government is in place, there should be no doubt: The Iraqi people will have a strong partner in the United States. Our combat mission is ending, but our commitment to Iraq's future is not.<p>Going forward, a transitional force of U.S. troops will remain in Iraq with a different mission: advising and assisting Iraq's security forces, supporting Iraqi troops in targeted counterterrorism missions, and protecting our civilians. Consistent with our agreement with the Iraqi Government, all U.S. troops will leave by the end of next year. As our military draws down, our dedicated civilians--diplomats, aid workers, and advisers--are moving into the lead to support Iraq as it strengthens its Government, resolves political disputes, resettles those displaced by war, and builds ties with the region and the world. That's a message that Vice President Biden is delivering to the Iraqi people through his visit there today.<p>This new approach reflects our long-term partnership with Iraq, one based upon mutual interest and mutual respect. Of course, violence will not end with our combat mission. Extremists will continue to set off bombs, attack Iraqi civilians, and try to spark sectarian strife. But ultimately, these terrorists will fail to achieve their goals. Iraqis are a proud people. They have rejected sectarian war, and they have no interest in endless destruction. They understand that in the end, only Iraqis can resolve their differences and police their streets, only Iraqis can build a democracy within their borders. What America can do and will do is provide support for the Iraqi people as both a friend and a partner.<p>Ending this war is not only in Iraq's interest, it's in our own. The United States has paid a huge price to put the future of Iraq in the hands of its people. We have sent our young men and women to make enormous sacrifices in Iraq and spent vast resources abroad at a time of tight budgets at home. We've persevered because of a belief we share with the Iraqi people, a belief that out of the ashes of war, a new beginning could be born in this cradle of civilization. <p>Through this remarkable chapter in the history of the United States and Iraq, we have met our responsibilities. Now it's time to turn the page. As we do, I'm mindful that the Iraq war has been a contentious issue at home. Here too it's time to turn the page. This afternoon I spoke to former President George W. Bush. It's well known that he and I disagreed about the war from its outset. Yet no one can doubt President Bush's support for our troops or his love of country and commitment to our security. As I've said, there were patriots who supported this war and patriots who opposed it. And all of us are united in appreciation for our service men and women and our hopes for Iraqis' future.<p>The greatness of our democracy is grounded in our ability to move beyond our differences and to learn from our experience as we confront the many challenges ahead. And no challenge is more essential to our security than our fight against Al Qaida.<p>Americans across the political spectrum supported the use of force against those who attacked us on 9/11. Now, as we approach our 10th year of combat in Afghanistan, there are those who are understandably asking tough questions about our mission there. But we must never lose sight of what's at stake. As we speak, Al Qaida continues to plot against us, and its leadership remains anchored in the border regions of Afghanistan and Pakistan. We will disrupt, dismantle, and defeat Al Qaida, while preventing Afghanistan from again serving as a base for terrorists. And because of our drawdown in Iraq, we are now able to apply the resources necessary to go on offense. In fact, over the last 19 months, nearly a dozen Al Qaida leaders and hundreds of Al Qaida's extremist allies have been killed or captured around the world.<p>Within Afghanistan, I've ordered the deployment of additional troops, who, under the command of General David Petraeus, are fighting to break the Taliban's momentum. As with the surge in Iraq, these forces will be in place for a limited time to provide space for the Afghans to build their capacity and secure their own future. But as was the case in Iraq, we can't do for Afghans what they must ultimately do for themselves. That's why we're training Afghan security forces and supporting a political resolution to Afghanistan's problems. And next August, we will begin a transition to Afghan responsibility. The pace of our troop reductions will be determined by conditions on the ground, and our support for Afghanistan will endure. But make no mistake: This transition will begin, because open-ended war serves neither our interests nor the Afghan people's.<p>Indeed, one of the lessons of our effort in Iraq is that American influence around the world is not a function of military force alone. We must use all elements of our power, including our diplomacy, our economic strength, and the power of America's example, to secure our interests and stand by our allies. And we must project a vision of the future that's based not just on our fears, but also on our hopes, a vision that recognizes the real dangers that exist around the world, but also the limitless possibilities of our time.<p>Today, old adversaries are at peace and emerging democracies are potential partners. New markets for our goods stretch from Asia to the Americas. A new push for peace in the Middle East will begin here tomorrow. Billions of young people want to move beyond the shackles of poverty and conflict. As the leader of the free world, America will do more than just defeat on the battlefield those who offer hatred and destruction. We will also lead among those who are willing to work together to expand freedom and opportunity for all people.<p>Now, that effort must begin within our own borders. Throughout our history, America has been willing to bear the burden of promoting liberty and human dignity overseas, understanding its links to our own liberty and security. But we have also understood that our Nation's strength and influence abroad must be firmly anchored in our prosperity at home. And the bedrock of that prosperity must be a growing middle class.<p>Unfortunately, over the last decade, we've not done what's necessary to shore up the foundations of our own prosperity. We spent a trillion dollars at war, often financed by borrowing from overseas. This in turn has shortchanged investments in our own people and contributed to record deficits. For too long, we have put off tough decisions on everything from our manufacturing base to our energy policy to education reform. As a result, too many middle class families find themselves working harder for less, while our Nation's long-term competitiveness is put at risk.<p>And so at this moment, as we wind down the war in Iraq, we must tackle those challenges at home with as much energy and grit and sense of common purpose as our men and women in uniform who have served abroad. They have met every test that they faced. Now it's our turn. Now it's our responsibility to honor them by coming together, all of us, and working to secure the dream that so many generations have fought for, the dream that a better life awaits anyone who is willing to work for it and reach for it.<p>Our most urgent task is to restore our economy and put the millions of Americans who have lost their jobs back to work. To strengthen our middle class, we must give all our children the education they deserve and all our workers the skills that they need to compete in a global economy. We must jump-start industries that create jobs and end our dependence on foreign oil. We must unleash the innovation that allows new products to roll off our assembly lines and nurture the ideas that spring from our entrepreneurs. This will be difficult, but in the days to come, it must be our central mission as a people and my central responsibility as President.<p>Part of that responsibility is making sure that we honor our commitments to those who have served our country with such valor. As long as I am President, we will maintain the finest fighting force that the world has ever known and we will do whatever it takes to serve our veterans as well as they have served us. This is a sacred trust. That's why we've already made one of the largest increases in funding for veterans in decades. We're treating the signature wounds of today's wars, posttraumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury, while providing the health care and benefits that all of our veterans have earned. And we're funding a post-9/11 GI bill that helps our veterans and their families pursue the dream of a college education. Just as the GI bill helped those who fought World War II, including my grandfather, become the backbone of our middle class, so today's service men and women must have the chance to apply their gifts to expand the American economy, because part of ending a war responsibly is standing by those who have fought it.<p>Two weeks ago, America's final combat brigade in Iraq, the Army's 4th Stryker Brigade, journeyed home in the predawn darkness. Thousands of soldiers and hundreds of vehicles made the trip from Baghdad, the last of them passing into Kuwait in the early morning hours. Over 7 years before, American troops and coalition partners had fought their way across similar highways, but this time no shots were fired. It was just a convoy of brave Americans making their way home.<p>Of course, the soldiers left much behind. Some were teenagers when the war began. Many have served multiple tours of duty, far from families who bore a heroic burden of their own, enduring the absence of a husband's embrace or a mother's kiss. Most painfully, since the war began, 55 members of the 4th Stryker Brigade made the ultimate sacrifice, part of over 4,400 Americans who have given their lives in Iraq. As one staff sergeant said, \\"I know that to my brothers in arms who fought and died, this day would probably mean a lot.\\"<p>Those Americans gave their lives for the values that have lived in the hearts of our people for over two centuries. Along with nearly 1.5 million Americans who have served in Iraq, they fought in a faraway place for people they never knew. They stared into the darkest of human creations--war--and helped the Iraqi people seek the light of peace.<p>In an age without surrender ceremonies, we must earn victory through the success of our partners and the strength of our own Nation. Every American who serves joins an unbroken line of heroes that stretches from Lexington to Gettysburg, from Iwo Jima to Inchon, from Khe Sanh to Kandahar, Americans who have fought to see that the lives of our children are better than our own. Our troops are the steel in our ship of state. And though our Nation may be traveling through rough waters, they give us confidence that our course is true and that beyond the predawn darkness, better days lie ahead.<p>Thank you. May God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America and all who serve her.\" "
"248" "\"Everybody, have a seat. Well, listen, I am extraordinarily honored to be with all of you today. And I want to thank General Pittard, I want to thank Command Sergeant Major Dave Davenport, who have shown such extraordinary leadership here.<p>I wanted to come down to Fort Bliss mainly to say thank you and to say welcome home. <p>I'm going to make a speech to the Nation tonight. It's not going to be a victory lap. It's not going to be self-congratulatory. There's still a lot of work that we've got to do to make sure that Iraq is an effective partner with us. But the fact of the matter is that because of the extraordinary service that all of you have done and so many people here at Fort Bliss have done, Iraq has an opportunity to create a better future for itself and America is more secure. <p>Now, I just met with some Gold Star families, and yesterday I was at Walter Reed. And there are no moments when I feel more keenly and more deeply my responsibilities as Commander in Chief than during those moments. And I know we've lost 51 fellow soldiers from here in Fort Bliss. A lot more than that were injured, some of them very severely. A million men and women in uniform have now served in Iraq, and this has been one of our longest wars. <p>But the fact of the matter is that there has not been a single mission that has been assigned to all of you in which you have not performed with gallantry, with courage, with excellence. And that is something that the entire country understands.<p>There are times where, in our country, we've got political disagreements. And appropriately, we have big debates about war and peace. But the one thing we don't argue about is the fact that we've got the finest fighting force in the history of the world. And the reason we have it is because of the men and women in uniform, in every branch of service, who make so many sacrifices, and their families make those sacrifices alongside them. <p>And so the main message I have tonight and the main message I have to you is, congratulations on a job well done. The country appreciates you. I appreciate you. And I--the most pride I take in my job is being your Commander in Chief. <p>It also means that as we transition in Iraq, that the one thing I will insist upon for however long I remain President of the United States is that we serve you and your families as well as you've served us. <p>So we've spent a lot of time over the last couple of years making sure that we're increasing our support of veterans: that we are making sure that our wounded warriors are cared for; that some of the signature injuries of our war, like posttraumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, that we are devoting special services there; that we've got a post-9/11 GI bill that ensures that you and your family members are able to come back and fully contribute and participate in our economy; that our veterans are constantly getting the care and honor that they have earned. <p>So that's part of my message to the country. And one of the great things about the last several years has been to see how unified the country is around support of our veterans and of our men and women who are currently serving. <p>Now, I know that, as I said at the beginning, our task in Iraq is not yet completed. Our combat phase is over, but we've worked too hard to neglect the continuing work that has to be done by our civilians and by those transitional forces, including some folks who are going to be deploying, I understand, today. And I'm going to be talking to them later. <p>The work that continues is absolutely critical: providing training and assistance to Iraqi security forces, because there's still violence in Iraq, and they're still learning how to secure their country the way they need to. And they've made enormous strides thanks to the training that they've already received, but there's still more work to do there.<p>We're going to have to protect our civilians--our aid workers and our diplomats--who are over there, who are still trying to expand and help what's going to be a long road ahead for the Iraqi people in terms of rebuilding their country. <p>We're still going to be going after terrorists in those areas. And so our counterterrorism operations are still going to be conducted jointly. <p>But the bottom line is, is that our combat phase is now over. We are in transition. And that could not have been accomplished had it not been for the men and women here at Fort Bliss and across the country. <p>The other thing that I'm going to talk about this evening is the fact that we obviously still have a very tough fight in Afghanistan. And a lot of families have been touched by the war in Iraq; a lot of families are now being touched in Afghanistan. We've seen casualties go up because we're taking the fight to Al Qaida and the Taliban and their allies.<p>It is going to be a tough slog, but what I know is that after 9/11, this country was unified in saying, we are not going to let something like that happen again, and we are going to go after those who perpetrated that crime, and we are going to make sure that they do not have safe haven.<p>And now, under the command of General Petraeus, we have the troops who are there in a position to start taking the fight to the terrorists. And that's going to mean some casualties, and it's going to mean some heartbreak. But the one thing that I know from all of you is that when we put our minds to it, we get things done. And we're willing to make some sacrifices on behalf of our security here at home.<p>So to all of you and to your families, I want to express my deepest gratitude, the gratitude of Michelle, the First Lady, and our entire family. But also, I just want to say thank you on behalf of the country, because without you, we couldn't enjoy the freedoms and the security that are so precious. And all of you represent that long line of heroes that have served us so well generation after generation.<p>You know, when I was talking to the Gold Star families there, there were some widows dating back to World War II, and then there was a young woman who had just had a baby and had just lost her husband. And that describes the arc of heroism and sacrifice that's been made by the men and women in uniform for so many generations. You're part of that line, part of that tradition, part of that heroism.<p>So what I'd like to do is just to come around and shake all of your hands personally, to say thank you to all of you, to say thank you for a job well done, and to know that you are welcome home with open arms from every corner of this country. People could not be prouder of you, and we are grateful.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"249" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. Upon taking office, I declared that America is a friend of each nation and every person who seeks a future of peace and dignity and that the United States was ready to lead in pursuit of that future. At the beginning of my administration, I stated that it was our policy to actively and aggressively seek a lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians, as well as a comprehensive peace between Israel and all of its Arab neighbors. And to support my outstanding Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's leadership, I appointed a special envoy and one of our Nation's finest statesmen, former Senator George Mitchell, to guide our efforts.<p>As I've said many times, our goal is a two-state solution that ends the conflict and ensures the rights and security of both Israelis and Palestinians. And despite the inevitable challenges, we have never wavered in pursuit of this goal. I've met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas on numerous occasions. Between them, Secretary Clinton and Senator Mitchell have made countless trips to the region.<p>Over the past year, both the Israeli Government and the Palestinian Authority have taken important steps to build confidence. And with Senator Mitchell's support, Israelis and Palestinians have engaged in several rounds of proximity talks, even in the face of difficult circumstances. But we've always made it clear that the only path to lasting peace between Israelis and Palestinians is direct talks between Israelis and Palestinians. Tomorrow, after nearly 2 years, the parties will relaunch those direct talks.<p>Today I had a series of very productive meetings with key partners in this effort. I urged Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Abbas to recognize this as a moment of opportunity that must be seized. I thanked President Mubarak of Egypt and His Majesty King Abdullah of Jordan for their valuable leadership and for the support that will be necessary going forward. And I look forward to hosting these four leaders at a private working dinner at the White House tonight.<p>I also want to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to many friends and allies, especially our Quartet partners. And former British Prime Minister Tony Blair will be joining us as representing the Quartet at the dinner this evening.<p>The purpose of these talks is clear. These will be direct negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians. These negotiations are intended to resolve all final status issues. The goal is a settlement, negotiated between the parties, that ends the occupation which began in 1967 and results in the emergence of an independent, democratic, and viable Palestinian state, living side by side in peace and security with a Jewish State of Israel and its other neighbors. That's the vision we are pursuing.<p>Now, I know these talks have been greeted in some quarters with skepticism. We are under no illusions. Passions run deep. Each side has legitimate and enduring interests. Years of mistrust will not disappear overnight. Building confidence will require painstaking diplomacy and trust by the parties. After all, there's a reason that the two-state solution has eluded previous generations. This is extraordinarily complex and extraordinarily difficult.<p>But we know that the status quo is unsustainable for Israelis, for Palestinians, for the region, and for the world. It is in the national interests of all involved, including the United States, that this conflict be brought to a peaceful conclusion.<p>So even as we are clear eyed about the challenges ahead, so too do we see the foundation for progress. The Israeli Government and the Palestinian Authority are already cooperating on a daily basis to increase security and reduce violence, to build institutions and improve conditions on the ground.<p>Among the Israeli and Palestinian publics, there is wide support for a two-state solution, the broad outlines of which are well known to both peoples. And even in the midst of discord, ordinary Israelis and Palestinians--faith leaders, civil society groups, doctors, scientists, businessmen, students--find ways to work together every day. Their heroic efforts at the grassroots show that cooperation and progress is possible and should inspire us all.<p>In addition, Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Abbas are two leaders who I believe want peace. Both sides have indicated that these negotiations can be completed within 1 year. And as I told each of them today, this moment of opportunity may not soon come again. They cannot afford to let it slip away. Now is the time for leaders of courage and vision to deliver the peace that their people deserve.<p>The United States will put our full weight behind this effort. We will be an active and sustained participant. We will support those who make difficult choices in pursuit of peace. But let me be very clear: Ultimately, the United States cannot impose a solution, and we cannot want it more than the parties themselves. There are enormous risks involved here for all the parties concerned, but we cannot do it for them. We can create the environment and the atmosphere for negotiations, but ultimately, it's going to require the leadership on both the Palestinian and the Israeli sides, as well as those in the region who say they want a Palestinian state. A lot of times I hear from those who insist that this is a top priority and yet do very little to actually support efforts that could bring about a Palestinian state.<p>So only Israelis and Palestinians can make the difficult choices and build the consensus at home for progress. Only Israelis and Palestinians can prove to each other their readiness to end this conflict and make the compromises upon which lasting peace deserves. What the rest of us can do, including the United States, is to support those conversations, support those talks, support those efforts, not try to undermine them.<p>So the hard work is only beginning. Neither success nor failure is inevitable. But this much we know: If we do not make the attempt, then failure is guaranteed. If both sides do not commit to these talks in earnest, then the longstanding conflict will only continue to fester and consume another generation, and this we simply cannot allow.<p>We know that there will be moments that test our resolve. We know that extremists and enemies of peace will do everything in their power to destroy this effort, as we saw in the heinous attacks near Hebron, which we have strongly condemned. But we also know this: Too much blood has already been shed, too many lives have already been lost, too many hearts have already been broken.<p>And despite what the cynics say, history teaches us that there is a different path. It is the path of resolve and determination, where compromise is possible and old conflicts, at long last, can end. It is the path traveled by those who brought peace to their countries, from Northern Ireland--where Senator Mitchell was so deeply involved--to the Balkans, to Africa, Asia, to those who forged peace between Israel and Egypt and Israel and Jordan.<p>This path is open to Israelis and Palestinians. If all sides persevere in good faith and with a sense of purpose and possibility, we can build a just, lasting, and comprehensive peace in the Middle East.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"250" "\"On Monday, we celebrate Labor Day. It's a chance to get together with families and friends, to throw some food on the grill, and have a good time. But it's also a day to honor the American worker, to reaffirm our commitment to the great American middle class that has for generations made our economy the envy of the world. <p>That is especially important now. I don't have to tell you that this is a very tough time for our country. Millions of our neighbors have been swept up in the worst recession in our lifetimes. And long before this recession hit, the middle class had been taking some hard shots. Long before this recession, the values of hard work and responsibility that built this country had been given short shrift. <p>For a decade, middle class families felt the sting of stagnant incomes and declining economic security. Companies were rewarded with tax breaks for creating jobs overseas. Wall Street firms turned huge profits by taking, in some cases, reckless risks and cutting corners. All of this came at the expense of working Americans, who were fighting harder and harder just to stay afloat, often borrowing against inflated home values to pay their bills. Ultimately, that house of cards collapsed.<p>So this Labor Day, we should recommit ourselves to our time-honored values and to this fundamental truth: To heal our economy, we need more than a healthy stock market; we need bustling Main Streets and a growing, thriving middle class. That's why I'll keep working day by day to restore opportunity, economic security, and that basic American Dream for our families and future generations. <p>First, that means doing everything we can to accelerate job creation. The steps we've taken to date have stopped the bleeding: investments in roads and bridges and high-speed railroads that will lead to hundreds of thousands of jobs in the private sector; emergency steps to prevent the layoffs of hundreds of thousands of teachers and firefighters and police officers; and tax cuts and loans for small-business owners, who create most of the jobs in this country. We also ended a tax loophole that encouraged companies to create jobs overseas. Instead, I'm fighting to pass a law to provide tax breaks to the folks who create jobs right here in America.<p>But strengthening our economy means more than that. We're fighting to build an economy in which middle class families can afford to send their kids to college, buy a home, save for retirement, and achieve some measure of economic security when their working days are done. And over the last 2 years, that has meant taking on some powerful interests who had been dominating the agenda in Washington for far too long.<p>That's why we've put an end to the wasteful subsidies to big banks that provide student loans. We're going to use that money instead to make college more affordable for students. <p>That's why we're making it easier for workers to save for retirement, with new ways of saving their tax refunds and a simpler system for enrolling in retirement plans like 401(k)s. And we're going to keep up the fight to protect Social Security for generations to come.<p>That's why we stopped insurance companies from refusing to cover people with preexisting conditions and dropping folks who become seriously ill. <p>And that's why we cut taxes for 95 percent of working families and passed a law to help make sure women earn equal pay for equal work in the United States of America. <p>This Labor Day, we are reminded that we didn't become the most prosperous country in the world by rewarding greed and recklessness. We did it by rewarding hard work and responsibility. We did it by recognizing that we rise or fall together as one Nation, one people, all of us vested in one another. That's how we have succeeded in the past, and that is how we will not only rebuild this economy but rebuild it stronger than ever before. <p>Thank you. And I hope you have a great Labor Day weekend.\" "
"251" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Milwaukee! Oh, hello, Milwaukee. Thank you. It is good to be back in Milwaukee. It is good to be--I'm almost home. I just hop on the 94 and I'm home. Take it all the way to the South Side.<p>It is good to be here on such a beautiful day. Happy Labor Day, everybody. I want to say thank you to the Milwaukee Area Labor Council and all of my brothers and sisters in the AFL-CIO for inviting me to spend this day with you, a day that belongs to the working men and women of America.<p>I want to acknowledge your outstanding national president, a man who knows that a strong economy needs a strong labor movement, Rich Trumka. Thank you to the president of Wisconsin AFL-CIO, Dave Newby; our host, your area labor council secretary-treasurer, Sheila Cochran. I hear it's Sheila's birthday tomorrow. Where is she? Happy birthday, Sheila. <p>I'm proud to be here with our Secretary of Labor, a daughter of union members, Hilda Solis. And our Secretary of Transportation, Ray LaHood, is in the house. And I want everybody to give it up for people who are at the forefront of every fight for Wisconsin's working men and women: Senator Herb Kohl; Congresswoman Gwen Moore. Your outstanding mayor and I believe soon-to-be outstanding Governor, Tom Barrett's in the house. And I know your other great Senator, Russ Feingold, was here earlier standing with you and your families, just like he always has. Now he's in his hometown of Janesville to participate in their Labor Day parade.<p>So it is good to be back. Now, of course, this isn't my first time at Laborfest. Some of you remember, I stood right here with you 2 years ago, when I was still a candidate for this office. And during that campaign, we talked about how for years the values of hard work and responsibility that had built this country had been given short shrift and how it was slowly hollowing out our middle class. Listen, everybody who has a chair, go ahead and sit down, because everybody's all hollering. Just relax; I'm going to be talking for a while now. Everybody take--[<i>applause</i>]--got a lot of hard-working people here; you deserve to sit down for a day. You've been on your feet all year working hard. <p>But 2 years ago, we talked about some on Wall Street who were taking reckless risks and cutting corners to turn huge profits while working Americans were fighting harder and harder just to stay afloat. We talked about how the decks all too often were stacked in favor of special interests and against the interests of working Americans. <p>And what we knew even then was that these years would be some of the most difficult in our history. And then 2 weeks later--2 weeks after I spoke here, the bottom fell out of the economy, and middle class families suddenly found themselves swept up in the worst recession of our lifetimes.<p>So the problems facing working families, they're nothing new. But they are more serious than ever. And that makes our cause more urgent than ever. For generations, it was the great American working class, the great American middle class that made our economy the envy of the world. It's got to be that way again. <p>Milwaukee, it was folks like you that built this city. It was folks like you that built this State. It was folks like you who forged that middle class all across the Nation.<p>It was working men and women who made the 20th century the American century. It was the labor movement that helped secure so much of what we take for granted today: the 40-hour work week, the minimum wage, family leave, health insurance, Social Security, Medicare, retirement plans. The cornerstones of the middle class security all bear the union label. <p>And it was that greatest generation that built America into the greatest force of prosperity and opportunity and freedom that the world has ever known, Americans like my grandfather, who went off to war just boys and then returned home as men, and then they traded in one uniform and set of responsibilities for another. And Americans like my grandmother, who rolled up her sleeves and worked in a factory on the homefront. And when the war was over, they studied under the GI bill, and they bought a home under the FHA, and they raised families supported by good jobs that paid good wages with good benefits.<p>It was through my grandparents' experience that I was brought up to believe that anything is possible in America. But Milwaukee, they also knew the feeling when opportunity is pulled out from under you. They grew up during the Depression, so they'd tell me about seeing their fathers or their uncles or--losing jobs; how it wasn't just the loss of a paycheck that hurt so bad, it was the blow to their dignity, their sense of self-worth. I'll bet a lot of us have seen people who've been changed after a long bout of unemployment. It can wear you down. Even if you've got a strong spirit, if you're out of work for a long time, it can wear you down.<p>So my grandparents taught me early on that a job is about more than just a paycheck. The paycheck's important, but a job's about waking up every day with a sense of purpose and going to bed at night feeling like you've handled your responsibilities. It's about meeting your responsibilities to yourself and to your family and to your community. And I carried that lesson with me all those years ago when I got my start fighting for men and women on the south side of Chicago after their local steel plant shut down. And I carried that lesson with me through my time as a State senator and a U.S. Senator, and I carry that lesson with me today. <p>And I know--I know that there are folks right here in this audience, folks right here in Milwaukee and all across America who are going through these kinds of struggles. Eight million Americans lost their jobs in this recession. And even though we've had 8 straight months of private sector job growth, the new jobs haven't been coming fast enough. <p>Now, here's the honest truth, the plain truth: There's no silver bullet; there's no quick fix to these problems. I knew when I was running for office--and I certainly knew by the time I was sworn in--I knew it would take time to reverse the damage of a decade worth of policies that saw too few people being able to climb into the middle class, too many people falling behind. We all knew this. We all knew that it would take more time than any of us want to dig ourselves out of this hole created by this economic crisis. But on this Labor Day, there are two things I want you to know. <p>Number one, I am going to keep fighting every single day, every single hour, every single minute to turn this economy around and put people back to work and renew the American Dream, not just for your family, not just for all our families, but for future generations. That I can guarantee you. <p>Number two, I believe this with every fiber of my being: America cannot have a strong, growing economy without a strong, growing middle class and the chance for everybody, no matter how humble their beginnings, to join that middle class, a middle class built on the idea that if you work hard, if you live up to your responsibilities, then you can get ahead; that you can enjoy some basic guarantees in life--a good job that pays a good wage, health care that will be there when you get sick, a secure retirement even if you're not rich, an education that will give your children a better life than we had. These are simple ideas. These are American ideas. These are union ideas. That's what we're fighting for. <p>I was thinking about this last week. I was thinking about this last week on the day I announced the end of our combat mission in Iraq. And I spent some time, as I often do, with our soldiers and our veterans. And this new generation of troops coming home from Iraq, they've earned their place alongside the greatest generation. Just like that greatest generation, they've got the skills, they've got the training, they've got the drive to move America's economy forward once more. <p>We've been investing in new care and new opportunities and a new commitment to our veterans, because we've got to serve them just the way they served us. But Milwaukee, they're coming home to an economy hit by a recession deeper than anything we've seen since the 1930s. So the question is, how do we create the same kinds of middle class opportunities for this generation as my grandparents' generation came home to? How do we build our economy on that same strong, stable foundation for growth? <p>Now, anybody who thinks that we can move this economy forward with just a few folks at the top doing well, hoping that it's going to trickle down to working people, who are running faster and faster just to keep up----<p><i>Audience member.</i> You'll never see it.<p><i>The President.</i> ----you'll never see it. If that's what you're waiting for, you should stop waiting, because it's never happened in our history. That's not how America was built. It wasn't built with a bunch of folks at the top doing well and everybody else scrambling. We didn't become the most prosperous country in the world just by rewarding greed and recklessness. We didn't come this far by letting the special interests run wild. We didn't do it just by gambling and chasing paper profits on Wall Street. We built this country by making things, by producing goods we could sell. We did it with sweat and effort and innovation. We did it on the assembly line and at the construction site. We did it by investing in the people who built this country from the ground up: the workers, middle class families, small-business owners. We outworked folks, and we outeducated folks, and we outcompeted everybody else. That's how we built America. <p>And, Milwaukee, that's what we're going to do again. That's been at the heart of what we've been doing over these last 20 months: building our economy on a new foundation so that our middle class doesn't just survive this crisis, I want it to thrive. I want it to be stronger than it was before.<p>And over the last 2 years, that's meant taking on some powerful interests, some powerful interests who had been dominating the agenda in Washington for a very long time. And they're not always happy with me. They talk about me like a dog. That's not in my prepared remarks, it's just--[<i>laughter</i>]--but it's true. <p>You know, that's why we passed financial reform, to provide new accountability and tough oversight of Wall Street, stopping credit card companies from gouging you with hidden fees and unfair rate hikes, ending taxpayer bailouts for--of Wall Street once and for all. They're not happy with it, but it was the right thing to do. <p>That's why we eliminated tens of billions of dollars in wasteful taxpayer subsidies, handouts to the big banks that were providing student loans. We took that money, tens of billions of dollars, and we're going to go to make sure that your kids and your grandkids can get student loans and grants at a cheap rate and afford a college education. They're not happy with it, but it was the right thing to do. [<i>Applause</i>] Yes, we're using those savings to put a college education within reach for working families.<p>That's why we passed health insurance reform, to make coverage affordable; reform that ends the indignity of insurance companies jacking up your premiums at will, denying you coverage just because you get sick; reform that gives you control, gives you the ability, if your child is sick, to be able to get an affordable insurance plan, making sure they can't drop it. <p>That's why we're making it easier for workers to save for retirement, with new ways of saving your tax refunds, a simpler system for enrolling in plans like 401(k)s, and fighting to strengthen Social Security for the future. And if everybody is still talking about privatizing Social Security, they need to be clear: It will not happen on my watch, not when I'm President of the United States of America. <p>That's why we've given tax cuts, except we give them to folks who need them. We've given them to small-business owners. We've given them to clean energy companies. We've cut taxes for 95 percent of working Americans, just like I promised you during the campaign. You all got a tax cut. And instead of giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas, we're cutting taxes to companies that are putting our people to work right here in the United States of America. <p>See, we want to invest in growth industries like clean energy and manufacturing. You've got leaders here in Wisconsin--Tom Barrett, Jim Doyle--they've been fighting to bring those jobs to Milwaukee, fighting to bring those jobs here to Wisconsin. I don't want to see solar panels and wind turbines and electric cars made in China. I want them made right here in the United States of America. <p>I don't want to buy stuff from someplace else. I want to grow our exports so that we're selling to someplace else, products that say, \\"Made in the U.S.A.\\" <p><i>Audience members.</i> U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.!<p><i>The President.</i> That's right. There are no better workers than American workers. I'll put my money on you any day of the week. And when the naysayers said, well, you can't save the auto industry, just go ahead and let hundreds of thousands of jobs vanish, we said, we're going to stand by those workers. If they're--if the management's willing to make tough choices, if everybody's willing to come together, I'm confident that the American auto industry can compete once again. And today, that industry is on the way back. They said no; we said yes to the American worker. They're coming back. <p>Now, let me tell you, another thing we've done is to make long-overdue investments in upgrading our outdated, our inefficient national infrastructure. We're talking roads. We're talking bridges. We're talking dams, levees. But we're also talking a smart electric grid that can bring clean energy to new areas. We're talking about broadband Internet so that everybody's plugged in. We're talking about high-speed rail lines required to compete in a 21st-century economy. I want to get down from Milwaukee down to Chicago quick--avoid a traffic jam. <p>We're talking investments in tomorrow that are creating hundreds of thousands of private sector jobs right now.<p>Because of these investments and the tens of thousands of projects they spurred all across the country, the battered construction sector actually grew last month for the first time in a very long time. <p>But you know, the folks here in the trades know what I'm talking about. Nearly one in five construction workers are unemployed--one in five. Nobody's been hit harder than construction workers. And a lot of those folks, they had lost their jobs in manufacturing and went into construction; now they've lost their jobs again. <p>It doesn't do anybody any good when so many hard-working Americans have been idled for months, even years, at a time when there's so much of America that needs rebuilding. So that's why, Milwaukee, today I am announcing a new plan for rebuilding and modernizing America's roads and rails and runways for the long term. I want America to have the best infrastructure in the world. We used to have the best infrastructure in the world; we can have it again. We are going to make it happen. <p>Over the next 6 years, we are going to rebuild 150,000 miles of our roads. That's enough to circle the world six times; that's a lot of road. We're going to lay and maintain 4,000 miles of our railways, enough to stretch coast to coast. We're going to restore 150 miles of runways. And we're going to advance a next-generation air traffic control system to reduce travel time and delays for American travelers. I think everybody can agree on that. Anybody want more delays at airports?<p><i>Audience members.</i> No!<p><i>The President.</i> No, I didn't think so. That's not a Republican or a Democratic idea. We all want to get to where we need to go. I mean, I've got Air Force One now; it's nice. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I still remember what it was like. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>This is a plan that will be fully paid for. It will not add to the deficit over time; we're going to work with Congress to see to that. We want to set up an infrastructure bank to leverage Federal dollars and focus on the smartest investments. We're going to continue our strategy to build a national high-speed rail network that reduces congestion and travel times and reduces harmful emissions. We want to cut waste and bureaucracy and consolidate and collapse more than 100 different programs that too often duplicate each other. So we want to change the way Washington spends your tax dollars. We want to reform a haphazard, patchwork way of doing business. We want to focus on less wasteful approaches than we've got right now. We want competition and innovation that gives us the best bang for the buck. <p>But the bottom line is this, Milwaukee: This will not only create jobs immediately, it's also going to make our economy hum over the long haul. It's a plan that history tells us can and should attract bipartisan support. It's a plan that says even in the aftermath of the worst recession in our lifetimes, America can still shape our own destiny. We can still move this country forward. We can still leave our children something better. We can still leave them something that lasts. <p>So these are the things we've been working for. These are some of the victories you guys have helped us achieve. And we're not finished. We've got a lot more progress to make. And I'm confident we will.<p>But there are some folks in Washington who see things differently.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> You know what I'm talking about. [<i>Laughter</i>] When it comes to just about everything we've done to strengthen our middle class, to rebuild our economy, almost every Republican in Congress says no. Even on things we usually agree on, they say no. If I said the sky was blue, they'd say no. [<i>Laughter</i>] If I said fish live in the sea, they'd say no. [<i>Laughter</i>] They just think it's better to score political points before an election than to solve problems. So they said no to help for small businesses, even when the small businesses said, we desperately need this. This used to be their key constituency, they said. They said no--no to middle class tax cuts. They say they're for tax cuts; I say, okay, let's give tax cuts to the middle class. \\"No.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] No to clean energy jobs, no to making college more affordable, no to reforming Wall Street. They're saying right now no to cutting more taxes for small-business owners and helping them get financing. <p>I--you know, I heard--somebody out here was yelling, \\"Yes, we can.\\" Remember that was our slogan? Their slogan is \\"No, we can't.\\" No, no, no, no. It----<p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes, we can! Yes, we can! Yes, we can!<p><i>The President.</i> Now, I mean, I personally think \\"yes, we can\\" is more inspiring than \\"no, we can't.\\" To steal a line from our old friend Ted Kennedy, what is it about working men and women that they find so offensive? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>When we passed a bill earlier this summer to help States save jobs, the jobs of hundreds of thousands of teachers and nurses and police officers and firefighters that were about to be laid off, they said no. And the Republican who thinks he's going to take over as Speaker--[<i>laughter</i>].<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> I'm just saying, that's his opinion. [<i>Laughter</i>] He's entitled to his opinion. But when he was asked about this, he dismissed those jobs as \\"government jobs\\" that weren't worth saving. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> That's what he said. I'm quoting, \\"government jobs.\\"<p>Now, think about this. These are the people who teach our children. These are the people who keep our streets safe. These are the people who put their lives on the line, who rush into a burning building. Government jobs? I don't know about you, but I think those jobs are worth saving. I think those jobs are worth saving. <p>By the way, this bill that we passed to save all those jobs, we made sure that bill wouldn't add to the deficit. You know how we paid for it? By closing one of these ridiculous tax loopholes that actually rewarded corporations for shipping jobs and profits overseas. <p>I mean, this was one of those loopholes that allowed companies to write off taxes they paid to foreign governments, even though they weren't paying taxes here in the United States. So middle class families were footing tax breaks for companies creating jobs somewhere else. I mean, even a lot of America's biggest corporations agreed that this loophole didn't make sense, agreed that it needed to be closed, agreed that it wasn't fair. But the man who thinks he's going to be Speaker, he wants to reopen this loophole.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> Look, the bottom line is this: These guys, they just don't want to give up on that economic philosophy that they have been peddling for most of the last decade. You know that philosophy: You cut taxes for millionaires and billionaires, you cut all the rules and regulations for special interests, and then you just cut working folks loose. You cut them loose to fend for themselves.<p>You remember they called it the \\"ownership society,\\" but what it really boiled down to was, if you couldn't find a job, you couldn't afford college, you were born poor, your insurance company dropped you even though your kid was sick, that you were on your own.<p>Well, you know what? That philosophy didn't work out so well for middle class families all across America. It didn't work out so well for our country. All it did was rack up record deficits and result in the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. I mean, think about it. We have tried what they're peddling. We did it for 10 years. We ended up with the worst economy since the 1930s and record deficits to boot. It's not like we haven't tried what they're trying to sell us. <p>Now, I'm bringing this up not because I'm trying to relitigate the past; I'm bringing it up because I don't want to relive the past. <p>It'd be one thing, Milwaukee, if Republicans in Washington had some new ideas, if they had said, you know what, we really screwed up, and we've learned from our mistakes; we're going to do things differently this time. That's not what they're doing. <p>When the leader of their campaign committee was asked on national television what Republicans would do if they took over Congress, you know what he said? He said, \\"We'll do exactly the same thing we did the last time.\\" That's what he said. It's on tape.<p>So basically, here's what this election comes down to: They're betting that between now and November, you're going to come down with amnesia. [<i>Laughter</i>] They figure you're going to forget what their agenda did to this country. They think you'll just believe that they've changed.<p>These are the folks whose policies helped devastate our middle class. They drove our economy into a ditch. And we got in there and put on our boots, and we pushed, and we shoved. And we were sweating, and these guys were standing, watching us and sipping on a Slurpee. [<i>Laughter</i>] And they were pointing at us saying: \\"How come you're not pushing harder? How come you're not pushing faster?\\" And then when we finally got the car up--and it's got a few dings and a few dents, it's got some mud on it; we're going to have to do some work on it--they point to everybody and say, \\"Look what these guys did to your car\\"--[<i>laughter</i>]--after we got it out of the ditch. And then they got the nerve to ask for the keys back. [<i>Laughter</i>] I don't want to give them the keys back. They don't know how to drive. <p>I mean, I want everybody to think about it here. When you want to go forward in your car, what do you do?<p><i>Audience members.</i> \\"D\\"!<p><i>The President.</i> You put it in \\"D.\\" They're going to pop it in reverse. [<i>Laughter</i>] They'd have those special interests riding shotgun, then they'd hit the gas, and we'd be right back in the ditch. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Milwaukee, we are not going backwards. That's the choice we face this fall. Do we want to go back, or do we want to go forward?<p><i>Audience members.</i> Forward!<p><i>The President.</i> I say we want to move forward. America always moves forward. We keep moving forward every day. <p>Let me say this, Milwaukee. I know these are difficult times. I know folks are worried. I know there's still a lot of hurt out there. I hear it when I travel around the country. I see it in the letters that I read every night from folks who are looking for a job or lost their home. It breaks my heart, because those are the folks that I got into politics for. You're the reason I'm here. <p>And when times are tough, I know it can be easy to give in to cynicism, I know it can be easy to give in to fear and doubt. And you know, it's easy sometimes for folks to stir up stuff and turn people on each other, and it's easy to settle for something less, to set our sights a little bit lower.<p>But I just want everybody here to remember, that's not who we are. That's not the country I know. We do not give up. We do not quit. We face down war. We face down depression. We face down great challenges and great threats. We have lit the way for the rest of the world.<p>Whenever times have seemed at their worst, Americans have been at their best. That's when we roll up our sleeves. That's when we remember we rise or fall together, as one Nation and as one people. That's the spirit that started the labor movement, the idea that alone, we may be weak; divided, we may fall; but we are united, we are strong. That's why they call them unions. That's why we call this the United States of America. <p>I'm going to make this case across the country between now and November. I am asking for your help. And if you are willing to join me and Tom Barrett and Gwen Moore and Russ Feingold and Herb Kohl, we can strengthen our middle class and make this economy work for all Americans again and restore the American Dream and give it to our children and our grandchildren. <p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"252" "\"As Jews in America and around the world celebrate the first of the High Holy Days, I want to extend my warmest wishes for the New Year. L'shana Tova Tikatevu--may you be inscribed and sealed in the Book of Life.<p> Rosh Hashanah marks the beginning of the spiritual calendar and the birth of the world. It serves as a reminder of the special relationship between God and his children, now and always. And it calls us to look within ourselves, to repent for our sins, recommit ourselves to prayer, and remember the blessings that come from helping those in need.<p>Today, those lessons ring as true as they did thousands of years ago. And as we begin this New Year, it is more important than ever to believe in the power of humility and compassion to deepen our faith and repair our world.<p>At a time when too many of our friends and neighbors are struggling to keep food on the table and a roof over their heads, it is up to us to do what we can to help those less fortunate.<p>At a time when prejudice and oppression still exists in the shadows of our society, it is up to us to stand as a beacon of freedom and tolerance and embrace the diversity that has always made us stronger as a people.<p>At a time when Israelis and Palestinians have returned to direct dialogue, it is up to us to encourage and support those who are willing to move beyond their differences and work towards security and peace in the Holy Land. Progress will not come easy, it will not come quick. But today we had an opportunity to move forward, toward the goal we share: two states, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace and security. <p>The Scripture teaches us that there is \\"a time to love and a time to hate, a time for war and a time for peace.\\" In this season of repentance and renewal, let us commit ourselves to a more hopeful future.<p>Michelle and I wish all who celebrate Rosh Hashanah a sweet year full of health and prosperity.\" "
"253" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody! Hello! Thank you very much. Thank you, Ohio. Thank you, Cleveland. Everybody, please have a seat. Have a seat. We've got some business to do today. Thank you very much.<p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you!<p><i>The President.</i> I love you back. Thank you.<p>Before I get started, I want to just acknowledge some outstanding public servants who are here. First of all, somebody who I believe is one of the finest Governors in this country, Ted Strickland is here. The Lieutenant Governor and soon-to-be junior Senator from the great State of Illinois--or Ohio--I was thinking about my own--Lee Fisher is here.<p>Yes, I used to hear that line all the time about \\"Senator from Illinois\\"--that would be me. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Outstanding mayor of Cleveland, Frank Jackson is here; the mayor of Parma, Dean DePiero. Somebody who's fighting for working families each and every day, Senator Sherrod Brown is here; and three of the hardest working and finest Members of the House of Representatives: Dennis Kucinich, Marcia Fudge, and John Boccieri.<p>Well, good afternoon, everybody. It is good to be back in Ohio. <p>You know, in the fall of 2008, one of the last rallies of my Presidential campaign was right here in the Cleveland area. It was a hopeful time, just 2 days before the election. And we knew that if we pulled it off, we'd finally have the chance to tackle some big and difficult challenges that had been facing this country for a very long time. <p>We also hoped for a chance to get beyond some of the old political divides--between Democrats and Republicans, red States and blue States--that had prevented us from making progress. Because although we are proud to be Democrats, we are prouder to be Americans, and we believed then and we believe now that no single party has a monopoly on wisdom. <p>Now, that's not to say that the election didn't expose deep differences between the parties. I ran for President because for much of the last decade, a very specific governing philosophy had reigned about how America should work: Cut taxes, especially for millionaires and billionaires; cut regulations for special interests; cut trade deals, even if they didn't benefit our workers; cut back on investments in our people and in our future, in education and clean energy, in research and technology. The idea was that if we just had blind faith in the market, if we let corporations play by their own rules, if we left everyone else to fend for themselves, that America would grow and America would prosper. <p>And for a time, this idea gave us the illusion of prosperity. We saw financial firms and CEOs take in record profits and record bonuses. We saw a housing boom that led to new homeowners and new jobs in construction. Consumers bought more condos and bigger cars and better TVs. <p>But while all this was happening, the broader economy was becoming weaker. Nobody understands that more than the people of Ohio. Job growth between 2000 and 2008 was slower than it had been in any economic expansion since World War II, slower than it's been over the last year. The wages and incomes of middle class families kept falling while the cost of everything from tuition to health care kept on going up. Folks were forced to put more debt on their credit cards and borrow against homes that many couldn't afford to buy in the first place. And meanwhile, a failure to pay for two wars and two tax cuts for the wealthy helped turn a record surplus into a record deficit. <p>I ran for President because I believed that this kind of economy was unsustainable for the middle class and for the future of our Nation. I ran because I had a different idea about how America was built. It was an idea rooted in my own family's story. <p>You see, Michelle and I are where we are today because even though our families didn't have much, they worked tirelessly without complaint so that we might have a better life. My grandfather marched off to Europe in World War II, while my grandmother worked in factories on the homefront. I had a single mom who put herself through school and would wake before dawn to make sure I got a decent education. Michelle can still remember her father heading out to his job as a city worker long after multiple sclerosis had made it impossible for him to walk without crutches. He always got to work; he just had to get up a little earlier.<p>Yes, our families believed in the American values of self-reliance and individual responsibility, and they instilled those values in their children. But they also believed in a country that rewards responsibility, a country that rewards hard work, a country built on the promise of opportunity and upward mobility. <p>They believed in an America that gave my grandfather the chance to go to college because of the GI bill, an America that gave my grandparents the chance to buy a home because of the Federal Housing Authority, an America that gave their children and grandchildren the chance to fulfill our dreams thanks to college loans and college scholarships.<p>It was an America where you didn't buy things you couldn't afford, where we didn't just think about today, we thought about tomorrow. An America that took pride in the goods that we made, not just the things we consumed. An America where a rising tide really did lift all boats, from the company CEO to the guy on the assembly line.<p>That's the America I believe in. That's the America I believe in. That's what led me to work in the shadow of the shuttered steel plant on the south side of Chicago when I was a community organizer. It's what led me to fight for factory workers at manufacturing plants that were closing across Illinois when I was Senator. It's what led me to run for President. Because I don't believe we can have a strong and growing economy without a strong and growing middle class.<p>Now, much has happened since that election. The flawed policies and economic weaknesses of the previous decade culminated in a financial crisis and the worst recession of our lifetimes. And my hope was that the crisis would cause everybody, Democrats and Republicans, to pull together and tackle our problems in a practical way. But as we all know, things didn't work out that way. <p>Some Republican leaders figured it was smart politics to sit on the sidelines and let Democrats solve the mess. Others believed on principle that Government shouldn't meddle in the markets, even when the markets are broken. But with the Nation losing nearly 800,000 jobs the month that I was sworn into office, my most urgent task was to stop a financial meltdown and prevent this recession from becoming a second depression. <p>And, Ohio, we have done that. The economy is growing again. The financial markets have stabilized. The private sector has created jobs for the last 8 months in a row. And there are roughly 3 million Americans who are working today because of the economic plan we put into place. <p>But the truth is, progress has been painfully slow. Millions of jobs were lost before our policies even had a chance to take effect. We lost 4 million jobs in the 6 months before I took office. It was a hole so deep that even though we've added jobs again, millions of Americans remain unemployed. Hundreds of thousands of families have lost their homes. Millions more can barely pay the bills or make the mortgage. The middle class is still treading water, and those aspiring to reach the middle class are doing everything they can to keep from drowning. <p>And meanwhile, some of the very steps that were necessary to save the economy, like temporarily supporting the banks and the auto industry, fed the perception that Washington is still ignoring the middle class in favor of special interests. <p>And so people are frustrated, and they're angry, and they're anxious about the future. I understand that. I also understand that in a political campaign, the easiest thing for the other side to do is to ride this fear and anger all the way to election day. <p>And that's what's happening right now. A few weeks ago, the Republican leader of the House came here to Cleveland and offered his party's answer to our economic challenges. Now, it would be one thing if he had admitted his party's mistakes during the 8 years that they were in power, if they had gone off for a while and meditated and come back and offered a credible new approach to solving our country's problems.<p>But that's not what happened. There were no new policies from Mr. Boehner. There were no new ideas. There was just the same philosophy that we had already tried during the decade that they were in power, the same philosophy that led to this mess in the first place: Cut more taxes for millionaires and cut more rules for corporations. <p>Instead of coming together like past generations did to build a better country for our children and grandchildren, their argument is that we should let insurance companies go back to denying care for folks who are sick or let credit card companies go back to raising rates without any reason. Instead of setting our sights higher, they're asking us to settle for a status quo of stagnant growth and eroding competitiveness and a shrinking middle class.<p>Cleveland, that is not the America I know. That is not the America we believe in.<p>A lot has changed since I came here in those final days of the last election, but what hasn't is the choice facing this country. It's still fear versus hope, the past versus the future. It's still a choice between sliding backward and moving forward. That's what this election's about. That's the choice you will face in November. <p>Now, we have a different vision for the future. See, I've never believed that government has all the answers to our problems. I've never believed that government's role is to create jobs or prosperity. I believe it's the drive and the ingenuity of our entrepreneurs, our small businesses, the skill and dedication of our workers that's made us the wealthiest nation on Earth. I believe it's the private sector that must be the main engine for our recovery. <p>I believe government should be lean; government should be efficient. I believe government should leave people free to make the choices they think are best for their--themselves and their families, so long as those choices don't hurt others. <p>But in the words of the first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, I also believe that government should do for the people what they cannot do better for themselves. And that means making the long-term investments in this country's future that individuals and corporations can't make on their own, investments in education and clean energy, in basic research and technology and infrastructure. <p>That means making sure corporations live up to their responsibilities to treat consumers fairly and play by the same rules as everybody else, their responsibilities to look out for their workers as well as their shareholders and create jobs here at home.<p>And that means providing a hand up for middle class families so that if they work hard and meet their responsibilities, they can afford to raise their children and send them to college, see a doctor when they get sick, retire with dignity and respect. <p>That's what we Democrats believe in, a vibrant free market, but one that works for everybody. That's our vision. That's our vision for a stronger economy and a growing middle class. And that's the difference between what we and Republicans in Congress are offering the American people right now. <p>Now, let me give you a few specific examples of our different approaches. This week, I proposed some additional steps to grow the economy and help businesses spur hiring. One of the keys to job creation is to encourage companies to invest more in the United States. But for years, our Tax Code has actually given billions of dollars in tax breaks that encourage companies to create jobs and profits in other countries.<p>I want to change that. I want to change that. Instead of tax loopholes that incentivize investment in overseas jobs, I'm proposing a more generous, permanent extension of the tax credit that goes to companies for all the research and innovation they do right here in Ohio, right here in the United States of America. <p>And I'm proposing that all American businesses should be allowed to write off all the investment they do in 2011. And this will help small businesses upgrade their plants and equipment and will encourage large corporations to get off the sidelines and start putting their profits to work in places like Cleveland and Toledo and Dayton. <p>Now, to most of you, I'll bet this just seems like common sense. [<i>Laughter</i>] But not to Mr. Boehner and his allies. For years, Republicans have fought to keep these corporate loopholes open. In fact, when Mr. Boehner was here in Cleveland, he attacked us for closing a few of these loopholes and using the money to help States like Ohio keep hundreds of thousands of teachers and cops and firefighters on the job. <p>Mr. Boehner dismissed these jobs we saved--teaching our kids, patrolling our streets, rushing into burning buildings--as, quote, \\"government jobs,\\" jobs I guess he thought just weren't worth saving. And I couldn't disagree more. I think teachers and police officers and firefighters are part of what keeps America strong. <p>And, Ohio, I think if we're going to give tax breaks to companies, they should go to companies that create jobs here in America, not that create jobs overseas. That's one difference between the Republican vision and the Democratic vision. That's what this election is all about. <p>Now, let me give you another example. We want to put more Americans back to work rebuilding America: our roads, our railways, our runways. When the housing sector collapsed and the recession hit, one in every four jobs lost were in the construction industry. That's partly why our economic plan has invested in badly needed infrastructure projects over the last 19 months, not just roads and bridges, but high-speed railroads and expanded broadband access. All together, these projects have led to thousands of good private sector jobs, especially for those in the trades.<p>Mr. Boehner and the Republicans in Congress said no to these projects, fought them tooth and nail. Though I should say it didn't stop a lot of them from showing up at the ribbon cuttings--[<i>laughter</i>]--trying to take credit. That's always a sight to see. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, there are still thousands of miles of railroads and railways and runways left to repair and improve. And engineers, economists, Governors, mayors of every political stripe believe that if we want to compete in this global economy, we need to rebuild this vital infrastructure. There is no reason Europe or China should have the fastest trains or the most modern airports. We want to put America to work building them right here in America. <p>So this week, I've proposed a 6-year infrastructure plan that would start putting Americans to work right away. But despite the fact that this has traditionally been an issue with bipartisan support, Mr. Boehner has so far said no to infrastructure. That's bad for America. And that too is what this election is all about. <p>I'll give you one final example of the differences between us and the Republicans, and that's on the issue of tax cuts. Under the tax plan passed by the last administration, taxes are scheduled to go up substantially next year--for everybody. By the way, this was by design. When they passed these tax cuts in 2001 and 2003, they didn't want everybody to know what it would do to our deficit, so they pretended like they were going to end, even though now they say they don't. <p>Now, I believe we ought to make the tax cuts for the middle class permanent--for the middle class permanent. These families are the ones who saw their wages and incomes flatline over the last decade. You deserve a break; you deserve some help. And because folks in the middle class are more likely to spend their tax cut on basic necessities, that strengthens the economy as a whole. <p>But the Republican leader of the House doesn't want to stop there. Make no mistake: He and his party believe we should also give a permanent tax cut to the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans.<p><i>Audience members.</i> No!<p><i>The President.</i> With all the other budgetary pressures we have, with all the Republicans' talk about wanting to shrink the deficit, they would have us borrow $700 billion over the next 10 years to give a tax cut of about a hundred thousand dollars each to folks who are already millionaires. And keep in mind, wealthy Americans are just about the only folks who saw their incomes rise when Republicans were in charge. And these are the folks who are less likely to spend the money, which is why economists don't think tax breaks for the wealthy would do much to boost the economy. <p>So let me be clear to Mr. Boehner and everybody else: We should not hold middle class tax cuts hostage any longer. We are ready this week, if they want, to give tax cuts to every American making $250,000 or less. That's 98--97 percent of Americans. Now, for any income over this amount, the tax rates would just go back to what they were under President Clinton. <p>This isn't to punish folks who are better off; God bless them. It's because we can't afford the $700 billion price tag. And for those who claim that our approach would somehow be bad for growth and bad for small businesses, let me remind you that with those tax rates in place under President Clinton, this country created 22 million jobs and raised incomes and had the largest surplus in our history. <p>In fact, if the Republican leadership in Congress really wants to help small businesses, they'll stop using legislative maneuvers to block an up-or-down vote on a small-business jobs bill that's before the Senate right now--right now. This is a bill that would do two things: It would cut taxes for small businesses and make loans more available for small businesses. It is fully paid for, won't add to the deficit, and it was written by Democrats and Republicans. And yet the other party continues to block this jobs bill, a delay that small-business owners have said is actually leading them to put off hiring.<p>Look, I recognize that most of the Republicans in Congress have said no to just about every policy I've proposed since taking office. I realize in some cases that there are genuine philosophical differences. But on issues like this one--a tax cut for small businesses supported by the Chamber of Commerce--the only reason they're holding this up is politics, pure and simple. They're making the same calculation they made just before my Inauguration: If I fail, they win. Well, they might think that this will get them to where they want to go in November, but it won't get our country going where it needs to go in the long run. It won't get us there. It won't get us there. It won't get us there. <p>So that's the choice, Ohio: Do we return to the same failed policies that ran our economy into a ditch, or do we keep moving forward with policies that are slowly pulling us out? Do we settle for a slow decline, or do we reach for an America with a growing economy and a thriving middle class? That's the America that I see. We may not be there yet, but we know where this country needs to go. <p>We see a future where we invest in American innovation and American ingenuity; where we export more goods so we create more jobs here at home; where we make it easier to start a business or patent an invention; where we build a homegrown clean energy industry, because I don't want to see new solar panels or electric cars or advanced batteries manufactured in Europe or Asia. I want to see them made right here in the U.S. of A. by American workers. <p>We see an America where every citizen has the skills and training to compete with any worker in the world. That's why we've set a goal to once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020. That's why we're revitalizing community colleges like this one. That's why we're reforming our education system based on what works for our children, not what perpetuates the status quo. <p>We see an America where a growing middle class is the beating heart of a growing economy. That's why I kept my campaign promise and gave a middle class tax cut to 95 percent of working Americans. That's why we passed health insurance reform that stops insurance companies from jacking up your premiums at will or denying coverage because you get sick. That's why we passed financial reform that will end taxpayer-funded bailouts, reform that will stop credit card companies and mortgage lenders from taking advantage of taxpayers and consumers. <p>That's why we're trying to make it easier for workers to save for retirement and fighting the efforts of some in the other party to privatize Social Security, because as long as I'm President, no one is going to take the retirement savings of a generation of Americans and hand it over to Wall Street. Not on my watch. <p>That's why we're fighting to extend the child tax credit and make permanent our new college tax credit, because if we do, it will mean $10,000 in tuition relief for each child going to 4 years of college. And I don't want any parent not to be sending their kids, in good time or bad, to college because they can't afford it.<p>And finally, we see an America where we refuse to pass on the debt we inherited to the next generation. Now, let me spend just a minute on this issue, because we've heard a lot of moralizing on the other side about this: Government spending and debt. Along with the tax cuts for the wealthy, the other party's main economic proposal is that they'll stop Government spending. <p>Now, it's right to be concerned about the long-term deficit. If we don't get a handle on it soon, it can endanger our future. And at a time when folks are tightening their belts at home, I understand why a lot of Americans feel it's time for Government to show some discipline too. But let's look at the facts. When these same Republicans--including Mr. Boehner--were in charge, the number of earmarks and pet projects went up, not down.<p>These same Republicans turned a record surplus into a record deficit. When I walked in, wrapped in a nice bow was a $1.3 trillion deficit sitting right there on my doorstep--[<i>laughter</i>]--a welcoming present. <p>Just this year, these same Republicans voted against a bipartisan fiscal commission that they themselves had proposed. Once I decided I was for it, they were against it. [<i>Laughter</i>] And when you ask them what programs they'd actually cut, they don't have an answer. That's not fiscal responsibility. That's not a serious plan to govern. <p>Now, I'll be honest, I refuse to cut back on those investments that will grow our economy in the future, investments in areas like education and clean energy and technology. I don't want to cut those things. And that's because economic growth is the single best way to bring down the deficit, and we need these investments to grow. But I am absolutely committed to fiscal responsibility, which is why I've already proposed freezing all discretionary spending unrelated to national security for the next 3 years.<p>And once the bipartisan fiscal commission finishes its work, I'll spend the next year making the tough choices necessary to further reduce our deficit and lower our debt, whether I get help from the other side or not. <p>Of course, reducing the deficit won't be easy. Making up for the 8 million lost jobs caused by this recession won't happen overnight. Not everything we've done over the last 2 years has worked as quickly as we had hoped, and I am keenly aware that not all of our policies have been popular. <p>So no, our job is not easy. But you didn't elect me to do what was easy. You didn't elect me to just read the polls and figure how to keep myself in office. You didn't elect me to avoid big problems. You elected me to do what was right. And as long as I'm President, that's exactly what I intend to do. <p>This country is emerging from an incredibly difficult period in its history, an era of irresponsibility that stretched from Wall Street to Washington and had a devastating effect on a lot of people. We have started turning the corner on that era. But part of moving forward is returning to the time-honored values that built this country: hard work and self-reliance; responsibility for ourselves, but also responsibility for one another. It's about moving from an attitude that said, \\"What's in it for me?\\" to one that asks: \\"What's best for America? What's best for all our workers? What's best for all of our businesses? What's best for all of our children?\\"<p>These values are not Democratic or Republican. They are not conservative or liberal values. They are American values. As Democrats, we take pride in what our party has accomplished over the last century: Social Security and the minimum wage, the GI bill and Medicare, civil rights and workers' rights and women's rights. But we also recognize that throughout our history, there has been a noble Republican vision as well of what this country can be. It was the vision of Abraham Lincoln, who set up the first land-grant colleges and launched the transcontinental railroad; the vision of Teddy Roosevelt, who used the power of Government to break up monopolies; the vision of Dwight Eisenhower, who helped build the Interstate Highway System; and yes, the vision of Ronald Reagan, who, despite his aversion to Government, was willing to help save Social Security for future generations, working with Democrats. <p>These were serious leaders for serious times. They were great politicians, but they didn't spend all their time playing games or scoring points. They didn't always prey on people's fears and anxieties. They made mistakes, but they did what they thought was in the best interests of their country and its people.<p>And that's what the American people expect of us today--Democrats, Independents, and Republicans. That's the debate they deserve. That's the leadership we owe them. <p>I know that folks are worried about the future. I know there's still a lot of hurt out here. And when times are tough, I know it can be tempting to give in to cynicism and fear and doubt and division and just settle our sights a little bit lower, settle for something a little bit less. But that's not who we are, Ohio. Those are not the values that built this country.<p>We are here today because in the worst of times, the people who came before us brought out the best in America, because our parents and our grandparents and our great-grandparents were willing to work and sacrifice for us. They were willing to take great risks and face great hardship and reach for a future that would give us the chance at a better life. They knew that this country is greater than the sum of its parts, that America's not about the ambitions of any one individual, but the aspirations of an entire people, an entire nation. <p>That's who we are. That is our legacy. And I'm convinced that if we're willing to summon those values today and if we're willing to choose hope over fear and choose the future over the past and come together once more around the great project of national renewal, then we will restore our economy and rebuild our middle class and reclaim the American Dream for the next generation. <p>Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"254" "\"Today we pause to remember a day that tested our country. On September 11th, 2001, nearly 3,000 lives were lost in the deadliest attack on American soil in our history. We will never forget the images of planes vanishing into buildings, of photos hung by the families of the missing. We will never forget the anger and the sadness that we felt. And while 9 years have come and gone since that September morning, the passage of time will never diminish the pain and loss forever seared in the consciousness of our Nation.<p>That is why on this day, we pray with the families of those who died. We mourn with the husbands and wives, the children and parents, friends and loved ones. We think about the milestones that have passed over the course of 9 years--births and christenings, weddings and graduations--all with an empty chair.<p>On this day, we also honor those who died so that others might live: the firefighters and first-responders who climbed the stairs of two burning towers, the passengers who stormed a cockpit, and the men and women who have in the years since borne the uniform of this country and given their lives so that our children could grow up in a safer world. In acts of courage and decency, they defended a simple precept: I am my brother's keeper; I am my sister's keeper.<p>And on this day, we recall that at our darkest moment, we summoned a sense of unity and common purpose. We responded to the worst kind of depravity with the best of our humanity.<p>So each year at this time, we renew our resolve against those who perpetrated this barbaric act of terror and who continue to plot against us, for we will never waver in defense of this Nation. We renew our commitment to our troops and all who serve to protect this country and to their families. But we also renew the true spirit of that day: not the human capacity for evil, but the human capacity for good; not the desire to destroy, but the impulse to save.<p>That's why we mark September 11th as a National Day of Service and Remembrance. For if there is a lesson to be drawn on this anniversary, it is this: We are one Nation, one people, bound not only by grief, but by a set of common ideals, and that by giving back to our communities, by serving people in need, we reaffirm our ideals, in defiance of those who would do us grave harm. We prove that the sense of responsibility that we felt for one another that day 9 years ago was not a fleeting passion, but a lasting virtue.<p>This is a difficult time for our country. And it's often in such moments that some try to stoke bitterness, to divide us based on our differences, to blind us to what we have in common. But on this day, we are reminded that at our best, we do not give in to this temptation. We stand with one another; we fight alongside one another. We do not allow ourselves to be defined by fear, but rather, by the hopes we have for our families, for our Nation, and for a brighter future. So let us grieve for those we've lost, honor those who have sacrificed, and do our best to live up to the shared values that we have, on this day and every day that follows.<p>Thank you.\" "
"255" "\" Secretary Gates, Admiral Mullen, and members of the Armed Forces; my fellow Americans; most of all, to you, survivors who still carry the scars of tragedy and destruction, to the families who carry in your hearts the memory of the loved ones you lost here: For our Nation, this is a day of remembrance, a day of reflection, and, with God's grace, a day of unity and renewal.<p>We gather to remember, at this sacred hour, on hallowed ground, at places where we feel such grief and where our healing goes on. We gather here at the Pentagon, where the names of the lost are forever etched in stone. We gather in a gentle Pennsylvania field, where a plane went down and a Tower of Voices will rise and echo through the ages. And we gather where the Twin Towers fell, a site where the work goes on so that next year, on the 10th anniversary, the waters will flow in steady tribute to the nearly 3,000 innocent lives.<p>On this day, it's perhaps natural to focus on the images of that awful morning, images that are seared into our souls. It's tempting to dwell on the final moments of the loved ones whose lives were taken so cruelly. Yet these memorials and your presence today remind us to remember the fullness of their time on Earth.<p>They were fathers and mothers raising their families; brothers and sisters pursuing their dreams; sons and daughters, their whole lives before them. They were civilians and servicemembers. Some never saw the danger coming; others saw the peril and rushed to save others, up those stairwells, into the flames, into the cockpit.<p>They were White and Black and Brown, men and women and some children, made up of all races, many faiths. They were Americans and people from far corners of the world. And they were snatched from us senselessly and much too soon, but they lived well, and they live on in you.<p>Nine years have now passed. In that time, you have shed more tears than we will ever know. And though it must seem some days as though the world has moved on to other things, I say to you today that your loved ones endure in the heart of our Nation, now and forever.<p>Our remembrance today also requires a certain reflection. As a nation and as individuals, we must ask ourselves how best to honor them, those who died, those who sacrificed. How do we preserve their legacy, not just on this day, but every day?<p>We need not look far for our answer. The perpetrators of this evil act didn't simply attack America; they attacked the very idea of America itself, all that we stand for and represent in the world. And so the highest honor we can pay those we lost--indeed, our greatest weapon in this ongoing war--is to do what our adversaries fear the most: to stay true to who we are as Americans, to renew our sense of common purpose, to say that we define the character of our country and we will not let the acts of some small band of murderers who slaughter the innocent and cower in caves distort who we are.<p>They doubted our will, but as Americans, we persevere. Today, in Afghanistan and beyond, we have gone on the offensive and struck major blows against Al Qaida and its allies. We will do what is necessary to protect our country, and we honor all those who serve to keep us safe.<p>They may seek to strike fear in us, but they are no match for our resilience. We do not succumb to fear, nor will we squander the optimism that has always defined us as a people. On a day when others sought to destroy, we have chosen to build, with a National Day of Service and Remembrance that summons the inherent goodness of the American people.<p>They may seek to exploit our freedoms, but we will not sacrifice the liberties we cherish or hunker down behind walls of suspicion and mistrust. They may wish to drive us apart, but we will not give in to their hatred and prejudice. For Scripture teaches us to \\"get rid of all bitterness, rage and anger, brawling and slander, along with every form of malice.\\"<p>They may seek to spark conflict between different faiths, but as Americans, we are not and never will be at war with Islam. It was not a religion that attacked us that September day; it was Al Qaida, a sorry band of men which perverts religion. And just as we condemn intolerance and extremism abroad, so will we stay true to our traditions here at home as a diverse and tolerant nation. We champion the rights of every American, including the right to worship as one chooses, as servicemembers and civilians from many faiths do just steps from here, at the very spot where the terrorists struck this building.<p>Those who attacked us sought to demoralize us, divide us, to deprive us of the very unity, the very ideals that make America America, those qualities that have made us a beacon of freedom and hope to billions around the world. Today we declare once more, we will never hand them that victory. As Americans, we will keep alive the virtues and values that make us who we are and who we must always be.<p>For our cause is just, our spirit is strong, our resolve is unwavering. Like generations before us, let us come together today and all days to affirm certain inalienable rights, to affirm life and liberty and the pursuit of happiness. On this day and the days to come, we choose to stay true to our best selves as one Nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.<p>This is how we choose to honor the fallen--your families, your friends, your fellow servicemembers. This is how we will keep alive the legacy of these proud and patriotic Americans. This is how we will prevail in this great test of our time. This is how we will preserve and protect the country that we love and pass it, safer and stronger, to future generations.<p>May God bless you and your families, and may God continue to bless the United States of America.\" "
"256" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody!<p><i>Audience members.</i> Hello!<p><i>The President.</i> Welcome. Welcome to the White House. It is good to see some old friends and familiar faces. And I want to especially welcome three of our newest board members of the President's Board of Advisers on Historically Black Colleges and Universities. I am so grateful that they've agreed to join, and I'm looking forward to working with all of you.<p>Now, last February, I saw some of you here when I signed the Executive order to strengthen the White House Initiative on HBCUs. And this is allowing the Government to collaborate with educational associations, with philanthropic organizations, and with the private sector to increase your capacity to offer a college degree to as many students as possible.<p>And we've also declared this week to be National HBCU Week. And we do this for two reasons: first of all, to remember our history. We remember all the men and women who took great risks and made extraordinary sacrifices to ensure that these institutions that you lead could exist. We remember that at a critical time in our Nation's history, HBCUs waged war against illiteracy and ignorance and won. You've made it possible for millions of people to achieve their dreams and gave so many young people a chance they never thought they'd have, a chance that nobody else would give them. And that's something to celebrate, and that's something to be very, very proud of.<p>But we also use this week as an opportunity to look forward towards the future and to take stock of the work that we've got left to do. As many of you know, I set a goal that by 2020, the United States would once again lead in the number of college graduates, have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. I set that goal because our success in a 21st-century economy is going to depend almost entirely on having a skilled workforce, how well trained our young people are.<p>We cannot reach that goal without HBCUs. We can't get there unless all of you are improving your graduation rates. We can't get there unless all of you are continuing to make the dream of a college education a reality for more students. We want to help you do that in every way that we can. Already, we've eliminated billions of dollars of unnecessary subsidies to banks and financial institutions so that that money could go directly to your students. And that is incredibly important. And as a consequence of that, we're making it possible for millions of more students to attend colleges and universities and community colleges all across the country.<p>We also want to keep strengthening HBCUs, which is why we're investing $850 million in these institutions over the next 10 years. And as I said in February, strengthening your institutions isn't just a task for our advisory board or for the Department of Education, it's a job for the entire Federal Government. And I expect all agencies to support this mission.<p>Now, none of this is going to be easy. I know--I'm sure you know that. As leaders of these institutions, you are up against enormous challenges, especially during an economic crisis like the one that we are going through. But we all have to try. We have to try. We have to remain determined. We have to persevere.<p>That's what the first founders of HBCUs did. They knew that even if they succeeded, that inequality would persist for a very, very long time. They knew that the barriers in our laws, the barriers in our hearts would not vanish overnight. But they also recognized a larger and distinctly American truth, and that is that the right education might one day allow us to overcome barriers, to let every child fulfill their God-given potential. They recognized, as Frederick Douglass once put it, that education means emancipation. And they recognized that education is how America and its people might fulfill our promise.<p>That's what helped them get through some very difficult times. It's what kept them fighting and trying and reaching for that better day, even though they might not be able to live to see that better day. That's the kind of commitment that we're going to need today from everybody here at the White House, from all of you at your respective institutions.<p>We are extraordinarily proud of what you've done. But we've got a lot more work to do. And I just want everybody here to understand that you've got a partner in me and you've got a partner in the Department of Education and you've got a department with everybody here at the White House who's absolutely committed to making sure that you can succeed in your mission.<p>So thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. Thank you.\" "
"257" "\"<i>The President.</i> Good morning, everybody.<p><i>Governor Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan.</i> Good morning. Is that a familiar voice we hear?<p><i>The President.</i> Governor Granholm, this is your friend Barack Obama. <p><i>Gov. Granholm.</i> Mr. President, we're so happy to welcome you to our celebration of A123. I was just explaining how great it is that the Recovery Act provided jobs for Michigan. Maybe you have a few words to those who are assembled here.<p><i>The President.</i> Well, look, I wish I could be there in person to celebrate with you today. But I am calling to congratulate A123 Systems on this tremendous milestone. As you said, thanks to the Recovery Act, you guys are the first American factory to start high-volume production of advanced vehicle batteries.<p>I met with David and some of the A123 team here at the White House back in April, and it's incredibly exciting to see how far you guys have come since we announced these grants just over a year ago. And this is important not just because of what you guys are doing at your plant, but all across America, because this is about the birth of an entire new industry in America, an industry that's going to be central to the next generation of cars. And it's going to allow us to start exporting those cars, making them comfortable, convenient, and affordable. It helps our manufacturing industry to thrive, and with it, that means our communities and our States and our country are going to thrive.<p>For a long time, our economic policies have shortchanged cutting-edge projects like this one, and it put us behind the innovation race. And I don't have to tell folks in Michigan that fewer parts of the economy have been harder hit by this recession than manufacturing. But what I said when you guys were in the White House was, I do not see a decline in manufacturing as inevitable for the United States. And I know you don't either.<p>And so we're starting to reverse that slide. And anybody who doubts that has to go and see what you guys are achieving. And I want everybody to understand, just a few years ago, American businesses could only make 2 percent of the world's advanced batteries for hybrids and electric vehicles--just 2 percent. But because of your extraordinary work, thanks to the Recovery Act, we're going to get up to 40 percent of the world's capacity. And that means when folks lift up their hoods on the cars of the future, I want them to see engines and batteries that are stamped \\"Made in America.\\" And that's what you guys are helping to make happen.<p>So I want to thank your great Governor, Jennifer Granholm, for her vision in jump-starting a homegrown clean energy industry. I want to thank your congressional delegation, Senator Levin and Stabenow and Chairman Dingell and Chairman Levin, for their leadership and their support of the Recovery Act. I also want to thank my Secretary of Energy, Steven Chu, for his extraordinary work to get the money out the door quickly and wisely.<p>But most of all, I want to congratulate and thank all the men and women of A123 Systems. You guys are making us proud. The work you're doing will help power the American economy for years to come. And so everybody there should just feel very, very good about what you guys are doing. And I am looking forward to continuing to see the great work that you guys do in the years to come.<p>So thank you very much, everybody. And good luck.\" "
"258" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you so much, all of you, for being here, and I want to say a special thanks to John and Nicole. Trevor and Olivia are back there.<p><i>Nicole Armstrong.</i> They're going to turn the A/C unit off for you.<p><i>The President.</i> Yes, exactly. That's all right. But I'm so grateful for their hospitality. They are just a wonderful family, and for them to open up their backyard for us is just terrific. So we really----<p>[<i>At this point, the President was handed a microphone.</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Oh, I've got a mike. So thank you to the entire family for opening up, and thanks to all of you for taking the time to be here. Because I want to--I was telling John and Nicole that a lot of times, when you're in Washington, you're busy, you've got a lot of stuff to do, and you're in a bubble when you're President. And sometimes, you just don't have the opportunity to have the kinds of interactions that I used to have even when I was a Senator.<p>And so these kinds of formats are terrific for me. And my hope is, is that despite all these people who are here with cameras and microphones and all that stuff, that people won't be shy, because the whole point of this is for me to hear directly from you and to answer your questions, hear about your concerns, hear about your hopes, and hopefully, that will translate itself into some of the things that we're doing at the White House.<p>I obviously want to make some introductions that--I think all of you know that you've got some Members of Congress who are working very hard here in Northern Virginia, and I want to acknowledge them. First of all, Congressman Jim Moran, who's been doing great work for a very long time. Congressman Gerry Connolly has been doing terrific work here locally and now on Capitol Hill. We've got Sharon Bulova, who is the chairwoman of the Fairfax County Board of Commissioners.<p>And we've also got a couple of small-business owners, because one of the things I want to talk about is how we can grow the economy and get people back to work, and so who better to hear from than a couple of small-business owners. Don't worry, I'm not going to call on you, but I'm just glad you're here.<p>First of all, we've got Cherrelle Hurt, who is the owner of As We Grow Learning Center. Hey, Cherrelle. Thanks for being here. And Larry Poltavtsev--did I say that right, Larry?--who is the CEO of Target Labs, Inc. And so we're glad that you guys could join us.<p>Now, I'm only going to say a few things at the top. And I want to talk a little bit about why I decided to run for President in the first place, back in 2007, 2008.<p>Having served as a State senator, having then served as a United States Senator, I had had a chance to see how economic policies were having an effect on working class families and middle class families for a long time. And my wife and I, we came out of hard-working families who didn't have a lot, but because the economy was growing, because there was an emphasis on what was good for the middle class, we were able to get a great education, we were able to get scholarships. Michelle's dad worked as a blue-collar worker, but just on that one salary he was able to provide for his family and make sure that they always had enough and the kids had opportunities.<p>And what it seemed like was, for about a decade there, middle class families were losing more and more ground. And some of that had to do with changes in the global economy and greater competition from around the world. But a lot of it had to do with the policies that had been put in place, which really boiled down to cutting taxes, especially for millionaires and billionaires; cutting regulations that made consumers and workers more vulnerable; failing to make investments that were so critical in growing our middle class over the long term.<p>And so when I ran for President, my goal was to make sure that we get a set of economic policies in place that would lay the foundation for long-term growth in the 21st century so that the 21st century would be an American century, just like the 20th century had been.<p>And that's what we've tried to do over the last 19 months, in the midst of the worst financial crisis that we've seen since the Great Depression. The first thing we had to do was just stop the bleeding, stabilize the financial system, and make sure we didn't trip into a Great Depression. And we have done that.<p>So when I was sworn in on that very cold day in January--some of you may remember--we lost 750,000 jobs in that month alone. Now we've seen 8 consecutive months of private sector job growth because of the policies we've put in place.<p>We were on the verge of financial meltdown. Anybody who was involved in business at that time remembers banks were not lending at all. You couldn't even get an auto loan or a consumer loan. And now the financial systems have stabilized, although they're not completely where we need them to be. The economy was shrinking at a pace of--an astounding pace of about 6 percent annually. And now the economy has been growing.<p>So we stopped the bleeding, stabilized the economy, but the fact of the matter is, is that the pace of improvement has not been where it needs to be. And the hole that we had dug ourselves in was enormous. I mean, we lost 4 million jobs in the last 6 months of 2008, when I was still running. We lost 4 million jobs. And all told, we've lost 8 million jobs. And so even though we've grown jobs this year, we haven't been able to yet make up for those 8 million jobs that had been lost. And that's an enormous challenge.<p>Now, the second part of the challenge, though, is to make sure that even as we're digging ourselves out of this hole, we start making some better decisions so that long term we don't find ourselves in this circumstance again and we start creating the kind of economy that's working for middle class families. <p>So a couple of things that we did on that front. We cut taxes for middle class families, because we understand that people's incomes and wages have not gone up, have not kept pace with increases in health care, increases in college, and so forth.<p>The second thing that we felt was very important was to start creating some rules of the road again. So in financial services, for example, we passed a financial regulatory bill that makes sure that we're not going to have taxpayer bailouts, makes sure that banks have to operate a little bit more responsibly and take less risks with the money that they're investing. And we also made sure that consumers are treated more fairly, because part of what happened in this financial crisis was people were getting mortgages that they didn't understand. Suddenly, the bottom fell out of the housing market, and banks found themselves in a crisis situation.<p>So what we've said is, let's make sure that consumers know exactly the kinds of mortgages they're getting. Let's make sure that they can't be steered into these balloon-type payments where there's no chance that over the long term they're going to be able to make their payments.<p>Let's make sure that credit card companies have to notify you if they're going to increase your interest rates. And let's make sure that they can't increase your interest rates on your existing balances, only on future balances, so that they're not tricking you into suddenly paying exorbitant fees and putting you in the hole over the long term.<p>Gerry likes that one. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So we set up a bunch of rules both in the financial services area, in the housing sector, and in health care. And I know that a lot of people here heard a lot about the health care bill. One of the most important things that that was about was making sure that insurance companies treated you fairly. So if you've got health insurance, companies are not going to be able to drop you from coverage when you get sick, which is part of what had been happening. They couldn't deny you insurance because of a preexisting condition or if your child had a preexisting condition, which obviously makes families enormously vulnerable.<p>So a set of rules of the road for how companies interact with consumers, how they interact with workers.<p>And then the final thing that we've tried to do to lay this foundation for long-term economic growth is to put our investments in those things that are really going to make us more competitive over the long term. So we have made the largest investment in research and development, in basic research and science, in our history, because that's going to determine whether we can compete with China and India and Germany over the long term. Are we inventing stuff here that we can then export overseas?<p>We're making investments in our infrastructure, because we can't have a second-class infrastructure and expect to have a first-class economy. Just an interesting statistic over the last decade: China spends about 9 percent of its gross domestic product on infrastructure. Europe spends about 5 percent. We've been spending 2 percent. And that's part of the reason why we no longer have the best airports, we no longer have the best rail systems, we don't have the best broadband service. South Korea has better broadband service and wireless service than we do. And over time, that adds up. It makes us less competitive. So what we've said is, we've got to make investments in infrastructure.<p>A third area: education. A generation ago, we had the highest proportion of college graduates of any country in the world. We now rank 11th or 12th in the proportion of college graduates. Well, we can't win in an information society, in a global, technologically wired economy, unless we're winning that battle to make sure our kids can compete.<p>So what we've said is, we're going to put more money into higher education and through K through 12, but here's the catch: The money is only going to those communities that are serious about reforming their education system so they work well. Because it's--education is not just a matter of putting more money into it. You also have to make sure that we've got the best teachers, that we've got accountability, that the way we're designing our schools help our kids actually succeed over the long term, especially in areas of math and science, where we're lagging even further behind than we were a generation ago.<p>So those are the things that we've been trying to do over the last 19 months. Now, as I said before, the economy is growing, but it's not growing as fast as we would like. So over the last week, I've put forward a few more things that I think can really make a difference.<p>Number one, instead of giving tax breaks to companies that are investing overseas, which our Tax Code does right now, what I've said is, let's close those tax loopholes, and let's provide tax breaks to companies that are investing in research and development here in the United States. That's a smart thing to do. We want to incentivize businesses who actually are making profits right now to say, we should go ahead and take a chance, and let's invest in that next new thing.<p>Second is--what I've proposed is, is that we allow companies to write off essentially their new investments early if they make those investments here in 2011, so essentially accelerating the depreciation that they can take on their taxes to encourage them to front-load making investments now.<p>The third thing that we've proposed--and this is actually pending right now in the Senate, the United States Senate, because Gerry and Jim have already voted on it--is a small-business package that would eliminate capital gains taxes for small businesses, would help small businesses obtain loans. It is a commonsense bill that traditionally would have garnered a lot of bipartisan support, but we're in the political silly season right now so it's been blocked up by the Senate Republicans for the last month and a half, 2 months.<p>Small businesses are still having trouble getting loans. And what we want to do, even though we've already given them eight different tax breaks, is we want to say we're going to give you just a little bit more incentive, because if we can get small businesses growing and investing and opening their doors and hiring new workers, that's probably going to be the area where we can make the most progress over the next year in terms of accelerating employment and reducing the unemployment rate.<p>So these are all steps that we're taking right now to try to move the economy forward. Now, I have never been more confident about the future of our economy, if we stay on track and we deal with some of these longstanding problems that we hadn't dealt with for decades.<p>If we make investments and improve our education system; if we make investments in research and development; if we make investments in things like clean energy so that we've got an energy policy that's not just tied to importing oil from the Middle East, but instead start figuring out how can we develop our homegrown industries; if we have a tax system that is fair and helps the middle class and that also attends to our long-term deficit problems; if we regulate, but not with a heavy hand, just regulate enough to make sure that we don't have a collapse of the financial system and consumers aren't taken advantage of and health insurance companies are responsive to ordinary families--if we do those things, there's no reason why we can't succeed.<p>And I've traveled all around the world, and I've looked at all the economic data. If you had a choice of which country you'd want to be, you still want to be the United States of America. We still have a huge competitive edge, and we've got the best workers in the world. And we've got the most dynamic economy in the world. We've got the best universities, the best entrepreneurs in the world.<p>But we've got to tackle these longstanding problems that have been getting in the way of progress, and we've got to do it now. We can't wait another 20 years or another 30 years, because other countries are catching up. That's what we've been trying to do over the last 2 years.<p>Now, some of these things, I got to admit, are hard. They cause great consternation. When we tried to get some commonsense rules in the financial sector, for example, that means billions of dollars that were going to profits to some of the banks are not going to be going there because you're getting a better deal on your credit card, and they're not happy about it. So that ends up creating a lot of drama on Capitol Hill. And it means that we've had some very contentious debates.<p>But I just want to close by saying this. Ultimately, when I get out of Washington and I start talking to families like yours, what I'm struck by is not how divided the country is, but I'm actually struck by how basically people have common values, common concerns, and common hopes. They want to be able to find a job that pays a decent wage; give their family, and their children in particular, a bright future; be able to retire with some dignity and respect; not get bankrupt when they get sick.<p>And that cuts across region, it cuts across racial lines, it cuts across religious or ethnic lines. People--there's a core set of American values that I think people across the country respond to.<p>And what I want to do is make sure that the Government is on the side of those values, of responsibility and hard work and thinking about future generations and not just thinking about the next election. And I think we've made progress, but we've got more progress to make.<p>So with that, I thank you all for being here. And what I want to do is, I just want to answer questions. And I know folks in the sun are hot, so I'm going to stand in the sun to make sure that you know that I feel--[<i>laughter</i>]--I feel your pain, as they--absolutely. I wouldn't mind having that hat, though. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's helpful. I should have thought ahead.<p>All right, anybody want to--John, go ahead. Yes. Here, hold on a second. I'll give you a mike, so--oh, we've got one.<p><i>Medical Research</i><p><i>Q.</i> Mr. President, thank you very much for coming. We really appreciate it. It's a great opportunity. I'm an engineer. And you talked a lot about R&D and infrastructure and every--I love every dollar spent on that, by definition. I'm also a paraplegic. And we--I have a great interest in stem cell research and how it gets furthered. And so how do we get this issue to be a scientific issue instead of a political issue?<p><i>The President.</i> Well, John, as you know, I have been a huge supporter of stem cell research for a very long time. When I came into office, we said that what's going to govern our decisionmaking here is sound science.<p>There are legitimate ethical issues involved in all this--the biotech industry--and those are going to continue as time goes on. I mean, there are some very tricky questions. And we've got to make sure that our values and our ethical standards are incorporated in everything we do. But we've also got to make sure that we're making decisions not based on ideology, but based on what the science is.<p>Now, the Executive order that I signed would say that we are not going to create embryos to destroy for scientific research. We're not going to do that.<p>On the other hand, when you've got a whole bunch of embryos that were created because families were trying to--couples were trying to start a family, and through in vitro fertilization, they're frozen in some canister somewhere and are going to be discarded anyway, then it makes sense for us to take those who--that are going to be destroyed and use them to advance our scientific knowledge to see if at some point we can start making huge progress on a whole set of issues.<p>Obviously, spinal cord injuries are an example, but Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, diabetes, juvenile diabetes. There's not a single family here who has not in some way been touched by a disease that could end up benefiting from the research that's done on stem cells.<p>Now, recently, a District Court judge said that not only--well, essentially said that our Executive order, he felt, went too far beyond what the guidelines that Congress had provided before I came into office. Although, the way he had written the order, it made it seem like even Bush's orders were out of line and that you have to stop stem cell research altogether.<p>We are appealing that. We're challenging it. And what we're going to keep on doing on a whole range of these decisions is to make sure that I'm talking to scientists and ethicists and others and try to build a commonsense consensus that allows us to make progress over the long term. Okay? Go ahead. <p><i>Small-Business Loans/Job Growth Legislation</i><p><i>Q.</i> Mr. President, it's a privilege for me to be here. You talk about the small-business loans. My company is a high-tech company. And we are growing, and we are providing high-tech jobs for Americans. How can we ensure that banking and lending institutions are going to actually lend money to small businesses? There have been numbers of steps done in that way, but so far I've been denied a loan twice and only got the--for the third time after I asked for SBA-backed loan.<p><i>The President.</i> Right. Tell me more about your business, by the way. I've actually read about it. But tell--people here, I think, would be interested, because you're working in--on clean energy issues and----<p><i>Q.</i> This is correct, yes. I have two lines of business. Clean energy part, where we are actually trying to get companies to become green and change their practices so that they follow a sustainability practice as the regular ways, and the second part of my business is high tech. We are doing IT consulting and IT services for Federal Government and Fortune 500 companies.<p><i>The President.</i> How many employees do you have right now?<p><i>Q.</i> About 94.<p><i>The President.</i> Ninety-four?<p><i>Q.</i> Yes.<p><i>The President.</i> Well, look, part of the answer is what you already spoke about, which is SBA, the Small Business Administration. We have doubled the number of small-business loans that we've been giving through the SBA. We've waived a lot of fees on those loans, because we knew that small businesses were getting harder hit than just about anybody during the financial crisis. They were the ones where the banks were pulling back the most. So we tried to fill that void as the banks were getting well, making sure the small businesses could keep their doors open.<p>But even by doubling the number of SBA loans, there's still not enough capital to meet all the demand for small businesses across the country.<p>That's why this bill that we're looking to pass this week out of the Senate, and that Gerry and Jim already voted for, is so important, because what it would do is it would take funding authorization to provide to community banks, who are most likely to give loans to small businesses, but it would say to those banks, you know what, we're going to hold you accountable for actually lending the money. So--because what we don't want to do is just help the banks boost their balance sheets, but they're never getting the money out of the door.<p>Over the long term, we think that there are going to be enormous opportunities for banks to make money with businesses like yours, because yours are the ones that grow. But they're still feeling gun shy because of what happened on Wall Street.<p>And in fairness to a lot of the community banks, they weren't the ones who were making big bets on derivatives, but they were punished nonetheless. They've been hit really hard in the housing market. They've been hit on their portfolios. They've been trying to strengthen their portfolios. But when we provide these loan guarantees through the SBA, or we provide cheaper money to them that they can then lend out, and as long as we're monitoring them to make sure that they actually lend those monies to small businesses, they're the ones that are most likely to get that money out the door.<p>This bill is very important. It has been held up now for a couple of months unnecessarily. There was an article in the USA Today just about 3 weeks ago that said small businesses were actually holding off on hiring because they weren't sure whether some of these tax cuts that they were going to get, as well as some of these lending facilities, would actually be set up.<p>And you hear some of my friends on the Republican side complaining that, well, we'd get more business investment if we had more certainty. Well, here's an example where we could give some certainty right away. Pass this bill. I will sign it into law the day after it's passed or the day it is passed. And then right away I think a lot of small businesses around the country will feel more comfortable about hiring and making investments. <p><i>Q.</i> Well, this is what's happening right now is that, you know, I have contracts, and I am ready to hire 20 more people.<p><i>The President.</i> Right.<p><i>Q.</i> But nobody is going to give me additional loan right now. I mean, I had an off-the-record conversation with the vice president of one bank, and they said, it's simply we've made a decision not to loan to small businesses; it's simply more profitable to us to invest this money elsewhere.<p><i>The President.</i> Well, that's why it's so important to make sure that if they are getting help from us in terms of having more money to lend, that they actually lend it out and they lend it to small businesses. And we've got to make a direct link between the help that they're getting and them actually lending the money. That's going to be critical.<p>All right, who's next? Yes, over here.<p><i>Preserving U.S. Historic Sites and Natural Resources/Energy-Efficient Buildings</i><p><i>Q.</i> I'm John's sister Wendy.<p><i>The President.</i> Hey, Wendy. How are you?<p><i>Q.</i> I'm so honored and delighted to be here. Thank you.<p><i>The President.</i> You must be John's younger sister.<p><i>Q.</i> Yes, definitely, definitely. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> That's what I figured.<p><i>Q.</i> No, he's my kid brother. And I actually am the stringer in from Boston with that hockey team you're meeting with this afternoon.<p><i>The President.</i> There you go. Yes, I'm looking forward to congratulating them.<p><i>Q.</i> I would tell you just a little story, which is, when I was in high school here at Woodson High School, I got involved in historic preservation. And I worked on an archeology dig. I researched the history of an old house. I helped move the one-room Legato schoolhouse from out in the country into town hall to restore it as a piece of our county's history. And that launched my lifelong career in historic preservation. And so I guess--and I know you are interested in history and have studied particularly, I think I've read, President Lincoln and the way he created a Cabinet and so on. So I know you value our Nation's history. And I guess my question for you is, what are your thoughts about what we're doing in your administration to invest in preserving our Nation's history and our historic places?<p>And one little job-generating idea I'd give you is that all the studies show that renovating existing buildings, restoring historic buildings is more labor intensive than materials intensive. It creates more jobs. They're local jobs for local people. So I hope that might be part of your jobs strategy.<p><i>The President.</i> Well, I am a huge booster of historic preservation. If I wasn't, Michelle would get on me, because she used to actually used to--in Chicago, used to be on the historic--on the landmark commission there. And we live in a landmark district in Chicago. So this is something that we care deeply about.<p>I guess I'd broaden the point to say that not only should we be thinking about historic preservation, but we should also be thinking about our national parks, our national forests. There's this treasure that we inherited from the previous generation, dating back to Teddy Roosevelt. And that requires us to continually renew that commitment to our historic structures and our natural resource base, so that when Trevor and Olivia and those guys have their kids, when you guys have your grandkids, that that stuff is there for them too.<p>So we have actually tried to ramp up our commitment to these issues. We've, where we can, put a little bit more money into it. But a lot of it's not just more money, it's also more planning. And the Recovery Act gave a range of grants to State and local governments in some cases around preservation issues.<p>Now, one point--one other point I want to make, though--and you were mentioning how renovation oftentimes will actually generate more jobs than new construction. A related idea is what we can do to make our existing buildings and housing stock more energy efficient, because it turns out that we could probably cut about a third of our total energy use just on efficiency. We wouldn't need new technologies. We wouldn't need to invent some fancy new fusion energy or anything. If we just took our existing building stock in homes and insulated them, had new windows--schools, hospitals, a lot of big institutions--we could squeeze huge efficiencies out of that.<p>There's a lot of ways to be had, and that would benefit everybody. It would mean that over time, we were helping to save the planet by reducing our carbon footprint. People would be paying less on their electricity bills and their heating bills and their air-conditioning bills. So it helps consumers.<p>The problem--the reason we haven't done more of this is because it requires some capital on the front end. I mean, a lot of school districts, for example, would love to retrofit their schools, but they're having problems just keeping teachers on payroll right now, so they always put off those investments.<p>And one of the things that we tried to do through the Recovery Act, and something that I know that Gerry and Jim have been interested in, is something called Home Star that we've been working on, is to essentially provide families as well as small businesses as well as institutions like schools or hospitals grants up front, where we say, all right, we're going to give you $10,000 to retrofit your building or your house. And then you're going to pay us back through your savings on utilities over a 5-year period, for example, so that over time, it doesn't cost taxpayers a lot of money, but we're essentially giving some money up front that's going to then be recouped.<p>And I think there are a lot of ideas that we can pursue on that front that could really make a difference and put a lot of people back to work, whether they're the folks selling the insulation at Home Depot or the small contractor that for a long time was remodeling kitchens or putting in home additions--maybe that business has dried up. This would be a new area for them to get put to work.<p>And about one out of four construction--one out of four jobs that have been lost during this recession are related to the construction industry in some fashion. Those folks have been hit harder than just about anybody else. This would be an important boost for them.<p><i>Q.</i> If I could add to that just one thing, which is, it's really not necessary to replace the windows to get that energy efficiency. Didn't somebody write about the caulking gun?<p><i>The President.</i> They--caulking is----<p><i>Q.</i> It's a lot less expensive. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Absolutely. Cash for caulkers. [<i>Laughter</i>] Good point.<p>All right, gentleman right there.<p><i>Labor Unions/U.S. Business Competiveness</i><p><i>Q.</i> Mr. President, my name is Mark Murphy. I'm a neighbor of John and Nicole. Welcome to our neighborhood.<p><i>The President.</i> Thank you. It's a beautiful neighborhood.<p><i>Q.</i> And before I say anything more, I'd be remiss, and my children would be not letting me back home, if I didn't say hi to you.<p><i>The President.</i> What are their names?<p><i>Q.</i> Andrew, Tim, and Ellie, and my beautiful wife Shannon.<p><i>The President.</i> Tell everybody I said hi.<p><i>Q.</i> Thank you. Now, the question I have for you is, I'm a union-side labor attorney in DC. And I know you have some background in that. And your comments here today and both--your Labor Day comments struck me and my colleagues about the shrinking middle class and those jobs that were lost and how you're going to and your administration is going to replace those jobs.<p>I work every day with working class, blue-collar workers; I deal with a lot of different issues. One of the issues that is dear to my heart and, I know, a lot of my colleagues and union members is the Employee Free Choice Act. And for people who don't know about that, it's just basically an act, a law that would make it easier to unionize. And it's proven that unions--unionized employees get better wages and better benefits. And unfortunately, that act hasn't been passed yet, and I just wanted to hear your thoughts on that. Thank you.<p><i>The President.</i> Well, the--a little bit of background, for those who aren't as familiar with it. The Employee Free Choice Act is in response to 20, 30 years where it's become more and more difficult for unions to just get a fair election and have their employers actually negotiate with them.<p>I mean, the laws that have been on the books have gotten more and more difficult to apply. A lot of times, companies who may be good employers, but just don't want the bother of having a union will work very hard to make sure a union doesn't develop. And they will drag out the process for a very long time, and in some cases, workers who are joining unions or want to join a union or are helping to organize one may get intimidated.<p>And so the idea behind the Employee Free Choice Act is, let's just make the playing field even. We don't have to force anybody to be in a union, but if they want to join a union, let's make it a little easier for them to go ahead and sign up.<p>Now, the answer--the short answer to your question is, we are very supportive of this. Frankly, we don't have 60 votes in the Senate. So the opportunity to actually get this passed right now is not real high. What we've done instead is try to do as much as we can administratively to make sure that it's easier for unions to operate and that they're not being placed at an unfair disadvantage.<p>Let me speak more broadly, though, about the point that you just made. So many things we take for granted came about because of the union movement. Minimum wage, 40-hour work week, child labor laws, you name it--weekends--a lot of these things came about because people were fighting for them. They didn't come about automatically and naturally.<p>The other thing that unions did, particularly in the manufacturing sector, was it gave a base for blue-collar workers to get a middle class wage, which meant that essentially the guys working at the Ford plant could afford to buy a Ford. And so it increased demand overall, and ironically, it meant that businesses had more customers and could make more money.<p>Now, we now live in an era of international competition. And that makes it harder for businesses. I mean, I think we should acknowledge that the business environment now is much more competitive than it was back in the 1960s or seventies. Technology has made it more difficult for businesses to compete. Transportation has made it more difficult to compete. The costs for shipping big, manufactured goods from China to the United States or high volumes of goods from Japan or Korea or Malaysia or Indonesia to the United States is a lot cheaper now than it was. So what that means is, we've got to be sympathetic to business concerns that they don't get priced out of the market if they're competing internationally.<p>And I think the best way to balance that is to make sure that business interests here in the United States and labor interests--workers' interests--here in the United States are aligned, make sure that businesses are looking after their workers and giving them a good deal. But workers and unions also have to think about businesses and not put them in a position where they're potentially priced out of the marketplace.<p>Now, I think that that balance is tilted way too far against unions these days. And I think that actually if we had some of these businesses with employees who were there for a longer term, were more loyal, they weren't worried about their jobs being shipped overseas, that that would actually be good for the economy as a whole and would be good for businesses here as a whole.<p>But we have to acknowledge that competition means that businesses and workers here in the United States have to be better trained, better skilled, more competitive, leaner, meaner. And we've got to invent more stuff so that we constantly are working on high-end jobs as opposed to the low-end jobs, because the truth is, the low-end jobs, we're never going to be able to compete on the basis of price. I mean, there's always going to be a country--actually, wages are starting to go up a little bit in China. Our problem is not China. The next is going to be Vietnam, or it's going to be Bangladesh or--there's always going to be someplace in the world where they pay lower wages.<p>Our advantage is going to be if we have higher skills, we have a workforce that works together more effectively, that our businesses are better organized--if we have that, then I think that we can compete against anybody. <p>And one of--a good example is actually Germany, which has a much higher rate of unionization than we do. But they've actually been able to continue to export at very high levels and compete all around the world, mainly because they've got such a highly skilled workforce; they're putting together high-end products that can compete with anybody.<p>Yes, right here. A mike is coming.<p><i>Education Jobs and State Funding Legislation</i><p><i>Q.</i> Hi, Mr. President. It's an honor. I'm so nervous.<p><i>The President.</i> Don't be nervous.<p><i>Q.</i> Oh, I am so nervous. I love everything you're doing. I love your vision. I'm so glad you got into office. I love medical--health care reform. Where I come from, where--when we had to go to the doctor, we went to the doctor. If we needed surgery, we got surgery. And then I came here and found out, oh, my gosh, you need insurance--you need this, you need that--which I could never afford on the salary I make now. I'm very lucky. My husband, unfortunately, he is in the construction business, but hopefully, that's going to come back.<p>So my question is also--I work for Fairfax County Public Schools, and I haven't had a raise in 2 years, and I may not even have a job next year, because I hear it's going to get worse before it's going to get better. Do you agree with that? Like, I mean, I know it's--we're starting to improve and jobs are starting to come back, but how long do you think this is going to take? It sounds wonderful.<p><i>The President.</i> Well, first of all, you have a better chance of keeping your job in the public school systems now because Gerry and Jim voted to close a pretty egregious tax loophole that was incentivizing jobs going overseas and that even some corporations that stood to benefit thought was ridiculous. They closed that loophole in order to fund teacher jobs and police officer jobs and firefighter jobs all across the country. So that's been very helpful in providing assistance to school districts that are strapped.<p>The economy is improving. But one of the headwinds that the economy is experiencing is actually that State and local governments have been getting really hard hit. Now, we gave States a lot of help at the beginning of this crisis because their budgets were just imploding. And typically, State and local governments, they get hit faster by declines in tax revenues and property tax. Obviously, they're relying on property taxes, and with the housing market collapsing, that was really hitting them hard. And so they were looking at possibly laying--slashing 30 percent of jobs in school districts or in social services.<p>And one of the most effective ways of preventing this from tipping over into a Great Depression was giving them help. The problem is, some of that help is running out. And property tax revenues haven't improved yet; sales tax revenues haven't improved yet as much as they'd like. So local districts, States are still having big budget problems, and they'll probably have those big budget problems next year.<p>Now the challenge we have is, ironically, that if you start laying off a whole bunch of teachers or a whole bunch of police officers or firefighters, now they don't have a job, which means they spend less, which means that there's less tax revenue. And you start getting into a vicious, downward spiral.<p>So that's why the steps that we took were so important. And I've got to say, this is an example of where you've just got a fundamental disagreement between Republican leadership right now and Democrats. John Boehner, who stands--wants to be the Speaker of the--the next Speaker of the House if the Republicans take over, he specifically said, well, these are just government jobs, and they're not worth saving. And he fought--he voted no on closing this tax loophole that was incentivizing jobs from going overseas.<p>Now, it's just not smart from an economic perspective for us to allow a whole bunch of those jobs that are right here in the United States to go away while we're giving tax revenue away to companies that are creating jobs somewhere else. It just doesn't make sense.<p>And so we're going to continue to have some of these battles over the next several years. And I think that, frankly, how State and local governments are able to deal with these budget challenges next year is in part going to depend on whether the people who are making the decisions are Jim and Gerry or whether they're John Boehner, because they've just got a different set of priorities. And I don't know about you, but I like these guys making these decisions more than the other folks. But that's just my unbiased opinion.<p>All right. Yes, go ahead.<p><i>Bipartisan Cooperation</i><p><i>Q.</i> Mr. President, thank you so much for visiting us here in Mantua. It's quite an honor.<p><i>The President.</i> Thank you.<p><i>Q.</i> I think my question is kind of a good segue on that. We do face--the political environment has changed a lot since you were elected. And I think with the upcoming midterm elections, you can certainly expect a lot of new faces in Congress, and certainly a lot of the new Representatives and Senators are going to have been elected on platforms that are really opposed to Government intervention in the economy. What's your plan for working with the new Congress to make sure we get the actions that are--you see are necessary to end the recession? And what do you see as really common ground with Republicans in Congress for some of the solutions that can bring the recession to an end?<p><i>The President.</i> Well, let me just say that I don't believe in wholesale Government intervention in the economy. My starting point is, is that what makes us the wealthiest, most dynamic country on Earth is a free-market system where small-business owners are creating jobs, and what start off as small businesses like AOL end up being big businesses, and some kid at Harvard starts something called Facebook, and the next thing you know, it's revolutionized part of our economy. That's our strength.<p>So that's a starting point where Republicans and Democrats should be able to come together. We all believe in that.<p>But there are some fundamental differences. At the beginning of the crisis, for Government not to intervene when the financial system was on the verge of meltdown and we were shedding hundreds of thousands of jobs a month and the credit markets had just frozen completely--for us not to intervene in that situation would have been simply irresponsible. And I don't know a economist, Democrat or Republican, who would suggest otherwise. It would have been simply irresponsible.<p>So that's--so some of these steps that we had to take had to do with emergency situations. A great example is the auto industry. When we decided to intervene--keep this in mind: We had been bailing out the auto industry for years under the previous administration. The difference was, we hadn't ever asked them anything in return. So they kept on with their bad practices, creating cars that, frankly, in this kind of energy environment, weren't the cars of the future. And they never changed their practices.<p>So what we said was, you know what, we're going to help you, but this time we're going to help you by also restructuring. And we're going to bring all the stakeholders together--the workers, management, shareholders--and we're going to say, if taxpayers are going to help you out, you've got to change how you do business. And they have. And they emerged from bankruptcy, and now you've got all three U.S. auto companies operating at a profit.<p>If we had not taken that step, we would have lost a million jobs in the auto industry. You would not have an auto--maybe Ford might have survived. GM and Chrysler definitely would not have. And the ripple effects on the economy would have been devastating.<p>So sometimes you make these decisions not because you believe in Government intervention, per se. You make these decisions because we've got a crisis, and we've got to respond.<p>Now, right now we've got a disagreement also on taxes. Jim, Gerry, the vast majority of Democrats think that because wages and incomes had flatlined for middle class families, which we define as less than $250,000 a year, that they should definitely get an extension of the tax cuts that were instituted in 2001, 2003.<p>Now, keep in mind that if you make more than $250,000 a year, you'd still get a tax cut. It's just you'd only get it up to your first $250,000. So if you make half a million dollars a year, you'd still get tax relief on the first half of your income. If you made a million, it would be the first quarter of your income. After that, you'd go back to the rates that were in place when Bill Clinton was President, which I just want to remind everybody, at that time we had 22 million jobs created, much faster income and wage growth; the economy was humming pretty good.<p>We could get that done this week. But we're still in this wrestling match with John Boehner and Mitch McConnell about the last 2 to 3 percent, where, on average, we'd be giving them $100,000 for people making a million dollars or more, which in and of itself would be okay, except to do it, we'd have to borrow $700 billion over the course of 10 years. And we just can't afford it.<p>Now, I wanted to lay out those differences before I talked about where I think we can work together. Where I think we have a great opportunity to work together is on the issue of our long-term debt.<p>Our big challenge right now is creating jobs and making sure the economy takes off. And the steps that we've been taking, including cutting taxes for small businesses, providing loans for small businesses, accelerating depreciation, those steps can encourage investment right now. They cost some money, but they're wise investments because right now our number-one focus has to be jobs, jobs, jobs, and encouraging business investment. But on the horizon, sort of in the middle term and the long term, we do have a very real problem with debt and deficits.<p>And I have to say that I understand a lot of people who are upset on the other side. And some of them were rallying in DC today--or yesterday. I do understand people's legitimate fears about are we hocking our future to--because we're borrowing so much to finance debt and deficits. I understand that. They saw the Recovery Act. They saw TARP. They saw the auto bailout. They look at this and--God, all these huge numbers adding up. So they're right to be concerned about that.<p>And I think that there's an opportunity for Democrats and Republicans to come together and to say, what are the tough decisions we've got to make right now that won't squash the recovery, won't lead to huge numbers of teacher layoffs--short term we don't want to constrict too much early, but how can we get ourselves on a trajectory where midterm and long term we're starting to bring our debt and deficits slowly under control?<p>Now, I set up a bipartisan fiscal commission that's designed to start coming up with answers. And they're supposed to report back to me right after the election. That was on purpose, by the way. We said, don't give us the answer before the election because nobody will have an honest conversation about it, everybody will posture politically. But as soon as the election is over, report to us, and let's see if Democrats and Republicans can come together to make some tough decisions. And by the way, they are going to be some tough decisions.<p>People, I think, have a sense that somehow if we just eliminated a few pork projects and foreign aid, that somehow we would solve our debt. The big problem with our debt is actually the costs of Medicare and Medicaid. Our health care system is by far the thing that is exploding faster than anything. And as the population gets older and it's using more health care services, if we don't get control of that, we can't control our long-term debt. That's why health care reform was so important, because we're trying to rationalize and make the system smarter, but that's only one piece of it. We've also got to look at everything from defense budgets to food stamps. You name it, we've got to look at it and see are there ways that we can reduce our costs over the long term.<p>But we can't give away $700 billion to folks who don't need it and think somehow that we're going to balance our budget. It's not going to happen. That's one area where I think we can make progress.<p>A second area where I hope we can still make progress is on energy. Everybody agrees our energy policy doesn't make sense. We don't have an energy policy. We've talked about it since Richard Nixon. Remember OPEC, '73, and oil lines at the gas station? And every President has said this is a national security issue, this is a crisis, we've got to do something about it. But we don't do anything about it. <p>So my suggestion is, let's both do--let's join hands, Democrats and Republicans, and go ahead and take the leap and try to solve this problem. And there's not a silver bullet, there's not one magic solution to our energy problems. We're going to have to use a bunch of different strategies.<p>I already mentioned efficiency. That has to be a huge push. With respect to transportation sector, one of the things that we did without legislation--nobody has really noticed this, but this was huge--we increased fuel efficiency standards on cars for the first time in 30 years--cars and trucks. And we got the car companies and auto workers to agree to it, not just environmentalists. That's going to help.<p>We've got to look at nuclear energy. Historically, a lot of environmentalists have said, oh, we don't like nuclear energy. There are real problems with storage, et cetera. But if we're concerned about global warming and greenhouse gases, nuclear energy is a legitimate fuel--energy source that the Japanese and the French have been using much more intelligently than we have. We've got huge reservoirs of natural gas that are relatively clean, but we've got to use those in a environmentally sound way. We've got to develop those in a environmentally sound way. So that's an area where I think that we can still, hopefully, make some progress.<p>And the last thing I'll say--and some people disagree with me on this. They think it's too incendiary, it's too politically difficult, et cetera. I think we need to reform our immigration system, and we should be able to find a way that secures our borders and provides people who are already here a pathway so that they are out of the shadows. They're paying a fine. They're learning English. They're getting assimilated, but they're not living in fear. We should be able to do that.<p>And we had 11 Republican Senators who voted for it, including John McCain was a cosponsor of the bill. We should be able to get that done again, because everybody agrees that the system we've got right now is broken.<p>And one last thing I wanted to mention is actually education. The reason I didn't mention it up front is this has been one of the few areas where I've actually gotten some compliments from Republicans. I think the strategy that we have right now, which is to maintain high standards, work with States in a smart way to develop a--curriculums, teacher-training strategies, to boost our higher education--institutions of higher education, that's an area where we should all agree. Because it's indisputable that if we are working smarter, if our kids are better trained, then we will succeed. And if they're not, it doesn't really matter what else we do. Over time, we're going to decline.<p>All right, I've got time for one more question. I'm going to call on this young lady right here.<p><i>National Economy</i><p><i>Q.</i> I'm really nervous. Thank you, Mr. President, for being here. There's a lot of people sending you a lot of good energy, one being my 82-year-old aunt. She wanted me to make sure I told her--told you that.<p><i>The President.</i> Tell her I said hi.<p><i>Q.</i> Okay. I'm a massage therapist, and I'm----<p><i>The President.</i> I've got a crick in my neck right here. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Q.</i> Yes, I bet you do.<p><i>The President.</i> A lot of tension has been building up. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Q.</i> Do you get regular massage? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Go ahead, go ahead.<p><i>Q.</i> One prevailing theme that comes here in my practice is fear. And on an energetic level, what I would like to see you institute or get started, bipartisan, is to alleviate people's fears of spending $5. I know this is like--it sounds so basic. But if we go out there and spend a little bit, it's going to come back around. It works. I mean, you've got a program here where you've got--you're giving a tax break to those companies that hire the returning vets.<p><i>The President.</i> Right.<p><i>Q.</i> You have a $2,400 tax break.<p><i>The President.</i> Right.<p><i>Q.</i> Well, who are those companies? I would patronize a company that's making the effort of going out and hiring these people. I mean, you've got to spend it to get it back. <p><i>The President.</i> Well, the--look----<p><i>Q.</i> And there's just this prevailing fear all the time, and it doesn't have--it comes down to $5, $10, whatever, you got to put it out there, and it will start the momentum going.<p><i>The President.</i> Right.<p><i>Q.</i> It would also be some good news.<p><i>The President.</i> Well, look, I think you are absolutely right that some of this is psychology. Look, the country went through a huge trauma. The body politic is like an individual in the sense that if they go through a really bad accident and you're in a cast and got a little whiplashed and bruised and battered, it takes some time to recover. And that's what happened to our economy. We went through a really bad accident.<p>It was a preventable one, by the way. If we had had some more rules of the road in place, if we'd had better economic policies, we could have prevented it. But it is what it is. We went through this.<p>You're absolutely right, though, that now part of what's holding us back is us needing to go ahead and feel confident about the future. Now, that's not the only thing holding us back. Let's be realistic. Part of the reason people aren't spending is they had maxed out on their credit cards, and people, quite sensibly, said to themselves, you know what, this is probably a good time for us to reflect on the fact that we were buying a bunch of stuff that maybe we should get in the future but we weren't quite there yet and we should run down our debts. And people have done that. People have been paying down their debts a lot more over the last year than they had in the previous 5 or 10 years.<p>A lot of people were borrowing against their homes--home equity loans. One of the things that I always--Michelle and I always laugh about is when people talk about us, I think they forget that we were basically living the same lives as John and Nicole, just--it wasn't that long ago. It was like 6, 7 years ago. I still remember the first time I refinanced our--we had a condo, and we had gotten higher--initially, we had gotten higher rates. And then--because we bought it in 1993. And sometime around '97 or '98--I don't remember exactly when--the rates had gone down like a couple of percent. And we said, well, it makes sense for us to go to refinance.<p>And I still remember talking to the bank. And they said, you can refinance, and you can take some money out. And I said, well, what does that mean? They said, well, your house--your condo has appreciated so much that you can take--it's like found money.<p>And I remember thinking at the time, well, that doesn't sound right. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it was--but that was--everybody, I think, was so certain that homes were appreciating and they would always appreciate, and so it just made everybody feel a lot richer.<p>Now, homes suddenly start dropping in value. You don't have that kind of equity. And so people feel a little bit less wealthy; 401(k)s still haven't fully recovered; 529s, the college portfolios that people put together, they still haven't fully recovered. So there are legitimate and real reasons why people have pulled back a little bit.<p>But having said all that, I want to end on the point that you're making, which is that we have averted the worst. The economy is now growing. There are enormous opportunities out there. There are people who are inventing stuff that will be the new products of the future all across this country. There are young people who, when I meet them, they are talented and they're energetic and they feel confident about America.<p>If you travel overseas, as tough as this recession has been for us, the truth of the matter is, is that most countries still envy the United States. And there are billions of people around the world who would die to be here and have that opportunity to prosper and be part of this great middle class of ours.<p>And so my hope is--and this goes to the question of the previous gentleman--what can Republicans and Democrats do together after this election is stop spending so much time attacking the other side and spend a little more time focusing on what's good and what's right about America and what opportunities we have. And if we do that, then I'm absolutely confident that we're going to move forward for a long time to come.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"259" "\"Hello, everybody. Well, it's good to see--boy, this is a healthy-looking group here. [<i>Laughter</i>] It is wonderful to see you. Welcome to the White House.<p>I want to thank all the teams that have traveled from all over the country to be here, and congratulations on being NCAA champions. We've got over 650 athletes and almost 150 coaches and staff here today. This is the most athletic talent we've ever had on the South Lawn.<p>We've got the sharpshooters from TCU rifle squad. Where are they? There they are down there. I think they might be able to give Secret Service a run for their money. [<i>Laughter</i>] We've got the Fairleigh Dickinson bowling team here. I need some tips, guys. [<i>Laughter</i>] You might be able to tell me how to get my score up.<p>I want to recognize Ambassador Ron Kirk, who's a big Texas Longhorns fan. He's our Ambassador for trade. We've got a lot of Members of Congress who are here, local officials who are with us. And I know they are incredibly proud of the trophies that all of you brought home. I want to thank the NCAA interim president, Jim Isch, for everything he's doing to support so many outstanding student-athletes. Give Jim a big round of applause.<p>Now, that term, \\"student-athlete,\\" is the thing that makes me so proud to stand before you here today, because when each of you won the titles that you won, whether it was in lacrosse or gymnastics or wheelchair basketball, you didn't do it as professionals. You didn't have multimillion-dollar contracts or huge endorsement deals. You woke up early. You put in countless hours of practice for the love of the game and for the pride of your school. You rode those buses and you carried those bags because you knew what it was going to take to be the best and because every one of you has a competitive streak that's about a mile wide.<p>And most impressive of all, you did this while shouldering a full load of classes, sometimes grabbing a few minutes to study in airports or locker rooms, because you understand that \\"student-athlete\\" emphasizes \\"student\\" and not just \\"athlete.\\"<p>So this is a group that knows what it means to be a champion. You also understand that being a champion means giving back to the folks who gave so much to you: the fans and the students who braved the heat and the rain and the snow to see you play, the communities that adopted you as one of their own.<p>And that's why I'm so proud to hear about all the ways that you've found to improve the lives of those around you. I know that one team here cooks dinner for the families of children suffering from serious illnesses. Another holds a track meet every year for more than 300 students with physical and mental disabilities. Together, you guys have organized blood drives, built houses, cleaned up beaches, and reached out to senior citizens. One young man even donated bone marrow to a little girl he had never met. And as he said, \\"Saving someone's life is a lot more important than a football game.\\"<p>It's the kind of selfless attitude that's going to stay with you for the rest of your lives. And that's incredibly important, because for the vast majority of you, the day will come, and it will probably be sooner than you like, when you won't be known primarily as a hockey player or a tennis player or a baseball player anymore. Instead, you're going to be known as a doctor or a lawyer or a teacher or a nurse, a businessperson, a mom or a dad. And I'm confident that you're going to excel at that just as you've excelled at everything that you do. <p>No matter what you do, no matter where you end up, you will always know in your heart what it means to be the best there is at what you do. You'll always know what it's like to set a goal and then reach it, what it feels like to hit your limit and then go beyond it, to get to the top and turn around and give others a hand.<p>In other words, you're always going to know what it means to compete and what it means to be a champion. That's something that nobody will ever be able to take away from you. And that is something that you should be extraordinarily proud of.<p>So I'm thrilled to have a chance to meet all of you. You guys don't just make your communities proud, but you make America proud. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"260" "\"Thank you. Well, hello, Philadelphia, and hello, Masterman. It is wonderful to see all of you. What a terrific introduction by Kelly. Give Kelly a big round of applause. I was saying backstage that when I was in high school, I could not have done that. [<i>Laughter</i>] I would have muffed it up somehow. [<i>Laughter</i>] So we are so proud of you and everything that you've done. And to all the students here, I'm thrilled to be here.<p>Now, we've got a couple introductions I want to make. First of all, you've got the outstanding Governor of Pennsylvania, Ed Rendell, in the house. The mayor of Philadelphia, Michael Nutter, is here. Congressman Chaka Fattah is here. Congresswoman Allyson Schwartz is here. Your own principal, Marge Neff, is here. The school superintendent, Arlene Ackerman, is here and doing a great job. And the Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan, is here.<p>And I am here. And I am thrilled to be here. I am just so excited. I've heard such great things about what all of you are doing, both the students and the teachers and the staff here.<p>Today is about welcoming all of you and all of America's students back to school, even though I know you've been in school for a little bit now. And I can't think of a better place to do it than at Masterman, because you are one of the best schools in Philadelphia. You are a leader in helping students succeed in the classroom. Just last week, you were recognized by a National Blue Ribbon--as a National Blue Ribbon School because of your record of achievement. And that is a testament to everybody here, to the students, to the parents, to the teachers, to the school leaders. It's an example of excellence that I hope communities across America can embrace.<p>Over the past few weeks, Michelle and I have been getting Sasha and Malia ready for school. And they're excited about it. I'll bet they had the same feelings that you do. You're a little sad to see the summer go, but you're also excited about the possibilities of a new year: the possibilities of building new friendships and strengthening old ones, of joining a school club or trying out for a team; the possibilities of growing into a better student and a better person and making not just your family proud, but making yourself proud.<p>But I know some of you may also be a little nervous about starting a new school year. Maybe you're making the jump from elementary to middle school or from middle school to high school and you're worried about what that's going to be like. Maybe you're starting a new school. You're not sure how you'll like it, trying to figure out how you're going to fit in. Or maybe you're a senior and you're anxious about the whole college process, about where to apply and whether you can afford to go to college.<p>And beyond all those concerns, I know a lot of you are also feeling the strain of some difficult times. You know what's going on in the news, and you also know what's going on in some of your own families. You've read about the war in Afghanistan. You hear about the recession that we've been through. And sometimes maybe you're seeing the worries in your parents' faces or sense it in their voice.<p>So a lot of you as a consequence, because we're going through a tough time as a country, are having to act a lot older than you are. You got to be strong for your family while your brother or sister is serving overseas, or you've got to look after younger siblings while your mom is working that second shift, or maybe some of you who are a little bit older, you're taking on a part-time job while your dad's out of work.<p>And that's a lot to handle. It's more than you should have to handle. And it may make you wonder at times what your own future will look like, whether you're going to be able to succeed in school, whether you should maybe set your sights a little lower, scale back your dreams.<p>But I came to Masterman to tell all of you what I think you're hearing from your principal and your superintendent and from your parents and from your teachers: Nobody gets to write your destiny but you. Your future is in your hands. Your life is what you make of it. And nothing, absolutely nothing is beyond your reach. So long as you're willing to dream big, so long as you're willing to work hard, so long as you're willing to stay focused on your education, there is not a single thing that any of you cannot accomplish, not a single thing. I believe that.<p>And that last part is absolutely essential, that part about really working hard in school, because an education has never been more important than it is today. I'm sure there are going to be times in the months ahead when you're staying up late doing your homework or cramming for a test or you're dragging yourself out of bed on a rainy morning and you're thinking, oh, boy, I wish maybe it was a snow day. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But let me tell you, what you're doing is worth it. There is nothing more important than what you're doing right now. Nothing is going to have as great an impact on your success in life as your education, how you're doing in school.<p>More and more, the kinds of opportunities that are open to you are going to be determined by how far you go in school. The farther you go in school, the farther you're going to go in life. And at a time when other countries are competing with us like never before, when students around the world--in Beijing, China, or Bangalore, India--are working harder than ever and doing better than ever, your success in school is not just going to determine your success, it's going to determine America's success in the 21st century. <p>So you've got an obligation to yourselves and America has an obligation to you to make sure you're getting the best education possible. And making sure you get that kind of education is going to take all of us working hard and all of us working hand in hand.<p>It takes all of us in government, from the Governor to the mayor to the superintendent to the President, all of us doing our part to prepare our students, all of them, for success in the classroom and in college and in a career. It's going to take an outstanding principal, like Principal Neff, and outstanding teachers like the ones you have here at Masterman, teachers who are going above and beyond the call of duty for their students. And it's going to take parents who are committed to your education.<p>Now, that's what we have to do for you. That's our responsibility. That's our job. But you've got a job too. You've got to show up to school on time. You've got to pay attention in your class. You've got to do your homework. You've got to study for exams. You've got to stay out of trouble. You've got to instill a sense of excellence in everything that you do. That kind of discipline, that kind of drive, that kind of hard work is absolutely essential for success.<p>And I can speak from experience here, because unlike Kelly, I can't say I always had this discipline. See, I can tell she was always disciplined. I wasn't always disciplined. I wasn't always the best student when I was younger. I made my share of mistakes. I still remember a conversation I had with my mother in high school. I was kind of a goof-off. And I was about the age of some of the folks here. And my grades were slipping. I hadn't started my college applications. I was acting, as my mother put it, sort of casual about my future. I was doing good enough. I was smart enough that I could kind of get by. But I wasn't really applying myself.<p>And so I suspect this is a conversation that will sound familiar to some students and some parents here today. She decided to sit me down and said I had to change my attitude. My attitude was what I imagine every teenager's attitude is when your parents have this conversation with you like that. I was like, you know, I don't need to hear all this. I'm doing okay; I'm not flunking out.<p>So I started to say that, and she just cut me right off. She said, you can't just sit around waiting for luck to see you through. She said, you can get into any school you want in the country if you just put in a little bit of effort. And she gave me a hard look, and she said, you remember what that's like? Effort? [<i>Laughter</i>] Some of you have had that conversation. [<i>Laughter</i>] And it was pretty jolting hearing my mother say that.<p>But eventually, her words had the intended effect, because I got serious about my studies. And I started to make an effort in everything that I did. And I began to see my grades and my prospects improve.<p>And I know that if hard work could make the difference for me, then it can make a difference for all of you. And I know that there may be some people who are skeptical about that. Sometimes you may wonder if some people just aren't better at certain things. You know, well, I'm not good at math, or I'm just not really interested in my science classes.<p>And it is true that we each have our own gifts, we each have our own talents that we have to discover and nurture. Not everybody is going to catch on in certain subjects as easily as others. But just because you're not the best at something today doesn't mean you can't be tomorrow. Even if you don't think of yourself as a math person or a science person, you can still excel in those subjects if you're willing to make the effort. And you may find out you have talents you never dreamed of.<p>Because one of the things I've discovered is excelling, whether it's in school or in life, isn't mainly about being smarter than everybody else. That's not really the secret to success. It's about working harder than everybody else. So don't avoid new challenges, seek them out. Step out of your comfort zone. Don't be afraid to ask for help. Your teachers and your family are there to guide you. They want to know if you're not catching on to something, because they know that if you keep on working at it, you're going to catch on.<p>Don't feel discouraged. Don't give up if you don't succeed at something the first time. Try again, and learn from your mistakes. Don't feel threatened if your friends are doing well. Be proud of them, and see what lessons you can draw from what they're doing right.<p>Now, I'm sort of preaching to the choir here, because I know that's the kind of culture of excellence that you promote at Masterman. But I'm not just speaking to all of you. I'm speaking to kids all across the country. And I want them to all here that same message: That's the kind of excellence we've got to promote in all of America's schools.<p>That's one of the reasons why I'm announcing our second Commencement Challenge. Some of you may have heard of this. If your school is the winner, if you show us how teachers and students and parents are all working together to prepare your kids and your school for college and a career, if you show us how you're giving back to your community and your country, then I will congratulate you in person by speaking at your commencement.<p>Last year, I was in Michigan at Kalamazoo and had just a wonderful time. Although I got to admit, their graduating class was about 700 kids, and my hands were really sore at the end of it--[<i>laughter</i>]--because I was shaking all of them.<p>But the truth is, an education is about more than getting into a good college. It's about more than getting a good job when you graduate. It's about giving each and every one of us the chance to fulfill our promise and to be the best version of ourselves we can be. And part of that means treating others the way we want to be treated, with kindness and respect. So that's something else that I want to communicate to students not just here at Masterman, but all across the country.<p>Sometimes, kids can be mean to other kids. Let's face it, we don't always treat each other with respect and kindness. That's true for adults as well, by the way.<p>And sometimes that's especially true in middle school or high school, because being a teenager isn't easy. It's a time when you're wrestling with a lot of things. When I was in my teens, I was wrestling with all sorts of questions about who I was. I had a White mother and a Black father, and my father wasn't around; he had left when I was 2. And so there were all kinds of issues that I was dealing with. Some of you may be working through your own questions right now and coming to terms with what makes you different.<p>And I know that figuring out all of that can be even more difficult when you've got bullies in a class who try to use those differences to pick on you or poke fun at you or to make you feel bad about yourself.<p>And in some places, the problem is even more serious. There are neighborhoods in my hometown of Chicago and there are neighborhoods right here in Philadelphia where kids are doing each other serious harm.<p>So what I want to say to every kid, every young person, what I want all of you--if you take away one thing from my speech, I want you to take away the notion that life is precious, and part of what makes it so wonderful is its diversity, that all of us are different. And we shouldn't be embarrassed by the things that make us different. We should be proud of them, because it's the thing that makes us different that makes us who we are, that makes us unique. And the strength and the character of this country has always come from our ability to recognize--no matter who we are, no matter where we come from, no matter what we look like, no matter what abilities we have--to recognize ourselves in each other.<p>I was reminded of that the other day when I read a letter from Tamerria Robinson. She's a 12-year-old girl in Georgia. And she told me about how hard she works and about all the community service she does with her brother. And she wrote, \\"I try to achieve my dreams and help others do the same.\\" \\"That,\\" she said, \\"is how the world should work.\\" That's a pretty good motto: I work hard to achieve my goals, and then I try to help others to achieve their goals.<p>And I agree with Tamerria. That's how the world should work. But it's only going to work that way if all of you get into good habits while you're in school. So yes, each of us need to work hard. We all have to take responsibilities for our own education. We need to take responsibility for our own lives. But what makes us who we are is that here, in this country, in the United States of America, we don't just reach for our own dreams, we try to help others do the same. This is a country that gives all its daughters and all of its sons a fair chance, a chance to make the most of their lives and fulfill their God-given potential.<p>And I'm absolutely confident that if all of our students here at Masterman and across this country keep doing their part, if you guys work hard and you're focused on your education and you keep fighting for your dreams and then you help each other reach each other's dreams, then you're not only going to succeed this year, you're going to succeed for the rest of your lives. And that means America will succeed in the 21st century.<p>So my main message to all of you here today: I couldn't be prouder of you. Keep it up. All of you, I know, are going to do great things in the future. And maybe some time in the 21st century, it's going to be one of you that's standing up here speaking to a group of kids as President of the United States.<p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"261" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. I just met with my Cabinet and members of my economic team, and I wanted to speak about a few developments concerning our ongoing efforts to strengthen the economy and the middle class.<p>After months of partisan blockade in the Senate, we are finally on the verge of passing a small-business jobs bill that will cut taxes and provide loans for millions of small-business owners across America.<p>And while I am grateful for this progress, it should not have taken this long to pass this bill. At a time when small-business owners are still struggling to make payroll and they're still holding off hiring, we put together a plan that would give them some tax relief and make it easier for them to take out loans. It's a bill that's paid for; it won't add a dime to the deficit. It's a bill that was written by both Democrats and Republicans.<p>But for months, the Republican leadership in the Senate has said no. For months, they've used legislative maneuvers to prevent this bill from even coming up for a vote. And all the while, small-business owners kept waiting for help. They kept putting off plans to hire more workers and grow their businesses.<p>Now, thankfully, two Republican Senators--Senators George Voinovich and George LeMieux--have refused to support this blockade any longer. And because of their decision, this small-business jobs bill will finally pass. And I want to thank them for their efforts, because they understand that we simply don't have time anymore to play games--not just on this small-business jobs bill. Let me give you another example. <p>Right now we could decide to extend tax relief for the middle class. Right now we could decide that every American household would receive a tax cut on the first $250,000 of their income. But once again, the leaders across the aisle are saying no. They want to hold these middle class tax cuts hostage until they get an additional tax cut for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans.<p>We simply can't afford that. It would mean borrowing $700 billion in order to fund these tax cuts for the very wealthiest Americans, $700 billion to give a tax cut worth an average of 100,000 to millionaires and billionaires. And it's a tax cut economists say would do little to add momentum to our economy.<p>Now, I just don't believe this makes any sense. Even as we debate whether it's wise to spend 700 billion on tax breaks for the wealthy, doesn't it make sense for us to move forward with the tax cuts that we all agree on? We should be able to extend, right now, middle class tax relief on the first $250,000 of income, which, by the way, 97 percent of Americans make less than $250,000 a year. So right off the bat, 97 percent of all Americans would get tax relief on all their income. People who are making more than $250,000 a year--say you're making a half a million dollars, you'd still get tax relief on half your income.<p>And everybody agrees that this makes sense. Middle class families need this relief. These are the Americans who saw their wages and incomes flatline over the last decade, who've seen the costs of everything from health care to college tuition skyrocket, and who have been hardest hit by this recession.<p>Extending these tax cuts is right. It is just. It will help our economy because middle class folks are the folks who are most likely to actually spend this tax relief, for a new computer for the kids or for maybe some home improvement.<p>And if the other party continues to hold these tax cuts hostage, these are the same families who will suffer the most when their taxes go up next year. And if we can't get an agreement with Republicans, that's what will happen.<p>So we don't have time for any more games. I understand there's an election coming up, but the American people didn't send us here to just think about our jobs; they sent us here to think about theirs. They sent us here to think about their lives and their children's lives and to be responsible and to be serious about the challenges we face as a nation.<p>That's what members of both parties have now done with the small-business jobs bill. And I hope we can work together to do the same thing on middle class tax relief in the weeks to come.<p>Thanks very much, everybody.\" "
"262" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you very much. Thank you to Senator Menendez and to the chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Congresswoman Velazquez, for those extraordinary introductions, but more importantly, for the outstanding work that you do each and every day. Please give them a huge round of applause. Thank you to the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute for inviting us this evening. Michelle and I are thrilled to be here with so many friends to kick off Hispanic Heritage Month.<p>I want to acknowledge a few people before I begin my remarks. First, somebody who I believe is going to go down in history as one of the greatest Speakers of the House of all time, Nancy Pelosi is here. Two of our outstanding Cabinet Secretaries are in the house, Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar and our wonderful Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis. <p>I want to thank our mistress of ceremonies, Soledad O'Brien. I want to congratulate Eva Longoria Parker and Arturo Sandoval and Lin-Manuel Miranda on your well-deserved awards this evening.<p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you, Obama!<p><i>The President.</i> I love you back! And I want to thank all the Members of Congress, the local elected officials, the CHCI alumni, and all who work day in and day out to advance the Hispanic community and America as a whole.<p>I also want to acknowledge and thank all of the outstanding Latino leaders serving across my administration, because I am proud that the number of Latinos I've nominated to Senate-confirmed positions at this point far exceeds any administration in history. And I'm especially proud that a whole bunch of them are Latinas. And as I've said before, one of my proudest moments of my Presidency was the day Justice Sonia Sotomayor swore an oath and ascended to our Nation's highest court and sparked new dreams for countless young girls all across America.<p>Now, some of you may remember, I first joined you here 2 years ago, as a candidate for this office. And we spoke then about how, after years of failed policies here in Washington, after decades of putting off the toughest challenges, we had finally reached a tipping point, a point where the fundamental promise of America was at risk.<p>We talked about how these challenges impacted the Latino community, but also about how they're bigger than any one community. I said then that if a young child is stuck in an overcrowded and underperforming school, it doesn't matter if she is Black or White or Latino, she is our child, and we have a responsibility to her; that if millions of Latinos end up in the emergency room because they don't have health care, it's not just a problem for one community, it's a problem for all of America. When millions of immigrants toil in the shadows of our society, that's not just a Latino problem, that is a American problem. We've got to solve it.<p>As Dr. King told Cesar Chavez all those years ago: Our separate struggles are really one. And that truth became painfully clear when, less than a week after I had appeared before the CHC, some of the biggest Wall Street firms collapsed and the bottom fell out of our economy. Millions of families across America were plunged into the deepest recession of our lifetimes. And a Latino community that had been hard hit before the recession was hit even harder.<p>So when I took office, I insisted that we could only rebuild our economy if we started growing the economy for all of our people, not just some of our people; if we provided economic security for all of our working families all across America. We had to renew the fundamental idea that everybody in America--everybody in America--has a chance to make it if they try, no matter who they are, no matter what they look like, no matter where they come from or where they were born.<p>That's the idea that drives us: the chance to make of our lives what we will. And I know that many of you are thinking tonight about a task that is central to that idea, and that's our fight to pass comprehensive immigration reform.<p>Now, I know that many of you campaigned hard for me, and understandably, you're frustrated that we have not been able to move this over the finish line yet. I am too. But let me be clear: I will not walk away from this fight. My commitment is getting this done as soon as we can. We can't keep kicking this challenge down the road.<p>Now, there's no doubt the debate over how to fix all this has been a fractured and sometimes painful one in this country. And let's face it, there are some who seek political advantage in distorting the facts and in dividing our people. We've seen it before. Some take advantage of the economic anxiety that people are feeling to stoke fear of those who look or think or worship differently, to inflame passions between \\"us\\" and \\"them.\\"<p>I have news for those people. It won't work. There is no \\"us\\" and \\"them.\\" In this country, there is only \\"us.\\" There is no Latino America or Black America or White America or Asian America. There is only the United States of America--all of us. All of us joined together, indivisible. <p>If we appeal to the American people's hopes over their fears, we'll get this done. We already know what this reform looks like. Just a few years ago, when I was a Senator, we built a bipartisan coalition around a basic framework under the leadership of Senator Kennedy and Senator McCain and President Bush. We rallied with leaders from the business community and the labor communities and the religious communities. Many of you were there. And the bill we forged wasn't perfect. It wasn't what any one person might think was optimal.<p>But because folks were willing to compromise, we came up with a commonsense, comprehensive reform that was so far from the false debates, the notion that somehow on the one hand there's mass amnesty or on the other hand there's some unworkable mass deportation. That wasn't what we were talking about. And the American people, I think, were ready to embrace a commonsense solution. And we passed that bill through the United States Senate.<p>But since that effort fall apart--fell apart, we have seen how broken and bitter and divisive our politics has become. Today, the folks who yell the loudest about the Federal Government's long failure to fix this problem are some of the same folks standing in the way of good faith efforts to fix it. And under the pressures of partisanship and election-year politics, most of the 11 Republican Senators who voted for that reform just 4 years ago have backed far away from that vote today.<p>That's why States like Arizona have taken matters into their own hands. And my administration has challenged that State's law, not just because it risks the harassment of citizens and legal immigrants, but it is the wrong way to deal with this issue. It interferes with Federal immigration enforcement. It makes it more difficult for law--local law enforcement to do its job. It strains State and local budgets. And if other States follow suit, we'll have an unproductive and unworkable patchwork of laws across the country.<p>We need an immigration policy that works, a policy that meets the needs of families and businesses while honoring our tradition as a nation of immigrants and a nation of laws. We need it for the sake of our economy, we need it for our security, and we need it for our future.<p>And I understand it may not be the easy thing to do politically. It's easier to grandstand. But I didn't run for President to do what's easy. I ran to do what's hard. I ran to do what's right. And when I think something is the right thing to do, even my critics have to admit I'm pretty persistent. I won't let it go. They can call me a lot of things, but they know I don't give up.<p>Now, the Senate is going to have a chance to do the right thing over the next few weeks when Senator Reid brings the \\"DREAM Act\\" to the floor. Keep in mind, in the past, this was a bill that was supported by a majority of Democrats and Republicans. There's no reason why it shouldn't receive that same kind of bipartisan support today. I've been a supporter since I was in the Senate, and I will do whatever it takes to support the Congressional Hispanic Caucus's efforts to pass this bill so that I can sign it into law on behalf of students seeking a college education and those who wish to serve in our country's uniform. It's the right thing to do. We should get it done.<p>Now, I want to be straight with you. To make real progress on these or any issues, we've got to break the Republican leadership's blockade. Let's be clear about this: Without the kind of bipartisan effort we had just a few short years ago, we can't get these reforms across the finish line. Their leadership has made reaching 60 votes the norm for nearly everything the Senate has to do. The American people's business is on hold because, simply put, the other party's platform has been \\"no.\\"<p>For example, consider the public servants I've nominated to carry out the people's business. Most of them had been supported widely and approved unanimously by Senate committees. But they've been held up for months by the Republican leadership. We can't even get an up-or-down vote on their confirmation. I nominated a man that you all know well.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Salazar!<p><i>The President.</i> Well, I did nominate Salazar. I got him confirmed. [<i>Laughter</i>] Raul Yzaguirre, to be our Ambassador to the Dominican Republic--Raul is right here. Now, Raul has been waiting for 10 months to be the Ambassador to the Dominican Republic. Right now there are 21 judges who've been held up for months while their courts have sat empty. Three of them are outstanding Latinos, like Judge Albert Diaz, who I nominated to the Fourth Circuit Court. He's been waiting for 10 months. This is a widely respected State court judge, military judge, and Marine Corps attorney. He was approved unanimously by the Judiciary Committee. But just last month, the Senate Republican leader objected to a vote on his confirmation yet again. And when he was asked why, he basically admitted it was simply partisan payback. Partisan payback.<p>We can't afford that kind of game-playing right now. We need serious leaders for serious times. That's the kind of leadership this moment demands. That is what we need right now. Because when I get out of this town and I'm meeting with people, talking to folks, nobody is asking me, \\"Hey, Barack, which party is scoring more points?\\" Nobody is saying, \\"Oh, don't worry about us, I just want you to do what's best for November.\\"<p>What they're interested in is how they're going to find a job when they've only known one trade their whole life; how are they going to put their kids through school; how are they going to pay the bills if they get sick; how are they going to retire when their savings have plunged after this financial crisis. They're the folks we're here for. They're the folks we're fighting for.<p>That's why we passed Wall Street reform for every hard-working family who's tired of taken--getting taken advantage of every time they opened their credit card bill or mortgage payment or tried to send a remittance--send a payment to help their parents or families abroad.<p>That's why we're reforming America's schools so that all our children have a chance to learn the skills they need for today's economy. We eliminated tens of billions of dollars in wasteful subsidies to big banks that provide student loans, and we're taking that money to make college affordable for millions of students, including more than a hundred thousand Latino students. That's what the CHC did. That's what this administration did.<p>That's why we passed health insurance reform for Americans who are sick of being gouged by insurance companies that jack up rates and deny coverage because you've got a preexisting condition. Now millions of Americans with insurance can get free preventive care. Now 9 million Latinos and tens of millions of Americans will be able to afford quality health care for the first time.<p>That's why we cut taxes for small-business owners and 95 percent of working Americans.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Puerto Rico bless you, Obama!<p><i>The President.</i> Thank you. Instead of giving tax breaks to corporations to create jobs overseas, we're cutting taxes for companies that put our people to work here at home. Instead of tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans who don't need them and weren't even asking for them, we're fighting to cut taxes for you, middle class folks all across the country. That's what we're about. That's what we're fighting for.<p>And when it comes to just about everything we've tried to do, almost every Republican in Congress has folded their arms and said no. Even where we usually agree, they say no. They're thinking about the next election instead of the next generation, trying to score political points instead of solving problems. They said no to help for small businesses, no to middle class tax cuts, no to making college affordable, no to comprehensive immigration reform. Their platform, apparently, is \\"No, se puede.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Is that a bumper sticker you want on your car?<p><i>Audience members.</i> No! [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> In fact, the chairman of their campaign committee said that if they take over, they'd go back to \\"the exact same agenda\\"--that's a quote--\\"the exact same agenda\\" they had when they were in power. They're saying they'll repeal Wall Street reform. They'll try to repeal health insurance reform. They'll give the special interests a pen and let them write the rules again.<p>And right now, because of that Republican blockade, those special interests--even foreign corporations--can spend tens of millions of dollars on campaign ads without even having to disclose who they are. You've seen some of these ads. You know, they call themselves Americans for Apple Pie or Moms for Motherhood. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And then they use their voice to drown out yours, to let Wall Street write rules that take advantage of Main Street, to let insurance companies write rules that let them cover or drop folks whenever and however they please, to go back to that \\"exact same agenda.\\"<p>Well, let me tell you something. That agenda didn't work out so well for the Latino community. It didn't work out for anybody here in America. It is not going to solve the challenges we face. We can't go backwards. We've got to go forwards.<p>So let me say this, not just to the folks who are in this room, but to the Latino community across this country. You have every right to keep the heat on me and keep the heat on the Democrats, and I hope you do. That's how our political process works.<p>But don't forget who is standing with you and who is standing against you. Don't ever believe that this election coming up doesn't matter. Don't forget who secured health care for 4 million children, including the children of legal immigrants. Don't forget who won new Pell grants for more than 100,000 Latino students. Don't forget who fought for credit card reform, a new agency to protect consumers from predatory lending, and protections for folks who send remittances back home. Don't forget who cut taxes for working families. Don't forget who your friends are. No se olviden. Don't forget.<p>We can't go back now. Not when there is so much work to be done. We've got to move forward. We've got to move forward on jobs and on the economy and on immigration reform and all the unfinished business of our time. These are serious times. They require serious leaders and serious citizens, and your voice matters. Your voice can make the difference.<p>So let me close by saying this. Long before America was even an idea, this land of plenty was home to many peoples, to British and French, to Dutch and Spanish, to Mexican, to countless Indian tribes. We all shared the same land. We didn't always get along. But over the centuries, what eventually bound us together, what made us all Americans, was not a matter of blood, it wasn't a matter of birth. It was faith and fidelity to the shared values that we all hold so dear: \\"We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, endowed with certain inalienable rights: life and liberty and the pursuit of happiness.\\"<p>That's what makes us unique. That's what makes us strong. The ability to recognize our common humanity, to remember that in this country, equality and opportunity are not just words on a piece of paper, they're not just words in the mouths of politicians, they are promises to be kept.<p>And that is our calling now: to keep those promises for the next generation. No matter which way the political winds shift, I will stand with you for that better future. And if you stand with me, and if we remember that fundamental truth--that divided we fall, but united we are strong, and out of many, we are one--then you and I will finish what we have started. We will make sure that America forever remains an idea and a place that's big enough and bold enough and brave enough to accommodate the dreams of all our children and all our people for years to come. Si, se puede.<p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"263" "\"Everybody, please have a seat. Have a seat. Well, good morning, everybody. And I want to thank all of you for being here today. This is a terrific kickoff on the President's Export Council. And I want to thank the Cabinet Secretaries, the senior officials in my administration who are here and have helped to pull this together, the members of my Export Council. I appreciate all of you being here to discuss next steps in growing America's exports and our economy. And I want to thank Jim McNerney and Ursula Burns, who are serving as Chair and Vice Chair of this council, for their outstanding work.<p>From the day that I took office, my administration's highest priority has been to pull our economy out of the deepest recession of our lifetimes, to put people back to work, and to position our economy on a path of long-term and sustainable growth.<p>In the immediate term, we've had to act across many fronts to get folks back on their feet and get our economy moving again. And one of the things that we've been trying to do is to help create the conditions necessary for our small businesses to grow and to hire. And a few hours from now, after months of delay, the Senate will finally have an up-or-down vote on a package of tax cuts and lending initiatives to help small businesses, some of which will be exporters.<p> Reinvigorating our economy in the short run and rebuilding it over the long term is not a one-step process; there are going to be many steps we have to take in the months and years ahead. But this is a critically important one. And I am grateful to those Senators on the Republican side of the aisle willing to take this vote on behalf of America's small-business owners.<p>But even as we're working to get our economy moving today, we are also laying a new foundation for growth tomorrow. And that's where you come in. We've been working to increase America's competitiveness in a global economy. After all, one of the reasons we got into the mess we've been in over the last couple of years is because, let's face it, we grew complacent. We allowed too much of our prosperity to be based on fleeting bubbles of consumption and risk and artificial gain. We spent too much; we saved too little. We allowed our economy to become bloated with debt both in the private sector and public sectors. We failed to fully harness the talents and skills and creativity of the American people. And we put off investments in technology and innovation that are critical to helping our businesses compete in the 21st century.<p>That's not a path we could afford to continue down. And that's why we've been working so hard to try to reverse those trends. We're upgrading our national infrastructure for tomorrow. We're investing in science and technology, research and development, and clean energy projects that will strengthen our global leadership. We're reforming our schools, making college more affordable, and investing in the skills and education of our people.<p>In fact, later today I'll be meeting with CEOs of a hundred of America's biggest companies who've joined together in common cause to make sure we're preparing all our students today with the science, technology, engineering, and math skills that they'll need for the high-tech jobs of today's high-tech industries. And by the way, Ursula is participating in that. And she is almost as overexposed as me today. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Because the best way we know to compete and win in the global marketplace is by doing what we do best: harnessing the talents and ingenuity of our people to lead the world in new industries. And we're building an economy where America's businesses and American workers once again do what they do best, which is build great products and sell them around the world.<p>We were just talking before we came in, and one of the things that I think is so critical is to realign the interests of business and workers here in America so that everybody is fighting on the same side, everybody is out there with a united front competing to make sure that America succeeds. <p>In this year's State of the Union Address, I set a goal for America: We will double our exports of goods and services over the next 5 years. Because the more American companies export, the more they produce. And the more they produce, the more people they hire. And that means more jobs, good jobs that often pay as much as 15 percent more than average. The world wants to buy goods and services made in the United States and our workers are ready to produce them.<p>That's why 6 months ago, we launched the National Export Initiative, the first-ever Governmentwide export promotion strategy with focused attention at the Presidential and Cabinet level.<p>America is going to bat as a stronger partner and a better advocate for our businesses abroad. We're increasing trade missions. We're removing barriers to help businesses gain a foothold in new markets. We're increasing export financing for small and medium-sized businesses. We hope to move forward on new trade agreements with some of our key partners in a way that doesn't just advance the interests of our businesses, workers, and farmers, but also upholds our most cherished values. And finally, we continue to coordinate with other nations around the world to promote strong, balanced, and sustainable growth.<p>So we're 6 months into what's going to be a 5-year-long process. And despite some strong economic headwinds this year, we've already seen some progress. Obviously, working off a low baseline given the crisis last year, exports are expected to be up, but we're very pleased to see that they're up 18 percent to where they were a year ago. And manufacturing exports are up 20 percent. And that's helping put a lot of our people back to work.<p>And there's more we can do to keep that growth going. Yesterday my export cabinet submitted a report detailing the progress that's been made and additional steps that our agencies intend to take to deliver on our goals. And I look forward to seeing these steps implemented.<p>It's also why 2 months ago, I announced the formation of this council to seek the expertise of private sector business and labor leaders who know what it takes to succeed. Earlier this morning, in a meeting with Vice President Biden as well as Jim and Ursula about some of the recommendations you've devised, we were encouraged that we think we can move forward rapidly on some of these fronts. And we're pleased to see the fresh and innovative strategies that we can pursue to help small and medium-sized companies sell their goods and services abroad.<p>With companies like yours in mind, we've been looking at our export control system and working to streamline the process in a manner that helps our high-tech companies stay competitive, while strengthening our national security. We're also working to resolve outstanding issues with our free trade agreements with our key partners, like Korea, and to seek congressional approval as soon as possible.<p>And as our troops come home from Iraq and Afghanistan and reenter the workforce, I think it's terrific that we are going to look at a veterans retraining initiative that would help them translate their remarkable leadership skills, but also their technical skills, skills they've honed in the military, into careers in the high-demand science and technology fields that will keep America economically strong and globally competitive well into the future.<p>So these are some of the steps we'll pursue to double America's exports over the next 5 years. When I made this initial announcement, some were skeptical, but the truth of the matter is, is that if we are increasing our exports by 14, 15 percent per year--something that is achievable--then we can meet our goal. And that's one of the ways that we're going to make this economy in the 21st century what it was in the 20th century: an unparalleled force for opportunity and prosperity for all our people.<p>So I look forward to seeing your recommendations and our continued work together to make that happen. I am very grateful, because this is a group of very busy people, that you're willing to invest the time and energy that you already have and will continue to invest in the future to make sure that this council is productive as possible. This is one of my top priorities. I'm going to be paying close attention to it. My Cabinet and my economic team are going to be working diligently on this.<p>So I am very confident this is going to be a worthwhile endeavor that may indirectly help your companies but is certainly going to help the country and the American people.<p>Thanks very much, everybody.\" "
"264" "\"Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. Thank you very much. Thank you to Ursula and all the board members here. We are so excited about this initiative. And I want everybody to also know that I've got one of the finest Secretaries of Education, I think, in the history of this country in Arne Duncan, and he is excited about it as well, so--[<i>applause</i>].<p>I hope you don't mind, before I begin, I just want to comment on a vote that just took place a little while ago in Congress. I want to thank the Senate for finally passing the small-business jobs bill that had been held up for months by partisan delay. It's going to make a difference in millions of small-business owners across the country who are going to benefit from tax breaks and additional lending so companies have the capital to grow and hire. And this is really welcome news.<p>Now, these tax breaks and loans are going to help create jobs in the short term. But the reason all of us are here, companies large and small, is to talk about an issue with far-reaching consequences for our economy in the long run, and that's the education of our children.<p>It's an incredibly impressive gathering that we have here. We've got dozens of leaders from the business community who are part of today's announcement. We're joined by talented and enterprising students. Where are the students? Raise your hands. Yes, we're very proud of you guys. We have some passionate and dedicated teachers. Teachers, raise your hands. Proud of you.<p>I want to recognize all the Members of Congress who are with us, as well as the top scientists from my administration, including my science adviser, John Holdren, who is here. Where's John? There he is right there. As well as--[<i>applause</i>]--and in addition, we've got--and this is obviously the coolest thing--we've got two trailblazing astronauts in Sally Ride and Mae Jemison, who are here. So we are just honored to have all of you here at the White House.<p>We're here for a simple reason. Everybody in this room understands that our Nation's success depends on strengthening America's role as the world's engine of discovery and innovation. And all the CEOs who are here today understand that their companies' future depends on their ability to harness the creativity and dynamism and insight of a new generation and that leadership tomorrow depends on how we educate our students today, especially in science, technology, engineering, and math.<p>We know how important this is for our health. It's important for our security. It's important for our environment. And we know how important it is for our economy. As I discussed this morning with my Export Council, our prosperity in a 21st-century global marketplace depends on our ability to compete with nations around the world. And we are never going to win that competition by paying the lowest wages or simply by trying to offer the cheapest products. We're going to win by offering the most innovative products. We're going to win by doing what we do best, which is harnessing the talents and ingenuity of our people to lead the world in new industries. That's how we can create millions of new jobs exporting more of our goods around the world.<p>Now, as any one of the scientists, CEOs, and teachers here will tell you, this kind of innovation isn't born in the boardroom or on the factory floor. It doesn't begin in a basement workshop or a research laboratory. That's where the payoff happens, but it starts long before. It starts in a classroom. It starts when a child learns that every star in the night sky is another Sun, when a young girl swells with accomplishment after solving a tough math problem, when a boy builds a model rocket and watches it soar, when an eager student peers through a microscope and discovers a whole new world. It's in these moments that a young person may discover a talent or a passion that might lead to a career. It's in these moments every day that our Nation--our promise as a nation is realized. And it is in these moments that we see why a quality science and math education matters, why it is absolutely critical to us.<p>Now, despite the importance of education in these subjects, in recent years, we have been outpaced by our competitors. There is no disputing that. One assessment shows American 15-year-olds ranked 21st in science and 25th in math when compared to their peers around the world. Yet for years, we've failed to address this challenge. There's been some talk about it. There have been some white papers and some reports about it. But we haven't solved it.<p>And instead, we've oftentimes gotten into tired arguments traded across old divides. And parents and students and teachers have been basically left to accept that mediocrity was the best that America could do. And we've got some islands of excellence, but we assume that we can't substantially turn this around.<p>The cost of this inaction is immeasurable: the inventions that are never built, the businesses never started, the cures never discovered, the sparks of imagination never lit, the brimming potential squandered because we failed to come together for the sake not just of our children, but for the sake of our future.<p>Now, I ran for President because I believe we cannot accept this failure of responsibility. I believe, as all of you do--and that's why you're here today--that America doesn't play for 2d place, and we certainly don't play for 25th. And that's why soon after I took office, I set this goal for our Nation: We will move from the middle to the top of the pack in math and science education over the next decade. And we are on the way to meeting this goal.<p>Under the leadership of Arne Duncan, a man who has devoted his life to the idea that every single child deserves a world-class education, we launched an initiative called Race to the Top. Under Race to the Top, States are actively competing to produce innovative math and science programs, raising standards, turning around struggling schools, recruiting and retaining more good teachers.<p>At a difficult time for our Nation, when budget cuts across America have threatened the jobs of countless teachers, we've also fought some tough opposition to save hundreds of thousands of educator and school-worker jobs. These are folks in the classroom right now because we refused to accept a lesser education for our children, even at a time of economic hardship.<p>Today my science advisory board, which is represented here by Eric Lander and Jim Gates, released a set of recommendations to recruit and train more great teachers over the next decade and to promote breakthrough innovation in math and science education. And it was a terrific report. I sat with Eric this morning and got a full briefing on it. And there are so many promising ideas out there, proven ideas that can work if we apply the will to it. And I'm asking Arne Duncan and Dr. Cora Marrett, Acting Director of the National Science Foundation, to take a look at all these recommendations closely and then start figuring out how can we implement them.<p>What I've also said for a long time is that our success will not be attained by government alone. It depends on teachers and parents and students and the broader community. It depends on us restoring an insistence on excellence in our classrooms and from our children. And that's why last year, I challenged scientists and business leaders to think of creative ways to engage young people in math and science. And now they are answering the call.<p>All across this country, companies and nonprofits are coming together to replicate successful science programs. New public-private partnerships are working to offer additional training to more than 100,000 teachers and to prepare more than 10,000 new teachers in the next 5 years. Media companies are creating content to inspire young people in math and science. And businesses are working with nonprofits to launch robotics competitions and other ways for kids to make things and learn with their hands.<p>So now we're building on this effort. The business leaders gathered in this room, with this board at the helm, are launching a new organization called Change the Equation to help our country reach the goal of moving to the top in math and science education. It brings together a coalition of more than a hundred CEOs from the Nation's largest companies who are committed to bring innovative math and science programs to at least a hundred high-need communities over the next year.<p>And by the way, they're doing this not only out of a sense of duty to the country, not only because it's the right thing to do, but they've got a self-interest in it. Xerox is going to do really well if we've got a whole bunch of engineers and scientists and math majors who are clamoring to work for some of America's most innovative businesses.<p>We're also announcing other commitments from companies and foundations and nonprofits that will create fun and educational programs for students in science museums and build hands-on learning centers and 21st-century libraries, make sure that the students of military families have access to AP courses, and improve professional development for math and science teachers.<p>And I think the teachers here will acknowledge that one of the challenges is making sure that those folks who are teaching these subjects in the classroom, that they're up to date, up to speed in getting the best professional training possible.<p>And this coalition is also going to extend opportunities to all of our young people, and that includes efforts to open doors for women and minorities, who all too often have been underrepresented in scientific fields, but who are no less capable of success in scientific careers.<p>So I want to thank all the leaders who are here today for their outstanding commitment to this cause, for lending their resources, their expertise, and their enthusiasm to the task of strengthening America's leadership in the 21st century by improving education. And I want to encourage others to be part of this growing movement, to harness the incredible potential for our young people, for while this may be a difficult time for our Nation and we face some tough challenges, it's that potential that ought to give us hope.<p>We need no better example than the students who are here today from West Philadelphia High School. These students, under the direction of some terrific teachers, entered a global competition against serious corporate and college challengers to build a production-ready car that runs on very little fuel. So as part of an after-school program, they worked to get their vehicles ready. They tweaked the hybrid engine. They figured out how to make their cars run more efficiently.<p>At first, the adults didn't really think their team had a chance. Admit it. [<i>Laughter</i>] But then something strange happened. Where older and more seasoned teams failed, they succeeded, even making it through an elimination round.<p>Now, they didn't win the competition. They're kids, come on. [<i>Laughter</i>] But they did build a car that got more than 65 miles per gallon. They went toe to toe with car companies and big-name universities. They went against big-name universities, well-funded rivals. They held their own. They didn't have a lot of money. They didn't have the best equipment. They certainly didn't have every advantage in life. What they had was a program that challenged them to solve problems and to work together, to learn and build and create. And that's the kind of spirit and ingenuity that we have to foster. That's the potential that we can harness all across America. That's what will help our young people to fulfill their promise, to realize their dreams, and to help this Nation succeed in the years to come.<p>And I just have to editorialize. This is the kind of thing that just isn't going to get a lot of attention initially. This will not lead the nightly news. You won't see this on the cover of Roll Call or Politico. It's not--doesn't have conflict and controversy behind it. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But these are actually the kinds of things that 10 years from now, 20 years from now, we're going to look back and say, this is something that made a difference. These are the kinds of things I'm really proud of. It doesn't get a lot of fanfare, but from the bottom up, it's making a huge difference in our country.<p>And so I just want to thank all of you who are here for your participation. And I wasn't sure, by the way, whether all the folks on the stage here were introduced, so I just want to make sure that everybody gets introduced. In addition to Ursula Burns from Xerox, I want to thank Rex Tillerson of ExxonMobil, Craig Barrett, who's the former Intel CEO, Antonio Perez of Kodak, Glenn Britt from Time Warner, and somebody who's not on the stage but is going to be the CEO of Change the Equation, Linda Rosen, and obviously, one of my heroes, Sally Ride. We are just so grateful to them. We're grateful to you. Let's go get this thing done.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"265" "\"Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat. Have a seat. Well, hello, Stamford. It is good to be back in Connecticut, and it is an honor to stand here with your attorney general and the next United States Senator from Connecticut, Dick Blumenthal.<p>I also want to acknowledge your candidate for Governor, Dan Malloy, who is here, or he may have slipped out right before--there he is. Not sure--when you're campaigning, you can't be in one place too long. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And I also want to just say thank you to Cynthia and the kids for lending Dick to Connecticut and to the country. I know it is hard to be the spouse of a candidate and the spouse of an attorney general, and it's going to be tough being the spouse of a United States Senator. I promised that I would not let Michelle talk to Cynthia before the election. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's hard work. But we are extraordinarily grateful. And the fact that David and Matthew and Claire and Mike are doing so well is a testament I know Dick agrees with Mom. So please give her a big round of applause.<p>Now, Connecticut, let's face it, this decision in this election should be a no-brainer. [<i>Laughter</i>] Right? I mean, it should be. Should be a no-brainer. Here you've got a man who's been fighting for the people of Connecticut since the day he walked into the attorney general's office. He's got the record to prove it. He's taken on the tobacco industry and helped stop those companies from targeting our kids. He's taken on utility companies to try to beat back electricity rate increases and skyrocketing costs of heating oil. He's taken on the auto industry to help keep family dealerships open that have been around for almost a century.<p>There is no--there's no fight too big or too small for Dick Blumenthal to take on. He was there to help a mother get her insurance company to pay for her baby's special formula. He was there to help a family rebuild after their home was destroyed by fire. He's there at county fairs and Rotary Club meetings and PTA meetings, talking with people of this State, listening to your concerns.<p>This is the kind of leader you want representing you. Somebody you know. Somebody who shares your values. Somebody who doesn't just show up and try to get a victory by writing a big check and flooding the airwaves with negative ads. Now, I have to say, Dick say--said his opponent may have more money. Dick, she has more money than you. [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, it's--[<i>laughter</i>]--just in case there's any confusion. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And I understand she has promised a smackdown. [<i>Laughter</i>] Right? This is what she said. And look, there's no doubt, I can see how somebody who's been in professional wrestling would think that they're right at home at the United States Senate--[<i>laughter</i>]--if they were watching some of the behavior that's been going on. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But the truth is--and Dick understands this--public service is not a game. At this moment, we are facing challenges we haven't seen since the Great Depression. And facing serious challenges requires serious leaders: leaders who are willing to take on the status quo, leaders who are willing to take on special interests, leaders who are willing to fight for our people and our future. And Dick Blumenthal is that leader. And that's why I need all of you to make him your next United States Senator. That's the choice in this election.<p>I want to give you a sense of the contexts of this election, what's at stake. See, for the last decade, there was a very specific philosophy that reigned in Washington: You cut taxes, especially for millionaires and billionaires. You cut regulations for special interests. You cut back on investments in education and clean energy and research and technology.<p>The idea was that if we put blind faith in the market, if we let corporations play by their own rules, if we left everybody else to fend for themselves, somehow America would automatically grow and would prosper. <p>And over the last 10 years, that philosophy has not worked out well. It didn't work for middle class families who saw their incomes go down while their costs of everything from school tuition to health care go up. It didn't work for an economy that experienced the slowest job growth since World War II; this was before the financial crisis. It didn't work when a record surplus turned into a record deficit. It didn't work when the recklessness of some on Wall Street led to the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression.<p>So I ran for President because I had a different idea about how this country was built. And it was an idea rooted in my own family's story. My parents, my grandparents, they never had much. They worked tirelessly so that I might have a better life. They believed in the American values of self-reliance and individual responsibility, and they instilled those values in their children.<p>But they also believed in a country that rewards hard work, a country that rewards responsibility, a country where we look after one another.<p>They believed in the America that gave my grandfather the chance to go to college because of the GI bill, an America that gave my grandparents a chance to buy a home because of the Federal Housing Authority, an America where a rising tide really does lift all boats, from the CEO to the newest guy on the assembly line.<p>That's the America I believe in. That's the America Dick Blumenthal believes in. We don't think that government has all the answers to our problems. We don't think government's main role is to create jobs or prosperity. We believe government should be lean and it should be efficient.<p>But in the words of the first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, we also believe that government should do for the people what they can't do as well for themselves. And that means it should invest in our common future.<p>It means the powerful--special interests, corporations--that they need to live up to their responsibilities. It means government should help make the middle class more secure and give ladders for people to climb into that middle class. That's what we believe. That's the future that we see.<p>We see a future where we encourage American innovation and American ingenuity. And that's why we want to end tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas and give those tax breaks to companies that are investing in research and development and hiring right here in the United States of America.<p>That's why we're investing in research and technology and a homegrown clean energy industry, because I don't want to see new solar panels or electric cars or wind turbines, advanced batteries manufactured in Europe or Asia. I want to see them made right here in America, with American workers.<p>We see an America where every citizen has the skills and training to compete with any worker in the world. Today I had, down in Washington, a meeting with a hundred CEOs who are now partnering with our Department of Education and our National Science Foundation to improve math and science training in schools, because we need more engineers and more scientists. That's how we're going to keep our cutting edge.<p>And that's why we've set a goal to once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020. We used to be number 1; we're now around number 12. We're going to get back to number one by the end of this next decade.<p>And that's why we're revitalizing our community colleges and reforming our education system based on what works, not what perpetuates the status quo. That's why we're fighting to make permanent our new college tax credit. This is a tax credit that will mean $10,000 in tuition relief for each child going to 4 years of college.<p>So we see an America where a growing middle class is the beating heart of a growing economy. That's why I kept my promise and gave a middle class tax cut to 95 percent of working Americans. That's why we passed health insurance reform that stops insurance companies from jacking up your premiums or dropping coverage because you're sick or have a preexisting condition. That's why we passed financial reform to end taxpayer-funded bailouts, reform that will stop credit card companies and mortgage lenders and Wall Street banks from taking advantage of the American people. We want them to compete. We want a thriving financial services area. We want to compete on service, on good products and good prices.<p>That's why we're trying to make it easier for workers to save for retirement and fighting the efforts of some in the other party to privatize Social Security, because as long as I'm President, nobody is going to take the retirement savings of a generation of Americans and bet it on the market.<p>That's the America that we see. That's the America we believe in. That's the choice in this election.<p>Now, obviously, we've been through a incredibly difficult time as a nation. I never imagined that when I walked into the White House, preventing a second depression would be at the top of my to-do list. And even though we've done that, even though the economy is growing again and we're adding private sector jobs again, there is no doubt that because the hole was so deep, progress has been painfully slow.<p>Millions of Americans remain unemployed. Millions more can barely pay the bills. Hundreds of thousands of families have lost their homes. And behind each of these numbers is a story of heartache and struggle, and I read about that heartache and struggle in letters that I receive every single night and whenever I'm traveling around the country.<p>So I know that people are frustrated and they're angry and they're anxious about the future. And I also know that in a political campaign, the easiest thing for the other side to do is to try to ride that anger and fear all the way to election day, especially when you got millions of dollars that you can burn on negative ads.<p>That's what's happening right now. Look, let's face it, it would be one thing if Dick's opponent and other Republican candidates had looked back on the last decade and said: \\"You know what, our policies really didn't work very well, did they? They kind of screwed up.\\" And they go--they went away, they meditated. [<i>Laughter</i>] They contemplated. And then they finally said: \\"You know, everything we did ended up in this terrible recession. Let's try something new.\\" And they came back, and they said: \\"We're going to propose something different. This time we think we've got the answer.\\"<p>But that's not what they're doing. They're not offering any new ideas. I would challenge anybody here to name a single new idea that they're putting forward. They don't have one. They're not offering new policies. The chair of the Republican campaign committee said that if they take over Congress, they will pursue the exact same agenda as they did before I took office. Now, keep in mind, we lost 4 million jobs in the 6 months before I took office. And they'd pursue what they say are the exact same policies.<p>So here's what it comes down to. These folks spent a decade driving our economy into a ditch. And as soon as we took office, we put on our boots. We climbed down into the ditch. It was muddy down there. [<i>Laughter</i>] It was dusty, bugs. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we're pushing on the car, and we're trying to get it out and slipping and sliding. And the whole time, the Republicans are standing there, sipping on a Slurpee--[<i>laughter</i>]--just watching us, saying: \\"You're not pushing hard enough. You're not pushing the right way.\\"<p>And we tell them: \\"Come on down here. Help. We could use a hand.\\" \\"No, that's okay.\\" And so finally--finally--after 2 years of toil, we get this car back on the road, and we can see the way forward. And we get a tap on our shoulder, and we turn around, and it's the Republicans. [<i>Laughter</i>] And they say, \\"Can we have the keys back?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>No, you can't have the keys back! [<i>Laughter</i>] You don't know how to drive! You don't know how to drive. You can't have the keys. You don't know how to drive.<p>All those--it's not just them, either. All those special interests, they're all lining up--\\"Yes, we're going to ride shotgun.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>We can't give them the keys back. Have you ever noticed, by the way, that if you want to go forward in a car, you put your car in \\"D\\"? [<i>Laughter</i>] And if you want to go backwards, you put it in \\"R\\"? [<i>Laughter</i>] We'd end up right back in the ditch. It's true. You think that's a coincidence. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's not.<p>If we gave them the keys back, they've told exactly what they plan to do. They want to go back to the days when credit card companies can jack up your rates without reason and insurance companies can deny you coverage just because you got sick. They want to stand by and do nothing while States are forced to lay off teachers and firefighters and cops, because, in the words of the Republican leader of the House, those are just, quote, \\"government jobs,\\" apparently not worth saving.<p>They want to give more tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas instead of giving them to companies that are investing here in the United States. They want to borrow $700 billion to give a tax break worth an average of $100,000 to every millionaire and billionaire in America.<p>Now, these are the people who lecture us on fiscal responsibility, the same people who refused to pay for two wars, two tax cuts for some of the wealthiest Americans, and left me a--as a welcoming present--a $1.3 trillion deficit when I took office. And now they want to spend another $700 billion that 98 percent of Americans will never see.<p>That's their agenda. That's the sum total of their agenda. That's what they're offering the American people, a future that looks just like the past, one where special interests get free rein to play by their own rules and where middle class families are left to fend for themselves.<p>Now, that's not a future I accept for the United States of America. That is not a future that Dick Blumenthal accepts for the United States of America.<p>This is a tough election season. People are hurting, and they are understandably frustrated. And a lot of them are scared, and a lot of them are anxious. And that means that even when people don't have ideas, if they've got enough money behind them, they may be able to convince some folks that, you know what, just cast a protest vote, throw the bums out. That's a mentality that has an appeal. And you can't blame folks for feeling that way sometime. But that's not a future for our country, a country that's more divided, that's more unequal, that's less dynamic, where we're falling behind in everything from investment in infrastructure to investment in R&D. That's not a vision for the future.<p>And if that's not a future you accept for this Nation, if that's not the future you want for your kids and for your grandkids, then we are asking you for help in this election.<p>Because if you don't think the stakes are large--and I want you to consider this--right now, all across the country, special interests are planning and running millions of dollars of attack ads against Democratic candidates. Because last year, there was a Supreme Court decision called Citizens United. They're allowed to spend as much as they want without ever revealing who's paying for the ads. That's exactly what they're doing--millions of dollars. And the groups are benign sounding: Americans for Prosperity. Who's against that? [<i>Laughter</i>] Or Committee for Truth in Politics. Or Americans for Apple Pie, Moms for Motherhood--I made those last two up. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>None of them will disclose who's paying for these ads. You don't know if it's a Wall Street bank. You don't know if it's a big oil company. You don't know if it's an insurance company. You don't even know if it's a foreign-controlled entity.<p>In some races, they are spending more money than the candidates. Not here, because here the candidate's spending a lot of money. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>They're spending more money than the parties. They want to take Congress back and return to the days where lobbyists wrote the laws. It is the most insidious power grab since the monopolies of the Gilded Age. That's happening right now. So there's a lot of talk about populist anger and grassroots, but that's not what's driving a lot of these elections.<p>We tried to fix this, but the leaders of the other party wouldn't even allow it to come up for a vote. They want to keep the public in the dark. They want to serve the special interests that served them so well over the last 19 months. <p>We will not let them. We are not about to allow a corporate takeover of our democracy. We're not about to go back to the days when special interests took advantage of Main Street families. We're not going to go back to the days when insurance companies wrote the rules that let you languish without health care because you had a preexisting condition. We're not going to go back to the exact same agenda we had before I took office.<p>A lot has changed since that last election, but what hasn't changed is the choice facing this country. It is still fear versus hope. It is still the past versus the future. It is still a choice between sliding backwards and moving forward. That is what this election's about. That's the choice you will face in November.<p>So I need you to knock on some doors for Dick Blumenthal. I need you to talk to your neighbors about Dick Blumenthal. I need you to make phone calls for Dick Blumenthal. We need you to write some more checks for Dick Blumenthal. We need you to do this for candidates all across the country, because the only way we'll match their millions of dollars is if we've got millions of people making their voices heard.<p>And none of this will be easy. It's going to be hard. But you didn't elect me to do what was easy. And you're not going to elect Dick to do what was easy. You elect us to do what is right. So help me get Dick elected. And let's keep on moving forward, Connecticut.<p>Thank you very much. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"266" "\"Well, listen, Richard and Ellen, I'm so grateful to you guys for opening up this extraordinary home.<p>And just a couple of quick acknowledgments. Obviously, we've got races all across the country that are important, but there are very few races that are more important to me than the race for U.S. Senate here, and Dick Blumenthal, I think, is just an outstanding candidate who is going to be a terrific U.S. Senator. We've got Dan Malloy, who is going to be the next Governor of Connecticut. And we've got somebody who is probably the only person who is putting in more miles than me, Tim Kaine.<p>It is great to be here with some new friends, but also some old friends. Richard and Ellen were some of my earliest supporters. They actually supported me when I ran for United States Senate, before people could pronounce my name. [<i>Laughter</i>] And so for them to open up their house like this is just terrific.<p>I'm not going to give a long speech because I want to take the opportunity to sit with each of you and hear what you're thinking, answer your questions. But let me just say generally, we came into office back in January of 2009 at a historic time: the worst financial crisis that we've seen since the Great Depression, on the verge of a Great Depression, in the midst of two wars. And so the challenges that we've confronted over these last 2 years have been extraordinary. And we've got a long way to go. This country received a body blow, and it was already having difficulties competitively. It was already falling behind educationally. We had a health care system that was broken, a middle class that hadn't seen its incomes or wages go up at the same time as their costs were skyrocketing for everything from college tuition to health care.<p>And so the recovery has been painfully slow. We've got millions of people who are still out of work, hundreds of thousands of people who've lost their homes. People are anxious about the future; they're fearful about the future. And we're in a very competitive environment, where other countries like China and India have now caught up--in some indicators--and are going to keep on moving, because they are hungry and they've got some very talented people.<p>Having said that, after being in this job for 2 years, I have never been more optimistic about America. I am optimistic partly because we did some really tough things that aren't always popular, but were the right things to do. We had initiated an education reform agenda that is shaking up the education system all across the country. And I've got a terrific Secretary of Education who's been able to get teachers, principals, students--sometimes there's some contentiousness about it, but everybody focused on how are we going to lift up performance for all our kids so they can compete in a global economy.<p>We have finally started digging into our health care system in a way that is not just providing health insurance to 31 million people who didn't have it before. I spoke to a woman today who was the first person to sign up for an insurance pool that allows people with preexisting conditions to finally get health insurance. She lives up in New Hampshire, had lymphoma, could not get treatment, could not get health insurance. And we signed that bill just as she was about to give up--and is now in the midst of treatment, and her prognosis is good.<p>But that's not the only reason that we initiated reform. We're now digging in to see what we can do so that our costs for businesses and families start getting under control and we can bend that cost curve.<p>We initiated a financial regulatory reform bill that was obviously contentious. And a lot of folks in Connecticut work on Wall Street, and so they're folks who at some point felt like, are we attacking Wall Street? No. What we want to do is to create a financial system that is vibrant and dynamic and innovative, but also create some rules of the road so we don't go through what we went through over the last 2 years. And if we had smart rules that treat consumers fairly and that promotes transparency, that's going to allow us to stay the leader in financial services for years to come. And it means that we're going to be able to finance businesses all around the country and around the world that help grow our economy.<p>So we made the largest investment in research and development in our history. We'd been falling behind, and now we are back at the forefront of R&D. We made the largest investment in green energy in our history so that we could start building solar panels and wind turbines all around the country.<p>So all these long-term investments that we made are going to be bearing fruit not just next year, not just the year after, but for a couple decades to come. And that's what makes me optimistic.<p>That's just on the domestic front. In foreign policy, we've reset our relations around the world so that--a lot of people who travel will come back and say to me, you know, folks are once again looking to America for leadership in a way that they haven't for a long time. We have ended our combat mission in Iraq. We are initiating Middle East peace once again; I had the parties at the table. Old adversaries like Russia are now cooperating with us, and we just got a nuclear arms reduction treaty out of the Senate committee today, and we hope to get it ratified before the end of the year.<p>Across the board, we are making progress. Now, I'm making this point for two reasons. Number one, the changes we've made are ones that will take some time to bear fruit. And folks who are out of work right now, whose homes are underwater right now, who are trying to figure out how to pay the bills or send their kids to college right now, they don't have 5 or 10 years to wait. And so we've got to still work very hard in the short term to dig ourselves out of this enormous hole.<p>And that's why having public servants like Dick Blumenthal in Washington is so important. Because the other side, all they are going to be feeding us is anger and resentment and not a lot of new ideas. But that's a potent force when people are scared and they're hurting. And so for all of you to support candidates like Dick all across the country is absolutely vital, because our job is not yet finished. And the agenda of the other side is essentially to roll back progress that we've made. And they're doing so, by the way, not just by self-financed candidates like the one here in Connecticut, but because of the Supreme Court decision from the Roberts Court called the Citizens United. You now have special interests spending--outspending candidates and parties all across America, spending millions of dollars without disclosing who they're spending it--who they are and what interests lie behind all these negative TV ads.<p>So we are going to be in some tough fights everywhere, and all of you are going to be desperately needed in order for us to keep moving in a positive direction.<p>Now, the second reason I'm telling you this is because Democrats, just congenitally, tend to get--to see the glass as half empty. [<i>Laughter</i>] If we get an historic health care bill passed--oh, well, the public option wasn't there. If you get the financial reform bill passed--then, well, I don't know about this particularly derivatives rule; I'm not sure that I'm satisfied with that. And gosh, we haven't yet brought about world peace, and I thought that was going to happen quicker. [<i>Laughter</i>] You know who you are. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>We have had the most productive, progressive legislative session in at least a generation. And so I want everybody here to--when you are talking to your friends and your neighbors and your coworkers, I want you to feel good about the support that you've provided. Because you didn't send me there to do what was easy, you sent me there to do what was hard. We have tackled some of the hardest problems facing this country, and we did so in the midst of crisis, and we are succeeding.<p>And so as long as you keep that in mind, not only will you feel good about writing checks, but you're also going to be feeling good as you go around the country making the case to ensure that people like Dick Blumenthal are elected to the U.S. Senate.<p>All right? So thank you very much, everybody. I look forward to talking to you.\" "
"267" "\"Back in January, in my State of the Union Address, I warned of the danger posed by a Supreme Court ruling called Citizens United. This decision overturned decades of law and precedent. It gave the special interests the power to spend without limit and without public disclosure to run ads in order to influence elections.<p>Now, as an election approaches, it's not just a theory. We can see for ourselves how destructive to our democracy this can become. We've seen it in the flood of deceptive attack ads sponsored by special interests using front groups with misleading names. We don't know who's behind these ads or who's paying for them. Even foreign-controlled corporations seeking to influence our democracy are able to spend freely in order to swing an election toward a candidate they prefer.<p>We've tried to fix this with a new law, one that would simply require that you say who you are and who's paying for your ad. This way, voters are able to make an informed judgment about a group's motivations. Anyone running these ads would have to stand by their claims. And foreign-controlled corporations would be restricted from spending money to influence elections, just as they were before the Supreme Court opened up this loophole.<p>This is common sense. In fact, this is the kind of proposal that Democrats and Republicans have agreed on for decades. Yet the Republican leaders in Congress have so far said no. They've blocked this bill from even coming up for a vote in the Senate. It's politics at its worst. But it's not hard to understand why.<p>Over the past 2 years, we've fought back against the entrenched special interests, weakening their hold on the levers of power in Washington. We've taken a stand against the worst abuses of the financial industry and the health insurance companies. We've rolled back tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas. And we've restored enforcement of commonsense rules to protect clean air and clean water. In other words, we've refused to go along with business as usual.<p>Now the special interests want to take Congress back and return to the days when lobbyists wrote the laws. And a partisan minority in Congress is hoping their defense of these special interests and the status quo will be rewarded with a flood of negative ads against their opponents. It's a power grab, pure and simple. They're hoping they can ride this wave of unchecked influence all the way to victory. <p>What's clear is that Congress has a responsibility to act. But the truth is, any law will probably come too late to prevent the damage that's already been done this election season. And that's why any time you see an attack ad by one of these shadowy groups, you should ask yourself, who is paying for this ad? Is it the health insurance lobby, the oil industry, the credit card companies?<p>More than that, you can make sure that the tens of millions of dollars spent on misleading ads don't drown out your voice. Because no matter how many ads they run, no matter how many elections they try to buy, the power to determine the fate of this country doesn't lie in their hands, it lies in yours. It's up to all of us to defend that most basic American principle of a government of, by, and for the people. What's at stake is not just an election; it's our democracy itself.<p>Thanks.\" "
"268" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, CBC! Well, it is wonderful to be back with all of you. I want to acknowledge, first of all, chair of the CBC Barbara Lee for the outstanding work that she has done this year. Somebody who not only is a passionate defender of our domestic agenda, but also somebody who knows more about our foreign policy than just about anybody on the Hill, the chair of the CBC Foundation, Donald Payne, thank you. Our ALC Conference cochairs, Elijah Cummings and Diane Watson, thank you. To Dr. Elsie Scott, president and CEO of the CBC Foundation, thank you for your outstanding work.<p>We've got a couple of very special guests here today. I want to give a shout-out to my friend, somebody who all of us rely on for his wisdom, his steadiness, the House majority whip, Jim Clyburn. A couple of folks who are working tirelessly in my Cabinet: the Attorney General of the United States, Eric Holder, is in the house; the woman who is charged with implementing health care reform, HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, is here; our United States Trade Representative, Ambassador Ron Kirk, is here.<p>And obviously, it is a great honor to have been able to speak backstage to this year's Phoenix Award honorees: Judith Jamison, Harry Belafonte, Sheila Oliver, and Simeon Booker. Thank you for everything that you've done for America.<p>I know you've spent a good deal of time during CBC weekend talking about a whole range of issues and talking about what the future holds not just for the African American community, but for the United States of America. I've been spending some time thinking about that too. [<i>Laughter</i>] And at this time of great challenge, one source of inspiration is the story behind the founding of the Congressional Black Caucus.<p>I want us all to take a moment and remember what was happening 40 years ago when 13 Black Members of Congress decided to come together and form this caucus. It was 1969. More than a decade had passed since the Supreme Court decided Brown versus Board of Education. It had been years since Selma and Montgomery, since Dr. King had told America of his dream, all of it culminating in the passage of the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act. <p>The founders of this caucus could look back and feel pride in the progress that had been made. They could feel confident that America was finally moving in the right direction. But they knew they couldn't afford to rest on their laurels. They couldn't be complacent. There were still too many inequalities to be eliminated, too many injustices to be overturned, too many wrongs to be righted.<p>That's why the CBC was formed: to right wrongs, to be the conscience of the Congress. And at the very first CBC dinner, the great actor and activist Ossie Davis told the audience America was at a crossroads. And although his speech was magnificent and eloquent, he boiled his message down to a nice little phrase when it came to how America would move forward. He said, \\"It's not the man, it's the plan.\\" It's not the man, it's the plan. That was true 40 years ago. It is true today.<p>We all understood that during my campaign. This wasn't just about electing a Black President. This was about a plan to rescue our economy and rebuild it on a new foundation. Statistics just came out this week: From 2001 to 2009, the income of middle class families in this country went down 5 percent. Think about that. People's incomes during that period, when the economy was growing, went down 5 percent. That's what our agenda was about: making sure that we were changing that pattern. It was about giving every hard-working American a chance to join a growing and vibrant middle class and giving people ladders and steps to success. It was about putting the American Dream within the reach of all Americans, not just some. No matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, everybody would have access to the America Dream.<p>I don't have to tell you we're not there yet. This historic recession, the worst since the Great Depression, has taken a devastating toll on all sectors of our economy. It's hit Americans of all races and all regions and all walks of life. But as has been true often in our history, as has been true in other recessions, this one came down with a particular vengeance on the African American community.<p>It added to problems that a lot of neighborhoods had been facing long before the storm of this recession. Long before this recession, there were Black men and women throughout our cities and towns who'd given up looking for a job and kids standing around on the corners without any prospects for the future. Long before this recession, there were blocks full of shuttered stores that hadn't been open in generations. So yes, this recession made matters much worse, but the African American community has been struggling for quite some time.<p>It's been a decade in which progress has stalled. And we know that repairing the damage, climbing our way out of this recession, we understand it will take time. It's not going to happen overnight. But what I want to say to all of you tonight is that we've begun the hard work of moving this country forward. We are moving in the right direction.<p>When I took office, our economy was on the brink of collapse. So we acted immediately, and the CBC acted immediately, and we took steps to stop the financial meltdown and our economic freefall. And now our economy is growing again. The month I was sworn in, we had lost 750,000 jobs. We've now seen 8 months in a row in which we've added private sector jobs. We're in a different place than we were a year ago or 18 months ago.<p>And let's face it, taking some of these steps wasn't easy. There were a lot of naysayers, a lot of skepticism. There was a lot of skepticism about whether we could get GM and Chrysler back on their feet. There were folks who wanted to walk away, potentially see another million jobs lost. But we said, we've got to try. And now U.S. auto industries are profitable again and hiring again, back on their feet again, on the move again.<p>There were folks who were wondering whether we could hold the banks accountable for what they had done to taxpayers or were skeptical about whether we could make infrastructure investments and investments in clean energy and investments in education and hold ourselves accountable for how that money was spent. There was a lot of skepticism about what we were trying to do. And a lot of it was unpopular.<p>But I want to remind everybody here, you did not elect me to do what was popular, you elected me to do what was right. That's what we've been fighting together for: to do what's right. We don't have our finger out to the wind to know what's right.<p>That's why we passed health insurance reform that will make it illegal for insurance companies to deny you coverage because of a preexisting condition, historic reforms that will give over 30 million Americans the chance to finally obtain quality care, tackles the disparities in the health care system, puts a cap on the amount you can be charged in out-of-pocket expenses. Because nobody should go broke because they got sick in a country like the United States of America, not here.<p>That's why we passed Wall Street reform to finally crack down on the predatory practices of some of the banks and mortgage companies so we can protect hard-working families from abusive fees or unjustified rates every time they use a credit card or make a mortgage payment or go to a payday loan operation or take out a student loan or overdraw on their account at an ATM. Laws that will help put an end to the days of Government bailouts so Main Street never again has to pay for Wall Street's mistakes.<p>That's why we made historic investments in education, including our HBCUs, and shifted tens of billions of dollars that were going to subsidize banks and made sure that money was giving millions of more children the chance to go to college and have a better future. That's what we've been doing.<p>That's why we're keeping the promises I made on the campaign trail. We passed tax cuts for 95 percent of working families. We expanded national service, from AmeriCorps to the Peace Corps. We recommitted our Justice Department to the enforcement of civil rights laws. We changed sentencing disparities as a consequence of the hard work of many in the CBC. We started closing tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas so we can give those tax breaks to companies that invest right here in the United States of America.<p>We ended our combat mission in Iraq and welcomed nearly 100,000 troops home. In Afghanistan, we're breaking the momentum of the Taliban and training Afghan forces so that next summer, we can begin the transition to Afghan responsibility. And in the meantime, we're making sure we take care of our veterans as well as they have taken care of us. We don't just talk about our veterans, give speeches about our veterans; we actually put the money in to make sure we're taking care of our veterans.<p>And even as we manage these national security priorities, we are partnering with developing countries to feed and educate and house their people. We're helping Haiti rebuild, following an unprecedented response from the United States Government and the United States military in the wake of the devastation there. In Sudan, we're committed to doing our part--and we call on the parties there to do their part--to fully implement the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and ensure lasting peace and accountability in Darfur. As I said in Ghana, it is in America's strategic interest to be a stronger partner with the nations throughout Africa. That's not just good for them, that's good for us.<p>That's what we've been doing, CBC, at home and abroad. It's been an important time. We've had a historic legislative session. We could have been just keeping things quiet and peaceful around here, because change is hard. But we decided to do what was hard and necessary to move this country forward. Members of the CBC have helped deliver some of the most significant progress in a generation, laws that will help strengthen America's middle class and give more pathways for men and women to climb out of poverty.<p>But we've still got a long way to go: too many people still out of work, too many families still facing foreclosure, too many businesses and neighborhoods still struggling to rebound. During the course of this recession, poverty has gone up to a 15-year high.<p>So it's not surprising, given the hardships we're seeing all across the land, that a lot of people may not be feeling very energized, very engaged right now. A lot of folks may be feeling like politics is something that they get involved with every 4 years when there's a Presidential election, but they don't see why they should bother the rest of the time, which brings me back to Ossie Davis. Ossie Davis understood, it's not the man, it's the plan. And the plan is still unfinished.<p>For all the strides we've made in our economy, we need to finish our plan for a stronger economy. Our middle class is still shaken, and too many folks are still locked in poverty. <p>For all the progress on education, too many students aren't graduating ready for college and a career. We still have schools where half the kids are dropping out. We've got to finish our plan to give all of our children the best education the world has to offer.<p>We've still got to implement health care reform so that it brings down costs and improves access for all people. <p>And we've got to make sure that we are putting people to work rebuilding America's roads and railways and runways and schools. We've got more work to do. We've got a plan to finish.<p>Now, remember, the other side has a plan too. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's a plan to turn back the clock on every bit of progress we've made. To paraphrase my friend Deval Patrick, the last election was a changing of the guard; now we've got to guard the change. Because everything that we are for, our opponents have spent 2 years fighting against. They said no to unemployment insurance, no to tax cuts for ordinary working families, no for small-business loans, no to providing additional assistance to students who desperately want to go to school. That's their motto: \\"No, we can't.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Can you imagine having that on your bumper sticker? [<i>Laughter</i>] It's not very inspiring. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>In fact, the only agenda they've got is to go back to the same old policies that got us into this mess in the first place. I'll give you an example. They want to borrow $700 billion--keep in mind, we don't have $700 billion--they want to borrow $700 billion, from the Chinese or the Saudis or whoever is lending, and use it on tax cuts--more tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires. Average tax cut: $100,000 for people making a million dollars or more.<p>Now, the next few years are going to be tough budget years, which is why I've called for a freeze on some discretionary spending. If we are spending $700 billion, we're borrowing $700 billion, not paying for it, it's got to come from somewhere. Where do you think it's going to come from? Who do you think is going to pay for these $100,000 checks going to millionaires? Our seniors, our children, hard-working families all across America that are already struggling?<p>We shouldn't be passing tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires right now. That's not what we should be doing. We should be helping the middle class grow. We should be providing pathways out of poverty. And yet the man with the plan to be Speaker of the House, John Boehner, attacked us for closing corporate tax loopholes and using the money to keep hundreds of thousands of essential personnel on the jobs all across the States. He called these jobs, and I quote, \\"government jobs,\\" suggested they weren't worth saving--teacher jobs, police officer jobs, firefighter jobs.<p>Ask your sister who's a teacher if her job is worth saving. Ask your uncle who's a firefighter if his job was worth saving. Ask your cousin who's a police officer if her job was worth saving. Ask your neighbors if their jobs were worth saving. Because I think a job is worth saving if it's keeping Americans working and keeping America strong and secure. That's what I believe. That's what's at stake in this. They want to hand Washington back over to special interests. We're fighting on behalf of the American people. They want to take us backwards. We want to move forward.<p>Their main strategy is they're betting you'll come down with a case of amnesia--[<i>laughter</i>]--that you'll forget what happened between 2001 and 2009, what that agenda did to this country when they were in charge. And they spent almost a decade driving the economy into the ditch. And now we've been down in that ditch, put on our boots--it's hot down there--we've been pushing the car, shoving it--[<i>laughter</i>]--sweating. They're standing on the sidelines, sipping a Slurpee--[<i>laughter</i>]--watching us, saying: \\"You're not pushing fast enough. You're not pushing hard enough.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Finally, we get the car out of the ditch; it's back on the road. They tap us on the shoulder. They say, \\"We want the keys back.\\" We tell them: \\"You can't have the keys back. You don't know how to drive. You can't have it back.\\" [<i>Applause</i>] That's right.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Can't give them the keys!<p><i>The President.</i> You can't give them the keys. [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, I just want to point out, if you want your car to go forward, what do you do? <p><i>Audience members.</i> \\"D\\"!<p><i>The President.</i> You put it in \\"D.\\" You want to go backwards, what do you do? That's all I'm saying. That's not a coincidence. That's not a coincidence.<p>All right, all right, I get it. We've got to move this program along. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>There are those who want to turn back the clock. They want to do what's right politically instead of what's right, period. They think about the next election. We're thinking about the next generation. We can't think short term when so many people are out of work, not when so many families are still hurting. We need to finish the plan you elected me to put in place.<p>And I need you. I need you because this isn't going to be easy. And I didn't promise you easy. I said back on the campaign that change was going to be hard. Sometimes it's going to be slower than some folks would like. I said sometimes we'd be making some compromises and people would be frustrated. I said I could not do it alone. This wasn't just a matter of getting me elected and, suddenly, I was going to snap my fingers and all our problems would go away. It was a matter of all of us getting involved, all of us staying committed, all of us sticking with our plan for a better future until it was complete. That's how we've always moved this country forward.<p>Each and every time we've made epic change, from this country's founding to emancipation to women's suffrage to workers' rights, it has not come from a man. It has come from a plan. It has come from a grassroots movement rallying around a cause. That's what the civil rights movement made possible. Foot soldiers like so many of you, sitting down at lunch counters, standing up for freedom--what made it possible for me to be here today--Americans throughout our history making our Union more equal, making our Union more just, making our Union more perfect, one step at a time.<p>That's what we need again. So I need everybody here to go back to your neighborhoods, to go back to your workplaces, to go to churches and go to the barbershops and got to the beauty shops and tell them we've got more work to do. Tell them we can't wait to organize. Tell them that the time for action is now and that if each and every person in this country who knows what is at stake steps up to the plate, if we are willing to rise to this moment like we've always done, then together, we will write our own destiny once more.<p>Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"269" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Philadelphia! Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you, everybody. It is good to be back in Philly. First of all, I noticed everybody is in a better mood after the game yesterday. <p><i>Audience member.</i> Go Bears!<p><i>The President.</i> The Bears did well too, I just want to point out--[<i>laughter</i>]--2-0. But congratulations on the Eagles. You guys got a win. <p>It's also good to be back in Philly because I had to stop by the Reading Terminal Market. Got a couple of cheesesteaks that are waiting for me back there, so--[<i>laughter</i>]--but I didn't want to keep you all waiting. I also bought some apples so that Michelle would feel like I was eating healthy. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I've got some great friends who are here. I know the Governor, Ed Rendell, had to leave, but give him a big round of applause, because he's doing outstanding work. In the audience, we've got one of my favorite people. As excellent a person as he is a public servant, Senator Bob Casey is in the house. Your outstanding Member of Congress, Bob Brady, is here. Your mayor, Michael Nutter, is here.<p>And I want to thank Pat Croce. We were talking a little bit about the Bulls and the 76ers--[<i>laughter</i>]--and I like our chances. [<i>Laughter</i>] But no, I've been a big admirer of Pat's. He just exudes enthusiasm about everything he does, and that's part of what I'm going to be talking about today: enthusiasm, having that spirit, even when things are tough, that pushes through to the victory line.<p>Now, it is great to be back in Pennsylvania because the main reason I'm here is to stand beside your next United States Senator, Joe Sestak.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Joe! Joe! Joe!<p><i>The President.</i> Joe! Joe! Joe!<p>And Joe is right. In me, he's got a friend. And I'm not the only one. Look, this is a friendly crowd. Everybody here loves Joe. Everybody here is supporting Joe. But I want to talk a little bit about enthusiasm, energy; why you need to work for Joe; why, between now and November, I need everybody here to knock on some doors and write some more checks and make some more phone calls and talk to your neighbors about Joe. That's what we need.<p>And you need to do this because the choice in this election could not be clearer and the stakes could not be higher. On the one hand, we have a candidate in Joe Sestak who is not a career politician. Everybody has been talking about insiders in Washington. Well, Joe is not one of the insiders who's been part of the problem. Instead, he's been solving problems in Washington. He didn't go there with a liberal agenda or a conservative agenda. He went to serve the people of Pennsylvania, just like he's served his country for the last three decades.<p>This is somebody who's always working for you, whose door is always open, who's helped pass 10 pieces of legislation in just 3 years: the first new Federal funding for autism treatment in 12 years, student loan assistance for U.S. troops called to active duty, support for troops who come home with PTSD, more help and more contracts for Pennsylvania's small businesses. He has been doing the work. In Washington, you know, they make the distinction between show horses and workhorses. And Joe is a workhorse. He's been working, not talking.<p>And this is somebody who's been pragmatic. He will work with Democrats, he'll work with Republicans, he'll work with Independents. He's willing to work with anybody who's interested in actually getting the job done, and that's the kind of person that you want representing you in Washington. That's who Joe Sestak is. That's why you need to work for him to make him your next Senator.<p>On the other side, we've got a candidate who was in Washington for years, ran a special interest group whose main function has been to pull the Republican Party to the right--even farther to the right. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, I guess you could say he's--they've done a good job--[<i>laughter</i>]--at that. This is somebody who, when he had a chance, voted to cut help for small businesses, who wants to make trade deals that send jobs out of Pennsylvania, who seems more concerned about the folks he used to trade with on Wall Street than the Pennsylvanians here on Main Street. It's someone who is telling us he'll do everything he can to return to the exact same policies that led us to this horrible recession that we're in in the first place.<p>We can't afford to let that happen. We cannot afford more of the same rigid ideology that led us--in this place. We can't afford to go backwards. We've got to move forward. We need Joe Sestak to move forward. That's the choice in this election.<p>I want to set the context for this, because for the last decade, a very specific philosophy reigned in Washington. And it does have the advantage that it's simple to describe. You cut taxes, especially for millionaires and billionaires. You cut regulations for special interests. You cut back on investments in education and clean energy and research and technology. The basic idea was that if we put our blind faith in the market and if we let corporations play by their own rules and we leave everybody else to fend for themselves, that somehow America would grow and prosper.<p>We know how that philosophy worked out. It didn't work for middle class families, who saw their incomes go down and their costs go up. I'm--there was a report--this isn't from me, this is the Wall Street Journal, not known for--[<i>laughter</i>]--you know, pushing the Obama agenda. [<i>Laughter</i>] The Wall Street Journal said that from 2001 to 2009, when the other sides was in power, the average wage for middle class families went down 5 percent. That's before the crisis hit. So your wages and incomes flatlined, your costs of everything from health care to college tuition skyrocketed.<p>Their philosophy didn't work for an economy that experienced the slowest job growth of any decade since World War II. They took record surpluses, turned them into record deficits. And then finally, recklessness on the part of some on Wall Street led to the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. That's their track record.<p>Now, I ran for President because I had a different idea about how this country was built. And it was an idea rooted in my own family's story. My parents, grandparents, they never had much. I was raised by a single mom who worked tirelessly so that I might have a better life. Her and my grandparents, they believed in the American values of self-reliance and individual responsibility, and they instilled those values in their children.<p>But they also believed in a country that rewards hard work and rewards responsibility and a country where we look after one another, where we say, I am my brother's keeper, I am my sister's keeper. They believed in that America. <p>They believed in an America that gave my grandfather the chance to go to college because of the GI bill, an America that gave my grandparents the chance to buy a home because of the Federal Housing Authority, an America where a rising tide really does lift all boats, from the CEO to the newest guy on the assembly line. That's the America I believe in, and that's the America Joe Sestak believes in.<p>I had a town hall on the economy today on CNBC. And I explained to people, we don't believe government has all the answers to our problems. We don't think government's main role is to create jobs or prosperity. Joe, I know, believes this, that government should be lean. It should be efficient. But in the words of the first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, we also believe that government should do for the people what they can't do better for themselves.<p>And that means a future where we encourage American innovation and American ingenuity. That's why we want to end tax breaks going to companies that are shipping jobs overseas and start giving those tax breaks to companies that are investing in jobs and research and plants and equipment right here in the United States of America.<p>That's why we're investing in research and technology and a homegrown clean energy industry, because I don't want solar panels and electric cars and advanced batteries manufactured in Europe or in Asia. I want them made right here in the United States of America, in the U.S. of A., by American workers.<p>We see an America where every citizen has the skills and training to compete with any worker in the world. That's why we've set a goal to once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020. We used to be number 1; we're now number 12. We are going to get back to number one because that is our future.<p>That's why we're revitalizing our community colleges and reforming our education system based on what works best for our children, not what works to perpetuate the status quo. That's why we're fighting to make our new college tax credit permanent, a tax credit that will mean $10,000 in tuition relief for each child going to 4 years of college.<p>Most of all, we see an America where a growing middle class is the beating heart of a growing economy. That's why I kept my campaign promise and gave a middle class tax cut to 95 percent of working Americans. That's why we passed health insurance reform that stops insurance companies from jacking up your premiums at will or denying you coverage because you get sick.<p>While I was over at Reading Terminal, a woman came up to me. She says, \\"Thank you so much for health care reform. I've got two young people graduating from college. My children right now, they don't have health insurance, but because of your bill, they're going to be able to stay on my health insurance until they're 26 years old.\\" And I told them, it was the right thing to do then, it's the right thing to do now, and we've got to keep it in place for the future.<p>That's why we passed financial reform: to end taxpayer bailouts, but also to stop credit card companies and mortgage lenders from taking advantage of the American people by jacking up rates without any notice.<p>That's why we're trying to make it easier for workers to save for retirement, fighting the efforts of some in the other party to privatize Social Security, because as long as I'm President, nobody is going to take the retirement savings of a generation of Americans and hand it over to Wall Street. We're not going to do that. This is the America we see. This is the America we believe in. That's the choice in this election.<p>Now, we've been through an incredibly difficult time as a nation. When I walked into the White House, preventing a second depression was not what I expected to be at the top of my to-do list. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And even though we've done that, even though the economy is now growing again and we're adding private sector jobs again, the hole was so deep that progress has been painfully slow. You still have millions of Americans who are unemployed, millions more who can barely pay the bills, hundreds of thousands of families who have lost their homes. These aren't just statistics. Behind each of those numbers, there's a face, there's a story, there's heartache, there's struggle. I see it in the letters I receive each night. I see it when I have town hall meetings or I travel around the country.<p>So I know people are frustrated and they're angry. And they're anxious about the future. And I also know that in a political campaign, the easiest thing for the other side to do is not to put forward any specifics, not to put forward any plans, but just try to ride that anger and fear all the way to election day. And that's what's happening right now.<p>I mean, look, it'd be one thing if Joe's opponent, the other Republican candidates, had looked back on the last decade and said to themselves: \\"You know what, our policies didn't work. We ended up in a terrible recession. We need to try something new.\\"<p>But that's not what they're doing. They are not offering any new ideas. They're not offering any new policies. We're not engaged in some honest debate where they say, oh, we're going to get control of Government spending, and we're going to create jobs, and here's how we'll do it: We're going to do it one, two, three, four, five. That's not what they're doing.<p>The chair of one of their campaign committees said that if they take over Congress, they will pursue--I'm quoting now--\\"the exact same agenda\\" as they did before I took office--the exact same agenda.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> So here's an analogy I've used. I think you guys will understand it. They drove the economy into a ditch. And so me and Joe and others, we went down into the ditch, and we put on our boots. And it's muddy down there and slippery, and it's hot, and there are bugs. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we're pushing, and we're shoving to get the car out of the ditch. And the whole time, the Republicans are standing up there comfortable, sipping on a Slurpee, watching us. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>They're saying, you got to push harder; you're not pushing the right way. [<i>Laughter</i>] But we keep on at it. Every once in a while we ask them to come down and help, and they say, no, no, we're not going to help. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Finally, we get this car back on level ground. It's a little dented. You know, it's got a few holes in the fender. But we're finally moving in the right direction. And suddenly, we get a tap on the shoulder. And they say, excuse me, we want the keys back. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>You can't have the keys back because you don't know how to drive. They don't know how to drive the car. They can't have the keys back. You can't have it. And I just want to point out, when you want to drive and you want to go forward, what do you do? You put the car in what? In \\"D.\\" If you're going backwards, what do you do? You put it in \\"R.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] That's not a coincidence.<p>They have told us exactly what they would do if we give them the keys back. Credit card companies, they'll be able to jack up the rates without reason. Insurance companies can deny you coverage because you're sick. They want to stand by and do nothing when States are forced to lay off teachers or firefighters or cops. According to the Republican leader of the House, those are just, quote, \\"government jobs\\" that presumably aren't worth saving. <p>They want to give more tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas. And they want to borrow $700 billion--$700 billion that we don't have--to give a tax break that is worth, on average, $100,000 to every millionaire and billionaire in America. Now, these are the folks who are lecturing us on fiscal responsibility. The same folks who refused to pay for two wars, two tax cuts for the wealthy, left me a $1.3 trillion deficit all wrapped up in a bow when I walked into the Oval Office. Now they want to spend another $700 billion that 98 percent of Americans will never see. <p>I believe we need a serious plan to reduce our deficit. That's why I've already proposed a 3-year freeze on all discretionary spending outside national security. It's why we've already identified $300 billion worth of tax loopholes that aren't serving our economy well that could be closed and a couple hundred billion dollars' worth of cuts that we could make in programs that aren't working anymore. That's why we launched a bipartisan fiscal commission to come up with real solutions to reduce our long-term deficit. But these folks aren't serious about the deficit, not if they want to spend another $100 billion without paying for it to give tax breaks to folks who don't need it and weren't even asking for it. <p>That's their agenda. That's what they're offering the American people, a future that looks like a recent past that did not work for you, one where special interests got rein to play by their own rules and where middle class families were left to fend for themselves.<p>Philadelphia, that's just not a future I accept for the United States of America. That is not a future that Joe Sestak accepts for the United States of America. And if you don't accept that future for this Nation, then we've got to have your help in this election.<p>If you don't think the stakes are large, I want you to consider this. This is worth thinking about. Right now, all across this country, special interests are running millions of dollars of attack ads against Democratic candidates. And the reason for this is last year's Supreme Court decision in Citizens United, which basically says that special interests can gather up millions of dollars--they are now allowed to spend as much as they want without limit, and they don't have to ever reveal who's paying for these ads.<p>And that's what they're doing all across the country. They're doing it right here in Pennsylvania--millions of dollars being spent. And the names always sound very benign. It's the Americans for Prosperity, Committee for Truth in Politics, Americans for Apple Pie. [<i>Laughter</i>] I made that last one up. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>None of them will disclose who is paying for these ads. You don't know whether it's some big financial interest. You don't know if it's a big oil company or an insurance company. You don't even know if it's foreign controlled.<p>And we tried to fix this, but the leaders of the other party wouldn't even allow it to come up for a vote. They want the public to be in the dark. But we cannot allow a special interest takeover of our democracy. We can't go back to the days when just because you had a lobbyist, that you could write the Tax Code the way you wanted it, taking advantage of middle--Main Street families, middle class families. We're not going to go back to the days when insurance companies wrote rules that said if your child had a preexisting condition, you might never be able to get him health insurance. We're not going back to the exact same agenda because we know what happened.<p>So a lot has changed since this last election, but what hasn't changed is the choice that we face in this country. It is still fear versus hope. It's still past versus future. It's still the choice between sliding backwards or moving forward. That's what this election is about. That's the choice you'll face in November.<p>Now, let me just close by saying this. Look, this is not going to be easy. Electing Joe is not going to be easy. He's going to be outspent, not just by the other candidate, but by these special interests. It's--but also because it's never easy. The challenges we're facing aren't easy. But you didn't elect me to do what's easy. You didn't elect me just to read the polls and figure out how to keep myself in office. You elected me to do what is right. That's why I ran. That's why Joe Sestak is running.<p>That's why you got to work hard in these next few weeks and knocking on doors for Joe and talking to your friends and neighbors about Joe and making phone calls for Joe and writing some checks for Joe. We need you to do this here in Pennsylvania and all across the country, because we can defeat those millions of dollars if we got people power on our side, millions of Americans making their voices heard. And if we do that, then hope will beat fear every time and the future will beat the past.<p>That's what this election is about. We need to come together around the great project of American renewal. We will restore our economy and rebuild our middle class and reclaim the American Dream for the next generation.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"270" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. Everybody, have a seat. Take a load off. Relax a little bit. It is wonderful to see all of you. It is great to be back in Philadelphia. I was mentioning, it's great to be back, especially after the Eagles just won. <p><i>Audience member.</i> And the Phillies--[<i>inaudible</i>].<p><i>The President.</i> The Phillies are looking pretty good. [<i>Laughter</i>] My White Sox are fading. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm not happy about that. I'm also happy because I stopped by Reading Terminal Market and got a cheesesteak, so I am going to be--which is waiting for me as we speak. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But the main reason I'm pleased to be here is because I'm next to somebody who has served this country so well for so long. He's only been an elected official for a brief time, but he has served this country with extraordinary distinction for years and for the right reasons. He helped to keep this country safe, but he also understood--which is why he's running for the United States Senate--that America is only safe if our core foundation is strong. And Joe understands, just as I understood when I ran back in 2008, that for a long time, our foundation had been weakening. And that's really what this election is about, just as much as what the election back in 2008 was about.<p>When I started running, we didn't know yet that we were going to experience the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. We didn't know the full magnitude of what could have been a second Great Depression. But here's what we knew, that for a decade, America had been losing ground. From 2001 to 2009, middle class families had actually lost 5 percent of their wages. So job growth was the most sluggish, the slowest since World War II.<p>The economy was not working for ordinary folks. And there was a economic philosophy that reigned that could be described pretty simply: Cut taxes for millionaires and billionaires, cut regulations and rules that help protect consumers and workers and our environment, and then leave everybody else to fend for themselves. And the notion was that if we had blind faith in the market, that somehow America would grow and prosper.<p>It was a very particular ideology, and we tried it for 8 years. And the result was that middle class families all across America lost ground, and those aspiring to climb into the middle class found that hard work and responsibility were not always rewarded. And a lot of people started losing faith in the possibilities of the American Dream.<p>That's what the election in 2008 was all about. We had a very clear choice between continuing to do the things that we had been doing that weren't working or trying something different.<p>Now, as it so happens, by the time I was sworn in, in January of 2009, we were in the midst of this extraordinary crisis, losing 750,000 jobs that month. We had lost 4 million jobs in the preceding 6 months. Ultimately, we'd lose 8 million jobs--nothing like it since the thirties. In fact, if you take the recessions of the early eighties, the recessions of the early nineties, and the recession of the early 2000s, this was worse in its effect than all three of those other recessions combined.<p>And so my first task, working with folks like Joe in Congress, was to make sure that we stopped the bleeding, make sure that we stabilized the financial markets, making sure that we didn't tip into a Great Depression. And we have succeeded in doing that.<p>But the hole that we dug was deep, and millions of people are still out of work. Hundreds of thousands of people have lost their homes. People have trouble paying their bills. Young people have trouble when they get out of school finding a job. And so it wasn't enough just to stop the bleeding. We also had to lay that new foundation to make this economy stronger. And that's what we've been doing.<p>We made the largest investment in education at the Federal level in history and freed up tens of billions of dollars to go directly to young people so they could go to school. We made the largest investment in research and development in our history, because we knew that we had to regain our competitive advantage in a 21st-century global marketplace. We started investing in infrastructure, because it turns out that we used to have the best infrastructure in the world and we don't anymore. And China is spending 9 percent of its GDP on infrastructure, and Germany and Europe are spending 5 percent, and we were spending 2 percent, which is why our bridges were falling down and our airports were constantly delayed. And by the way, all these steps that we took were putting people back to work.<p>And we decided we had to change our health care system--even though it was hard, even though it was not always the popular thing to do--because businesses and families and ultimately the Federal Government were on a path that was unsustainable. It was going to break our backs if we did not finally do something. And we did something that not only helps people get health insurance, but makes sure that all of us who have health insurance can keep our kids on our health insurance plan until they're 26 and makes sure that if you've got a preexisting condition or your child has a preexisting condition, that they're still able to get health care. Because in a country as wealthy as ours, with the values that we have, nobody should go bankrupt just because they get sick.<p>We initiated financial regulatory reform to make sure that taxpayers don't have to pay for bailouts because of the recklessness of a few. And we also made sure that consumers were protected in their financial dealings.<p>And so step by step, what we've tried to do is to--even as we were dealing with the immediate crisis--look at not the next election, but look at the next generation; and say to ourselves, what's really going to make a difference in terms of growing a middle class that is the backbone, that is the beating heart of our economy; and giving access to people so that if they work hard, they know that they can find a job that pays a living wage, and they know that they won't be bankrupt because they get sick, and they can send their children to college to aspire to something even greater than they achieved, and that they can retire with dignity and respect.<p>Now, I am so proud of the work that we've done over the last 20 months. And Joe Sestak has helped every step of the way on a whole range of issues: making sure that our veterans coming home are treated for PTSD and traumatic brain injuries; making sure that we update our GI bill so that the same GI bill that my grandfather went to school on and helped him enter into the middle class, well, now a post-9/11 GI bill is able to help this next generation of incredible young men and women who are coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan find their foothold in our economy; making sure that businesses here in Pennsylvania--we were just meeting a couple of businesses next door that are investing in solar panels and wind panels--wind turbines and clean energy--making sure that our energy policy is aligned with the technologies of the future; making sure that we remain at the cutting edge.<p>Joe has been at the forefront of all of these measures. But here's the thing: The other side pushes back. All the special interests that had dominated Washington for so long, they're not pleased that suddenly they're not writing the rules for their industries. The health insurance industry is not happy that they can't drop people with coverage who may not be economical, from their perspective, to cover. Some of the financial industries that we're now regulating, they see that maybe they've lost sources of profits. And so they are pouring millions of dollars in negative ads against candidates like Joe Sestak.<p>They want to go back to what we had before 2008. I'm not making this up. This is not a situation where Republicans went off into the desert after 2008 and said, \\"Boy, we really screwed up. We need to meditate here, and let's see if we can do something new.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And finally, the eureka moment came, and they went out there and said, \\"Boy, have we got a whole bunch of new ideas.\\" That's not what they're saying. They're saying, \\"We want to go back to the exact same agenda that got us into this mess in the first place.\\"<p>And so we've got a big fight on our hands. It's a fight for what this country is about--about our core values. And in an environment in which people are understandably still frustrated and angry and confused about the depths of this crisis, what they're counting on is they can ride fear and anger all the way to victory in November. They're counting on amnesia. They're counting on the fact that nobody remembers it was their policies that got us into this mess in the first place.<p>So the way I describe it, just to make it a little more vivid, essentially they drove our economy into a ditch. And for the last 2 years, Joe and me and others, we put on our boots, we went down into the ditch. It's muddy, it's dusty. We're hot. Bugs are swarming all over the place. We're going in there. We're pushing up against the car. We're tugging and pulling. And every once in a while, we'd look up and we'd ask if the Republicans want to come down and help. And they'd be standing there with their Slurpees, and they'd say, \\"No, but you should push harder.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"You're not pushing the right way.\\"<p>And finally, we get the car up on the--on level ground, and it's a little dented, it needs a good wash, but the engine is still sound. And we're ready to move it forward. And suddenly, we get a tap on the shoulder, and we look back, and it's the Republicans. And they say, \\"We want the keys back.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And what we have to tell them is, you can't have the keys back because you don't know how to drive. We cannot afford to give you the keys to the car back. You don't know how to drive it. <p>And if you want to move forward, you got to put the car in \\"D,\\" because when you put the car in \\"R,\\" you end up going backwards, not forwards. And we can't afford to go backwards. That's what this election is about, everybody. That is what this election is about.<p>Let me just describe for you one specific debate that we're having right now about tax cuts. Now, they instituted two tax cuts that were not paid for, along with two wars that were not paid for, which contributed to taking a record surplus to a record deficit. You now have a whole bunch of folks out there understandably and legitimately concerned about deficits and debt. And so the Republicans are trying to ride this wave: We are opposed to Government spending, and we are going to take our country back.<p>And then they propose a $700 billion extension of tax cuts for the top 3 percent of the country--top 2 percent of the country, a tax cut that 86 percent of it would go to people making a million dollars a year or more, would average a $100,000 check for people making a million dollars or more. That's their growth agenda--$700 billion, which we don't have, so we would have to borrow, from China or the Saudis or somebody, because we don't have it.<p>And if you don't think $700 billion is real money even in Washington, understand: That is the budget for Veterans Affairs over the course of 10 years. Everything we spend on our veterans--we would have to figure out how to come up with that much money. That's the amount of money we spend on the Department of Homeland Security. All this for folks who don't need a tax cut, weren't even looking for a tax cut. Well, that means you're not serious about the deficit. That means this is just talk and rhetoric.<p>So I want everybody to understand, these are serious times, and we need serious leaders. We can't have sound-bite leaders. We can't have folks who are thinking about the next election instead of the next generation. We need people who are willing to not just do what's easy, not just look at a poll or figure out which way the cable chatter is going and rush over to try to get at the front of the line. We need people who have the guts and the backbone to stand up and say, this is what's right.<p>You did not elect me to do what was popular. You elected me to do what was right. And that's what I've been trying to do, and that's what Joe Sestak is all about. <p>So final point. We were next door meeting with a few folks, and a gentleman said to me, \\"You've got to come back to Philadelphia.\\" I pointed out I was just here last week. [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"You've got to come back to Philadelphia, get folks fired up. I know we can elect Joe if you come back to Philadelphia.\\"<p>I said, you know what, you've got to get them fired up. This is not just me. This is not a spectator sport. The reason that I was elected President was because people like you all across this country were willing to knock on doors and talk to your friends and talk to your neighbors, and let's face it, in some cases, your kids came to you and said, you know what, we finally believe that maybe this country can change, and we want you to support Obama. And suddenly, people started meeting each other and talking to each other and thinking about what was possible. And you built something, something that we hadn't seen in this country for so long.<p>You generated the excitement. It wasn't about me. It was about you. And because we've gone through a difficult time over the last 2 years, there are a lot of people who are suddenly saying, well, you know what, maybe our hopes were too high. Maybe it's not worth getting involved. Change didn't happen as quickly as I expected. Maybe this is the best we can do.<p>Well, I am here to say that change is always hard. Things that are worthwhile are always hard. They always take time. And because we live in a big, messy democracy with a diverse population of people from every walk of life and because we have freedom of speech and freedom of the press and freedom of assembly, sometimes democracy can look just tough.<p>But that's what makes America so extraordinary, as long as all of you are willing to engage. So don't wait for me to come back to Philadelphia. Don't wait for me to elect Joe Sestak. You go out there and elect Joe Sestak.<p>You believe in yourselves. You believe in your own ability and the ability of Americans all across this country to change the country they love. If each and every one of you are knocking on doors and making phone calls and talking to your friends and talking to your neighbors, I guarantee you, Joe Sestak will be Senator. And he will join with Bob Casey, and he will join with me, and together, we are going to continue moving this country forward.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"271" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. I am getting older, so I've got to make sure I have a card in case I forget anybody. First of all, I want to thank Mark and Ken for helping to pull this together. Thank you so much. You guys did an outstanding job.<p>To my dear friend Bob Casey, who was out there campaigning with me in Pennsylvania when our campaign was just full of ups and downs, and the Caseys were such great friends, continue to be such great friends. And Bob is not only a great Senator, he's just a fine, fine man and a good person to anybody who knows him.<p>We've got Arlen Specter in the house. And I want to thank him for his extraordinary service to this country. Representative Joe Sestak, who's going to be the next Senator from the great State of Pennsylvania, is here, or at least he was here. Where is he? Now, I just want to say, by the way, if he left, that's a smart thing to do. I want him out there going out and getting votes. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Congressman Chaka Fattah is in the house, doing outstanding work each and every day. Mayor Michael Nutter is helping to lead this city, and we are grateful to him. Dan Onorato, the next Governor of the great State of Pennsylvania, is here as well. Thank you all for being here.<p>When I was sworn in on that very cold day in January--some of you were there. Remember? It was cold. But the spirits were warm. We had run a historic campaign against great odds at a time when the country understood that the path we were on was not tenable.<p>Between 2001 and 2009--this is according to the Wall Street Journal and according to the census--between 2001 and 2009, middle class families actually lost 5 percent of their income. Their wages and income had flatlined. And job growth was more sluggish during that period than any time since World War II. As tough as we're having it right now in terms of job growth, job growth was actually slower coming out of that recession after 2001. In the meantime, families were seeing their costs of health care, costs of sending their kids to college, you name it, were skyrocketing. And so people desperately felt that they were losing ground.<p>And a lot of this had to do with a very specific set of policies, an ideology that reigned in Washington that essentially said, we're going to cut taxes, regardless of its impact on deficits. We're going to cut taxes, especially for millionaires and billionaires. We're going to cut rules and regulations that protect consumers and workers and the environment. And we're basically going to cut loose middle class families and families aspiring to be in the middle class. We're going to cut them loose and let them fend for themselves. And if we do all that, then somehow prosperity is assured.<p>And for a while, on paper at least, I think some people thought it might work. Stock market was booming. We had a big housing bubble. Because housing prices kept on going up, people felt like they could borrow against their homes to make up for flatlining wages and incomes. People maxed out on their credit cards. And then the bottom began falling out, so that by the time I took office on that cold day, a hopeful day, that month we were going to lose 750,000 jobs. In the preceding 6 months before I took office, we had already lost 4 million jobs, and we were going to lose another 600,000 in February and another 600,000 in March, all before any of our economic policies would have a chance of taking effect.<p>Ultimately, as you all remember, we were on the verge of slipping into a Great Depression. And I still remember the work that we had to do in the White House in March when the stock market was crashing, credit was completely locked up. People--and we've got some terrific businesspeople here--you remember, you could not get a loan. You could not get a line of credit. People couldn't borrow for--to buy a car. You couldn't borrow to get a student loan. And there were a lot of economists out there who thought we were going to go back into the kind of depression that we hadn't seen since 1930.<p>So our first task was to stop the bleeding, to stabilize the economy. And we've done that. The financial markets are now stable. The economy that was contracting 6 percent in that first quarter when I took office is now growing again. We've seen 8 consecutive months of private sector job growth. But even though we stabilized the situation, the devastation that had been wrought as a consequence of this crisis--which, by the way, is worse than the recession in the eighties, the nineties, and at the beginning of 2000, worse than all three of those combined--we've begun to dig ourselves out of that hole, but all those problems that existed before the crisis haven't gone away.<p>So even though things are getting better, you still have millions of people who are out of work. You still have hundreds of thousands of homes that have been lost. People are still having trouble paying their bills and financing a college education.<p>And so what we knew was, what we had to not only do is to deal with the immediate crisis before us, but go back to what we talked about during that campaign. How are we going to set a foundation for long-term, sustained economic growth? How can we make sure that the growing middle class that is at the heart of a healthy economy, that that was a reality again for people all across this country?<p>That's our project. And over the last 20 months, I have not been spending time thinking about the next election, I've been spending time thinking about the next generation.<p>And that means sometimes we've done some things that were very unpopular. And I always try to remind people, we actually have very good pollsters who work with the White House, so I know when something is going to be unpopular. But you didn't work so hard on my behalf simply to do what was popular. You elected me to do what was right, and that's what we've done. From finally reforming our health care system, a health care system that was fundamentally broken, and doing so not just in a way that gives people access to health care, not only allows young people to stay on their parents' health care until they're 26, not only allows people with preexisting conditions to finally get health care, but also stands the best chance of reducing our long-term health care costs, which is ultimately the single most important thing we can do to reduce the deficit. And we did that with the help of Bob Casey and Arlen Specter.<p>And then we reformed our financial system so we would not have a circumstance again in which taxpayers were faced with the choice of either bailing out folks for irresponsible behavior or risking a complete meltdown of the financial system.<p>And then we made modifications to our higher learning and student loan program so that now we've got billions of dollars that are now flowing to young people all across this country, millions of kids who are now going to be able to afford college, and their debt will not be more than 10 percent of their income.<p>And we made the largest investment in research and development in our history, because we know that the most important thing we can do to ensure that the economy is growing is ensure that the next big thing is right here in the United States of America. And we made investments in clean energy, the largest in our history, so that solar panels and wind turbines and green cars and advanced battery technology is all manufactured right here in the United States of America, because we don't want those jobs going overseas, we want them here.<p>So we have, over the last 20 months, laid the tracks, the foundation for us to finally solve problems that had been plaguing us for decades and to ensure that the 21st century is the American century, just like the previous century was.<p>Now, all this was difficult because we had the other side saying no to every single thing we could propose: no to tax cuts for small businesses, no to infrastructure projects that would put people back to work, no to health care, no to financial regulatory reform. Their motto was \\"No, we can't.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] But we got it done anyway.<p>But look, we've got to admit that there was a price to getting that stuff done, because their unwillingness to work with us, their decision to stand on the sidelines in the midst of this crisis, allowed them then to point and say, well, this is not our problem, this is their problem. And understanding that we had a big hole to dig ourselves out of, understanding that the public was going to be angry and frustrated with what had happened, I understand the politics behind what they did. The question now is, will they be rewarded for that kind of politics that focuses on the next election and not the next generation? And that's going to be in large part up to folks like you.<p>I mean, the truth of the matter is, is that there is no reason why we can't take our case directly to the American people and win. And we've got terrific candidates all across the country who are prepared to do so. And the biggest impediment we have right now is that independent expenditures coming from special interests--who we don't know because they're not obligated to disclose their contributions under a Supreme Court decision called Citizens United--means that in some places, you've got third parties that are spending millions more than the candidates combined, more than the parties in these States.<p>That's the biggest problem that we have all across the country right now. We've got great candidates who are taking their case directly to the American people, but they are being drowned out by groups like Americans for Prosperity. Nobody knows who they are. Well, we know who they are, but nobody knows where the money is coming from, and they certainly don't appear on those ads.<p>So I believe that if we are able to get our message out, if we have the same energy and focus and determination that we had in 2008 and 2006, then we will do fine. But that requires us to understand the stakes involved in this election. And I want everybody to understand, especially those who supported me, we are just in the first quarter here. We've gotten a lot of stuff done, but we've got a lot more work to do.<p>And the other side wants to go back--this is very explicit on their part--they want to go back exactly to the agenda that got us into this mess in the first place. That's--I'm not making that up. The chairman of their committee, when asked, \\"Well, what's your plan?\\"--\\"Well, we're going to go back to the exact same agenda that we had before Obama was elected.\\" Think about that. This is the agenda that resulted in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. That's their agenda.<p>And if you need an illustration of it, look at the debate we're having with respect to tax cuts right now. Now, this is generally a fairly well-to-do group. And by the way, I include myself, as a consequence of selling a lot of books, in that category. [<i>Laughter</i>] Right now what we've said is, let's extend tax relief to 98 percent of the American people--actually, 100 percent of the American people, just up to $250,000. So even if you make a million dollars, you'd still get tax relief, but you'd only get it up to $250,000. After that, the rates would go up to what they were under Bill Clinton.<p>There's nobody in this room who would be hurt by that. And the economy would be helped, because the alternative is, we'd have to borrow $700 billion that we do not have in order to give people who make more than a million dollars an average of a $100,000 check. And obviously, somebody like Warren Buffett would get a much bigger check. He doesn't need it, and he doesn't want it, because he knows it's irresponsible. And yet the other side is willing to hold tax relief for 98 percent of the American people hostage purely for ideological reasons, because this is their only idea. They don't have another idea.<p>I'm not exaggerating. Think about it. What are they standing for? They say they are concerned about deficits: \\"We're going to get control of Government spending.\\" What specific proposal have you heard from them in terms of what they would cut, what programs would they eliminate? Are they going to get rid of the work that we've done to make sure that veterans with PTSD are getting help when they come home? Are they going to say to the millions of kids who are now receiving student loan help, you know what, sorry, you can't afford to go to school? What's their agenda? They don't have one.<p>And so the stakes in this election could not be higher. Their message is, whatever it is that Obama was for, we'll be against. We'll try to roll back health care. We'll try to roll back financial regulatory reform. And all those folks who were financing these third parties all across the country, all those special interests, they're going to be looking to be able to write the rules again if these folks are back in power.<p>So when I hear Democrats griping and groaning and saying, \\"Well, you know, the health care plan didn't have a public option,\\" and, \\"I don't know, the financial reform--there was a provision here that I think we should have gotten better,\\" or, \\"You know what, yes, you ended the war in Iraq, the combat mission there, but you haven't completely finished the Afghan war yet,\\" or this or that or the other, I say, folks, wake up--[<i>laughter</i>]--this is not some academic exercise. As Joe Biden put it, \\"Don't compare us to the Almighty, compare us to the alternative.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] That's what's at stake in this election.<p>I've been using this analogy around the country. The other side drove the economy into the ditch, and we've been down there and putting on our boots, and it's muddy, and it's hot, and there are bugs swarming, and we've been pushing and shoving and sweating, trying to get this car out of the ditch. And the Republicans have been standing there, sipping on a Slurpee, watching us--[<i>laughter</i>]--and saying, \\"You're not pushing hard enough,\\" or, \\"You're not pushing the right way.\\" \\"Well, come down and help.\\" \\"No, no, no, you go ahead.\\" Finally, we get the car up on level ground, and it is--it's kind of dinged up. You know? I mean, it wasn't good for the car to be driven into the ditch. [<i>Laughter</i>] And it needs some bodywork, it needs a tuneup, it needs a carwash, but it's moving.<p>And suddenly, we get a tap on the shoulder, and the Republicans say, \\"We want the keys back.\\" You can't have the keys back. You can't drive. That's why we were in the ditch. [<i>Laughter</i>] And as soon as they get into power, they will throw that car right back in reverse. There's a reason why when you want to go forward, you put it into \\"D,\\" and when you go backwards, it goes into \\"R.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] They--that's not a coincidence. They will drive it right back into the ditch, and they'll have those special interests riding shotgun in that process.<p>There is a lot at stake in this election. And everybody here who believed in what we were doing in 2008 and who believed in what we were doing in 2006 and understood that we were moving in the wrong direction for the previous 8 years, this is the time that counts. It is easy to support candidates and go to events when everybody is really popular. It was easy showing up to the Inauguration, even if it was cold. [<i>Laughter</i>] Right? I'm polling at 70 percent, and Beyonce and Bono are singing. [<i>Laughter</i>] Yes, well, I mean--but I believe that the reason you got involved at the outset was not because we had cool posters, not because it was the trendy thing to do, not just because my predecessor had become unpopular, but because at some level, we understood that the American Dream had served each of us very well and that we had to make sure the next generation was served just as well.<p>And that required us making some hard decisions. And that required us making some sacrifices. And that required us buckling down and taking responsibility for solving problems that had plagued us for decades. And that's what change is. This is what change looks like. In a big, messy democracy like ours, a country that's huge and diverse, you know, it's not smooth. But it's worthwhile.<p>And so over the next 6 weeks, but over the next 2 years, over the next 6 years, over the next decade, whatever it is, I want all of you to remind yourselves why you got involved and why you care deeply, and not lose heart, but gird yourself for a battle that's worth fighting. Take pride in the fact that, yes, what we're trying to do here is finally take responsibility and move this country in a better direction and change our politics. And that's not going to be easy. But it can be done.<p>And for those of you who don't think it can be done, I just will remind you that it was just a few years back where I was a State senator in Illinois named Barack Hussein Obama, and I stand now addressing you as the President of the United States. Don't tell me it can't be done.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"272" "\"Please be seated. Good afternoon, and on behalf of Michelle and myself, welcome to the White House. And I thank you, General Cyr, for that wonderful invocation.<p>Of all the military decorations that our Nation can bestow, the highest is the Medal of Honor. It is awarded for conspicuous gallantry, for risking one's life in action, for serving above and beyond the call of duty. Today we present the Medal of Honor to an American who displayed such gallantry more than four decades ago, Chief Master Sergeant Richard L. Etchberger.<p>This medal reflects the gratitude of an entire nation. So we are also joined by Vice President Biden and Members of Congress, including Congressman Earl Pomeroy and, from Chief Etchberger's home State of Pennsylvania, Congressman Tim Holden. <p>We are joined by leaders from across my administration, including Secretary of Veterans Affairs Ric Shinseki, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Jim \\"Hoss\\" Cartwright, and leaders from across our Armed Services, including Air Force Secretary Michael Donley and Chief of Staff General Norton Schwartz.<p>I want to acknowledge a group of Americans who understand the valor we recognize today, because they displayed it themselves, members of the Medal of Honor Society. Most of all, we welcome Dick Etchberger's friends and family, especially his brother Robert and Dick's three sons, Steve, Richard, and Cory.<p>For the Etchberger family, this is a day more than 40 years in the making. Cory was just 9 years old, but he can still remember that winter in 1968 when he, his brothers, and his mom were escorted to the Pentagon. The war in Vietnam was still raging. Dick Etchberger had given his life earlier that year. Now his family was being welcomed by the Air Force Chief of Staff.<p>In a small, private ceremony, Dick was recognized with the highest honor that the Air Force can give, the Air Force Cross. These three sons were told that their dad was a hero, that he had died while saving his fellow airmen, but they weren't told much else. Their father's work was classified, and for years, that's all they really knew.<p>Then, nearly two decades later, the phone rang. It was the Air Force, and their father's mission was finally being declassified. And that's when they learned the truth, that their father had given his life not in Vietnam, but in neighboring Laos. That's when they began to learn the true measure of their father's heroism.<p>Dick Etchberger was a radar technician, and he had been handpicked for a secret assignment. With a small team of men, he served at the summit of one of the tallest mountains in Laos, more than a mile high, literally above the clouds. They manned a tiny radar station, guiding American pilots in the air campaign against North Vietnam.<p>Dick and his crew believed that they could help turn the tide of the war, perhaps even end it. And that's why North Vietnamese forces were determined to shut it down. They sent their planes to strafe the Americans as they worked. They moved in their troops. And eventually, Dick and his team could look through their binoculars and see that their mountain was surrounded by thousands of North Vietnamese troops.<p>Dick and his crew at that point had a decision to make: ask to be evacuated or continue the mission for another day. They believed that no one could possibly scale the mountain's steep cliffs, and they believed in their work. So they stayed; they continued their mission.<p>There were 19 Americans on the mountain that evening. When their shift was over, Dick and his four men moved down to a small, rocky ledge on a safer side of the mountain. And then, during the night, the enemy attacked. Somehow, fighters scaled the cliffs and overran the summit. Down the side of the mountain, Dick and his men were now trapped on that ledge.<p>The enemy lobbed down grenade after grenade, hour after hour. Dick and his men would grab those grenades and throw them back or kick them into the valley below. But the grenades kept coming. One airman was killed, and then another. A third airman was wounded, and then another. Eventually, Dick was the only man standing.<p>As a technician, he had no formal combat training. In fact, he had only recently been issued a rifle. But Dick Etchberger was the very definition of an NCO, a leader determined to take care of his men. When the enemy started moving down the rocks, Dick fought them off. When it looked like the ledge would be overrun, he called for airstrikes within yards of his own position, shaking the mountain and clearing the way for a rescue. And in the morning light, an American helicopter came into view.<p>Richard Etchberger lived the Airman's Creed to never leave an airman behind, to never falter, to never fail. So as the helicopter hovered above and lowered its sling, Dick loaded his wounded men, one by one, each time exposing himself to enemy fire. And when another airman suddenly rushed forward after eluding the enemy all night, Dick loaded him too and, finally, himself. They had made it off the mountain.<p>And that's when it happened. The helicopter began to peel away, a burst of gunfire erupted below, and Dick was wounded. And by the time they landed at the nearest base, he was gone. <p>Of those 19 men on the mountain that night, only 7 made it out alive. Three of them owed their lives to the actions of Dick Etchberger. Today we're honored to be joined by one of them, Mr. John Daniel.<p>Among the few who knew of Dick's actions, there was a belief that his valor warranted our Nation's highest military honor. But his mission had been a secret, and that's how it stayed for those many years. When their father's mission was finally declassified, these three sons learned something else. It turned out that their mother had known about Dick's work all along, but she had been sworn to secrecy. And she kept that promise--to her husband and her country--all those years, not even telling her own sons. So today's also a tribute to Catherine Etchberger and a reminder of the extraordinary sacrifices that our military spouses make on behalf of our Nation.<p>Now, this story might have ended there, with the family finally knowing the truth. And for another two decades, it did. But today also marks another chapter in a larger story of our Nation finally honoring that generation of Vietnam veterans who served with dedication and courage, but all too often were shunned when they came home, which was a disgrace that must never happen again.<p>A few years ago, an airman who never even knew Dick Etchberger read about his heroism and felt he deserved something more. So he wrote his Congressman, who made it his mission to get this done. Today we thank that airman, retired Master Sergeant Robert Dilley, and that Congressman, Earl Pomeroy, who, along with Congressman Holden, made this day possible.<p>Sadly, Dick's wife Catherine did not live to see this moment. But today, Steve and Richard and Cory, today your Nation finally acknowledges and fully honors your father's bravery. Because even though it has been 42 years, it's never too late to do the right thing. And it's never too late to pay tribute to our Vietnam veterans and their families.<p>In recent years, Dick's story has become known, and Air Force bases have honored him with streets and buildings in his name. And at the base where he trained so long ago in Barksdale in Louisiana, there's a granite monument with an empty space next to his name, and that space can finally be etched with the words \\"Medal of Honor.\\"<p>But the greatest memorial of all to Dick Etchberger is the spirit that we feel here today, the love that inspired him to serve, love for his country and love for his family. And most eloquent--the most eloquent expression of that devotion are the words that he wrote himself to a friend back home just months before he gave his life to our Nation. \\"I hate to be away from home,\\" he wrote from that small base above the clouds, \\"but I believe in the job.\\" He said, \\"It is the most challenging job I'll ever have in my life.\\" And then he added, \\"I love it.\\"<p>Our Nation endures because there are patriots like Chief Master Sergeant Richard Etchberger and our troops who are serving as we speak, who love this Nation and defend it. And their legacy lives on because their families and fellow citizens preserve it. And as Americans, we remain worthy of their example only so long as we honor it, not merely with the medals that we present, but by remaining true to the values and freedoms for which they fight.<p>So please join me in welcoming Steve, Richard, and Cory for the reading of the citation.\" "
"273" "\"Good afternoon, Mr. Secretary-General, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen.<p>In the Charter of this United Nations, our countries pledged to work for \\"the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples.\\" In the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we recognize the inherent dignity and rights of every individual, including the right to a decent standard of living. And a decade ago, at the dawn of a new millennium, we set concrete goals to free our fellow men, women, and children from the injustice of extreme poverty. These are the standards that we set. And today we must ask, are we living up to our mutual responsibilities?<p>I suspect that some in wealthier countries may ask, with our economies struggling, so many people out of work, and so many families barely getting by, why a summit on development? And the answer is simple. In our global economy, progress in even the poorest countries can advance the prosperity and security of people far beyond their borders, including my fellow Americans. <p>When a child dies from a preventable disease, it shocks all of our consciences. When a girl is deprived of an education or her mother is denied equal rights, it undermines the prosperity of their nation. When a young entrepreneur can't start a new business, it stymies the creation of new jobs and markets in that entrepreneur's country, but also in our own. When millions of fathers cannot provide for their families, it feeds the despair that can fuel instability and violent extremism. When a disease goes unchecked, it can endanger the health of millions around the world.<p>So let's put to rest the old myth that development is mere charity that does not serve our interests. And let's reject the cynicism that says certain countries are condemned to perpetual poverty, for the past half century has witnessed more gains in human development than at any time in history. A disease that had ravaged the generations, smallpox, was eradicated. Health care has reached the far corners of the world, saving the lives of millions. From Latin America to Africa to Asia, developing nations have transformed into leaders in the global economy.<p>Nor can anyone deny the progress that has been made toward achieving certain Millennium Development Goals. The doors of education have been opened to tens of millions of children, boys and girls. New cases of HIV/AIDS and malaria and tuberculosis are down. Access to clean drinking water is up. Around the world, hundreds of millions of people have been lifted from extreme poverty. That is all for the good, and it's a testimony to the extraordinary work that's been done both within countries and by the international community.<p>Yet we must also face the fact that progress towards other goals that were set has not come nearly fast enough. Not for the hundreds of thousands of women who lose their lives every year simply giving birth. Not for the millions of children who die from agony of malnutrition. Not for the nearly 1 billion people who endure the misery of chronic hunger.<p>This is the reality we must face: that if the international community just keeps doing the same things the same way, we may make some modest progress here and there, but we will miss many development goals. That is the truth. With 10 years down and just 5 years before our development targets come due, we must do better.<p>Now, I know that helping communities and countries realize a better future is not easy. I've seen it in my own life. I saw it in my mother, as she worked to lift up the rural poor from Indonesia to Pakistan. I saw it on the streets of Chicago, where I worked as a community organizer trying to build up underdeveloped neighborhoods in this country. It is hard work. But I know progress is possible.<p>As President, I have made it clear that the United States will do our part. My national security strategy recognizes development not only as a moral imperative, but a strategic and economic imperative. Secretary of State Clinton is leading a review to strengthen and better coordinate our diplomacy and our development efforts. We've reengaged with multilateral development institutions. And we are rebuilding the United States Agency for International Development as the world's premier development agency. In short, we're making sure that the United States will be a global leader in international development in the 21st century.<p>We also recognize, though, that the old ways will not suffice. That's why in Ghana last year, I called for a new approach to development that unleashes transformational change and allows more people to take control of their own destiny. After all, no country wants to be dependent on another. No proud leader in this room wants to ask for aid. No family wants to be beholden to the assistance of others.<p>To pursue this vision, my administration conducted a comprehensive review of America's development programs. We listened to leaders in government, NGOs and civil society, the private sector and philanthropy, Congress, and our many international partners.<p>And today I'm announcing our new U.S. global development policy, the first of its kind by an American administration. It's rooted in America's enduring commitment to the dignity and potential of every human being, and it outlines our new approach and the new thinking that will guide our overall development efforts, including the plan that I promised last year and that my administration has delivered to pursue the Millennium Development Goals. Put simply, the United States is changing the way we do business.<p>First, we're changing how we define development. For too long, we've measured our efforts by the dollars we spent and the food and medicines that we delivered. But aid alone is not development. Development is helping nations to actually develop, moving from poverty to prosperity. And we need more than just aid to unleash that change. We need to harness all the tools at our disposal, from our diplomacy to our trade policies to our investment policies.<p>Second, we are changing how we view the ultimate goal of development. Our focus on assistance has saved lives in the short term, but it hasn't always improved those societies over the long term. Consider the millions of people who have relied on food assistance for decades. That's not development, that's dependence, and it's a cycle we need to break. Instead of just managing poverty, we have to offer nations and peoples a path out of poverty.<p>Now, let me be clear: The United States of America has been and will remain the global leader in providing assistance. We will not abandon those who depend on us for lifesaving help, whether it's food or medicine. We will keep our promises and honor our commitments.<p>In fact, my administration has increased assistance to the least developed countries. We're working with partners to finally eradicate polio. We're building on the good efforts of my predecessor to continue to increase funds to fight HIV/AIDS, increasing those funds to record levels, and that includes strengthening our commitment to the Global Fund for AIDS, TB, and Malaria. And we will lead in times of crisis, as we've done since the earthquake in Haiti and the floods in Pakistan.<p>But the purpose of development--what's needed most right now--is creating the conditions where assistance is no longer needed. So we will seek partners who want to build their own capacity to provide for their people. We will seek development that is sustainable.<p>And building in part on the lessons of the Millennium Challenge Corporation, which has helped countries like El Salvador build rural roads and raise the incomes of its people, we will invest in the capacity of countries that are proving their commitment to development.<p>Remembering the lessons of the Green Revolution, we're expanding scientific collaboration with other countries and investing in game-changing science and technology to help spark historic leaps in development.<p>For example, instead of just treating HIV/AIDS, we've invested in pioneering research to finally develop a way to help millions of women actually prevent themselves from being infected in the first place.<p>Instead of simply handing out food, our food security initiative is helping countries like Guatemala and Rwanda and Bangladesh develop their agriculture and improve crop yields and help farmers get their products to market.<p>Instead of simply delivering medicine, our Global Health Initiative is also helping countries like Mali and Nepal build stronger health systems and better deliver care.<p>And with financial and technical assistance, we'll help developing countries embrace the clean energy technologies they need to adapt to climate change and pursue low-carbon growth.<p>In other words, we're making it clear that we will partner with countries that are willing to take the lead, because the days when your development was dictated by foreign capitals must come to an end.<p>Now, this brings me to a third pillar of our new approach. To unleash transformational change, we're putting a new emphasis on the most powerful force the world has ever known for eradicating poverty and creating opportunity. It's the force that turned South Korea from a recipient of aid to a donor of aid. It's the force that has raised living standards from Brazil to India. And it's the force that has allowed emerging African countries like Ethiopia and Malawi and Mozambique to defy the odds and make real progress towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals, even as some of their neighbors, like Cote d'Ivoire, have lagged.<p>The force I'm speaking about is broad-based economic growth. Now, every nation will pursue its own path to prosperity. But decades of experience tell us there are certain ingredients upon which sustainable growth and lasting development depend.<p>We know that countries are more likely to prosper when they encourage entrepreneurship, when they invest in their infrastructure, when they expand trade and welcome investment. So we will partner with countries like Sierra Leone to create business environments that are attractive to investment, that don't scare it away. We'll work to break down barriers to regional trade and urge nations to open their markets to developing countries. We will keep pushing for a Doha round that is ambitious and balanced, one that works not just for major emerging economies, but for all economies.<p>We also know that countries are more likely to prosper when governments are accountable to their people. So we are leading a global effort to combat corruption, which in many places is the single greatest barrier to prosperity, and which is a profound violation of human rights. That's why we now require oil, gas, and mining companies that raise capital in the United States to disclose all payments they make to foreign governments. And it's why I urged the G-20 to put corruption on its agenda and make it harder for corrupt officials to steal from their own people and stifle their nation's development.<p>The United States will focus our development efforts on countries like Tanzania that promote good governance and democracy, the rule of law and equal administration of justice, transparent institutions with strong civil societies, and respect for human rights. Because over the long run, democracy and economic growth go hand in hand.<p>We will reach out to countries making transitions from authoritarianism to democracy and from war to peace. The people of Liberia, for example, show that even after years of war, great progress can be achieved. And as others show the courage to put war behind them--including, we hope, in Sudan--the United States will stand with those who seek to build and sustain peace.<p>We also know that countries are more likely to prosper when they tap the talents of all their people. And that's why we're investing in the health, education, and rights of women and working to empower the next generation of women entrepreneurs and leaders. Because when mothers and daughters have access to opportunity, that's when economies grow, that's when governance improves.<p>And it's why we're partnering with young people, who in many developing countries are more than half the population. We're expanding educational exchanges, like the one that brought my father here to America from Kenya. And we're helping young entrepreneurs succeed in a global economy.<p>And as the final pillar of our new approach, we will insist on more responsibility, from ourselves and from others. We insist on mutual accountability.<p>For our part, we'll work with Congress to better match our investments with the priorities of our partner countries. Guided by the evidence, we will invest in programs that work; we'll end those that don't. We need to be bighearted, but also hardheaded in our approach to development.<p>To my fellow donor nations: Let's honor our respective commitments. Let's resolve to put an end to hollow promises that are not kept. Let's commit to the same transparency that we expect from others. Let's move beyond the old, narrow debate over how much money we're spending, and instead, let's focus on results, whether we're actually making improvements in people's lives.<p>Now, to developing countries: This must be your moment of responsibility as well. We want you to prosper and succeed; it is not only in your interests, it is in our interests. We want to help you realize your aspirations as a nation and the individuals in each of your countries. But there is no substitute for your leadership. Only you and your people can make the tough choices that will unleash the dynamism of your country. Only you can make the sustainable investments that improve the health and well-being of your people. Only you can deliver your nations to a more prosperous and just future. We can be partners, but ultimately, you have to take the lead.<p>Finally, let me say this. No one nation can do everything everywhere and still do it well. To meet our goals, we must be more selective and focus our efforts where we have the best partners and where we can have the greatest impact. And just as this work cannot be done by any one government, it can't be the work of governments alone. In fact, foundations and private sector and NGOs are making historic commitments that have redefined what's possible.<p>And this gives us the opportunity to forge a new division of labor for development in the 21st century. It's a division of labor where, instead of so much duplication and inefficiency, governments and multilaterals and NGOs are all working together. We each do the piece that we do best, as we're doing, for example, in support of Ghana's food security plan, which will help more farmers get more goods to market and earn more money to support their families. <p>So that's the progress that's possible. Together, we can collaborate in ways unimaginable just a few years ago. Together, we can realize the future that none of us can achieve alone. Together, we can deliver historic leaps in development. We can do this, but only if we move forward with the seriousness and sense of common purpose that this moment demands.<p>Development that offers a path out of poverty for that child who deserves better; development that builds the capacity of countries to deliver the health care and education that their people need; development that unleashes broader prosperity and builds the next generation of entrepreneurs and emerging economies; development rooted in shared responsibility, mutual accountability, and, most of all, concrete results that pull communities and countries from poverty to prosperity--these are the elements of America's new approach. This is the work that we can do together. And this can be our plan, not simply for meeting our Millennium Development Goals, but for exceeding them and then sustaining them for generations to come.<p>Thank you very much, everyone. Thank you.\" "
"274" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you! Hello, New York! Thank you very much. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes, we can! Yes, we can! Yes, we can!<p><i>The President.</i> It is good to be back in the Big Apple. Thank you so much. I'm here this week to meet with world leaders at the United Nations to talk about our efforts over the past year to make this a more peaceful and prosperous world. But it's also nice just to stop by and see some friends.<p>Now, you've got a couple of great friends in these two right here: One of the finest Speakers in history, I believe, Nancy Pelosi is here; chairman of the DSCC, Senator Bob Menendez is here. And they are doing outstanding work. Chairman of the DCCC, Chris Van Hollen is here. And we've got just an unbelievable New York delegation--Charlie Rangel, Scott Murphy, Steve Israel, Nita Lowey, Jerry Nadler, and Greg Meeks--in the house. [<i>Applause</i>] Yes, it's fun being here. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you!<p><i>The President.</i> I love you back. That's why I'm here.<p>Tonight I want to talk a little bit about our efforts here at home----<p>[<i>At this point, there was a disruption in the audience.</i>]<p><i>Audience member.</i> President Obama--[<i>inaudible</i>].<p><i>The President.</i> ----where this country is----<p><i>Audience member.</i> President Obama, one, two, three! President Obama----<p><i>The President.</i> All right.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> No, no, it's all right. It's all right. It's okay. You don't have to rip them down. That's okay.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Obama! Obama! Obama!<p><i>The President.</i> All right. We're okay. It's all right. It's okay.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Obama! Obama! Obama!<p><i>The President.</i> Wait, wait. Hey, hey, hey, hold on a second. Hold on. Hold on, it's okay. Look, the young lady--you don't need to yell. The--apparently you're interested in funding AIDS. We've increased AIDS funding. I don't know why you're putting the sign up. We've increased HIV/AIDS funding. So--but your message was delivered. We have increased AIDS funding at a time when the budget's going down.<p>[<i>The disruption in the audience continued.</i>]<p>Now, look, we are here to talk about what's at stake--I--we listened to you. We heard your point. And as I said before, we increased AIDS funding. Now, if you want to have a conversation later about how we can increase it even more, it's a conversation I'm happy to have.<p>But what I want to do is talk about what's coming up. I want us to talk about what's at stake in this election, because the people that potentially will take over if we don't focus on this election, I promise you, will cuts AIDS funding, and they'll cut every priority that you care about. So don't--so this is not the time or the place to do what you're talking about.<p>Now, over 3 years ago, I decided to run for President because I believed there were some very big challenges and some very difficult decisions that this Nation had ignored for too long. I ran because I believed our economy was on a path that was unsustainable for the middle class and for our future.<p>In the last decade, we had experienced the slowest job growth of any decade since World War II, even slower than it's been over the last year. I want to repeat that: slowest job growth since World War II. Between 2001 and 2009----<p><i>Audience member.</i> Don't ask, don't tell!<p><i>The President.</i> ----the incomes of middle class families----<p><i>Audience member.</i> Don't ask, don't tell!<p><i>The President.</i> ----fell by almost 5 percent--5 percent. I'm going to repeat that: Incomes for working families fell by almost 5 percent. All the while, middle class families saw everything from tuition bills to health care bills skyrocket. And for too many hard-working families, the American Dream was slowly slipping away.<p>Now, it was not any accident during this same period a very specific philosophy reigned in Washington: You cut taxes, especially for millionaires and billionaires; you cut regulations for special interests; you cut back on investments in education and clean energy, in research and technology. The idea was, if we put blind faith in the market, if we let corporations play by their own rules, if we left everybody to fend for themselves, America would grow and America would prosper.<p>That was the philosophy that was put forward. For 8 years, we tried that. And that experiment failed miserably. We know what happened as a consequence of these policies. It made it harder for middle class families to get ahead. These policies turned record surpluses into record deficits. And ultimately, these policies led to the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression.<p>That's what we faced when I took office in January of 2009. Millions of jobs had already been lost. Hundreds of thousands more would be lost before our economic policies even had a chance to take effect.<p>I want everybody to understand this: Four million jobs had been lost in the 6 months before I took office, half of the total job losses during this recession. We lost 800,000 jobs almost the month I was sworn in.<p>So my most urgent task as President was to prevent a second depression. Now, 19 months later, we've done that. The economy is growing again. The financial markets have stabilized. The private sector has created jobs for the last 8 months in a row. There are 3 million Americans who wouldn't be working today if not for the economic plan we put in place. That is a fact.<p>But look, because we're climbing out of such a deep hole, there are still millions of Americans without work. There are millions more who can barely pay the bills or make the mortgage. And the middle class is still treading water. I hear these stories every day. I heard some today from folks who had been struggling with health care. I read them in heartbreaking letters that I receive every single night, and the worst are ones that come from children who say, \\"We're worried about losing our house,\\" or, \\"My parents lost their job. What can you do?\\"<p>Folks are struggling, and as a consequence, they're impatient. People are frustrated with the pace of change, and so am I. But I'm also here to tell you this: We cannot lose heart. We cannot give up. Don't ever forget that this Nation has been through far worse, and we have come out stronger. We've been through war and depression and struggles for equal rights and civil rights. In each instance, we have made progress. Progress took time. Progress took sacrifice. Progress took faith. But progress came. And it will come for us if we work for it and if we fight for it and if we believe in it.<p>And that's where this upcoming election comes in. That's where we need your energy and enthusiasm, the energy and enthusiasm of everybody in this room and everybody you can reach.<p><i>Audience member.</i> You got it!<p><i>The President.</i> So--well, no--but no--but I want to make this point. This young lady here, she wants increases in AIDS funding. That's great. We increased AIDS funding. She'd like more? I'm sure we could do more if we're able to grow this economy again and if we continue on the policies that we're on.<p>Young man back there shouted, \\" Don't ask, don't tell.\\" As President, I have said we're going to reverse it. I got the Chairman of the----<p><i>Audience member.</i> That's right!<p><i>The President.</i> ----Joint Chiefs of Staff and I got the Secretary of Defense to say that we're going to reverse it. [<i>Applause</i>] But hold on a second. But hold on a second. Think about what happened in Congress 2 days ago, where you got 56 Democrats voting to debate this issue and zero Republicans. And as a consequence, some of those signs should be going up at the other folks' events, and folks should be hollering at the other folks' events. Because the choice in November could not be clearer, a choice about what you want for the next 2 years, what you want the next 2 years to look like in this country.<p>You know what the other side's offering. It'd be one thing if the Republican candidates looked back at the last decade and they said: \\"You know what? Our policies didn't work. We ended up in a terrible recession. Let's try something new\\"--if they were championing your issues. Right? And you said, \\"Well, you know, maybe we've got an option here.\\"<p>That's not what they're doing. Here's an illustration. A while back, they set up a web site where they asked Americans to speak out and offer their ideas about how to get the economy moving again. Well, it turns out that one of the most popular ideas posted on their web site--this is not--I'm not making this up--is ending tax breaks for corporations that ship jobs overseas and giving those tax breaks to companies that invest here in the United States of America--a sensible idea.<p>Here's the thing: That's exactly the policy the Republicans have been fighting against for years. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's a policy they've been fighting me and Nancy and Bob on for the last few months. So the problem is not that Americans aren't speaking out; it's that the other party isn't listening. And that's because they refuse to let go of the failed philosophy that they've been peddling for the last decade.<p>So make no mistake: The Republicans running for Congress, they want the next 2 years to look like the 8 years before I took office. They might be announcing some new details tomorrow--[<i>laughter</i>]--but the chair of one of their campaign committees already told us their intentions. He said that if the other party takes control of Congress, they plan to pursue--and I'm quoting here--the \\"exact same agenda\\" as they did during the last administration. The exact same agenda.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> So here's--look, here's what this comes down to. These folks spent a decade driving our economy into a ditch. And so me and Nancy and Bob and Chris Van Hollen and--we all put on our boots, and we went down into the ditch. It was muddy. It was hot. [<i>Laughter</i>] We're sweating. There are bugs. We're down there, and we're pushing on this car. We're pushing it up, and we're slipping and sliding, but we know we've got to get it up there.<p>And the Republicans are standing on level ground, and they're watching us. [<i>Laughter</i>] And they're sipping on a Slurpee--[<i>laughter</i>]--and they're saying, \\"You know, you're not pushing hard enough,\\" or, \\"That's not the right way to push.\\" And we--every once in a while, we'd look up to them and say, \\"Do you guys want to help?\\" They said: \\"No, no. No, we can't.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And so finally--finally--we get that car out of the ditch. Now, it's a little banged up. It's a little dented. It needs a tuneup. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's not moving as fast as we wanted, but it's on level ground, and we're ready to move forward. And suddenly we get a tap on the shoulder, and we look back, and it's the Republicans. [<i>Laughter</i>] They said, \\"Excuse me, we want the keys back.\\" You can't have the keys back. You don't know how to drive. We cannot give them the keys back. We can't give them the keys back.<p>Look, if you want to go forward, what do you do? You put it in \\"D.\\" If you want to go backwards, you put it in \\"R.\\" We can't afford to go backwards. That's not a coincidence. We've got to go forward.<p>Democrats, I don't know about you, but I do not want to spend the next 2 years watching them try to drive our economy back into the ditch. I mean, we have seen this. We have seen this movie before, and we can't afford to go back to what they were doing. Not now. Not when we've come this far. I don't accept that future for the United States of America.<p>So we have a different idea about what the next 2 years should look like. It's an idea rooted in our belief about how this country was built. We know that government doesn't have all the answers to our problems. And we don't believe that government's main role is to create jobs or prosperity. I believe government should be lean and efficient. And that's why I've proposed a 3-year spending freeze and set up a bipartisan fiscal commission to deal with our deficit.<p>But in the words of the first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, I also believe that government should do for the people what they can't do for themselves. I believe in a country that rewards hard work and responsibility, a country that invests in its people and its future, and yes, a country where we look after one another, where we respect everybody's dignity, where we say, I am my bother's keeper, I am my sister's keeper. That's what we believe in. That's what Democrats stand for. That's the choice in this election.<p>If we hand the keys over to the other side, we will spend the next 2 years fighting to keep those tax breaks for companies that create jobs and profits overseas, hundreds of billions of dollars in taxpayer subsidies we lose each year.<p>Over the last 19 months, we've closed several of these tax loopholes. Over the next 2 years, we'll fight to give tax breaks to companies that actually create jobs within our borders: to small businesses, to clean energy companies, to American manufacturers, to entrepreneurs that are researching and investing and innovating right here in the United States of America. That's who we want to help. That's the choice in this election.<p>If we give them back the keys, the other side will spend the next 2 years fighting for a $700 billion tax cut that only 2 percent of Americans will ever see. They want to borrow $700 billion. They say that they're about cutting deficits, but they want to spend--borrow $700 billion and give millionaires and billionaires an average tax cut of $100,000.<p>This is the party that lectures us on fiscal responsibility. That's what they're fighting for. I don't know about you, but I've got a different set of priorities for the next 2 years.<p>When I took office, I kept a campaign promise to cut taxes for 95 percent of working Americans. And we're fighting to make those middle class tax cuts permanent.<p>Over the last 19 months, we've passed a new college tax credit worth $10,000 in tuition relief for each child going to 4 years of college. We want to make that permanent too, because in good times or bad, no family should have to stop investing in their children's future. That's what we believe. That's what we stand for as Democrats. Those are our priorities. That's the choice in this election.<p>If we hand the other side the keys, they've promised to spend the next 2 years chipping away at the new rules we've put in place for special interests. And I refuse to let them do that. I refuse to go back to the days when insurance companies could deny you coverage or drop your coverage just because you're sick.<p>I was down with a group of families today because starting tomorrow, we've got a whole bunch of consumer protections, a patient's bill of rights, that goes into effect as a consequence of the Affordable Care Act. And I want you to know, I met a woman from New Hampshire who had gotten cancer, could not get insurance, and because of that legislation, she now is getting treatment, is feeling better, feeling optimistic about the future.<p>We had--[<i>applause</i>]--we met two moms whose children had preexisting conditions. And they were worried they couldn't get insurance for their children. And now they have the security of knowing that those kids are going to be safe.<p>Two small businesses who were there saying, we provide health insurance to our workers, but one guy, he said his premiums had gone up a hundred percent in 7 years. He said, \\"Basically, I could no longer afford it. Either I was going to have to lay off workers or stop giving them insurance--until this bill passed.\\" And now that small-business owner is able to keep providing health insurance to his workers. That's what we're fighting for.<p>We had--we've had reform in the financial sector to make sure that if you've got a credit card or you're getting a mortgage, that you aren't being cheated. And the other side is basically saying, we want to take those protections away.<p>To paraphrase a friend of mine, Deval Patrick up in Massachusetts, the last election was about a changing of the guard; this election is about guarding the change. That's exactly what we've got to do over the next few weeks.<p>So if you don't think the stakes are large, I want you to consider this. If you don't think the stakes are large, I want you to understand, right now all over this country, special interests are planning and running millions of dollars of attack ads against Democratic candidates. Because of last year's Supreme Court decision in Citizens United, they are now----<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> ----they are now allowed to spend as much as they want, unlimited amounts of money, and they don't have to reveal who's paying for these ads. And that's what they're doing; millions of dollars being spent by groups with harmless-sounding names: Americans for Prosperity, the Committee for Truth in Politics, or Moms for Motherhood. [<i>Laughter</i>] I made that last one up. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But they pose as non-for-profit, social welfare, and trade groups. Every single one of them, virtually, is guided by seasoned Republican political operatives. None of them will disclose who is paying for these ads. They are spending tens of millions of dollars against Democratic candidates without telling the American people where that flood of money is coming from. You don't know if it's coming from big oil or insurance companies. You don't even know if it's coming from a foreign-controlled corporation.<p>And we tried to fix this, but the leaders of the other party wouldn't even let it come up for a vote. They want to keep the public in the dark. But we won't let them. We're not about to allow special interests to take over our democracy. We're not going to go back to the exact same agenda we had before I took office. We remember what it's like. They're counting on amnesia, but we remember exactly the policies that got us into a mess, and we're not going to go back to them.<p>So here's the bottom line. A lot has changed since the last election. But what hasn't changed is the choice facing the country. It's still fear versus hope. It's still the past versus the future. It's still a choice between sliding backward and moving forward. That is what this election's about, and that's the choice you'll face in November. And it won't be easy.<p>None of it will be easy, and that's because the challenges we face right now are not easy. None of this is easy. But you didn't elect me to do what's easy. You didn't elect me just to read the polls and figure out how to keep myself in office. You elected me to do what's right. And as long as I'm President, that's exactly what I will do--do what's right, not what's convenient.<p>But I need your help. <p><i>Audience member.</i> You got it!<p><i>The President.</i> Look, when I--but I want everybody to listen up on this--when I see all the polls, hear all the pundits, here's what I take away from them: The single biggest threat to our success is not the other party; it's us. It's complacency. It's apathy. It's indifference.<p>It's people feeling like: \\"Well, we only got 80 percent of what we want. We didn't get the other 20, so we're just going to sit on our hands. We're not going to go out there. It turns out bringing about change is hard.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"I thought it was going to be easy. I liked the cute posters of the Obama campaign. I enjoyed the Inauguration. It was great when Beyonce and Bono was singing.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"I didn't know that we were actually going to have to grind it out, that sometimes we'd have setbacks.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>You know, the only way we fall backwards is if we don't get mobilized, if we don't get energized--because I promise you, the other side is energized--if we don't turn out our friends and our neighbors to vote. And that's what I need you to do. I need you to knock on some doors. I need you to talk to your neighbors. I need you to make some phone calls. I need you to remember that that election was not about me, it was about you.<p>If we do that, if we understand what's at stake and we step up to the plate and we realize that change is not a spectator sport and that no, it won't come easy and you're not going to get it all in one fell swoop and you won't even then get a hundred percent, if you remember that every bit of progress we've made from emancipation to women's suffrage to civil rights to Social Security to Medicare--each and every one of those steps were laborious and difficult, and there were people who were trying to block that progress and people who were saying, that's socialism, and people who were saying this was undermining the country--every step of the way, there were people who were fighting it. But people didn't lose heart. Instead, people stood up and they said, you know what, we're just going to keep on pushing; we're going to keep on fighting.<p>Dr. King made famous a saying that \\"the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice.\\" We are moving in the direction of justice. We are moving in the direction of prosperity. But we've got to keep on moving. We can't stop now. And if we are out there working hard, if we are out there rekindling that spirit of hope, we won't just win this election, we will restore our economy, rebuild the middle class, reclaim the American Dream for the next generation.<p>Thank you, New York. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"275" "\"Hello, New York! Thank you. Thank you so much. Everybody, please have a seat. It is wonderful to see so many friends, colleagues, people who have done so much for the country and so much for New York City. It is wonderful to be back in the Big Apple. And this is kind of an intimate affair, so I hope you don't mind, I'm going to occasionally go off script.<p>But the first thing I want to do is just say that we truly have the good fortune of having one of the finest Speakers of the House, I think, in our history, and that's Nancy Pelosi, here tonight. She is doing outstanding work.<p>A terrific Senator who has taken on what is always a thankless task, and that is being head of the DSCC, and doing it with tremendous energy, Bob Menendez. I'm grateful for him. I'm grateful for chairman of the DCCC Chris Van Hollen, who's been working tirelessly. And then the whole New York delegation--Carolyn Maloney, Charlie Rangel, Scott Murphy, Steve Israel, Nita Lowey, Jerry Nadler, and Greg Meeks--thank you guys for the great work that you've done each and every day.<p>We are at, I think, a critical, fascinating, difficult time in our history. Two years ago, when I came into office, we were coming on a surge of enormous energy, because people understood that we couldn't keep doing things the way we had been doing them.<p>And I want everybody to look back at the track record of 2001 to 2009 and what was happening in this country. We had not only entered into two wars that weren't paid for, not only had we turned record surpluses to record deficits, but what had happened to the middle class in this country or those aspiring to be part of the middle class--that beating heart of our economy, that representative of the American Dream, the notion that if you worked hard and you took responsibility, that not only could you provide for your family, but you could be assured that the next generation was going to do better than you did--they had taken hit after hit after hit.<p>This is not my opinion. The Wall Street Journal, a great champion of the Obama agenda--[<i>laughter</i>]--had an article just last week based on census data showing that middle class wages went down 5 percent from 2001 to 2009--went down 5 percent.<p>We had the slowest job growth during that period of any time since World War II. In fact, the pace of job creation was slower than it's been over the last year coming out of this horrific recession. At the same time, ordinary families were seeing their health care costs go up. They were seeing their college tuition for their kids go up.<p>And all of this was brought to you by, was underwritten by a very specific ideology that basically said, we're going to cut taxes, especially for millionaires and billionaires. We're going to cut rules for the most powerful interests in our society. We're going to cut ordinary folks loose to fend for themselves. And somehow, magically, we're going to grow and we're going to prosper.<p>And for a few years, at least, there was the illusion that maybe this might work, because we had a housing bubble and people were maxing out on their credit cards and spending. And so the sense was, well, maybe we can keep this thing going.<p>Although all across the country, people were struggling. They were seeing plants move out of their towns and suddenly empty out. Main Streets start getting boarded up. And then all of it finally culminated in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression and the worst recession since the 1930s.<p>That was the context in which I was sworn into office in January of 2009. Six months leading up to the election, we actually lost 4 million jobs--4 million jobs in the last 6 months of 2008. We lost 750,000 the month that I was sworn in.<p>So my first responsibility as President, Nancy's first responsibility as Speaker, Bob's first responsibility, all the Members of Congress here today, our first responsibility was to make sure that we did not slip into a second Great Depression.<p>And we've succeeded at doing that. The financial markets are stabilized. The economy that was contracting 6 percent in the quarter in which I took office is now growing again. We've had 8 consecutive months of private sector job growth. We're making progress. But--[<i>applause</i>]--we are making progress.<p>But the fact is that the devastation that was caused by this recession lingers on. There are millions of people out there who are still looking for work. There are hundreds of thousands of people who have lost their homes, millions more who aren't sure if they're going to be able to make their mortgage payments or pay the bills. People are scared. People are anxious. People are uncertain about the future. And people are angry, because they feel at some fundamental level that they've been betrayed, that they've been betrayed by Washington, that they've been betrayed by folks who somehow had the inside line and the inside scoop.<p>And so they're frustrated. And essentially, what the other side has done over the last 2 years is count on amnesia. They're counting on the fact that people forget who got us into the mess and that they can ride anger and frustration all the way until November. <p>Essentially, they made a tactical decision that they would sit on the sidelines, and they'd let us try to clean up after them. And if it didn't work, then the politics would work for them. They were thinking about the next election instead of the next generation.<p>You know, I've been using an analogy that I think works. Essentially, they drove the economy into the ditch. And so Nancy and Bob and me, we all put on our boots, and we went down into the ditch. And it's dusty and muddy down there and hot and sweaty and bugs swirling around. And we're pushing and shoving, and we've got our shoulder to the bumper there, and we're pushing and yanking. And every so often, we look up, and there are the Republicans standing up on the road, sipping a Slurpee--[<i>laughter</i>]--looking down at us. And we say, \\"You want to come down and help?\\" And they say: \\"No, no, no, we can't. But you're not pushing hard enough. You're not pushing the right way.\\"<p>And finally, after all this work, we finally get the car back on the road. It's pointing straight. It's banged up, it's dented, needs a tuneup, needs some bodywork, needs a paint job, but it's pointing in the right direction. And we feel this tap on our shoulders, and it's the Republicans. They say, \\"We want the keys back.\\" And we have to explain to them: \\"You can't have the keys back. You don't know how to drive. We don't want to go back into the ditch. We're sorry, but you can't have them back.\\"<p>Now, it would be one thing if they had meditated after the 2008 election and they said, boy, we really screwed up. Our ideology doesn't work. It's not serving the interests of the American people. And so they had come back and they had said, boy, we've got a whole bunch of new ideas. We realize the error of our ways. We'll work with the President where we can. Where we disagree with him, we'll be part of the loyal opposition.<p>That's not what happened. That's not what's happening now. The chairman of the other side's committee, when asked, \\"Well, what exactly would you do if you guys ended up taking over the House?\\" he said, \\"We're going to go back\\"--and I'm quoting--\\"to the exact same agenda that we had before the President took office.\\" The exact same agenda.<p>And you can see it now in the proposals that they've got. They've said, well, you know, where are the jobs? We've got to grow the economy faster. We've got better ideas.<p>Here's their idea. Their primary idea, their principal idea is we're going to borrow $700 billion--borrow it because we don't have it--and we're going to give tax cuts that won't go to 98 percent of the American people. Ninety-eight percent won't get a dime of those tax cuts. And we will borrow $700 billion to do it.<p>And that's their principal agenda. This is the same crew that says that they're all about fiscal responsibility. They don't have new ideas. They don't have an agenda that would move the country forward.<p>Now, we've got a lot to be proud about over the last 2 years because not only did we prevent a Great Depression, but we moved forward a set of issues that so many people in this room had been hungry to see action on for years, because you understood that it wasn't good enough just to solve the crisis, we also had to start laying the foundation for moving this country forward over the long term.<p>And so after decades, we've finally tackled health care and passed the most important piece of legislation that ensures that 30 million people get health care, but also ensures that we're going to lower the cost of health care in years to come.<p>And I was at a little town hall--actually, a little backyard discussion with a group today, before I came up to New York. There was one woman who had been stricken by cancer at a time when she did not have insurance. She now is able to buy insurance because of the Affordable Care Act. Two small businesses who were about to discontinue health care for their employees because their costs had gone up a hundred percent over the last 7 years, who are now not only still able to provide health insurance but have seen $15,000 worth of tax breaks; two moms whose kids had preexisting conditions who could not get health care, and now have the security of knowing that their kids are covered. Every parent out there whose child doesn't have health insurance is going to be able to keep their kids on their insurance until they're 26 years old. That's a consequence of the majorities in the House and the Senate, the incredibly important and difficult work that they did.<p>On financial regulatory reform, not only have we made sure that we're looking out for systemic risks and preventing the kind of crisis that forces us a choice between bailouts or financial collapse, not only are we in a position now to prevent that, but we've also got a consumer protection agency that is long overdue that makes sure that people out there who are getting credit cards or mortgages, that somebody out there is looking for them--somebody out there is looking out for them, that they can't just have their interest rates jacked up for no reason, that they're not steered to mortgages that they can't afford. That's because of the outstanding work of these majorities in the House and the Senate.<p>We have made changes in how tobacco companies can market to their kids--to our kids. We have expanded national service more than at any time since the Peace Corps. We've provided--before the health care act--4 million children health insurance, including the children of legal immigrants.<p>On issue after issue--on education, we've probably initiated more changes in education across the country than at any time in the last 50 years. And for good measure, we shifted billions of dollars that were going to subsidies to financial industry through the student loan program, and now millions of young people are able to get scholarships that weren't able to get it before.<p>We made the largest investment in clean energy in our history so that you've got solar panels and wind turbines and advanced batteries and green cars being made right here in the United States of America, all across the country.<p>The largest investment in education in our history, the largest investment in our infrastructure since Dwight Eisenhower, the largest investment in research and basic science in a generation, and we did all this while we were making sure that we didn't go into a Great Depression and while we were ending one war and making sure that we were in a position to start bringing our troops home and stabilizing Afghanistan at the same time.<p>Now, I tick all these things off because ultimately, when you look at what's going to happen in this election, it's not going to depend on me; it's going to depend on you. The other side is energized. As I said, they are surfing anger and frustration. And some of that anger is legitimate, although misplaced, misdirected. But people are feeling what they're feeling, and that is that we've been slipping and that they've gotten the brunt of some very bad decisions over the last several years. And the question is, are we as energized? Are we as motivated?<p>I was just talking to a larger crowd out there, and I had to remind them, you know, when I was running for office, in some ways, maybe we gave people the wrong impression about how change happens in a democracy. Everybody saw those nice Obama posters. It was kind of cool and trendy, that whole Internet thing. [<i>Laughter</i>] You have these big rallies and Barbra is singing and, you know, then the Inauguration, you had Bono and Beyonce.<p>And so I think people maybe got the impression that somehow change in this country is easy. Change in this country has never been easy. Emancipation was not easy. Women's suffrage wasn't easy. Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, the civil rights movement, basic worker protections, basic consumer protections, each and every one of those issues we had to fight for. And sometimes you'd get 50 percent of it done or maybe 60 percent, and then you'd have to go back, and folks would try to chip away at it, and you'd have to push and try to get some more done the next year and the year after that.<p>And what was sustaining was that sense, that north star, that sense that, you know what, if we stay true to our values, if we believe that all people are created equal and everybody is endowed with certain inalienable rights and we're going to make those words live, that we're going to give everybody opportunity, everybody a ladder into the middle class, every child able to go as far as their dreams will take them, if we stay true to that, then we're going to be able to maintain the energy and the focus, the fight, the gumption to get stuff done. And it may not always happen in our lifetimes. And we may sometimes experience disappointments. And sometimes compromises are going to be made. But we know where we're going.<p>Well, people, this is what change looks like. This is what the elections of 2008 and 2006 were about. It wasn't about it happens one time and suddenly it's over and everybody can go home and relax. It's about everybody going out there and doing what needs to get done.<p>So I want to say to all of you, I am grateful for the extraordinary support that you provided me and that you provided House and Senate candidates all across the country. But don't stop now. There is too much at stake. There are other Supreme Court appointments to be made. There are other decisions in terms of how we're dealing with the international community to be made.<p>We're going to have to--if the last election was about changing the guard, this is about guarding the change that we've initiated. We've got to implement health care reform. We've got to implement financial regulatory reform. <p>There are still kids in this country that are hungry. There are still families in this country that are homeless. There are still people out there looking for work. And if we're complacent, if we're lethargic, we're letting those folks down and we're letting ourselves down and we're letting the country down.<p>So I don't know about you, but I'm still fired up. I am still ready to go. And I am going to need every single person out here not just to write checks, but to knock on doors, talk to your neighbors, talk to your friends, talk to your coworkers. If you got a business, talk to your employees; if you work at a business, talk to your employer. And tell them that even though times are tough, we're making progress. We remember that north star. We remember what we're about. We remember what this country is about. If we do that, I'm confident not only are we going to do well in this election, more importantly, we are going to serve the next generation.<p>Thank you, everybody. God bless you. God bless America.\" "
"276" "\"Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General, my fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honor to address this Assembly for the second time, nearly 2 years after my election as President of the United States.<p>We know this is no ordinary time for our people. Each of us comes here with our own problems and priorities. But there are also challenges that we share in common as leaders and as nations.<p>We meet within an institution built from the rubble of war, designed to unite the world in pursuit of peace. And we meet within a city that for centuries has welcomed people from across the globe, demonstrating that individuals of every color, faith, and station can come together to pursue opportunity, build a community, and live with the blessing of human liberty.<p>Outside the doors of this hall, the blocks and neighborhoods of this great city tell the story of a difficult decade. Nine years ago, the destruction of the World Trade Center signaled a threat that respected no boundary of dignity or decency. Two years ago this month, a financial crisis on Wall Street devastated American families on Main Street. And these separate challenges have affected people around the globe. Men and women and children have been murdered by extremists from Casablanca to London, from Jalalabad to Jakarta. The global economy suffered an enormous blow during the financial crisis, crippling markets and deferring the dreams of millions on every continent. Underneath these challenges to our security and prosperity lie deeper fears: That ancient hatreds and religious divides are once again ascendant; that a world which has grown more interconnected has somehow slipped beyond our control.<p>These are some of the challenges that my administration has confronted since we came into office. And today I'd like to talk to you about what we've done over the last 20 months to meet these challenges, what our responsibility is to pursue peace in the Middle East, and what kind of world we are trying to build in this 21st century.<p>Let me begin with what we have done. I have had no greater focus as President than rescuing our economy from potential catastrophe. And in an age when prosperity is shared, we could not do this alone. So America has joined with nations around the world to spur growth and the renewed demand that could restart job creation.<p>We are reforming our system of global finance, beginning with Wall Street reform here at home, so that a crisis like this never happens again. And we made the G-20 the focal point for international coordination, because in a world where prosperity is more diffuse, we must broaden our circle of cooperation to include emerging economies, economies from every corner of the globe.<p>There is much to show for our efforts, even as there is much work to be done. The global economy has been pulled back from the brink of a depression and is growing once more. We have resisted protectionism and are exploring ways to expand trade and commerce among nations. But we cannot and will not rest until these seeds of progress grow into a broader prosperity, not only for all Americans but for peoples around the globe.<p>As for our common security, America is waging a more effective fight against Al Qaida, while winding down the war in Iraq. Since I took office, the United States has removed nearly 100,000 troops from Iraq. We have done so responsibly, as Iraqis have transitioned to lead responsibility for the security of their country. We are now focused on building a lasting partnership with the Iraqi people, while keeping our commitment to remove the rest of our troops by the end of next year.<p>While drawing down in Iraq, we have refocused on defeating Al Qaida and denying its affiliates a safe haven. In Afghanistan, the United States and our allies are pursuing a strategy to break the Taliban's momentum and build the capacity of Afghanistan's Government and security forces so that a transition to Afghan responsibility can begin next July. And from South Asia to the Horn of Africa, we are moving toward a more targeted approach, one that strengthens our partners and dismantles terrorist networks without deploying large American armies.<p>As we pursue the world's most dangerous extremists, we're also denying them the world's most dangerous weapons and pursuing the peace and security of a world without nuclear weapons.<p>Earlier this year, 47 nations embraced a work plan to secure all vulnerable nuclear materials within 4 years. We have joined with Russia to sign the most comprehensive arms control treaty in decades. We have reduced the role of nuclear weapons in our security strategy. And here at the United Nations, we came together to strengthen the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.<p>Now, as part of our effort on nonproliferation, I offered the Islamic Republic of Iran an extended hand last year and underscored that it has both rights and responsibilities as a member of the international community. I also said--in this hall--that Iran must be held accountable if it failed to meet those responsibilities. And that is what we have done.<p>Iran is the only party to the NPT that cannot demonstrate the peaceful intentions of its nuclear program, and those actions have consequences. Through U.N. Security Council Resolution 1929, we made it clear that international law is not an empty promise.<p>Now, let me be clear once more: The United States and the international community seek a resolution to our differences with Iran, and the door remains open to diplomacy should Iran choose to walk through it. But the Iranian Government must demonstrate a clear and credible commitment and confirm to the world the peaceful intent of its nuclear program.<p>As we combat the spread of deadly weapons, we're also confronting the specter of climate change. After making historic investments in clean energy and efficiency at home, we helped forge an accord in Copenhagen that for the first time commits all major economies to reduce their emissions. We are keenly aware this is just a first step. And going forward, we will support a process in which all major economies meet our responsibilities to protect the planet while unleashing the power of clean energy to serve as an engine of growth and development.<p>America has also embraced unique responsibilities with come--that come with our power. Since the rains came and the floodwaters rose in Pakistan, we have pledged our assistance, and we should all support the Pakistani people as they recover and rebuild. And when the Earth shook and Haiti was devastated by loss, we joined a coalition of nations in response. Today we honor those from the U.N. family who lost their lives in the earthquake and commit ourselves to stand with the people of Haiti until they can stand on their own two feet.<p>Amidst this upheaval, we have also been persistent in our pursuit of peace. Last year, I pledged my best efforts to support the goal of two states, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace and security, as part of a comprehensive peace between Israel and all of its neighbors. We have traveled a winding road over the last 12 months, with few peaks and many valleys. But this month, I am pleased that we have pursued direct negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians in Washington, Sharm el-Sheikh, and Jerusalem.<p>Now, I recognize many are pessimistic about this process. The cynics say that Israelis and Palestinians are too distrustful of each other and too divided internally to forge lasting peace. Rejectionists on both sides will try to disrupt the process with bitter words and with bombs and with gunfire. Some say that the gaps between the parties are too big, the potential for talks to break down is too great, and that after decades of failure, peace is simply not possible.<p>I hear those voices of skepticism. But I ask you to consider the alternative. If an agreement is not reached, Palestinians will never know the pride and dignity that comes with their own state. Israelis will never know the certainty and security that comes with sovereign and stable neighbors who are committed to coexistence. The hard realities of demography will take hold. More blood will be shed. This Holy Land will remain a symbol of our differences instead of our common humanity.<p>I refuse to accept that future. And we all have a choice to make. Each of us must choose the path of peace. Of course, that responsibility begins with the parties themselves, who must answer the call of history. Earlier this month at the White House, I was struck by the words of both the Israeli and Palestinian leaders. Prime Minister Netanyahu said, \\"I came here today to find a historic compromise that will enable both people to live in peace, security, and dignity.\\" And President Abbas said, \\"We will spare no effort, and we will work diligently and tirelessly to ensure these negotiations achieve their cause.\\"<p>These words must now be followed by action, and I believe that both leaders have the courage to do so. But the road that they have to travel is exceedingly difficult, which is why I call upon Israelis and Palestinians and the world to rally behind the goal that these leaders now share. We know that there will be tests along the way and that one test is fast approaching. <p>Israel's settlement moratorium has made a difference on the ground and improved the atmosphere for talks. And our position on this issue is well known. We believe that the moratorium should be extended. We also believe that talks should press on until completed. Now is the time for the parties to help each other overcome this obstacle. Now is the time to build the trust and provide the time for substantial progress to be made. Now is the time for this opportunity to be seized so that it does not slip away.<p>Now, peace must be made by Israelis and Palestinians, but each of us has a responsibility to do our part as well. Those of us who are friends of Israel must understand that true security for the Jewish state requires an independent Palestine, one that allows the Palestinian people to live with dignity and opportunity. And those of us who are friends of the Palestinians must understand that the rights of the Palestinian people will be won only through peaceful means, including genuine reconciliation with a secure Israel.<p>I know many in this hall count themselves as friends of the Palestinians. But these pledges of friendship must now be supported by deeds. Those who have signed on to the Arab Peace Initiative should seize this opportunity to make it real by taking tangible steps towards the normalization that it promises Israel.<p>And those who speak on behalf of Palestinian self-government should help the Palestinian Authority politically and financially, and in doing so, help the Palestinians build the institutions of their state.<p>Those who long to see an independent Palestine must also stop trying to tear down Israel. After thousands of years, Jews and Arabs are not strangers in a strange land. After 60 years in the community of nations, Israel's existence must not be a subject for debate.<p>Israel is a sovereign state and the historic homeland of the Jewish people. It should be clear to all that efforts to chip away at Israel's legitimacy will only be met by the unshakeable opposition of the United States. And efforts to threaten or kill Israelis will do nothing to help the Palestinian people. The slaughter of innocent Israelis is not resistance, it's injustice. And make no mistake: The courage of a man like President Abbas, who stands up for his people in front of the world under very difficult circumstances, is far greater than those who fire rockets at innocent women and children.<p>The conflict between Israelis and Arabs is as old as this institution. And we can come back here next year, as we have for the last 60 years, and make long speeches about it. We can read familiar lists of grievances. We can table the same resolutions. We can further empower the forces of rejectionism and hate. And we can waste more time by carrying forward an argument that will not help a single Israeli or Palestinian child achieve a better life. We can do that.<p>Or we can say that this time will be different; that this time, we will not let terror or turbulence or posturing or petty politics stand in the way. This time, we will think not of ourselves, but of the young girl in Gaza who wants to have no ceiling on her dreams or the young boy in Sderot who wants to sleep without the nightmare of rocket fire.<p>This time, we should draw upon the teachings of tolerance that lie at the heart of three great religions that see Jerusalem's soil as sacred. This time, we should reach for what's best within ourselves. If we do, when we come back here next year, we can have an agreement that will lead to a new member of the United Nations, an independent, sovereign state of Palestine, living in peace with Israel.<p>It is our destiny to bear the burdens of the challenges that I've addressed: recession and war and conflict. And there is always a sense of urgency, even emergency, that drives most of our foreign policies. Indeed, after millennia marked by wars, this very institution reflects the desire of human beings to create a forum to deal with emergencies that will inevitably come.<p>But even as we confront immediate challenges, we must also summon the foresight to look beyond them and consider, what are we trying to build over the long term? What is the world that awaits us when today's battles are brought to an end? And that is what I would like to talk about with the remainder of my time today.<p>One of the first actions of this General Assembly was to adopt a Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948. That declaration begins by stating that \\"recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice, and peace in the world.\\"<p>The idea is a simple one: that freedom, justice, and peace for the world must begin with freedom, justice, and peace in the lives of individual human beings. And for the United States, this is a matter of moral and pragmatic necessity. As Robert Kennedy said, \\"[T]he individual man, the child of God, is the touchstone of value, and all society, groups, the state, exist for his benefit.\\" So we stand up for universal values because it's the right thing to do. But we also know from experience that those who defend these values for their people have been our closest friends and allies, while those who have denied those rights, whether terrorist groups or tyrannical governments, have chosen to be our adversaries.<p>Human rights have never gone unchallenged, not in any of our nations and not in our world. Tyranny is still with us, whether it manifests itself in the Taliban killing girls who try to go to school, a North Korean regime that enslaves its own people, or an armed group in Congo-Kinshasa that use rape as a weapon of war.<p>In times of economic unease, there can also be an anxiety about human rights. Today, as in past times of economic downturn, some put human rights aside for the promise of short term stability or the false notion that economic growth can come at the expense of freedom. We see leaders abolishing term limits. We see crackdowns on civil society. We see corruption smothering entrepreneurship and good governance. We see democratic reforms deferred indefinitely.<p>As I said last year, each country will pursue a path rooted in the culture of its own people. Yet experience shows us that history is on the side of liberty, that the strongest foundation for human progress lies in open economies, open societies, and open governments. To put it simply, democracy, more than any other form of government, delivers for our citizens. And I believe that truth will only grow stronger in a world where the borders between nations are blurred.<p>America is working to shape a world that fosters this openness, for the rot of a closed or corrupt economy must never eclipse the energy and innovation of human beings. All of us want the right to educate our children, to make a decent wage, to care for the sick, and to be carried as far as our dreams and our deeds will take us. But that depends upon economies that tap the power of our people, including the potential of women and girls. That means letting entrepreneurs start a business without paying a bribe, and governments that support opportunity instead of stealing from their people. And that means rewarding hard work instead of reckless risk-taking.<p>Yesterday I put forward a new development policy that will pursue these goals. Recognizing that dignity is a human right and global development is in our common interest, America will partner with nations that offer their people a path out of poverty. And together, we must unleash growth that powers by individuals and emerging markets in all parts of the globe.<p>There is no reason why Africa should not be an exporter of agriculture, which is why our food security initiative is empowering farmers. There is no reason why entrepreneurs shouldn't be able to build new markets in every society, which is why I hosted a summit on entrepreneurship earlier this spring, because the obligation of government is to empower individuals, not to impede them.<p>The same holds true for civil society. The arc of human progress has been shaped by individuals with the freedom to assemble and by organizations outside of government that insisted upon democratic change and by free media that held the powerful accountable. We have seen that from the South Africans who stood up to apartheid to the Poles of Solidarity to the mothers of the disappeared who spoke out against the \\"dirty war\\" to Americans who marched for the rights of all races, including my own.<p>Civil society is the conscience of our communities, and America will always extend our engagement abroad with citizens beyond the halls of government. And we will call out those who suppress ideas, and serve as a voice for those who are voiceless. We will promote new tools of communication so people are empowered to connect with one another and, in repressive societies, to do so with security. We will support a free and open Internet so individuals have the information to make up their own minds. And it is time to embrace and effectively monitor norms that advance the rights of civil society and guarantee its expansion within and across borders.<p>Open society supports open government, but it cannot substitute for it. There is no right more fundamental than the ability to choose your leaders and determine your destiny. Now, make no mistake: The ultimate success of democracy in the world won't come because the United States dictates it, it will come because individual citizens demand a say in how they are governed.<p>There is no soil where this notion cannot take root, just as every democracy reflects the uniqueness of a nation. Later this fall, I will travel to Asia. And I will visit India, which peacefully threw off colonialism and established a thriving democracy of over a billion people. I'll continue to Indonesia, the world's largest Muslim-majority country, which binds together thousands of islands through the glue of representative government and civil society. I'll join the G-20 meeting on the Korean Peninsula, which provides the world's clearest contrast between a society that is dynamic and open and free and one that is imprisoned and closed. And I will conclude my trip in Japan, an ancient culture that found peace and extraordinary development through democracy.<p>Each of these countries gives life to democratic principles in their own way. And even as some governments roll back reform, we also celebrate the courage of a President in Colombia who willingly stepped aside or the promise of a new constitution in Kenya.<p>The common thread of progress is the principle that government is accountable to its citizens. And the diversity in this room makes clear, no one country has all the answers, but all of us must answer to our own people.<p>In all parts of the world, we see the promise of innovation to make government more open and accountable. And now we must build on that progress. And when we gather back here next year, we should bring specific commitments to promote transparency, to fight corruption, to energize civic engagement, to leverage new technologies so that we strengthen the foundations of freedom in our own countries, while living up to the ideals that can light the world.<p>This institution can still play an indispensable role in the advance of human rights. It's time to welcome the efforts of U.N. Women to protect the rights of women around the globe. It's time for every member state to open its elections to international monitors and increase the U.N. Democracy Fund. It's time to reinvigorate U.N. peacekeeping so that missions have the resources necessary to succeed and so atrocities like sexual violence are prevented and justice is enforced, because neither dignity nor democracy can thrive without basic security.<p>And it's time to make this institution more accountable as well, because the challenges of a new century demand new ways of serving our common interests.<p>The world that America seeks is not one we can build on our own. For human rights to reach those who suffer the boot of oppression, we need your voices to speak out. In particular, I appeal to those nations who emerged from tyranny and inspired the world in the second half of the last century, from South Africa to South Asia, from Eastern Europe to South America. Don't stand idly by, don't be silent when dissidents elsewhere are imprisoned and protesters are beaten. Recall your own history, because part of the price of our own freedom is standing up for the freedom of others.<p>That belief will guide America's leadership in this 21st century. It is a belief that has seen us through more than two centuries of trial, and it will see us through the challenges we face today, be it war or recession, conflict or division.<p>So even as we have come through a difficult decade, I stand here before you confident in the future, a future where Iraq is governed by neither tyrant nor a foreign power, and Afghanistan is freed from the turmoil of war; a future where the children of Israel and Palestine can build the peace that was not possible for their parents; a world where the promise of development reaches into the prisons of poverty and disease; a future where the cloud of recession gives way to the light of renewal and the dream of opportunity is available to all. <p>This future will not be easy to reach. It will not come without setbacks, nor will it be quickly claimed. But the founding of the United Nations itself is a testament to human progress. Remember, in times that were far more trying than our own, our predecessors chose the hope of unity over the ease of division and made a promise to future generations that the dignity and equality of human beings would be our common cause.<p>It falls to us to fulfill that promise. And though we will be met by dark forces that will test our resolve, Americans have always had cause to believe that we can choose a better history, that we need only to look outside the walls around us. For through the citizens of every conceivable ancestry who make this city their own, we see living proof that opportunity can be accessed by all, that what unites us as human beings is far greater than what divides us, and that people from every part of this world can live together in peace.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"277" "\"<i>President Obama.</i> Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Please have a seat. Well, I am thrilled to be here. I want to thank President Clinton for the kind, although protocol-busting, introduction. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I want to thank him for inviting me back to join you at this year's meeting.<p>It was an extraordinary pleasure to be here at CGI last year. It's a pleasure to be back today, not only because of my highest regard for President Clinton personally, not just because of my gratitude to him for putting up with long hours away from our Secretary of State--[<i>laughter</i>]----<p><i>Former President William J. Clinton.</i> Thank you for being grateful, though.<p><i>President Obama.</i> I am grateful. [<i>Laughter</i>] But also because of the tremendous work he's doing through GCI [CGI]*. <p>For the past 5 years, President Clinton has applied the full force of his energy and his influence--and it is formidable--to the work of this initiative. And with that passion and with that determination and that charm of his that makes it so darn hard to say no, he has marshaled $57 billion worth of commitments from folks like you, and that's bringing hope and opportunity to more than 200 million people around the world. It's a remarkable record of achievement.<p>But I'm not just here today to sing President Clinton's praises or to commend all of you for the terrific work that each of you have done, although I am grateful for that. I am here to play an even more important role, and that is to introduce my better half: my extraordinary wife, and America's extraordinary First Lady, Michelle Obama.<p>Now, Bill Clinton understands where I'm coming from here. [<i>Laughter</i>] He knows what it's like to be married to somebody who's smarter--[<i>laughter</i>]--somebody who's better looking--[<i>laughter</i>]--somebody who's just all around a little more impressive than you are. [<i>Laughter</i>] Right? It's--this is not news to people. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Since Michelle and I first started dating 22 years ago, pretty much everybody I know who's met her at some point comes up to me and says, \\"You know, Barack, you're great and all, I like you, but your wife, now, she's really something.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And I, of course, agree. They're right. And I feel grateful that Michelle so far, at least, has not run for any offices I've been running for. [<i>Laughter</i>] She would beat me thoroughly.<p>Fortunately for me, as much as she cares deeply about public service, she hasn't shown much interest in the political chatter. She doesn't think about who's winning or losing, what the polls say, or who gets the best headline in the papers. No matter what the issue, there's only one thing that she wants to know, and that's: Who are we helping? That's what she asks. Who is this going to make a difference for? Whose life is this going to improve?<p>And while I get plenty of good advice from a lot of people during the course of the day, at the end of each day, it is Michelle--her moral voice, her moral center--that cuts through all the noise in Washington and reminds me of why I'm there in the first place.<p>She reminds me with her work to tackle childhood obesity so our kids can have healthy lives and the futures they deserve. She reminds me by throwing open the doors of our White House to young people from all different backgrounds, letting them know that we believe in their promise, letting them know that the White House is the people's house, and letting young people know that they're not that far away from all the power and prestige and decisions that are made, that, in fact, this is something they can aspire to, they can be a part of, because we are a government of and by and for the people.<p>She reminds me with her work to be a voice for America's military families and veterans, using her platform as First Lady to make sure they get support and respect and the appreciation that they deserve.<p>And while I am tremendously proud of the First Lady that she's been for this country, at the end of the day I'm most grateful that she's been such a partner to me and the best mother that I know.<p>Every moment that I spend with my daughters, I am thankful for all that she's done to make them who they are. Every day, I see her strength and her kindness and her character reflected in the two of them. And there is no greater gift, and I know Bill feels the same way about when he looks at Chelsea, he sees this incredible force that a mother can bring.<p>To this day, I still don't know how I talked her into marrying me, but I know that I am the luckiest guy in the world that she did. So it is with that that I would like to introduce you to my first lady, America's First Lady, Michelle Obama.\" "
"278" "\"Let me officially welcome the opportunity to speak again with Prime Minister Kan. We had an opportunity for intensive dialogue when we met together at the G-8 in Toronto. And once again, we have reaffirmed the importance of the U.S.-Japan alliance not only to regional stability, not only to the security of both our countries, but we believe it's one of the cornerstones of peace and security throughout the world.<p>So we look forward to discussing further how we can strengthen this alliance in the 21st century, how our economic relationship can continue to improve for the prosperity of both our peoples, how we can address regional hotspots and tensions that may arise, but also how we can work as leaders together in dealing with international problems like climate change and nuclear nonproliferation.<p>Japan will also be hosting the APEC meeting this year, and I'm looking forward to traveling to Yokohama, and I'm looking very much to finding ways that we can work together to shape an architecture for prosperity and economic development in the Pacific region, where obviously both the United States and Japan have a deep and longstanding interest.<p>So welcome. I hope you enjoy your stay in New York. And I look forward to my stay in Japan later this year.\" "
"279" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. I have already subjected you to one long speech today, so I will not do it again. But I do want to, as the President of the host country, the United States, thank all of you for your participation. And I want to thank Secretary-General Ban for hosting us. To all my fellow delegates and all the distinguished guests who are with us today, thank you for your leadership.<p>Mr. Secretary-General, I especially want to thank you for your dedication to pursuing peace, expanding security, protecting human rights, and advancing democracy and development.<p>Standing here, I am reminded of something President Franklin Roosevelt said shortly before the United Nations was founded. He said, \\"Peace can endure only so long as humanity really insists upon it and is willing to work for it and sacrifice for it.\\" Over the last 2 years, our nations have come together in that spirit. We've shown the possibilities of working together in common purpose, from responding to terrible earthquakes in Haiti and floods in Pakistan, to carrying out peacekeeping missions, to focusing the world's attention on the upcoming referenda in Sudan.<p>But as we all know, our work is far from over. And in the months and years ahead, the challenges we face will require the work of all nations and all peoples. That's how real change happens. It will require the leadership of everybody in this room, because despite our differences, our people, I believe, share common aspirations: to live in security free from fear, to live in dignity free from want, to provide for our families, and to realize a better tomorrow. And as leaders, each of us has a responsibility to answer those aspirations and to leave our children a better world.<p>And so I want to propose a toast to Secretary-General Ban and to the spirit that brings us here today; that we insist not only upon peace and progress, but that we are also willing to work for it and to sacrifice for it.<p>Cheers.\" "
"280" "\"Good afternoon. Mr. Secretary-General, on behalf of us all, thank you for convening this meeting to address the urgent situation in Sudan that demands the attention of the world.<p>At this moment, the fate of millions of people hangs in the balance. What happens in Sudan in the days ahead may decide whether a people who have endured too much war move towards peace or slip backwards into bloodshed. And what happens in Sudan matters to all of sub-Saharan Africa, and it matters to the world.<p>I want to thank Vice President Taha and First Vice President Kiir for being here. To my fellow leaders from Africa, the Middle East, Europe, and Asia, your presence sends an unmistakable message to the Sudanese people and to their leaders that we stand united. The comprehensive peace agreement that ended the civil war must be fully implemented. The referenda on self-determination scheduled for January 9 must take place peacefully and on time. And the will of the people of south Sudan and the region of Abyei must be respected, regardless of the outcome.<p>We are here because the leaders of Sudan face a choice. It's not the choice of how to move forward to give the people of Sudan the peace they deserve. We already know what needs to be done. The choice is--for Sudanese leaders is whether they will have the courage to walk the path. And the decision cannot be delayed any longer.<p>Despite some recent progress, preparations for the referenda are still behind schedule. Now the vote is only a little more than a hundred days away. And tragically, as has already been referred to, a recent spike in violence in Darfur has cost the lives of hundreds of more people.<p>So the stakes are enormous. We all know the terrible price paid by the Sudanese people the last time north and south were engulfed in war: some 2 million people killed--2 million people; millions more left homeless; millions displaced to refugee camps, threatening to destabilize the entire region. Separately, in Darfur, the deaths of hundreds of thousands shocked the conscience of the world. This is the awful legacy of conflict in Sudan, the past that must not become Sudan's future.<p>And that is why since I took office, my administration has worked for peace in Sudan. In my meetings with world leaders, I've urged my counterparts to fully support and contribute to the international effort that is required. Ambassador Susan Rice has worked tirelessly to build a strong and active coalition committed to moving forward. My special envoy, General Gration, has worked directly with the parties in his 20 visits to the region.<p>Now, we've seen some progress. With our partners, we've helped to bring an end to the conflict between Sudan and C had. We've worked urgently to improve humanitarian conditions on the ground. And we're leading the effort to transform the Sudan People's Liberation Army into a professional security force, including putting an end to the use of children as soldiers.<p>Recognizing that Southern Sudan must continue to develop and improve the lives of its people, regardless of the referendum's outcome, we in the U.N. mission are helping the Government of Southern Sudan improve the delivery of food and water and health care and strengthen agriculture.<p>And most recently, we've redoubled our efforts to ensure that the referenda takes place as planned. Vice President Biden recently visited the region to underscore that the results of the referenda must be respected. Secretary Clinton has engaged repeatedly with Sudanese leaders to convey our clear expectations. We've increased our diplomatic presence in Southern Sudan, and mobilized others to do the same, to prepare for the January 9 vote and for what comes after. <p>But no one can impose progress and peace on another nation. Ultimately, only Sudanese leaders can ensure that the referenda go forward and that Sudan finds peace. There's a great deal of work that must be done, and it must be done quickly.<p>So two paths lay ahead: one path taken by those who flout their responsibilities and for whom there must be consequences--more pressure and deeper isolation; the other path is taken by leaders who fulfill their obligations, and which would lead to improved relations between the United States and Sudan, including supporting agricultural development for all Sudanese, expanding trade and investment, and exchanging Ambassadors and eventually working to lift sanctions--if Sudanese leaders fulfill their obligations.<p>Now is the time for the international community to support Sudanese leaders who make the right choice. Just as the African nations of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development rose to the challenge and helped the parties find a path to peace in 2005, all of us can do our part to ensure that the comprehensive peace agreement is fully implemented.<p>We must promote dignity and human rights throughout all of Sudan, and this includes extending the mandate of the U.N. in dependent expert of Sudan, because we cannot turn a blind eye to the violations of basic human rights. And as I said, regardless of the outcome of the referenda, we must support development in Southern Sudan, because people there deserve the same dignity and opportunities as anyone else.<p>And even as we focus on advancing peace between north and south, we will not abandon the people of Darfur. The Government of Sudan has recently pledged to improve security and living conditions in Darfur, and it must do so. It need not wait for a final peace agreement. It must act now to halt the violence and create the conditions--access and security--so aid workers and peacekeepers can reach those in need and so development can proceed. Infrastructure and public services need to be improved. And those who target the innocent--be they civilians, aid workers, or peacekeepers--must be held accountable.<p>Progress towards a negotiated and definitive end to the conflict is possible. And now is the moment for all nations to send a strong signal that there will be no time and no tolerance for spoilers who refuse to engage in peace talks.<p>Indeed, there can be no lasting peace in Darfur and no normalization of relations between Sudan and the United States without accountability for crimes that have been committed. Accountability is essential not only for Sudan's future, it also sends a powerful message about the responsibilities of all nations that certain behavior is simply not acceptable in this world, that genocide is not acceptable. In the 21st century, rules and universal values must be upheld.<p>I saw the imperative of justice when I visited one of the camps in Chad several years ago. It was crowded with more than 15,000 people, most of them children. What I saw in that camp was heartbreaking: families who had lost everything, surviving on aid. I'll never forget the man who came up to me, a former teacher who was raising his family of nine in that camp. He looked at me, and he said very simply, \\"We need peace.\\" We need peace.<p>Your Excellencies--Vice President Taha, First Vice President Kiir--the Sudanese people need peace. And all of us have come together today because the world needs a just and lasting peace in Sudan.<p>Here, even as we confront the challenges before us, we can look beyond the horizon to the different future that peace makes possible. And I want to speak directly to the people of Sudan, north and south. In your lives, you have faced extraordinary hardship. But now there's the chance to reap the rewards of peace. And we know what that future looks like. It's a future where children, instead of spending the day fetching water, can go to school and come home safe. It's a future where families, back in their homes, can once again farm the soil of their ancestors. It's a future where, because their country has been welcomed back into the community of nations, more Sudanese have the opportunity to travel, more opportunity to provide education, more opportunities for trade. It's a future where, because their economy is tied to the global economy, a woman can start a small business, a manufacturer can export his goods, a growing economy raises living standards, from large cities to the most remote village.<p>This is not wide-eyed imagination. This is the lesson of history, from Northern Ireland to the Balkans, from Camp David to Aceh, that with leaders of courage and vision, compromise is possible and conflicts can be ended. And it is the example of Africans, from Liberia to Mozambique to Sierra Leone, that after the darkness of war, there can be a new day of peace and progress.<p>So that is the future that beckons the Sudanese people, north and south, east and west. That is the path that is open to you today. And for those willing to take that step, to make that walk, know that you will have a steady partner in the United States of America.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"281" "\"This week, the economists who officially decide when recessions start and end declared the recession of 2008 to be over. But if you're one of the millions of Americans who lost your home, your job, or your savings as a consequence of the recession, this news is of little comfort or value.<p>Yes, the economy is growing instead of shrinking, as it was in 2008 and the beginning of 2009. We're gaining private sector jobs each month instead of losing 800,000, as we did the month I took office.<p>But we have to keep pushing to promote growth that will generate the jobs we need and repair the terrible damage the recession has done. That's why I've proposed a series of additional steps: accelerated tax breaks for businesses who buy equipment now, a permanent research and development tax break to promote innovation by American companies, and a new initiative to rebuild America's roads, rails, and runways that will put folks to work and make our country more competitive.<p>Taken together with the small-business tax cut and lending plan we passed through Congress last week, these steps will help spur jobs in the short run and strengthen our economy for the long run.<p>Now, the Republicans who want to take over Congress offered their own ideas the other day. Many were the very same policies that led to the economic crisis in the first place, which isn't surprising, since many of their leaders were among the architects of that failed policy.<p>It's grounded in the same, wornout philosophy: cut taxes for millionaires and billionaires, cut the rules for Wall Street and the special interests, and cut the middle class loose to fend for itself. That's not a prescription for a better future. It's an echo of a disastrous decade we can't afford to relive.<p>The Republicans in Washington claimed to draw their ideas from a web site called America Speaking Out. It turns out that one of the ideas that's drawn the most interest on their web site is ending tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas. The funny thing is, when we recently closed one of the most egregious loopholes for companies creating jobs overseas, Republicans in Congress were almost unanimously opposed. The Republican leader, John Boehner, attacked us for it and stood up for outsourcing instead of American workers.<p>So America may be speaking out, but Republicans in Congress sure aren't listening. They want to put special interests back in the driver's seat in Washington. They want to roll back the law that will finally stop health insurance companies from denying you coverage on the basis of a preexisting condition. They want to repeal reforms that will finally protect hard-working families from hidden rates and penalties every time they use a credit card, make a mortgage payment, or take out a student loan.<p>And for all their talk about reining in spending and getting our deficits under control, they want to borrow another $700 billion and use it to give tax cuts to millionaires and billionaires. On average, that's a tax cut of about $100,000 for millionaires.<p>Instead of cutting taxes for the wealthiest few--tax breaks we cannot afford--I've called for tax cuts for middle class families who saw their incomes shrink by 5 percent during the last, lost decade. We've already cut eight different taxes for small-business owners to help them hire and grow, and we're going to cut eight more. We're challenging our States and schools to do a better job educating our kids and making college more affordable so America can once more lead the world in the proportion of our children graduating from college. And we're putting an end to the days of taxpayer-funded bailouts so Main Street never again has to pay for Wall Street's mistakes.<p>America is a great country. Our democracy is vibrant, our economy is dynamic, and our workers can outcompete the best of them. But the way for us to remain the greatest country on Earth isn't to turn back the clock and put the special interests back in charge. It's to make sure all our people are getting a fair shake. It's to make sure everyone who's willing to work for it still has a chance to reach for the American Dream. And that will remain my mission every single day so long as I have the honor of serving as President.<p>Have a nice weekend, everybody.\" "
"282" "\"Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. Thank you very much. I am thrilled to be here on what is an exciting day. I want to begin by recognizing the Members of Congress who fought so hard to pass this bill on behalf of America's small businesses. A lot of work was involved in this obviously, but there are a few folks who are here on stage I want to make sure to acknowledge.<p>First of all, my dear friend--and my Senator--from the great State of Illinois, Senator Dick Durbin. A champion for businesses in Louisiana and around the country, Senator Mary Landrieu is here. A champion of small businesses, Senator Maria Cantwell of Washington is here. And one of the deans of the Senate, and as thoughtful a person about industry and manufacturing as you'll find, Senator Carl Levin of Michigan is here. From the House side, we've got Representative Melissa Bean, also my neighbor from Illinois, and Congressman Al Green from Texas is in the house.<p>We've got a couple of Governors here: Governor O'Malley of Maryland; and somebody who has been working so hard on behalf of the great State of Michigan--we are proud of what she's been doing, because it's really hard work in Michigan right now--but Governor Granholm, I think, coming to the end of her term, has just done outstanding work, and I want to acknowledge her.<p>We've also got some mayors in the house, and I'm not sure if they're all here, but I'm going to go ahead and announce them: Mayor Coleman of Columbus, Ohio; Mayor Dickert from Racine, Wisconsin; Mayor Foxx from Charlotte, North Carolina; Mayor Pawlowski of Allentown, Pennsylvania; and Mayor Ravenstahl--whose Steelers won last night--from Pittsburgh. [<i>Laughter</i>] Give them all a big round of applause.<p>Finally, I want to thank members of my administration who are with us, including our Small Business Administrator and just a terrific advocate for small businesses, Karen Mills is here. Please give her a big round of applause. And our Treasury Secretary, Tim Geithner, as well as one of my top economic advisers, Gene Sperling, who worked so hard to get this legislation done. Where's Gene? There he is back there. <p>And most of all, I want to thank and welcome all the small-business owners from across the country who have come to the signing of this bill, many of whom, over the course of the last several months, I've had a chance to meet. I visited their facilities, everything from--I've seen trucks to pizza--[<i>laughter</i>]--to web sites to signs. And we've talked about how essential it is that we got this bill done, that it was critical that we cut taxes and make more loans available to entrepreneurs.<p>And so today, after a long and tough fight, I am signing a small-business jobs bill that does exactly that. It's good news. It's good news.<p>Now, this is important because small businesses produce most of the new jobs in this country. They are the anchors of our Main Streets. They are part of the promise of America: the idea that if you've got a dream and you're willing to work hard, you can succeed. That's what leads a worker to leave a job to become her own boss. That's what propels a basement inventor to sell a new product or an amateur chef to open a restaurant. It's this promise that has drawn millions to our shores and made our economy the envy of the world.<p>Yet along with the middle class, small businesses have borne the greatest brunt of this recession. They--you--were hit by a one-two punch. The downturn has meant people are spending less, so there's less demand. And the financial crisis made it difficult for small businesses to get loans.<p>So when I took office, I put in place a plan--an economic plan to help small businesses. And we were guided by a simple idea: Government can't guarantee success, but it can knock down barriers to success, like the lack of affordable credit. Government can't replace--can't create jobs to replace the millions that we lost in the recession, but it can create the conditions for small businesses to hire more people, through steps like tax breaks.<p>That's why we cut taxes for small businesses eight times. We passed a new tax credit for companies that hire unemployed workers, which is benefiting several of the people with us here today. Guy Brami from Gelberg Signs is here in Washington. And he's making use of this tax break after he hired six workers. Cherrelle Hurt, who runs the As We Grow Child Care & Learning Center in Virginia, has been able to add three new employees.<p>We also increased the exemption on capital gains taxes for key small-business investments to 75 percent. We passed a tax cut so companies could immediately write off more expenses like new equipment. And as part of health reform, 4 million small-business owners could be eligible this year for a health care tax credit worth perhaps tens of thousands of dollars.<p>Our economic plan has also helped to free up credit, supporting nearly 70,000 new loans to small businesses through expanded SBA lending. This includes some of the business owners who are here today, like Joe Fugere of Tutta Bella Pizzeria in Seattle. I still haven't tasted the pizza, but he promises I'm going to get some at some point. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>We also waived fees on SBA loans to save folks money on payments. And the emergency steps we took to stabilize the financial system helped to get credit flowing again.<p>So all told, these steps have made a real difference. But as far as we've come, everybody in this room understands we've still got a long way to go. I don't have to tell folks here that small businesses still face hardships, and it's still too difficult for many creditworthy small-business owners to get loans. So there is more we can do to help them grow and to help them hire. And that's why I began fighting for months to pass this jobs bill, the most significant step on behalf of our small businesses in more than decade. And once I sign it, it's going to speed relief to small businesses across this country right away.<p>So let me just outline what's in here. First, on top of the eight tax breaks we've already passed, we're adding eight more, which will accelerate more than $55 billion in tax relief over the next year to businesses across the country. Capital gains taxes will be completely eliminated for key investments in small businesses, driving capital to as many as 1 million small firms across America and, by the way, honoring a promise that I made as a candidate for President.<p>Four and a half million small businesses and individuals will be immediately--will be eligible to immediately write off more expenses. And that may benefit Ruth Gresser, who is here today and who is opening another restaurant in Alexandria, Virginia.<p>Two million self-employed Americans will be able to receive a new deduction for health insurance. And we're also increasing the tax break for anyone looking to open up a business. That's a $10,000 deduction to help entrepreneurs afford what can often be pretty discouraging startup costs, because our future prosperity in part depends on whether or not we are creating an environment in which folks can test new ideas, bring new products to market, and generate new businesses.<p>And that's not just a challenge for government. It's a challenge that requires businesses and leaders and universities, others to seek out new ways to promote entrepreneurship across this country.<p>Now, the second thing this bill does is we're going to make more loans available to small businesses. Right now there is a waiting list for SBA loans more than 1,400 names long. These are people who are ready to hire and expand, who've been approved by their banks, but who've been waiting for this legislation to pass. Well, when I sign this bill, their wait will be over. Their wait will be over. Virtually every person on that list will receive the loan they need in a matter of weeks.<p>Several of the small-business owners standing with me today are on this list, including Tony Scovazzo of AJS Consulting Engineers. Where's Tony? Raise your hand. Tony is right here. [<i>Laughter</i>] With Tony's loan, he'll be able to buy new office space and hire three people to do energy-efficient HVAC work. Terry Dunlap of Tactical Network Solutions--Terry, raise your hand. Terry is on the list. He plans to use his loan to hire as many as five more people.<p>Noel and Glen Mouritzen are also here. They'll be able to use a loan to set up a repair shop for helicopters and hire four or five workers. Herb Caudill is on this list. And Herb's company, Caudill Web, has a good problem: They've got more work than they can accept. So with this loan from SBA, he'll be able to bring one or two new web programmers and designers to take on some new projects.<p>On top of these loans that will be freed up right away, we're also more than doubling the size limits of the most popular SBA loans, like the ones that have benefited many of the business owners who are with us here today. Plus, through this bill, we'll take other steps to promote lending. And this includes our new Small Business Lending Fund, designed to help Main Street banks lend to Main Street small businesses across this country. And this bill will also encourage additional private sector lending through innovative efforts at the State level to promote small business and manufacturing, efforts that have too often been constrained by State budget cuts.<p>So this law will do two big things: It's going to cut taxes, and it's going to make more loans available for small businesses. It's a great victory for America's entrepreneurs. It is a great victory for America's entrepreneurs.<p>Now, I have to admit, I regret that this bill--which was based on ideas from both Democrats and Republicans, and drawing support from business groups that don't normally support me--[<i>laughter</i>]--I regret that this was blocked for months by the Republican minority in the Senate, and that needlessly delayed this relief. But I do want to thank the two Republican Senators who bucked this partisanship to help pass this bill, and obviously, I want to thank all the Democrats who worked so hard to get it passed.<p>At this difficult time in our country, it's essential that we keep up the fight for every job, for every new business, for every opportunity to strengthen this economy. That's what's being done at the State level by Governor Granholm and Governor O'Malley and Governors all across the country. That's what's being done by the mayors who are here today who are fighting day in, day out to help start new businesses that can bring prosperity to their communities.<p>We've got to keep moving forward. That's why I fought so hard to pass this bill. And that's why I'm going to continue to do everything in my power to help small businesses open up and hire and expand. And that's why, with these small-business owners standing with me today, I am extraordinarily proud to sign this bill into law. All right?<p>[<i>At this point, the President signed the bill.</i>]<p>This is the tricky part. [<i>Laughter</i>] You start running out of letters. [<i>Laughter</i>] There you go. It's done.\" "
"283" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, DC! Thank you, DC. Thank you so much. I'm fired up! Thank you.<p>Let me, first of all, thank one of the finest DNC chairmen we've ever had, Tim Kaine. Please give it up for him. Tim Kaine--I want to just point this out, Tim Kaine supported me. He was the first statewide elected official outside of Illinois to endorse my candidacy for President. That's the kind of person--he supported me when nobody could pronounce my name. [<i>Laughter</i>] There was nothing in it for him, except he thought it was the right thing to do. And that's the kind of leader that you remember.<p>I know you heard from David Plouffe, my former campaign manager and great friend of mine. And I understand B.o.B was in the house. I will not do my version of \\"Airplane.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you!<p><i>The President.</i> I love you back.<p>It is good to see this crowd so fired up. I need you to be fired up. I need you to stay fired up, all the way to November 2. All the way to November 2. Because November 2 is going to say a lot about your future: a lot about your individual futures, but also about the future of our country.<p>Two years ago, with the help of a lot of you, some of you getting involved in politics for the first time, you defied the Washington conventional wisdom. I mean, you remember. Folks did not think we were going to win; let's face it. Because they didn't know about you. They said, no, you can't overcome the cynicism of our politics. No, you can't overcome the special interests. No, you can't make real progress on the big challenges of our time. They said, no, you can't. What did you say?<p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes, we can!<p><i>The President.</i> You said, yes, we can.<p>You proved that the power of everyday people going door to door, neighbor to neighbor, friend to friend, using networks, using the Internet, that that was stronger than the forces of the status quo. And every single one of you is a shareholder in that mission to rebuild our country and reclaim our future.<p>So I'm back here today just in case you've forgotten what that feels like, to change the country. Because on November 2, we face another test, and the stakes could not be higher.<p>When I arrived in Washington about 20 months ago, some of you were there. It was really cold. It was a cold day. It was a cold day, but the spirit was warm. And our hope was that we could pull together, Democrats and Republicans and Independents, to confront the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. What we hoped was that we could get beyond some of the old political divides--red States, blue States--that had prevented us from making progress for so long. And we came into this with that spirit because we understood that we're proud to be Democrats, but we're prouder to be Americans.<p>And instead, what we confronted when we arrived was just politics, pure and simple, an opposition party that was still stuck in the same failed policies of the past, whose leaders in Congress were determined from the start to just let us deal with the mess that they had done so much to create.<p>Their calculation was simple and cynical. They knew that it was going to take a long time to solve the economic challenges we were facing. It was the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. They understood that because it was going to take a long time, people would be frustrated. They'd feel anxious. They'd be fearful. And so what the other side calculated was, you know, if we just sit on the sidelines, we let Obama and the Democrats in Congress deal with everything, then we can do well in the polls. That was their theory.<p>And that's what they did for the last 20 months. They've said no to just about every idea I've proposed, every policy I've proposed, even ideas they've traditionally agreed with. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm not exaggerating. I mean, we had situations where they would sponsor bills, I'd say okay, and then they'd say, oh, well, if you're okay with it, we must be against it. [<i>Laughter</i>] Happened a bunch of times. That's true.<p>And because they understood that folks were going to be anxious and fearful, they've been tapping into that fear. And now the pundits are saying that the base of the Republican Party is mobilized and energized and excited, and that all of us who worked so hard in 2008, well, maybe we're not as energized, maybe we're not as engaged.<p><i>Audience members.</i> No!<p><i>The President.</i> That's what they're saying. I'm just the messenger here. [<i>Laughter</i>] They say that there is an enthusiasm gap, and that the same Republicans and the same policies that left our economy in a shambles and the middle class struggling year after year, that those folks might all ride back into power. That's the conventional wisdom in Washington.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> We cannot let that happen. We cannot sit this out. We can't let this country fall backwards. The stakes are too high. We have to move this country forward for you and your future. So there better not be an enthusiasm gap, people. Not now. Not this time.<p>The other side would like you to believe that this election is a referendum on me or on the economy, on anything but them. They are counting on amnesia. [<i>Laughter</i>] They're counting that folks don't remember them. But make no mistake: This election is a choice. And the choice could not be clearer. <p>For the last decade, the Republicans in Washington subscribed to a very simple philosophy: You cut taxes, mostly for millionaires and billionaires. You cut regulations for special interests, whether it's oil companies or banks or insurance companies. You cut back on investments in education and clean energy and research and technology. And basically, the idea was that if you had blind faith in the market, if you let corporations play by their own rules, if you let everybody else fend for themselves, including young people, including the next generation, then somehow America would grow and prosper. That was the theory.<p>Now, look, here's what we know. The philosophy failed. We tested it. We tried it. We tried it for 8 years; it didn't work. When they were in charge, job growth was slower than it's been in any decade since World War II. Between 2001 and 2009, middle class incomes fell by 5 percent. This is when they were in charge. The cost of everything from health care to college tuition just kept on going up. A free-for-all on Wall Street led to the very crisis we're still digging out of today. And by the way, we went from record surpluses to record deficits.<p>These are the folks who say that they care about wasteful spending. They took us from a surplus when a Democrat was in charge to big deficits when they were in charge. That's the truth. Those are the facts.<p>They're counting on amnesia. They think you all forgot. So I've had two main jobs since I was President: to rescue this economy from crisis, and then to rebuild it stronger than it was before, so that you look forward to the 21st century as being the American century, just like the 20th century was the American century.<p>And over the last 20 months, we've made progress on both these fronts. There's no longer a possibility of a second depression. The economy is growing again. Private sector jobs we've created for 8 consecutive months. There are about 3 million Americans who would not be working today if it weren't for the economic plan we put in place.<p>We passed Wall Street reform to make sure a crisis like this never happens again. No more taxpayer-funded bailouts. We set up reforms that will stop mortgage lenders from taking advantage of homeowners. We reformed credit card practices so they won't hit you up with hidden fees or jack up your rates without reason.<p>We've started investing again in American research, American technology, homegrown American clean energy, because I don't want solar panels or wind turbines or electric cars built in Europe or built in Asia. I want them built right here in the United States of America, because we're all about making it in America.<p>To help middle class families get ahead, we passed a tax cut for 95 percent of working families in this country. We passed 16 different tax cuts for America's small-business owners. We passed health care reform to make sure insurance companies won't deny you coverage and you can stay on your parents' coverage until you're 26 years old.<p>We finally fixed up the student loan system so that tens of billions of dollars in taxpayer subsidies that were going to banks now go where it should to help you get an education. That's what we're about.<p>And along the way, we kept a promise that I made on the day I announced my candidacy. We have removed all combat troops from Iraq, and we are ending that war.<p>So that's the progress that we've made. That's a testimony to you. That's the progress that we worked so hard for in 2008. But we're not done. We're not close to being finished. The hole we're climbing out of is a deep one--deeper than the last three recessions combined. We lost 8 million jobs. Almost all of them--all those jobs--were lost before my economic policies had any chance to take effect. We lost 4 million jobs before I was sworn in, in this recession; 750,000 the month I was being sworn in.<p>And on top of that, the middle class has been struggling for more than a decade. So there are millions of families out there who are still treading water, millions still barely able to make their mortgage payments or pay the bills. I hear about these folks every day because they write me letters or they tell me when I'm on the road. And people are frustrated, they're anxious, they're scared about the future.<p>And they have a right to be impatient about the pace of change. I'm impatient. But I also know this: Now is not the time to quit. Now is not the time to give up. We've been through worse as a nation. We've come out stronger, from war to depression to the great struggles for equal rights and civil rights. It took time to free the slaves. It took time for women to get the vote. It took time for workers to get the right to organize.<p>But if we stay on focus, if we stay on course, then ultimately, we will make progress. It takes time. Progress takes sacrifice. Progress takes faith. But progress comes. And it will come for your generation, for this generation, if we work for it and fight for it and if we believe in it. That's something I believe.<p>The biggest mistake we could make is to let impatience or frustration lead to apathy and indifference, because that guarantees the other side wins. And if they do win, they will spend the next 2 years fighting for the very same policies that led us into this recession in the first place, the same policies that left middle class families behind for more than a decade, the same policies you fought hard to change in 2008.<p>Just look at the agenda of the leaders of the other party. They unveiled it last week, called it their \\"Pledge to America.\\"<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> That's what they called it. Now, their pledge was actually written with the help of a former lobbyist for AIG and ExxonMobil. So that gives you how much----<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> ----a sense of how much change they intend.<p>The centerpiece of their pledge is a $700 billion tax cut. This is their main economic policy, their main jobs program, their main focus, a $700 billion tax cut for the wealthy that 98 percent of Americans will never see a dime of. I'd get a tax break under their plan. [<i>Laughter</i>] That would be good for me, but not for most of you all.<p>Now, keep in mind, we don't have $700 billion, so we'd have to borrow this from China or from some other country. And then we would be giving a tax cut worth an average of $100,000 to every millionaire and billionaire in America.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> Wait, wait, no, hold on, it gets worse. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>When you ask them, well, where are you going to get this $700 billion? Do you have some magic beans somewhere? Are you going to--[<i>laughter</i>]--I mean, what's--how is this going to come about? They don't have an answer. Now, they will say, well, we're going to cut spending. So you say, okay, what are you going to cut? And then what they say is, well, we'll cut education by 20 percent. We'll eliminate 200,000 children from early childhood education programs like Head Start.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo! <p><i>The President.</i> We'll cut financial aid for 8 million college students.<p><i>Audience members.</i> No!<p><i>The President.</i> At a time when the education of our country's citizens is probably the best predictor of that country's economic success, they think it's more important to give another tax break to folks who are on the Forbes 400 list.<p>Now, I want to ask my Republican friends: Do you think China is cutting back on education?<p><i>Audience members.</i> No!<p><i>The President.</i> Do you think South Korea is making it harder for its citizens to get a college education?<p><i>Audience members.</i> No!<p><i>The President.</i> These countries aren't playing for second place. And guess what, the United States doesn't play for second place. We play for first place.<p>And I will not allow politicians in Washington to put your future at risk for another tax cut we can't afford and don't need. That's the choice in this election. That's why you need to be involved. Your future is at stake.<p>In fact, here's another thing they want to do to pay for this tax cut for the wealthy. They want to roll back what's remaining of our Recovery Act that gave a tax break to working and middle class families, 110 million people out there. So they want to roll back your tax cut to give their buddies a tax cut.<p>Look, we have a different idea than they do about what the next 2 years should look like. And it's an idea rooted in our belief about how this country was built. Government doesn't have all the answers to our problems. Government doesn't have the main role in creating jobs or prosperity. Government should be lean and efficient. Look, we're--we've proposed a 3-year spending freeze. We've set up a bipartisan fiscal commission to deal with our deficit.<p>But the first Republican President, my favorite Republican, Abraham Lincoln, here's what he said about government. Here's what he said about government. He said, \\"I believe that government should do for the people what they cannot do better for themselves.\\" I believe in a country that rewards hard work and responsibility, a country where we look after one another, a country that says, I am my brother's keeper, I am my sister's keeper. I'm going to give a hand up. I'm going to join hands with folks and try to lift all of us up so we all have a better future, not just some, but all of us, every child in America. That's what I believe.<p>I believe in an America that gave my grandfather the chance to go to college because of the GI bill, and that gave my grandparents a chance to buy a house because of the Federal Housing Authority, an America that gave their children and grandchildren the chance to get the best education in the world through scholarships and student loans. That's the America I know. And that's the choice in this election.<p>Instead of giving tax breaks to millionaires and billionaires, we want to make permanent tax cuts for middle class Americans, because you deserve a break. Instead of cutting education and student aid, we want to make permanent our new college tax credit, so that you can get $10,000 worth of tuition relief--everybody who's going to 4 years of college. We want to make clear that in good times or in bad, no young American should have to sacrifice the dream of a college education just because they can't afford it. That's what we believe. That's the choice in this election.<p>If the other side takes control of Congress, they'll spend the next 2 years to preserve tax breaks for companies that create jobs and profits overseas. We want to shut down those subsidies. We want to give those tax breaks to companies that are creating jobs right here in the United States of America--that's what we believe in--to American manufacturers, to clean energy companies, to entrepreneurs who are researching and investing and making it here in the United States of America. That's what we believe. That's who we want to help.<p>If the other side takes back Congress, they've promised to give back power to the same special interests we've been fighting for the last 20 months. We can't let them do that. We can't go back to the days when insurance companies can drop your coverage just when you get sick, or credit card companies can jack up your rates whenever they feel like it. We can't go back to a system that results in taxpayer-funded bailouts. We can't allow special interests to take the reins again. We have to keep fighting. There is too much at stake right now.<p>So listen, Generation44. It comes down to this: Many of the folks in the other party, they're running to go back to the exact same things they were doing before.<p>I've used this analogy before; some of you may have heard it. Imagine they were driving a car--[<i>laughter</i>]--and they drove it into the ditch. And I put on my boots, and the Democrats put on their boots, Tim Kaine put on his boots. We all went down into the ditch. We were expecting the Republicans to come help. It's muddy down there and dusty. And they drove down there. In fact, we pulled some of them out of the car. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now they're standing up on the road, sipping a Slurpee, watching us. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And we're pushing and we're shoving and we're sweating, and there are bugs flying around. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we look up and say, \\"How about coming down and helping us out?\\" They say: \\"No, that's all right. But you all should push harder. You're not pushing the right way.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So we just keep pushing. Finally, we get the car up on level ground. It's a little dented. It needs a tuneup, needs a wash. [<i>Laughter</i>] Fender's all bent up. But it's pointing in the right direction. We're ready to move forward. Suddenly, we get a tap on the shoulder, and you look back, and it's the Republicans. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we say, \\"Well, what do you want now?\\" \\"We want the keys back,\\" they say.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> But guess what, you can't have the keys back. You don't know how to drive. We don't want to end up back in the ditch. We can't afford to go back in the ditch. I don't want to have to push again. [<i>Laughter</i>] I want us to move forward. <p>I hope all of you notice that when you want to go forward in your car, what do you do? <p><i>Audience members.</i> \\"D\\"!<p><i>The President.</i> You put it in \\"D.\\" When you want to go backwards, what do you do? <p><i>Audience members.</i> \\"R\\"!<p><i>The President.</i> You put it in \\"R.\\" There's no coincidence there. We got to put it in \\"D.\\" We got to go forward. We got to go forward, not backwards. We've got to go backwards--we got to go forwards. We can't go backwards.<p>At the end of the day, whether they get the keys back or not will depend on you. Because, look, look, the other side is excited. And thanks to a recent Supreme Court decision called Citizens United----<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> ----they're being helped along this year by special interest groups. They are allowed to spend unlimited amounts of money on attack ads. And they don't have to disclose who's behind these ads. They have these innocuous names like Americans for Prosperity or Americans for Apple Pie--[<i>laughter</i>]--Moms for Motherhood. And you look back, and it's like \\"The Wizard of Oz.\\" You look behind the curtain and there's some Republican operative, and it's insurance companies or the banks or all the folks that were fighting change.<p>I mean, why do you think they're giving up all this money? I mean, it's possible that maybe they're doing it because they want good government.<p><i>Audience members.</i> No!<p><i>The President.</i> But I got to admit, I'm kind of skeptical. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So that's why we've got to work even harder in this election. That's why we've got to fight their millions of dollars with millions of voices who are ready to finish what we started in 2008. Because if everybody who showed up in 2008 shows up in 2010, then we will win.<p>All of you are being tested. All of you are being tested. I know times are tough. I know that we're a long way from that cold day when we had a couple million people out on the Mall, and everybody felt excitement. But you know what? That was the easy part. You know, you had the \\"Hope\\" poster. [<i>Laughter</i>] You had Bono and Beyonce singing at the concert. You know, that was the celebration. But I told you guys when we were campaigning that change was going to take time, that power concedes nothing without a fight, that it was always going to be hard.<p>And by the way, you did not elect me to do what was easy. You did not elect me to go out there and put my finger out to the wind and figure out how to keep myself in office. You elected me to do what is right. You elected me to do what is true. And you got involved because you believe that this was the moment to do what is right and take on the challenges that had been ignored for too long.<p>So now is not the time to quit. Now is not the time to lose heart. That involvement can't end in 2008. That election was not just about putting me in the White House. It was about building a movement for change that went beyond one campaign or any one candidate. It was about remembering that here in the United States, our destiny is not written for us, it is written by us. We have the power to shape our future. Our future is in our hands.<p>And that's what's being tested right now: whether we've got the courage to keep going forward in the face of difficulty, in the face of uncertainty. And if you are willing to work hard and knock on doors and make phone calls and call up your friends and neighbors and coworkers and family, I promise you, we will not stop until we have finally made the American Dream true for every American out here.<p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"284" "\"Thank you. Thank you, everybody. It is great to see all of you. I am not going to give a long speech because I'm going to have a chance to sit at each table and talk to you in a smaller, more intimate setting. But I just want to, first of all, say thank you to John and Linda. I want to thank them, first of all, because they've taken some time off from the resort operation that they're running. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Those of you who may be aware that they have this spectacular situation in Italy, every one of my staff have rotated through there except me. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I don't know what it takes for me to get an invitation, but I'd appreciate a little break and some Tuscan sun and wine and--[<i>laughter</i>]--you know, pasta. [<i>Laughter</i>] I could use it. So it's not going to come immediately, but I'm holding out hope.<p>I am also thankful that John is still talking to me because for about a year and a half he never saw his wife. And Linda just was unbelievable for us, first during the campaign, helping us to navigate through a, at times, challenging press situation, with her extraordinary experience, and then helping to guide us through all the choppy waters that were required to get health care reform passed. So these guys have just been great friends for a very, very long time, as have many people in this room.<p>I'm just coming off 3 days on the road, and I want to report what's going on outside of Washington, because I think it's a useful corrective to what you may be reading and hearing on a day-to-day basis.<p>As John indicated, we're going through a very tough time. This is the toughest economy that most of us have experienced in our lifetimes; the toughest economy since World War II, since the Great Depression. And so people are feeling it. There are millions of people who are still out of work and are looking for work every day. There are hundreds of thousands of people who've lost their homes. There are millions of people who've seen their home values decline, their 401(k)s decline, their college savings fund for their kids declined. People haven't seen a lot of wage growth, and they feel anxious about the future.<p>That's a reality, and that means that this election cycle is going to be tough because of that reality. I always am reminded of what Michelle told me a while back. I had mentioned some poll where we were having some difficulty, and she said, look, let me tell you something. If somebody calls me at 8:00 p.m., right after dinner, and I spent my whole day thinking about getting my kids to school, worrying about whether my job is going to be there next week, my house is $100,000 underwater, and somebody asks me, how are things going in Washington? I promise you, I'm going to say, not very well.<p>And she's right. I mean, that's people's natural, understandable instinct. Having said all that, what you find when you go on the road is people absolutely understand that--the magnitude of this crisis, but it could have been much worse. They are glad to see that an economy that was shrinking by 6 percent is now growing again. They're glad to see that where we were losing 750,000 jobs the month I was sworn in, that we're now seeing 8 consecutive months of job growth.<p>They feel as if things have stabilized somewhat. The real question now is less looking backwards than it is looking forward. What they're concerned about predates this crisis. It has to do with a sense that our position in the world has slipped and that if we don't act like adults, get serious and start moving forcefully to deal with our education system so that we're producing more engineers and scientists and skilled workers; if we're not moving forward seriously on an energy policy that frees us from dependence on foreign oil and makes sure that our economy is not vulnerable; if we're not serious about controlling our health care costs both for families and businesses and for the Federal Government; and if we're not serious about making sure that here in Washington whatever money going out is matched by money coming in, if we're not serious about those things, then they're worried.<p>On the other hand, they genuinely believe, and are rooting for us coming up with a plan that can rally the country together and move us forward. And I think they're--when it comes to me, what they're most concerned about is, is that having come in with so much hope, it seems as if we're still having the same arguments here in Washington that we were having 5 years ago and that we were having 10 years ago and that we were having 15 years ago. And they just understand that we can't afford to have the same arguments over and over again.<p>And so one of the things that I've tried to say not just to Democrats, but also to Independents and Republicans, is that that hope you were feeling when I came in, there's no reason to lose it because the answers are still within our grasp. We know how to create schools that work for kids. We know what we need to do on the energy front that would put us at the--as a leader in clean energy and would mean that hybrid cars and electric vehicles and advanced battery technology was made here in the United States instead of some other country. We know what we need to do to shore up Social Security.<p>The problem is not that we don't know how to do it, the question is do we have the will to do it. And all of that depends on whether you, the American people, are willing to stay engaged, understanding that democracy is messy and it's tough, but that if we keep on moving forward and we stay with it, that there's no reason why we can't deliver on the change that so many people believed in back in 2008.<p>And when people are reminded of that, that this never was going to be easy but when people come together they can make a difference, you can see them get a little more pep in their step.<p>We had a rally in Madison, Wisconsin, where we had 27,000 people show up. I was amused. One of the press reports was, well, people greet Obama happily, but without the euphoria of 2008. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I was there in 2008, and I was--[<i>laughter</i>]--and I was there 2 days ago, and I have to say, they seemed equally euphoric. [<i>Laughter</i>] They were pretty energized. They were fired up and ready to go.<p>And so they're hungry to get reengaged. And in these backyard meetings that we've had with families, there are serious questions about, look, what are you going to be able to do to make sure that my son who's graduating from college is going to be able to find a job; or I'm still kind of worried about the health care law, what can we do about that; or a senior citizen asking how are my savings going to be affected by your current economic policies. They're pointed questions. But so many of the questions have to do with we want to continue to believe that the American Dream is alive and well.<p>And they are not persuaded by the other side. They really aren't. I mean, the polling confirms this. And I forgot to mention how hard Tim Kaine is working as our chairman of the Democratic Party. But they're not persuaded by the other folks' arguments. They haven't gone through complete amnesia here. I mean, they remember that between 2001 and 2009, we had the most sluggish job growth since World War II, and that we took record surpluses to record deficits, and that a rash of deregulation resulted in many of the crises that we've seen over the last several years, and that the average wages of middle class families went down 5 percent during that period.<p>So it's not as if they are persuaded by the other side. But they do want an affirmative vision from us about how we can move forward.<p>Now, one last point I'll make. Both myself and Joe Biden, I think, have been recorded as saying to Democrats, you guys got to buck up a little bit. I want to be very clear what I mean here. I think one of the healthy things about the Democratic Party is we've got a big tent, and unlike the other side, if you take a look at our coalition, it is entirely representative of America, regionally, racially--across the board. And that means that sometimes we're going to have some vigorous arguments. Some Blue Dog from Arkansas is not going to believe the same thing as a liberal from Oakland, California. And it means that on any single issue that we've moved forward on, people want to shade it a little bit this way or shade it a little bit that way.<p>But what I'm reminding folks of is, if you take a look at what we said we were going to do when we were campaigning in 2008, and you now look 2 years later, despite that fact that we're going through the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, we have fulfilled so many of these promises in a way that is unmatched by just about any Congress and any Democratic administration since at least the 1960s, and maybe before that.<p>And what that means is--I said this in an interview a while back--part of being a Democrat, I guess, is kind of looking at the glass half empty sometimes and thinking, oh, gosh, we didn't get this, and we didn't get that, and I'm still dissatisfied that that hasn't happened. But you know what, now is the time to remind ourselves of what we have accomplished and to recognize that all those things that remain undone will not get done unless we are just as focused, just as energized, just as excited as we were in 2008 or 2006. And that is going to make the difference in the race.<p>We already got news back that just that rally in Wisconsin had a significant impact in what's going on in Russ Feingold's campaign and Mayor Barrett's campaign for Governor. What it was, was really just Democrats kind of waking up. They're saying, gosh, we've got a race to run here. And by the way, we should be excited about what we've done. And we've got a serious choice to put before the American people.<p>Well, if we can duplicate that same kind of energy and motivation and focus, then I'm absolutely confident that we can not only maintain our majorities in the House and the Senate, but we can continue to deliver for middle class Americans out there, and folks who aspire to be in the middle class, who really are the beating heart of our economy and the beating heart of the Democratic Party.<p>So I am so grateful to all of you for staying committed and staying engaged. I'm going to need all of you to keep it up. And I'm going to need each and every one of you to make sure that you're talking to your friends, your neighbors, your coworkers, your family members to make sure that they're fired up and energized, and that they understand the stakes in this election.<p>And if you do, and if we get that kind of coalescing around our vision for a brighter future, then I'm absolutely confident that we're going to do well. And I know Tim is too.<p>So thank you. But don't rest. You'll have time to rest on November 3, okay? [<i>Laughter</i>] And hopefully it will be a rest that will be well deserved because we'll take satisfaction in understanding that we're going to be able to keep on moving this country forward.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"285" "\"Over the past 20 months, we've been fighting not just to create more jobs today, but to rebuild our economy on a stronger foundation. Our future as a nation depends on making sure that the jobs and industries of the 21st century take root here in America. And there is perhaps no industry with more potential to create jobs now and growth in the coming years than clean energy.<p>For decades, we've talked about the importance of ending our dependence on foreign oil and pursuing new kinds of energy, like wind and solar power. But for just as long, progress had been prevented at every turn by the special interests and their allies in Washington.<p>So year after year, our dependence on foreign oil grew. Families have been held hostage to spikes in gas prices. Good manufacturing jobs have gone overseas. And we've seen companies produce new energy technologies and high-skilled jobs not in America, but in countries like China, India, and Germany.<p>That's why it was essential, for our economy, our security, and our planet, that we finally tackle this challenge. That's why, since we took office, my administration has made an historic commitment to promote clean energy technology. This will mean hundreds of thousands of new American jobs by 2012: jobs for contractors to install energy-saving windows and insulation; jobs for factory workers to build high-tech vehicle batteries, electric cars, and hybrid trucks; jobs for engineers and construction crews to create wind farms and solar plants that are going to double the renewable energy we can generate in this country. These are jobs building the future.<p>For example, I want share with you one new development made possible by the clean energy incentives we have launched. This month, in the Mojave Desert, a company called BrightSource plans to break ground on a revolutionary new type of solar power plant. It's going to put about a thousand people to work building a state-of-the-art facility. And when it's complete, it will turn sunlight into the energy that will power up to 140,000 homes, the largest such plant in the world. Not in China, not in India, but in California.<p>With projects like this one and others across this country, we are staking our claim to continued leadership in the new global economy. And we're putting Americans to work producing clean, homegrown American energy that will help lower our reliance on foreign oil and protect our planet for future generations.<p>Now, there are some in Washington who want to shut them down. In fact, in the pledge they recently released, the Republican leadership is promising to scrap all the incentives for clean energy projects, including those currently underway, even with all the jobs and potential that they hold.<p>This doesn't make sense for our economy. It doesn't make sense for Americans who are looking for jobs. And it doesn't make sense for our future. To go backwards and scrap these plans means handing the competitive edge to China and other nations. It means that we'll grow even more dependent on foreign oil. And at a time of economic hardship, it means foregoing jobs we desperately need. In fact, shutting down just this one project would cost about a thousand jobs.<p>That's what's at stake in this debate. We can go back to the failed energy policies that profited the oil companies but weakened our country. We can go back to the days when promising industries got set up overseas. Or we can go after new jobs in growing industries. And we can spur innovation and help make our economy more competitive. We know the choice that's right for America. We need to do what we've always done: put our ingenuity and can-do spirit to work to fight for a brighter future.<p>Thanks.\" "
"286" "\"Thank you very much. Everybody please have a seat. Thank you so much.<p>I want to acknowledge some of the folks who are here who are making an incredible contribution to this effort. First of all, our Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan, is here. Our Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis, is here. Someone who cares deeply about our veterans and the education that they receive, our chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mike Mullen, and his wife Ms. Mullen, are here. Representative Brett Guthrie, Republican of Kentucky, is in the house and has been doing great work on this. And obviously, I am thrilled to not only see Jill Biden here, but also Albert Ojeda, who introduced Jill Biden, because I think the story he tells is representative of so many incredible stories all across the country.<p>I'm so grateful for Jill being willing to lead today's summit, first of all because she has to spend time putting up with Joe. [<i>Laughter</i>] And that's a big enough task. Then to take this one on too on behalf of the administration is extraordinarily significant. I do not think she's doing it for the administration. She's doing it because of the passion she has for community colleges.<p>Jill has devoted her life to education. As she said, she's been a teacher for nearly 3 decades, although you can't tell it by looking at her--[<i>laughter</i>]--a community college professor for 17 years. I want it on the record Jill is not playing hooky today. The only reason she's here is because her college president gave her permission to miss class. [<i>Laughter</i>] And this morning, between appearing on the \\"Today\\" show, receiving briefings from her staff, and hosting the summit, she was actually grading papers in her White House office. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So I think it's clear why I asked Jill to travel the country visiting community colleges, because, as she knows personally, these colleges are the unsung heroes of America's education system. They may not get the credit they deserve, they may not get the same resources as other schools, but they provide a gateway to millions of Americans to good jobs and a better life.<p>These are places where young people can continue their education without taking on a lot of debt. These are places where workers can gain new skills to move up in their careers. These are places where anyone with a desire to learn and to grow can take a chance on a brighter future for themselves and their families, whether that's a single mom or a returning soldier or an aspiring entrepreneur.<p>And community colleges aren't just the key to the future of their students. They're also one of the keys to the future of our country. We are in a global competition to lead in the growth industries of the 21st century. And that leadership depends on a well-educated, highly skilled workforce.<p>We know, for example, that in the coming years, jobs requiring at least an associate's degree are going to grow twice as fast as jobs that don't require college. We will not fill those jobs or keep those jobs on our shores without community colleges.<p>So it was no surprise when one of the main recommendations of my economic advisory board, who I met with yesterday, was to expand education and job training. These are executives from some of America's top companies. Their businesses need a steady supply of people who can step into jobs involving a lot of technical knowledge and skill. They understand the importance of making sure we're preparing folks for the jobs of the future.<p>In fact, throughout our history, whenever we've faced economic challenges, we've responded by seeking new ways to harness the talents of our people. And that's one of the primary reasons that we have prospered. In the 19th century, we built public schools and land-grant colleges, transforming not just education, but our entire economy. In the 20th century, we passed the GI bill and invested in math and science, helping to unleash a wave of innovation that helped to forge the great American middle class.<p>But in recent years, we've failed to live up to this legacy, especially in higher education. In just a decade, we've fallen from first to ninth in the proportion of young people with college degrees. That not only represents a huge waste of potential; in the global marketplace it represents a threat to our position as the world's leading economy.<p>As far as I'm concerned, America does not play for second place, and we certainly don't play for ninth. So I've set a goal: By 2020, America will once again lead the world in producing college graduates. And I believe community colleges will play a huge part in meeting this goal by producing an additional 5 million degrees and certificates in the next 10 years.<p>That's why last year I launched the American Graduation Initiative. I promised that we would end wasteful subsidies to big banks for student loans, and instead use that money to make college more affordable and to make a historic investment in community colleges. And after a tough fight, we passed those reforms, and today we're using this money towards the interest of higher education in America.<p>And this is helping us modernize community colleges at a critical time, because many of these schools are under pressure to cut costs and to cap enrollments and scrap courses even as demand has soared. It's going to make it possible for colleges to better harness technology in the classroom and beyond. And it's going to promote reform, as colleges compete for funding by improving graduation rates and matching courses to the needs of local businesses and making sure that when a graduate is handed a diploma it means that she or he are ready for a career.<p>We're also helping students succeed by making college more affordable. So we've increased student aid by thousands of dollars. We've simplified the loan application process. And we're making it easier for students to pay back their loans by limiting payments to 10 percent of their income. But reaching the 2020 goal that I've set is not just going to depend on government. It also depends on educators and students doing their part. And it depends on businesses and non-for-profits working with colleges to connect students with jobs.<p>So that's why we're holding this summit. That's why I'm asking my economic advisory board to reach out to employers across the country and come up with new ways for businesses and community colleges to work together. Based on this call to action, yesterday we announced a new partnership called Skills for America's Future. And the idea is simple: Businesses and community colleges work together to match the work in the classroom with the needs of the boardroom. And already, businesses from PG&E to UTC to the Gap have announced their support, as have business leaders like my friend Penny Pritzker and the Aspen Institute's Walter Isaacson. I hope that the companies, schools, and nonprofits that all of you lead will take part.<p>Today we can also announce the Gates Foundation is starting a new 5-year initiative to raise community college graduation rates. This is critically important because more than half of those who enter community colleges fail to either earn a 2-year degree or transfer to earn a 4-year degree. So we want to thank Melinda Gates, who's here, for that terrific contribution. And the Aspen Institute and several leading foundations are launching a competitive prize for community college excellence. It's going to shine a spotlight on community colleges delivering truly exceptional results, places that often don't get a lot of attention, but make a huge difference in their students' lives.<p>So we're investing in community colleges. We're making college more affordable. And we're bringing together businesses, nonprofits, and schools to train folks for the jobs of a new century. Now, all of this will help ensure that we continue to lead the global economy, but only if we maintain this commitment to education that's always been central to our success.<p>That's why I so strongly disagree with the economic plan that was released last week by the Republican leaders in Congress, which would actually cut education by 20 percent. It would reduce or eliminate financial aid for 8 million college students. And it would leave community colleges without the resources they need to meet the goals we've talked about today.<p>Instead, this money would help pay for a $700 billion tax cut that only 2 percent of the wealthiest Americans would ever see, an average of $100,000 for every millionaire and billionaire in the country. And that just doesn't make sense, not for students, not for our economy.<p>Think about it. China isn't slashing education by 20 percent right now. India is not slashing education by 20 percent. We are in a fight for the future, a fight that depends on education. And cutting aid for 8 million students or scaling back our community--our commitment to community colleges, that's like unilaterally disarming our troops right as they head to the frontlines.<p>So we obviously have to get serious about our deficit. That's why, after decades of profligacy, my administration report pay-as-you-go rules, proposed a 3-year freeze on nonsecurity spending. That's why we've formed a bipartisan deficit reduction commission.<p>But what we can't do is fund tax cuts for those who don't need it by slashing education for those who do. There's a better way for us to do this. And I want to work together with everybody concerned--Republican and Democrat--to figure that out.<p>To use an expression familiar to those of you who are from the Midwest: You don't eat your seed corn. [<i>Laughter</i>] We can't accept less investment in our young people if our country is going to move forward. It would mean giving up on the promise of so many people who might not be able to pursue an education, like the millions of students at community colleges across this country.<p>So I just want to use as an example Derek Blumke, who's here today. Where's Derek? Right here. Derek spent 6 years in the Air Force, three deployments in the Afghan theater, putting his life at risk to keep this country safe. And when he returned, he started classes at his local community college in northern Michigan. Now, apparently, what I'm told is, he wasn't sure whether he was smart enough to do the work, and he also was concerned that he wouldn't get the support that he needed.<p>And he was wrong on both fronts. His professors not only helped him transition from the military--even as he continued to serve in the Michigan Air National Guard--but also helped him to earn his associate's degree with honors. Then he transferred to the University of Michigan--go Blue!--[<i>laughter</i>]--where he graduated just a few weeks ago. And while he was there, he cofounded Student Veterans of America to help returning veterans like himself. So congratulations, Derek.<p>Or we can look to the example set by Albert Ojeda, who just spoke to you. He didn't have any advantages in life; grew up in a tough neighborhood in Phoenix, lost his father to violence, lost his mother to prison. But that didn't stop him from pursuing an education. It didn't stop him from attending community college, become an honor student, become the first member of his family to graduate from college.<p>There are so many folks out there like Derek and Albert. And I think about the many community college students who've written letters to me or e-mails through whitehouse.gov about how important community college has been to them. One person said he had been laid off and decided to return to school after 17 years. And attending community college \\"literally helped save my life\\"--that's what he said. \\"I can not only see an associate's degree next year, but a new future filled with possibilities for the first time.\\"<p>A new future filled with possibilities. That's why we're here today. That's the promise of an education not just for any one student, but for our entire country. And that's why it's so important that we work together on behalf of community colleges and an education system that harnesses the talents and hard work of every single American.<p>So thank you for the incredible work that each and every one of you do out there in schools, business folks who are supporting these community colleges, the students who are doing so much to contribute to our country. Let's get busy. Thank you very much.\" "
"287" "\"Hello, everybody. Good afternoon, and welcome on behalf of Michelle and myself. We are thrilled to have you at the White House. It's good to see all of you, including the Dean of the Diplomatic Corps, from Djibouti, Ambassador Olhaye. It's wonderful to see you again.<p>Like our reception last year, this is an opportunity to thank you for your partnership, for the cooperation between our nations, and for the hospitality that your countries show our diplomats each and every day.<p>As Ambassadors, I know you all have a very difficult job. You have to understand the complexities of other cultures and countries--unlike diplomats of a century ago who--for example, there was a diplomat who, when planning an international ceremony, invited Switzerland to send its navy. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>You have to adapt to quickly changing events around the world--unlike President Jefferson, who said of an American Ambassador to Europe: \\"We haven't heard from him in 2 years. If we don't hear from him next year, I'll have to write him a letter.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Today, our nations and peoples are more interconnected than at any time in human history. We've got extraordinary opportunities to advance our national interests and our common interests, which can reinforce each other. We can advance the aspirations of our people, who, despite any differences, basically seek the same things: to live in security and dignity, to seek progress and justice, and to realize a better future for their children.<p>And that's why, since I've taken office, I've pursued a new era of engagement with the world, a new commitment to diplomacy and partnership based on mutual interest and mutual respect. Today I want to thank you and your countries for joining us and for the progress that we've made together.<p>Together, we've strengthened old alliances, we have forged new partnerships, we have pursued an international order where the rights and responsibilities of all nations are upheld. We've put the global economy back on the path of growth so we can create jobs and opportunity for all of our people.<p>Together, we're working to confront violent extremism, to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons, and to secure vulnerable nuclear materials. We're engaged in the hard work of pursuing peace, from the Middle East to Sudan, and promoting development to give people and nations a path out of poverty. In short, we are doing together what none of us can achieve by ourselves.<p>But as I've said in my visits around the world, building the future we seek cannot be the work of governments and diplomats alone. It must also be the work of our societies and our people. That's why we're expanding partnerships and exchanges between our business leaders and entrepreneurs, students and scientists, civil society and faith communities.<p>And it's why I am so pleased that many of you are embracing the opportunity to experience America beyond Washington, visiting cities and towns across our country, like Atlanta next week, just like I understand that you visited my hometown of Chicago. I understand that you took in the incredible architecture, the culture, the people, even our world-famous Chicago-style hot dogs. [<i>Laughter</i>] They are hard to resist. I noticed, though, that you did not go in January to experience our wonderful January weather in Chicago. [<i>Laughter</i>] That is easy to resist. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>The spirit you felt across America is the spirit we need in our work: the idea that no matter where you come from or who you are, we can come together and work together. It's the same spirit I've seen in all the young people that I've met, from Strasbourg to Ankara to Cairo to Shanghai; in civil society leaders in Moscow and the extraordinary young African leaders that I welcomed to this very room here in the White House.<p>One of them--a young woman--stood up and looked at me and asked just how committed the United States is to this new era of partnership. I want to conclude by telling you exactly what I told her. I said, yes, as President of the United States, my first responsibility is to look out for the people and interests of the United States. And I always will. But I also said America wants all of you to succeed as well, whether it's in Africa or in Latin America, in Europe or in Asia, because when your nations and people succeed and prosper, it's not only in your interests, it's in America's interests. And that's why our commitment to this new era of engagement will remain a cornerstone of my foreign policy.<p>So in that spirit, Michelle and I are honored to welcome all of you. I'm mindful of that old saying about diplomacy, that sometimes more can be accomplished at 1 party than 20 serious conversations. [<i>Laughter</i>] So have a wonderful evening, have a wonderful party, and I look forward to all that we can accomplish together, tonight and beyond.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"288" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody. Please, please have a seat. Thank you. <p>Well, I am just thrilled to be here tonight with some of the most brilliant, accomplished, influential women in this country. As Michelle Obama's husband, I feel very much at home. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I have three tall, good-looking, strong-willed women. That's just on the second floor. Then I've got my mother-in-law on the third floor. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So it's a thrill to be here. I want to thank Ann for that kind and brief introduction--[<i>laughter</i>]--and for her extraordinary leadership. And I want to thank all the people who helped to organize this spectacular event.<p>And I'm especially pleased to see the young people who are here. We are thrilled to have you. <p>I also see that my friend Warren Buffett is here. I understand that even though he is a man, he has been invited back year after year--[<i>laughter</i>]--because he knows that the surest path to success is to surround yourself with brilliant women. He's a smart guy.<p>I happen to share that belief. And I'm pleased to see some of the extraordinary women in my administration who are also here tonight, because I rely on their wise advice every single day, and I'm tremendously grateful for their service.<p>But being here isn't just meaningful to me as President. It's also meaningful to me personally. As some of you know, I was raised in part by my grandmother. She just passed away a couple of years ago. When I was born, she got a job as a secretary to help provide for our family. Now, she only had a high school education. She had grown up in a generation where women weren't necessarily encouraged to pursue a college degree, and certainly not after they had gotten married and had had a child. But she had an incredible mind and sound judgment. And so over the years she worked her way up--without a college degree, just a high school degree--to become one of the first woman bank vice presidents in the State of Hawaii. And that was an amazing accomplishment, but that position was also her glass ceiling. For nearly two decades, she watched as men no more qualified than she was--in fact, usually men who she had trained--would get promoted up the corporate ladder ahead of her. <p>Now, I know that if given the chance, she would have run that bank better than anybody. But she never got that opportunity. And she never complained. She hardly ever took a vacation. She just kept getting up and giving her best every single day. <p>So tonight I'm inspired to be with so many women who have reached the pinnacles of their professions. That's a credit to all of you, and your individual drive and fortitude, because I know you've overcome plenty of obstacles of your own. And while we still have a ways to go, it's also a testament to the progress that we've made as a country, certainly since my grandmother was a young woman. <p>The 75 young leaders who are here tonight are another testament to that progress, because as you know, these young women went through a citywide selection process to attend this event. And on their applications, they were asked to list their career aspirations. And I've got a list of what they said. See, we've got \\"cultural anthropologist\\"----<p><i>Audience member.</i> Woo!<p><i>The President.</i> That's a good choice. My mother was an anthropologist, so thumbs up on that. \\"Classical singer.\\" <p><i>Audience member.</i> Woo! [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> \\"U.S. Senator.\\" <p>[<i>At this point, there was modest applause.</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Oh, were there some people who were saying like, \\"Oh, I don't know.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"Professional race car driver.\\" One stated that she intends to become \\"the next Bill Gates.\\" I don't know why Buffett was skipped over, but--[<i>laughter</i>]. <p>Another wrote, \\"Environmental scientist and work on ways to find new fuel resources\\"--important. And one--this is my favorite--one said, \\"Doctor, lawyer, and an engineer.\\" This young lady said, \\"I know this is ambitious, but not impossible.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So when we talk about the theme of this year's conference, \\"Building a Legacy,\\" that's exactly what we're talking about. That's what's at stake: that spark, that passion. All those ambitions and aspirations expressed by these young people. <p>And the question is, what are we doing to nurture that promise? How do we ensure that 10 or 20 or 30 years from now, these young women will be sitting where all of you are sitting tonight, with their own mentees, passing the torch to a next generation? What are we doing to build a dynamic, competitive, opportunity-rich economy so that they have successful lives and careers of their own?<p>Now, as some of our Nation's top business leaders and nonprofit leaders and leaders in so many different fields, the answers to these questions are going to be largely determined by you, because part of the competitiveness of America's economy, the richness of its cultural life, it's always depended on the innovation and enterprise of American businesses and American institutions and organizations, on the products you develop, and the jobs you create, and the growth that you drive. <p>Now, this doesn't relieve government of its responsibility to create the conditions for businesses to succeed. That's what government does best, those things that no individual or business will do on their own, but that create an environment where everybody can compete. So that means funding the basic research that drives new discoveries and sparks new industries. It means upgrading our infrastructure, including things like high-speed rail and Internet, so that you can get your products and services to your customers. It means promoting exports, because the more our businesses export, the more they produce and the more jobs they create.<p>And it means making sure that our people have what it takes to actually do those jobs. That's what we've been discussing during your conference today, and it's what I'd like to focus on tonight, because you know, as I do, that our businesses, our institutions, our economy cannot compete unless our workforce can compete, unless we harness the potential of every American and ensure that their skills match up to the work of the future. <p>And that starts with education, especially in fields like science and technology and engineering and math. We cannot sustain----<p>[<i>The Presidential Seal fell from the podium.</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Whoops, was that my--[<i>laughter</i>]--oh, goodness. That's all right. [<i>Laughter</i>] All of you know who I am. [Laughter and applause] But I'm sure there's somebody back there that's really nervous right now. [<i>Laughter</i>] Don't you think? They're sweating bullets back there right now. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Where were we? [<i>Laughter</i>] We cannot sustain high-tech, high-wage jobs here in America when our young people are lagging far behind competitors around the world. That's one of the reasons we launched a national competition called Race to the Top, designed to raise standards in our schools. And it's based on a simple idea: Instead of just funding the status quo, we're only going to invest in reform. <p>And with the help of business leaders like Ursula Burns, the CEO of Xerox, we've created a new partnership called Change the Equation, which is a coalition of more than 100 CEOs from our Nation's largest companies who've committed to bringing innovative math and science programs to at least 100 high-need communities over the course of the next year. And it includes a special focus on girls, who are often underrepresented in our scientific fields. And I know, by the way, from talking to Malia and Sasha, it's just a matter of giving them a little bit of confidence, and they will thrive and succeed in math and science. But somebody's got to be there to say to them, you know what, you can do this. <p>We also know that in today's economy, every American will need more than a high school diploma. And back when I took office, I set a goal: By 2020, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. That's why we've increased student aid and tuition tax credits, and we've eliminated tens of billions of dollars in wasteful subsidies, and we're now using that money to make college more affordable to millions of students. We've made historic investments in community colleges, which are a pathway to opportunity not just for children of so many working families, but for millions of women returning to the workforce or who are raising children of their own and so need some flexibility in terms of a course of study and advancing careers. <p>And just yesterday we launched a new initiative called Skills for America's Future to connect students looking for jobs with businesses looking to hire. And the idea is very simple: Businesses and community colleges work together to match the curricula in the classroom with the needs of the boardroom. Companies then hire the graduates, who show up on their first day with precisely the skills that you need, and that they need to succeed. We've already got businesses from PG&E to United Technologies to the Gap who are supporting this initiative, as have business leaders like my friend who is helping to spearhead this, Penny Pritzker, and the Aspen Institute's Walter Isaacson. So we want to get these partnerships going in all 50 States. And I hope that companies that are represented here all decide to be a part of this program.<p>Now, let's not forget that most of your businesses did not start out as national or multinational corporations. They began as tiny startups, dreamed up in garages and around kitchen tables by folks who were willing to take a chance on an idea. So when we're talking about building a more competitive workforce, that doesn't just mean developing more competitive workers. It also means developing more competitive entrepreneurs. It means helping them translate those good ideas into successful businesses that create jobs and strengthen our economy. <p>And as any entrepreneur will tell you, one of the biggest roadblocks they face is access to capital. It turns out that's particularly true for women. A recent study by the Kauffman Foundation found that women high-tech entrepreneurs raised nearly 70 percent less capital when starting their firms than men did. For all we know, one of those women could have had the idea for the next Google or Apple or HP. But that doesn't mean much if she can't get the cash to bring the idea to market.<p>So Theresa Daytner knows what that's like. She's one of the entrepreneurs that you're honoring this year. Is she here? Theresa? Where are you? Way back there. Hey, you. I love Theresa's story. She struggled at first to get capital for her construction company, partly because she was providing for her six kids and caring for her aging parents. So eventually she ran out of options. She applied for a home equity loan. And this resonates with me, this story. She handed her husband the application, and she said to him, \\"Here, honey, sign this, but don't read it.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now, her company took off, bringing in more than $16 million in revenue so far this year. So we're very proud of what you've accomplished. But folks like Theresa, they shouldn't have to mortgage their family home to build their family business. That's why we're working to help entrepreneurs like Theresa with new tax cuts and more loans. <p>Yesterday the White House Council on Women and Girls hosted a Women's Entrepreneurship Summit to seek solutions to some of the challenges that women face. And I'm pleased that the Small Business Administration, under the leadership of Karen Mills, has announced a new effort to level the playing field for women entrepreneurs in industries where they're underrepresented, from computer technology to telecommunications to scientific research. <p>So we're working to support our entrepreneurs. We're working to better train and educate our workers. But as we seek to harness the talents and skills of the American people, there's another factor that I believe is too often overlooked, and that's the structure of our workplaces, whether our workplaces are mobile and flexible and accommodating enough to give people the opportunities they need to contribute and raise a family.<p>And I want to talk to all of you about this, not as women, not as women business leaders, but simply as business leaders, because while this issue may disproportionately affect women, I don't think it makes sense to label it as a woman's issue. Not just because plenty of men wish they had flexibility to be better fathers to their kids or better sons to their aging parents, but because we know that companies with flexible work arrangements can actually have lower turnover and absenteeism and higher productivity. So this is not just a woman's issue. It's not just a work-family balance issue. It's an economic competitiveness issue. <p>That's why so many of your companies are already leading the way, embracing things like telecommuting and flextime and onsite childcare. And my administration is committed to supporting efforts like these. Not just by investing in paid leave programs and childcare tax credits, but also by making the Federal Government a model for the policies that we're encouraging.<p>We're creating mobile workplaces and flexible work schedules, and we're judging employees by the results they get, not the face time they log, because this doesn't just provide a better experience for our employees, it helps us attract and retain the top talent and provide better service for the American people. <p>In the end, that's really our goal here, to get all our people doing the very best work that they can. That's how we've always moved forward in this country: breaking down barriers, being inclusive, setting aside the outdated assumptions that keep us from appreciating what each of us has to offer. <p>And obviously, that work's not finished. I'm not naive about that. But I also know that thanks to decades of struggle and sacrifice, a lot of it quiet, a lot of it behind the scenes, many of the obstacles that my grandmother faced no longer exist.<p>Today, women make up half of America's workforce. They are primary or cobreadwinners in two-thirds of our families. Their contributions are vital to the success of our economy. Today, girls like my daughters, young women like the ones at this dinner, have opportunities that my grandmother never dreamed of for herself.<p>So I want to conclude by telling you a little bit about one of these young women--I believe she may be here, Markela Izlar. Is Markela here? She's a senior--well, stand up, wave. She's a senior at Ballou High School. <p>Now, Markela has faced some pretty serious challenges in her life. Her father was killed in an act of violence before she was born. And in her essay, she wrote, \\"Life growing up in southeast DC hasn't been easy.\\" She says, \\"I recently lost count of how many friends and family members I had to say goodbye to before it seemed like it was time.\\" <p>But it turns out Markela loves math, and I hear you're pretty good at math. And she is determined to one day become either an engineer or an algebra teacher. And she concluded her essay by saying, \\"When I think about the disadvantages I have in my life, it motivates me to be successful. Because I understand that in life\\"--[<i>applause</i>]--she says, \\"I understand that in life everyone has a purpose and a plan, and every day, I see myself getting closer and closer to college, and one day, a career.\\"<p>So, Markela, we are proud of you. We're proud of all the young women who are here in this room. And I want to make sure that our legacy to them is an America where they can fulfill every last bit of their promise and pursue every last one of their dreams and become powerful, accomplished women. And so many of you are setting such a great example for them.<p>So thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"289" "\"Please be seated. Good afternoon. And on behalf of Michelle and myself, welcome to the White House. And thank you, General Carver, for that beautiful invocation. <p>We are a nation of more than 300 million Americans. Of these, less than 1 percent wears the uniform of our Armed Services. And of these, just a small fraction has earned the badges of our special operations forces.<p>In the finest military the world has ever known, these warriors are the best of the best. In an era that prizes celebrity and status, they are quiet professionals, never seeking the spotlight. In a time of war, they have borne a burden far beyond their small numbers: training foreign militaries to stand on their own, bringing schools and medicine to remote villages, and taking to the terrorists and insurgents who plot against us. <p>Few Americans ever see their service, but all Americans are safer because of it. And our hearts swell with pride just hearing their names, including the legendary Green Berets. Today it is my privilege to present our Nation's highest military decoration, the Medal of Honor, to one of these remarkable soldiers, Staff Sergeant Robert J. Miller. <p>To do so, we are joined by Vice President Biden and, from the Miller's family's home State of Florida, a leader who helped make this day possible, Congresswoman Suzanne Kosmas.<p>We are joined by leaders from across my administration, including Secretary of Defense Robert Gates; chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mike Mullen; and leaders from our Armed Forces, including Army Secretary John McHugh and Chief of Staff General George Casey, as well as Commander of Special Operations Command, Admiral Eric Olson. <p>We are honored to be joined by Rob's fellow soldiers in whose ranks he served, his teammates from Alpha Company, 3d Battalion, 3d Special Forces Group from Fort Bragg, and those who now welcome him into their ranks, members of the Medal of Honor Society.<p>Most of all, we welcome more than 100 of Rob's friends and family, especially his father Phil, his mother Maureen, and his many brothers and sisters.<p>It has been said that courage is not simply one of the virtues, but the form of every virtue at the testing point. For Rob Miller, the testing point came nearly 3 years ago, deep in a snowy Afghan valley. But the courage he displayed that day reflects every virtue that defined his life.<p>Rob was wise beyond his years. Growing up in Wheaton, Illinois, outside of Chicago, he was the boy in school who penned a poem about American GIs in World War II, men--like the soldier Rob would become himself--who he said \\"fought day and night, fighting for what they thought was right.\\" <p>Rob was born to lead--the high school gymnast who trained so hard his coach had to kick him out at night so they could close the gym. He was the Army recruit who pushed himself to his limits, both physically and mentally, to earn the title Green Beret. He was the Special Forces soldier who, on his first tour in Afghanistan, earned two Army Commendation Medals for his valor. <p> Devotion to duty, an abiding sense of honor, a profound love of country: These were the virtues that found their ultimate expression when Rob, just 24 years old and on his second tour, met his testing point on January 25, 2008.<p>Rob and his team were in the remote northwest of Afghanistan. Their mission: clear a valley of insurgents who had been attacking Afghan forces and terrorizing villagers. So when they came across an insurgent compound, Rob and his men made their move, unleashing their fire and calling in airstrikes.<p>Now, they were on foot, heading over to that destroyed compound to assess the damage and gather intelligence. It was still dark, just before dawn. It was freezing cold and silent, except for the crackle of their radios and the crunch of snow under their boots. Like so many times before, Rob was up front, leading a patrol of two dozen Afghans and Americans on a narrow trail along the valley floor, the steep mountains towering over them.<p>First, it was just a single insurgent, jumping out from behind a boulder. Then, the whole valley seemed to explode with gunfire. Within seconds, Rob and his patrol were pinned down with almost no cover, bullets and rocket-propelled grenades raining down from every direction. And when enemy reinforcements poured in, the odds were overwhelming. Rob's small patrol of two dozen men was nearly surrounded by almost 150 insurgents. <p>With the enemy just feets away--some so close he could see their faces--Rob held his ground. Despite the chaos around him, he radioed back enemy positions. As the only Pashto speaker on his team, he organized the Afghan soldiers around him. But the incoming fire, in the words of one soldier, was simply \\"astounding.\\"<p>Rob made a decision. He called for his team to fall back. And then he did something extraordinary. Rob moved in the other direction, toward the enemy, drawing their guns away from his team and bringing the fire of all those insurgents down upon himself.<p>The fighting was ferocious. Rob seemed to disappear into clouds of dust and debris, but his team could hear him on the radio, still calling out the enemy's position. And they could hear his weapon still firing as he provided cover for his men. And then, over the radio, they heard his voice. He had been hit. But still, he kept calling out enemy positions. Still, he kept firing. Still, he kept throwing his grenades. And then they heard it: Rob's weapon fell silent.<p>This is the story of what one American soldier did for his team, but it's also a story of what they did for him. Two of his teammates braved the bullets and rushed to Rob's aid. In those final moments, they were there at his side, American soldiers there for each other. <p>The relentless fire forced them back, but they refused to leave their fallen comrade. When reinforcements arrived, these Americans went in again, risking their lives, taking more casualties, determined to bring Rob Miller out of that valley. And finally, after fighting that raged for hours, they did.<p>When the dust settled and the smoke cleared, there was no doubt Rob Miller and his team had struck a major blow against the local insurgency. Five members of his patrol had been wounded, but his team had survived. And one of his teammates surely spoke for all of them when he said of Rob, \\"I would not be alive today if not for his ultimate sacrifice.\\"<p>This is the valor that America honors today. To Rob's family and friends, I know that no words can ease the ache in your hearts. But I also know this: Rob's life and legacy endures. <p>Rob endures in the pride of his parents. Phil and Maureen, you raised a remarkable son. Today and in the years to come, may you find some comfort in knowing that Rob gave his life doing what he loved, protecting his friends and defending his country. You gave your oldest son to America, and America is forever in your debt. <p>Rob endures in the love of his brothers and sisters, all seven of whom join us today. Your brothers laid down his life so you could live yours in security and freedom. You honor him by living your lives to the fullest, and I suspect Rob would be especially proud of his younger brother Tom, who, inspired by his big brother, is now training to be a Green Beret himself.<p>Rob endures in the Afghans that he trained and he befriended. In valleys and villages half a world away, they remember him, the American who spoke their language, who respected their culture, and who helped them defend their country. They welcomed him into their homes and invited him to their weddings. And in a sign of their lasting gratitude, they presented Rob's parents with a beautiful Afghan flag--Afghan rug, which hangs today in the Miller home, a symbol of the partnership between the people of America and Afghanistan. <p>Rob Miller endures in the service of his teammates, his brothers in arms who served with him, bled with him, and fought to bring him home. These soldiers embody the spirit that guides our troops in Afghanistan every day: the courage, the resolve, the relentless focus on their mission to break the momentum of the Taliban insurgency and to build the capacity of Afghans to defend themselves and to make sure that Afghanistan is never again a safe haven for terrorists who would attack our country. That is their mission, that is our mission, and that is what we will do. And I would ask Rob's team, who were with him that day, to please stand and be recognized. [<i>Applause</i>]<p>Finally, Rob Miller--and all those who give their lives in our name--endure in each of us. Every American is safer because of their service. And every American has a duty to remember and honor their sacrifice. <p>If we do, if we keep their legacy alive, if we keep faith with the freedoms they died to defend, then we can imagine a day, decades from now, when another child sits down at his desk, ponders the true meaning of heroism, and finds inspiration in the story of a soldier, Staff Sergeant Robert J. Miller, and a generation that \\"fought day and night, fighting for what they thought was right.\\"<p>That is the meaning of this medal, and that is our summons today, as a proud and grateful nation. So please join me in welcoming Phil and Maureen Miller for the reading of the citation.\" "
"290" "\"A couple people I want to first of all acknowledge. Tim Kaine is here from the Democratic Committee. John Wisniewski is here, the New Jersey Democratic chairman.<p>Obviously, my main thanks go to Michael and Jackie, Zach, Melissa, Olivia for opening up their spectacular home, for being such incredible friends.<p>Michael basically took all the words out of my mouth. [<i>Laughter</i>] I don't really know what to say. [<i>Laughter</i>] Those of you who are interested in the Randy Moss trade--[<i>laughter</i>]--I have some opinions about that.<p>Look, one of the wonderful things about these events is I get the chance to spend some time just sitting with you individually, so I'm not going to give a long speech.<p>But let me just echo a couple of themes that Michael raised. You know, we're in a very tough election season. And we're in a tough election season because the country is going through a very difficult time. It's hard I think sometimes to appreciate the magnitude of what we faced when we came into office.<p>But this was the worst recession by far since the Great Depression. In fact, if you add up the recession in '91, the recession in 2000, the recession when Ronald Reagan came into office--the three previous recessions--this one had a bigger impact than all three of those combined. We lost 4 million jobs in the 6 months before I took office, 750,000 the month I was sworn in, 600,000 in the 2 subsequent months. We had lost most of the 8 million jobs that we lost before any of our economic policies were put into place.<p>And so our first job was to stop the crisis. And we've done that. The economy is now growing again. We've had 8 consecutive months of private sector job growth. The credit markets are now functioning. World trade is now expanding again.<p>And so, as Michael said, we're moving in the right direction. But one of the reasons I ran for President was not just to put a tourniquet around the crisis. It was the fact that for a long time, I think everybody had a sense that we weren't doing everything we needed to make sure we can compete in a new 21st-century economy, that we had lost ground, and that there was a foundation that had to be rebuilt just to make sure that the next generation and the generation after that can continue to live in the strongest economy in the world.<p>I want the 21st century to be the American century just like the 20th century was the American century. And in order to do that, we've had to make some tough choices, not all of which were popular. We had to fix a broken health care system because it was bankrupting the Government, it was bankrupting families, and bankrupting businesses.<p>That change of a system that large takes time, but we are now moving in the right direction to change it. We had to change a financial system that, frankly, if we did not reregulate, stood to create another round of crises.<p>This last one was the worst one, but keep in mind that we had seen every 4 or 5 years a world financial crisis. And we had to initiate, both in this country and internationally, a strategy so that risk-taking and the dynamism of our capitalist system is healthy and strong, but we weren't going to be facing crises in which taxpayers had a choice of either bailing out the system or watching it collapse.<p>We had to revamp our education system. And we are now in the process of making more changes across the country with our Race to the Top program than we've seen in decades, making sure that every young person has a chance to graduate from high school. They can read, they can write, they can do arithmetic, they're going on to college.<p>We used to be number one in college graduation rates; we're now number nine. We are going to reverse that so that by 2020, we're back on top.<p>We had to make sure that we're reinvesting in research and development and all the things that encourage innovation in our economy because that's going to be the basis of our long-term competiveness. So we've had to make a lot of tough decisions. But I am extraordinarily confident that we're moving in the right direction.<p>And as Michael indicated, many of you are a testament to the continuing strength and vitality of American democracy and the American economy. But in order for us to continue going in the right direction, we've got to sustain it. And the election right now is really a choice between the policies that got us into the mess and the policies that have started to bring us out.<p>Now, when unemployment is still at 9.5, 9.6 percent, that gives an enormous advantage to whoever is not in power because they can simply point at the status quo regardless of causation and say, you know what, it's the folks who are in power that are at fault. And so that gives sort of a natural momentum behind their arguments.<p>What we have to do is to make sure that we maintain our focus on the long game; that we're not just thinking tactically, that we're not just thinking about what's convenient for us next month or in the next election, but what's good for the next generation. That's what we've tried to do over the last 20 months, and we've got to make that argument robustly over the remaining 4 weeks of this midterm.<p>I was joking at, I think, a dinner that Michael was at. One of the strengths of the Democrats is that we don't walk--march in lockstep. You know, we like to have internal dissent and arguments. We've very self-critical. We tend to look at the glass as half empty. And that makes us better because we're always asking ourselves tough questions. But that's also a weakness, particularly 4 weeks before an election. And right now all the reports out there are that the main challenge we have is closing an enthusiasm gap between the Democrats and the Republicans.<p>Well, Michael just listed the reasons you should be enthusiastic. We didn't just save this economy from a Great Depression. We also moved forward substantially on everything that we've said Democrats stood for, for years.<p>And we're not finished--unless we lose sight of that long game and we start sulking and sitting back and not doing everything we need to do in terms of making sure that our folks turn out.<p>Joe Biden has a useful saying. He says, don't compare me to the Almighty, compare me to the alternative. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I think Democrats would be well served right now to just keep that uppermost in their minds. If everyone here, and your friends and neighbors and coworkers and colleagues, are constantly focused on the choice before us and understanding that we're not finished, but unless we are able to maintain Democrats in the House and the Senate, then we're going to be stalled for 2 years or 4 years, and we could even start going backwards. As long as people keep that in mind, then I'm absolutely confident that we're going to do fine.<p>And so I just want to again thank Mike and Jackie for hosting us. I want to thank all of you for coming here. And I want you guys to make sure that you understand this country is the greatest country on Earth. We still have the best workers on Earth, the best universities on Earth, the most innovative economy on Earth. We're the most diverse on Earth. There's no advanced economy that has the same constant influx of energy from immigrants, and new ideas and the same core freedoms that we enjoy. There is not another country on Earth that would not willingly trade places with us right now.<p>But we do have some tough decisions to make. I'm willing to make them. I need help in Congress in order to make them. And they need your help in order for us to be able to move forward.<p>So thank you so much, everybody.\" "
"291" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Chicago! Oh, it's good to be home! It is good to be home. Got all my friends--all my friends--in the house. <p><i>Audience member.</i> Long time no see.<p><i>The President.</i> Long time no see.<p>It is wonderful to see--I see so many familiar faces here. Just a couple of people I've got to make mention of. First of all, he may be in my remarks, but I just want to say that there is nobody who was a better partner to me when I was in the United States Senate, nobody who is a better friend to working families here in Illinois, and nobody who is a better debater on the floor of the United States Senate than the man to my left, Dick Durbin. So love Dick Durbin. Love Dick Durbin. I love Loretta Durbin more. [<i>Laughter</i>] But Dick Durbin I love.<p>We also--if I'm not mistaken, we've got the junior Senator from Illinois, Roland Burris, in the house. Where's Roland? There he is right there. Appreciate Roland for his outstanding service.<p>We've got the next Lieutenant Governor of the great State of Illinois, Sheila Simon, who, by the way, knows a little bit about good Senators. Congressman Danny Davis is in the house. Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky is here--love Jan. Attorney General Lisa Madigan is here. Comptroller Dan Hynes is here. Senate President John Cullerton is here. The next treasurer, Robin Kelly, is in the house. The next comptroller, David Miller, is in the house.<p>Now, I see everybody else here. [<i>Laughter</i>] But if I started naming everybody I know, I'm in trouble. So I've just got to stop--[<i>laughter</i>]--except to say that it's also nice to be standing here with the next Senator from the great State of Illinois, Alexi Giannoulias.<p>Alexi is my friend. I know his character. I know how much he loves this country. I know how committed he is to public service. He has been a great advocate on behalf of the people of Illinois, and he's in this for the right reasons. He's not in it for the special interests; he's in it for your interests. You may not always agree with him, but you always know where he stands. He's comfortable in his own skin. He doesn't shift with the wind. He doesn't pretend to be something that he's not. You know who he is today and who he'll be tomorrow, and that's important. You can trust him. You can count on him.<p>And let me just also say--because I play basketball with him--[<i>laughter</i>]--and I have still some sore ribs to prove it--he's a competitor. And we've seen that in this campaign. He just keeps on plowing ahead, because he knows that he wants to serve. In some very tough circumstances, in a tough political season, he has not wavered. And that's the kind of person that you want. That's the kind of person that you know, when the going gets tough in Washington, will be fighting for you.<p>So I hope you're fired up in these last few weeks. I need you to be fired up. Fired up and ready to go. I need it. I need that because there is an election--in case you were curious--[<i>laughter</i>]--on November 2--an election--you can begin voting next week--that's going to say a lot about the future, your future and the future of our country. So you've got to be fired up.<p>Now, this is Chicago, so I know politics is--this is sport right here. [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, I know everybody is paying attention. By the way, have you seen my Chief of Staff? [<i>Laughter</i>] I was like, looking around, it's like, what happened? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Two years ago, you defied the conventional wisdom in Washington, because they said you couldn't overcome the cynicism of our politics. You couldn't overcome the special interests. You can't make big progress on big issues. Can't happen. They said, no, you can't.<p>What did you say?<p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes, we can!<p><i>The President.</i> You said, yes, we can.<p>But sometimes, I feel as if we had such a high on election night, and then there was the Inauguration and Bono was singing and Beyonce and--[<i>laughter</i>]--everybody from Chicago went to Washington and was having a big party. But I have to remind you that the victory in that campaign didn't deliver the change that we needed. It just gave us the chance to make change happen. That was the start, not the finish, of the journey. And it made each of you a shareholder in the mission of rebuilding our country and reclaiming our future. And I'm back today because 2 years later, the success of that mission is at stake.<p>After that last election, it was my hope that we could pull together, Democrats and Republicans, and start dealing with the worst crisis we had seen since the Great Depression. That was my fervent hope because we may be proud Democrats, but we're prouder to be Americans. And there are Republicans across the country who feel the same way.<p>But the Republicans in Washington, they had a different idea. They knew it was going to take more than 2 years to climb out of this mess that they had created. They knew that by the time of this election, the midterm election, that there would still be people out of work, that people would be frustrated. And they figured if they just sat on the sidelines and just said no, opposed every idea I offered or Dick offered or Jan offered or Danny offered, if they spent all their time attacking Democrats instead of attacking our problems, then they'd have a chance to prosper at the polls. That was their calculation.<p>And they just spent the last 20 months saying no, even to policies that they had supported in the past. They said no to middle class tax cuts. They said no to help for small businesses. They said no to a bipartisan deficit reduction commission that they had cosponsored. And when I was for it, suddenly, they were against it. If I said the sky was blue, they said no. [<i>Laughter</i>] If I said there were fish in the sea--no. Their calculation was if Obama fails, we win. They were very explicit about it.<p>Now, they figured that that political game would get them through an election. But I knew it wasn't going to get America through the crisis. So I made a different calculation. I made a different choice. I took whatever steps were necessary to stop the economic freefall--with the help of people like Dick, with the help of people like Jan and Danny--even if those measures were not popular, even if they were not easy. Because you did not send me to Washington to do what was easy. You didn't send me to put my finger out to the wind and measure which way the wind was blowing and try to figure out how to stay in office. You elected me to do what was right. That's why you sent me.<p>So 20 months later, we no longer face the possibility of a second depression. Our economy is growing again. The private sector has created jobs for 8 months in a row. There are 3 million Americans who wouldn't be working today if it weren't for the economic plan we put into place.<p>When we came in, when I flew in on Air Force One and we landed at O'Hare, there were a group of folks greeting us there. And there were a group of folks who had gotten jobs directly as a consequence of the Recovery Act. And so we know that we did the right thing.<p>But look, we've still got a long way to go. Because the hole that we're climbing out of is so deep, there are still millions of Americans without work. The 6 months before I was sworn in we had lost 4 million jobs. We lost 750,000 the month I was sworn in, 600,000 the 2 months subsequent after that. And so most of the 8 million jobs we lost were before any of our economic plans took effect. And that means we've got a big hole to fill. There are still millions of families who can barely pay the bills or make a mortgage. Middle class families who were struggling to get by before the crisis hit are still treading water.<p>So of course people are frustrated. Of course people are impatient. I'm impatient. But the other side decided, we're just going to try to ride that anger, that frustration, to the ballot box, without offering any serious ideas about how to solve our problems. And now the pundits are saying, well, the other party's supporters, they're more excited. They say all of you who worked so hard in 2008 might not be as excited this time, you might not be as energized, you might not care as much; that you don't mind if the same politicians and policies that created this mess, left the economy in a shambles, return to Washington. That's what the pundits are predicting. They're basically counting on you all having amnesia. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But I think they're wrong, Chicago. And it's up to you to prove them wrong. It's up to you to defy the conventional wisdom once again. It's up to you to show the pundits that you love this country too much to let it fall backwards; you are ready to move forward. You've got to show them that you're ready to fight for our future.<p>Because this election is a choice. Don't--no mistaking the situation here. The choice could not be clearer. Because it's not as if the Republicans, they went off into the desert and meditated after 2008, and they said: \\"Boy, what did we do wrong? We got this--as a consequence of our stewardship, the whole economy is in meltdown.\\" That's not what they did. They didn't come back with a set of new ideas. They haven't changed their agenda since the last time they ran Washington. The chairman of one of their campaign committees promised that if Republicans take control of Congress, they will follow--and I'm quoting--\\"the exact same agenda\\" they pursued during the last administration.<p>And we know what that agenda was: You cut taxes, mostly for millionaires and billionaires; you cut regulations for special interests; you cut investments in education and clean energy, in research and development and technology. So basically, you just put blind faith in the market, we let corporations play by their own rules, we leave everybody else to fend for themselves, and somehow America is going to prosper.<p>Here's the thing, though. We know what happened. It's not as if we didn't try that. We tried it for 8 years. It didn't work. It didn't work for middle class families who saw their incomes fall--wages went down 5 percent between 2001 and 2009--when they were in power. That's not according to me; that's according to the Wall Street Journal. Job growth was slower during that period than any decade since World War II.<p>These guys are talking about jobs now? They had 8 years and it didn't work. They took a record surplus left by President Bill Clinton and it became a record deficit by the time I took office, a big $1.3 trillion present they left me as I walked in the Oval Office. They set up a free-for-all on Wall Street that led to a crisis that we're still grappling with today.<p>Now, I bring up all these things not to relitigate the past. I just don't want to relive the past. And I bring this up because that is the philosophy that Republicans like Alexi's opponent intend to bring back if they win in November. Now, they might have a new name for it. They call it the \\"Pledge to America.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] The \\"Pledge to America,\\" it's the same stuff they've been peddling for years. [<i>Laughter</i>] They're trying to hoodwink you once again.<p>Let's take a look at the \\"Pledge to America.\\" Some of you may not have examined it. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, for starters, it turns out that part of the pledge was actually written by a former lobbyist for AIG and ExxonMobil. You cannot--yes--[<i>laughter</i>]--you can't make this stuff up. [<i>Laughter</i>] So that gives you a clue of who they're making the pledge to.<p>Then the centerpiece of this pledge is a $700 billion tax cut for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans. That is their big idea. Now, these are the folks who lecture us on fiscal responsibility, so I have to point out we don't have $700 billion. We'd have to borrow $700 billion--from the Chinese or the Saudis--and then use it to provide tax cuts worth an average of $100,000 to millionaires and billionaires.<p>When you ask them, \\"Well, where are you going to find the $700 billion?\\" they don't have an answer. But when you look at the fine print, it turns out that a small portion of the tax cut they want to pay for by cutting education by 20 percent--20 percent--which would translate into reduce financial aid for 8 million college students. At a time when education is the biggest predictor of a country's economic success, they think it's more important to provide these tax breaks to folks who don't need them, weren't asking for them, than it is to make sure that our young people can get to college, which makes me want to ask our Republican friends, do you think China is cutting back on education? Do you think South Korea is making it harder for its citizens to get a college education? These countries are not playing for second place. And the United States of America does not play for second place. We play for first. That's what this election is about. That's what this election is about.<p>See, Alexi and I have a different idea about what the next 2 years should look like. It's an idea rooted in our belief about how this country was built. We know government doesn't have all the answers to all of our problems. We don't believe government's main role is to create jobs or prosperity. We believe government should be lean and efficient and that the private sector should be creating jobs. We want to reduce the deficit, which is why we've proposed a 3-year spending freeze and we set up that bipartisan fiscal commission to deal with our deficit that the other side voted against.<p>But we also believe in America we reward hard work and responsibility. We believe this is a country where we look after one another; that we are our brother's keeper, our sister's keeper. That's the America I know. That's the choice in this election.<p>So instead of tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires, we want to make permanent tax cuts for middle class Americans because folks who work hard every day, they deserve a break. Instead of the Republican plan to keep tax breaks for companies that are shipping jobs overseas, we want to give tax breaks to companies that are investing here in the United States of America, to small businesses and American manufacturers and clean energy companies. I don't want solar panels and wind turbines and electric cars made in Europe and Asia. I want them built here, in the United States, by American workers.<p>If Republicans take back Congress, they will try their hardest to give back power to the same special interests that me and Dick and Jan and Danny have been fighting for the last 20 months. We can't let them do that. We can't go back to the days when insurance companies could drop your health insurance when you got sick. We can't go back to the day when credit cards could jack up your rates for no reason. We can't go back to the days of taxpayer-funded bailouts. We can't allow special interests to take free rein again. <p>That's why I'm proud to be standing next to Alexi. He's made it clear he'll fight for you in the United States Senate. He's not funding his campaign with Federal PACs or lobbyist money. On his first day in office, he enacted the most sweeping ethics reforms of any Illinois State treasurer, ensuring that contractors and banks couldn't \\"pay to play\\" for State business. He took on credit card companies and banned them from aggressively marketing on college campuses, so that our kids don't graduate with credit card debt on top of tuition debt.<p>And a lot of you know what he did for Hartmarx, which, by the way, made this suit. It's a company that's employed people in this State for more than a hundred years. And when it fell on hard times, and a big bank threatened to pull its credit, risking more than 600 jobs, Alexi stepped in. He told that bank if they did that they'd no longer manage the money of Illinois taxpayers. He helped save that company, those jobs. They can testify about who he's going to fight for, who he cares about.<p>That's the kind of person you want in the United States Senate, somebody who doesn't forget where they came from, why they're in this, who they're fighting for. Somebody who does not stop fighting, period, because there's too much at stake right now to give up the fight.<p>So it comes down to this, Chicago. There are a lot of folks in the other party who are running today who are the same folks who drove this economy into the ditch. And me and the rest of the Democrats here in Washington, we climbed down into that ditch. We put on our boots. It was muddy. It was hot. [<i>Laughter</i>] There's bugs. [<i>Laughter</i>] But we pushed and we pushed and we pushed. And every once in a while we'd look up and see the Republicans up there, looking comfortable, fanning themselves, sipping on Slurpees. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we'd say, \\"Why don't you come down and help?\\" And they'd say: \\"No, but you're not pushing hard enough. You're not pushing the right way.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And we just kept on pushing. And finally, we got the car up on level ground. Finally, we got it on level ground.<p>Now, it's gone through some trauma, so the fender is all dented, needs a tuneup. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it's on level ground, it's pointing in the right direction. And suddenly, we feel this tap on our shoulder, and we look back and it's the Republicans. And we say, \\"What do you want?\\" They say, \\"We want the keys back.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And you tell them: \\"No, you can't have the keys back. You don't know how to drive!\\" You do not know how to drive. You can join us. You can hop in the backseat. [<i>Laughter</i>] But we're not giving you the keys back.<p>Have you ever noticed when you drive, you want to go forward, what do you do? You put the car in \\"D.\\" If you want to go backwards, you put it in \\"R.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] That's not a coincidence. Not a coincidence.<p>But whether they get the keys back is ultimately up to you. They see a chance to get back in the driver's seat with the special interests riding shotgun. And thanks to a recent Supreme Court decision, they're being helped along by special interest groups that are spending unlimited amounts of money all on attack ads, and they don't disclose who's behind the ads. It could be an oil industry, could be an insurance company, could be Wall Street, you don't know. Almost every one of them is run by Republican operatives. They're posing as nonprofits, nonpolitical groups. They've got these innocuous-sounding names like Americans for Prosperity or the Committee for Truth in Politics or Moms for Motherhood. [<i>Laughter</i>] I made that last one up. [<i>Laughter</i>] But you wouldn't know. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>According to one recent report, conservatives--conservative groups like these have outspent Democrats 7 to 1. Right here in Illinois, in this Senate race, two groups funded and advised by Karl Rove have outspent the Democratic Party 2 to 1 in an attempt to beat Alexi--2 to 1. Funded and advised by Karl Rove. Just this week, we learned that one of the largest groups paying for these ads regularly takes in money from foreign sources.<p>So the question for the people of Illinois is, are you going to let special interests from Wall Street and Washington and maybe places beyond our shores come to this State and tell us who our Senator should be?<p><i>Audience members.</i> No! <p><i>The President.</i> That's not just a threat to Democrats. That's a threat to our democracy. The American people deserve to know who's trying to sway their election. And if we just stand by and allow special interests to silence anybody who's got the guts to stand up against them, our country is going to be a very different place. That's not how our democracy operates.<p>So that's why we've got to work even harder in this election. That's why we need to fight their millions of dollars with millions of voices who are ready to finish what we started in 2008. Because if everybody who fought for change in 2008 shows up to vote in 2010, we will win. And by the way, most of the polls say the same thing. Alexi will win. Pat Quinn will win. The entire ticket will win.<p>So they are counting on you staying home and being apathetic. They're counting on your silence. They are counting on your amnesia. That's what they're counting on.<p>So, Chicago, prove them wrong. Let's show Washington one more time change doesn't come from the top, it doesn't come from millions of dollars of attack ads. Change happens from the bottom up. Change happens because of you.<p>And if you get fired up one more time, if you're knocking on doors and making phone calls and talking to your friends and going in the barbershops, going in the beauty shops, I promise you we will have Alexi as the next Senator from the great State of Illinois.<p>Thank you very much. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"292" "\"Good morning, everybody. It is good to be here at Ernest Maier Block. I just had a chance to take a quick tour, a look around with Brendan Quinn, president and CEO of Ernest Maier, and it's a remarkable story. Brendan came here initially to help a family business, turn it around; it was experiencing losses. He ended up purchasing the company and now has grown it enormously--has terrific employees here. He provides full health insurance to them. They are supporting their families, and even during this difficult downturn, he hasn't had to lay anybody off and is still confident about its growth. So we're just very proud of him and what this company has accomplished.<p>These are the guys that build serious stuff: concrete blocks, bricks for walls that are thick, difficult to move, and can stop anything in their path--sort of like the way I feel about Congress sometimes. But this is a family business that's been here over 80 years. They believe in investing in their workers. They care about the environment, so they collect and process using cooking oil from local restaurants to power some of their equipment. Their community cares about them, so business is growing. Brendan has hired folks this year, and with the smart investments he's made, he hopes to continue that growth.<p>Small businesses like this one are the bricks and blocks of our entire economy. And over the past 2 years, my administration has been doing everything we can to help encourage more success stories like this, because it is small businesses that will power our growth and put our people back to work.<p>This morning we learned that in the month of September our economy gained 64,000 jobs in the private sector. July and August private sector job numbers were revised upwards. So we've now seen 9 straight months of private sector job growth; in all, more than 850,000 private sector jobs gained this year, which is in sharp contrast to the almost 800,000 jobs that we were losing when I first took office. But that news is tempered by a net job loss in September, which was fueled in large measure by the end of temporary census jobs and by layoffs in State and local governments.<p>I should point out that these continuing layoffs by State and local governments--of teachers and police officers and firefighters and the like--would have been even worse without the Federal help that we've provided to States over the last 20 months, help that the Republicans in Congress have consistently opposed. I think the Republican position doesn't make much sense, especially since the weakness in public sector employment is a drag on the private sector as well. So we need to continue to explore ways that we can help States and local governments maintain workers who provide vital services.<p>At the same time, we have to keep doing everything we can to accelerate this recovery. Yes, the trend line in private sector job growth is moving in the right direction. But I'm not interested in trends or figures as much as I am interested in the people behind them, the millions of honest, hard-working Americans swept up in the most devastating recession of our lifetimes. As I've said before, the only piece of economic news that folks still looking for work want to hear is, \\"You're hired.\\" And everything we do is dedicated to make that happen.<p>Last week, for example, I signed into law the Small Business Jobs Act, a small-business bill that does some big things. And I want to mention three of them today.<p>First, within the 11 days since it took effect, more than 2,000 small-business owners have already received more than a billion dollars' worth of new loans, with more to come. And beginning today, the Small Business Administration is offering larger loans for folks who need them.<p>Second, it expands the tax cut for all the equipment investment small businesses make this year, something that Brendan is planning to take advantage of here at Maier Block. And we were just talking about his belief that the more we can accelerate depreciation, the more likely we're going to see businesses like his make these investments.<p>It's going to help small-business owners upgrade their plants and equipment, it will encourage large corporations to get off the sidelines and start putting their profits back into the economy, and it will accelerate $55 billion in tax cuts for businesses that make job-creating investments over the next year.<p>Third, it creates a new initiative to strengthen State programs that spur private sector lending to small businesses, a step that will support $15 billion in new small-business loans across the country. Maryland, for example, will be able to support $250 million in new lending for businesses that are expanding and creating jobs in communities like this one.<p>Thousands of small-business owners across America had been waiting for months for this bill to pass, for the loans and tax cuts they have badly needed to grow their businesses and hire new employees. Unfortunately, it was held up all summer by a partisan minority until a few courageous Republican Senators put politics aside. Just imagine the difference it could have made for small businesses and our economy had it happened months before.<p>Putting the American people back to work, expanding opportunity, rebuilding the economic security of the middle class is the moral and national challenge of our time. It is too important to fall prey to pure partisanship or blind ideology. This bill's rapid results prove that when we work together, we can get a lot done. And that's what the great debate we're having today is all about.<p>I believe that instead of extending tax loopholes that encourage investments in overseas jobs, we should permanently extend the tax credit that goes to companies for all the research and innovation they do right here in America.<p>I believe that instead of borrowing another $700 billion we don't have to give tax cuts to the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans who don't need them, we should permanently extend the tax cuts for middle class families. They're the folks who saw their wages and incomes flatline over the past decade, and they're the ones who deserve a break.<p>And I believe that instead of sitting still, we should invest in rebuilding America's roads and railways and runways. Too many American workers have been out of work for months, even years, and that doesn't do anybody any good when there is so much of America to rebuild. Our infrastructure is falling far behind what the rest of the world is doing, and upgrading it is vital to our economy and our future competitiveness. This is a project worthy of America's efforts. It's something that engineers, economists, Governors, and mayors of every political stripe support, and many of them issued a sobering report about this challenge last week. And on Monday, I will be meeting with some of them at the White House to discuss how we can put Americans to work doing what they do best, building America.<p>As I've said many times before, it took us a long time to get out of where we are right now. And the damage left by this recession is so deep that it's going to take a long time to get out. It will take determination, persistence, and most importantly, the will to act, all elements that the American people have in abundance. And if we summon that spirit now, if we keep moving forward, I'm absolutely convinced that we will rebuild our economy, we will put our people back to work, and we'll come through these tough days to brighter and better days ahead.<p>And I want to thank Brendan not only for his hospitality here today, but somebody who's got the courage and the foresight and the skills to create a terrific business that's supporting so many families. Thank you very much.\" "
"293" "\"Hello, everybody. Good to see you. Everybody, please have a seat. Well, it is wonderful to see all of you here today, to be with all of you. I want to make some special acknowledgements. We've got some legislators here who have been fighting on behalf of the disabilities community for a very long time. We're so proud of the legislation I'm signing today, as well as legislation we signed earlier this week. So I want to acknowledge all of them.<p>First of all, responsible in large part for guiding this process through in the Senate, Senator Mark Pryor of Arkansas; Representative Ed Markey, Democrat from Massachusetts. We also have here Senator Jay Rockefeller of West Virginia; Senator Barbara Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland. We've got Kent Conrad, as well as Byron Dorgan, the Dakota boys from North Dakota. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>We've got Representative Henry Waxman, who's on so many important pieces of legislation this year, and we're grateful to him. Mr. Julius Genachowski is here, who's the chairman of the FCC. Where's Julius? There he is right there, a classmate of mine, somebody who has just been a great friend for a long time.<p>And finally, we've got this guy. [<i>Laughter</i>] Some of you may know him. I happened to be listening to him this morning when I woke up. He's what I work out to. [<i>Laughter</i>] He's what I sweet-talk Michelle to. [<i>Laughter</i>] Mr. Stevie Wonder is in the house. I was doing a little rendition of some of his music to him, and he was kind enough not to laugh. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now, earlier this year, we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act right here in the White House. Many of you were here. And it was a moment for every American to reflect not just on one of the most comprehensive civil rights bills in our history, but what that bill meant to so many people. It was a victory won by countless Americans who refused to accept the world as it is and, against great odds, waged quiet struggles and grassroots crusades until finally change was won.<p>The story of the disability rights movement is enriched because it's intertwined with the story of America's progress. Americans with disabilities are Americans first and foremost and, like all Americans, are entitled to not only full participation in our society, but also full opportunity in our society.<p>So we've come a long way. But even today, after all the progress that we've made, too many Americans with disabilities are still measured by what folks think they can't do, instead of what we know they can do.<p>The fight for progress isn't about sympathy, by the way; it's about opportunity. And that's why all of us share a responsibility to keep building on the work of those who came before us, one life, one law, one step at a time.<p>So today we're here to take two more steps on that journey. First of all, on Tuesday I signed Rosa's Law. This is named for a 9-year-old girl, right there. Rosa, wave to everybody. That's some good waving there, Rosa. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Rosa Marcellino, it's so inspiring to have her here. As one of hundreds of thousands of Americans with Down syndrome, Rosa worked with her parents and her siblings to have the words \\"mentally retarded\\" officially removed from the health and education code in her home State of Maryland.<p>Now, Rosa's Law takes her idea a step further. It amends the language in all Federal health, education, and labor laws to remove that same phrase and instead refer to Americans living with an \\"intellectual disability.\\" Now this may seem to some people like a minor change, but I think Rosa's brother Nick put it best. Where's Nick? You right there, Nick? You can wave too. Go ahead. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But I want everybody to hear Nick's wisdom here. He said, \\"What you call people is how you treat them. If we change the words, maybe it will be the start of a new attitude towards people with disabilities.\\" That's a lot of wisdom from Nick.<p>Nick and Rosa's parents are all choking up because they're really proud of their kids, and appropriately so.<p>Now, the bill I'm signing today into law will better ensure full participation in our democracy and our economy for Americans with disabilities. The Twenty-First Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act will make it easier for people who are deaf, blind, or live with a visual impairment to do what many of us take for granted, from navigating a TV or DVD menu to sending an e-mail on a smart phone. It sets new standards so that Americans with disabilities can take advantage of the technology our economy depends on. And that's especially important in today's economy, when every worker needs the necessary skills to compete for the jobs of the future.<p>So together, these changes are about guaranteeing equal access, equal opportunity, and equal respect for every American. And they build on the progress that we've already made as an administration over the last 20 months.<p>Together, we put in place one of the most important updates to the ADA in 20 years by prohibiting disability-based discrimination by government entities and private businesses and by updating accessibility standards.<p>I issued an Executive order focused on establishing the Federal Government as a model employer of Americans with disabilities.<p>We passed the Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Act, the first piece of comprehensive legislation aimed at addressing the challenge faced by Americans living with paralysis.<p>We reauthorized the Children's Health Insurance Program, covering an additional 2.6 million children in need in 2009, including children with disabilities.<p>And the Affordable Care Act we passed will give every American more control over their health care and will do more to give Americans with disabilities control over their own lives than any legislation since the ADA.<p>So equal access, equal opportunity, the freedom to make of our lives what we will, living up to these principles is an obligation we have as Americans, and to one another. Because, in the end, each of us has a role to play in our economy, each of us has something to contribute to the American story, and each of us must do our part to continue on this never-ending journey towards building a more perfect Union.<p>So I am so proud of the legislators here today. I want to thank all the advocates who helped bring this legislation about. And now I'm very proud to sign the bill.\" "
"294" "\"The other day, I was talking about education with some folks in the backyard of an Albuquerque home, and someone asked a question that's stayed with me. He asked, \\"If we don't have homes to go to, what good is an education?\\" It was a heartfelt question, one that could be asked by anyone who's lost a home or a job in this recession.<p>Because if you're out of work or facing foreclosure, all that really matters is a new job. All that really matters is a roof over your head. All that really matters is getting back on your feet. That's why I'm fighting each and every day to jump-start job creation in the private sector, to help our small-business owners grow and hire, to rebuild our economy so it lifts up a middle class that's been battered for so long.<p>But even as we focus on doing all that, even as we focus on speeding up our economic recovery, we also know that when it comes to jobs, opportunity, and prosperity in the 21st century, nothing is more important than the quality of your education. At a time when most of the new jobs being created will require some kind of higher education, when countries that outeducate us today will outcompete us tomorrow, giving our kids the best education possible is an economic imperative.<p>That's why, from the start of my administration, we've been fighting to offer every child in this country a world-class education, from the cradle to the classroom, from college through a career. Earlier this week, I announced a new Skills for America's Future initiative that will help community colleges and employers match what's taught in the classroom with what's needed in the private sector, so we can connect students looking for jobs with businesses looking to hire.<p>We're eliminating tens of billions of dollars in wasteful subsidies for banks to administer student loans and using that money to make college more affordable for millions of students. And we've launched a Race to the Top in our States to make sure our students, all of them, are graduating from high school ready for college, so we can meet our goal of graduating a higher proportion of students from college than any other country in the world by 2020.<p>And yet if Republicans in Congress had their way, we'd have had a harder time meeting that goal. We'd have had a harder time offering our kids the best education possible, because they'd have us cut education by 20 percent. Cuts that would reduce financial aid for 8 million students; cuts that would leave our great and undervalued community colleges without the resources they need to prepare our graduates for the jobs of the future.<p>Now, it is true that when it comes to our budget, we have real challenges to meet. And if we're serious about getting our fiscal house in order, we'll need to make some tough choices. I'm prepared to make those choices. But what I'm not prepared to do is to shortchange our children's education. What I'm not prepared to do is undercut their economic future, your economic future, or the economic future of the United States of America.<p>Nothing would be more detrimental to our prospects for success than cutting back on education. It would consign America to second place in our fiercely competitive global economy. But China and India aren't playing for second. South Korea and Germany, they aren't playing for second. They're playing for first, and so should the United States of America.<p>Instead of being shortsighted and shortchanging our kids, we should be doubling down on them. We should be giving every child in America a chance to make the most of their lives, to fulfill their God-given potential. We should be fighting to lead the global economy in this century, just like we did in the last. And that's what I'll continue fighting to do in the months and years ahead. Thanks, everybody, and have a great weekend.\" "
"295" "\"Good morning, everybody. I just had a meeting with Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner, Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood, and Governors like Ed Rendell, mayors like Antonio Villaraigosa, and economists and engineers from across the country to discuss one of America's greatest challenges: our crumbling infrastructure and the urgent need to put Americans back to work upgrading it for the 21st century.<p>We're also joined today by two former Transportation Secretaries of both political parties: Sam Skinner, who served under President George H.W. Bush, and Norm Mineta, who served in the Cabinets of both President Clinton and President George W. Bush. They're here today because they are passionate about this task.<p>Their cooperation--and indeed, this country's very history--proves that this is something for which there has traditionally been broad bipartisan support. So Sam and Norm have been leading a bipartisan group of more than 80 experts who, just last week, released a call to action demanding a fundamental overhaul of how America approaches funding and building our infrastructure. And today my Treasury Department and my Council of Economic Advisers have released our own study.<p>And these reports confirm what any American can already tell you: Our infrastructure is woefully inefficient, and it is outdated. For years, we have deferred tough decisions, and today, our aging system of highways and byways, air routes and rail lines hinder our economic growth. Today, the average American household is forced to spend more on transportation each year than food. Our roads, clogged with traffic, cost us $80 billion a year in lost productivity and wasted fuel. Our airports, choked with passengers, cost nearly $10 billion a year in productivity losses from flight delays. And in some cases, our crumbling infrastructure costs American lives. It should not take another collapsing bridge or failing levee to shock us into action.<p>So we're already paying for our failure to act. And what's more, the longer our infrastructure erodes, the deeper our competitive edge erodes. Other nations understand this. They are going all in. Today, as a percentage of GDP, we invest less than half of what Russia does in their infrastructure, less than one-third of what Western Europe does. Right now China's building hundreds of thousands of miles of new roads. Over the next 10 years, it plans to build dozens of new airports. Over the next 20, it could build as many as 170 new mass transit systems. Everywhere else, they're thinking big. They're creating jobs today, but they're also playing to win tomorrow. So the bottom line is our shortsightedness has come due. We can no longer afford to sit still.<p>What we need is a smart system of infrastructure equal to the needs of the 21st century: a system that encourages sustainable communities with easier access to our jobs, to our schools, to our homes, a system that decreases travel time and increases mobility, a system that cuts congestion and ups productivity, a system that reduces harmful emissions over time and creates jobs right now.<p>So we've already begun on this task. The Recovery Act included the most serious investment in our infrastructure since President Eisenhower built the Interstate Highway System in the 1950s. And we're not just talking new and restored roads and bridges and dams and levees, but we're also talking a smart electric grid and the high-speed internet and rail lines required for America to compete in the 21st-century economy. We're talking about investments with impacts both immediate and lasting.<p>Tens of thousands of projects employing hundreds of thousands of workers are already underway across America. We're improving 40,000 miles of road and rebuilding water and sewer systems. We're implementing a smarter, more stable, more secure electric grid across 46 States that will increase access to renewable sources of energy and cut costs for customers. We're moving forward with projects that connect communities across the country to broadband internet and connect 31 States via a true high-speed rail network. And what's more, a great many of these projects are coming in under budget.<p>By investing in these projects, we've already created hundreds of thousands of jobs. But the fact remains that nearly one in five construction workers is still unemployed and needs a job. And that makes absolutely no sense at a time when there is so much of America that needs rebuilding.<p>So that's why, last month, I announced a new plan for upgrading America's roads, rails, and runways for the long term. Over the next 6 years, we will rebuild 150,000 miles of our roads, enough to circle the world 6 times. We will lay and maintain 4,000 miles of our railways, enough to stretch from coast to coast. And we will restore 150 miles of runways and advance a next-generation air traffic control system that reduces delays for the American people.<p>This plan will be fully paid for. It will not add to our deficit over time. And we are going to work with Congress to see to that. It will establish an infrastructure bank to leverage Federal dollars and focus on the smartest investments. We want to cut waste and bureaucracy by consolidating and collapsing more than 100 different, often duplicative programs. And it will change the way Washington works by reforming the Federal Government's patchwork approach of funding and maintaining our infrastructure. We've got to focus less on wasteful earmarks, outdated formulas. We've got to focus more on competition and innovation; less on shortsighted political priorities and more on our national economic priorities.<p>So investing in our infrastructure is something that members of both political parties have always supported. It's something that groups ranging from the Chamber of Commerce to the AFL-CIO support today. And by making these investments across the country, we won't just make our economy run better over the long haul; we will create good, middle class jobs right now.<p>So there is no reason why we can't do this. There is no reason why the world's best infrastructure should lie beyond our borders. This is America. We've always had the best infrastructure. This is work that needs to be done. There are workers who are ready to do it. All we need is the political will. This is a season for choices, and this is the choice: between decline and prosperity and between the past and the future.<p>Our future has never been predestined. It has been built on the hard work and sacrifices of previous generations. They invested yesterday for what we have today. That's how we built canals and railroads and highways and ports that allowed our economy to grow by leaps and bounds. That's how we led the world in the pursuit of new technologies and innovations. That's what allowed us to build the middle class and lead the global economy in the 20th century. And if we're going to lead it in the 21st, that's the vision we can't afford to lose sight of right now. That's the challenge that's fallen to this generation. That's the challenge that this country is going to meet. And with the help of these gentlemen behind me, and I hope strong bipartisan support, I have no doubt that we will meet these challenges.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"296" "\"Hello, everybody. Please have a seat, have a seat. It is good to be back, Miami. This is quite a view, Alonzo. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>To the entire Mourning family, Tracy and Alonzo, Trey, Myka, Alijah, thank you so much for your hospitality and this spectacular setting. We are grateful to you.<p>To Representative Chris Van Hollen, who is here, the chairman of the DCCC, everybody give him a big round of applause. Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz is here. Representative Ron Klein is here. And we're going to get him back in Congress. Representative Kathy Castor--is Kathy here? Give her a round of applause anyway, even if she's not here. And I know Representative Ted Deutch is here, and his beautiful family.<p>In addition, I want to say that Dwyane Wade, Chris Bosh, I wish you the best of luck when you're not playing the Bulls. [<i>Laughter</i>] I just want to be clear about that. I like you. [<i>Laughter</i>] But when you're playing the Bulls, I'm rooting against you. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I am stunned that Alonzo let a Laker in here. [<i>Laughter</i>] But he said that Magic transcends party lines--and so we're glad to have Magic in the house.<p>Now, I want to just say a little bit about Ron, because so much of the reason we're here is to make sure that he continues to do the outstanding work that he's doing on behalf of south Florida. They have lived here for 25 years. This is where they raised their family. This is where Ron helped run a small business. That's who he's been fighting for since he got to Washington--families and small-business owners--because he's part of them, he understands them. He's fought to bring skyrocketing costs of homeowner's insurance down. He's fighting to protect and strengthen Medicare and Social Security. He was one of the leaders in helping to make sure that we impose sanctions on Iran, to provide more security for us, but also to provide more security for our ally, Israel.<p>He knows the people of south Florida, has been listening to them, has been working with them, is fighting for them. And he's an example of the kinds of unbelievable public servants that we've got all across the country, who have been doing heroic work under the most difficult circumstances.<p>So I just want to spend a little bit of time talking about what those circumstances are and why this election is so important. When people think about elections, they tend to think back to 2008, and they remember the Inauguration Day, and Beyonce was singing, and everybody was looking nice, or they think about election day, and everybody with the signs, and--\\"Yes We Can.\\" They don't remember when we were walking around in the snow in Iowa, knocking on doors and nobody knew who we were. And it was tough.<p>And what I said to people at that time was that the reason I was running for President was because I felt that the country had gone off-track, that it wasn't working on behalf of the ordinary families where so many of us started--families in Lansing or families in Chicago or families in south Florida--families that didn't have a lot, but they had a lot of love, they had a work ethic, they wanted to make sure their kids got ahead. And they figured if they lived up to their responsibilities, then they would be able to get a good job that pays a living wage. They could buy a house. They could send their kids to school so they could aspire to things they never hoped for themselves.<p>They believed that they shouldn't get bankrupt if they get sick. They should be able to retire with some dignity and some respect. They believed in the American Dream. It didn't matter what color you were, what race you were, what religion you were, there was a notion that we could all make it if we did the right thing by ourselves, our families, our communities. And people had lost that belief, and that's why I decided to run.<p>But I also said that the problems we were experiencing had been going on for a decade. The years between 2001 and 2009 had seen the slowest job growth since World War II. The years between 2001 and 2009, middle class families, on average, lost 5 percent of their wages. Their incomes actually went down during those years. And so what I said was the election will not be the end of the journey; that will be the beginning, because then we're going to have to work hard to try to make sure that we rebuild this economy on a solid foundation.<p>Now, what we didn't know when I started running, and what we discovered only in the few months before I won was that we were about to enter into the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. We lost 4 million jobs in the 6 months before I took office; lost almost 800,000 jobs the month I was sworn in, 600,000 the month after that, 600,000 the month after that. Businesses couldn't get credit. The banking system locked up. And people were talking seriously that we were about to go into a second Great Depression.<p>And so my first job coming into office was to make sure that we stabilized the economy. And we have done that. An economy that was shrinking by 6 percent is now growing. An economy that was shredding jobs, we've had 9 months straight of private sector job growth. Businesses can now get loans again. Corporations are now profitable again. We have the opportunity to move the country forward.<p>But we are still digging ourselves out of a enormous hole. When you lose 8 million jobs, even if you've created 800,000 this year, and even if we save 3 million, we've still got a deep hole to climb out of. And so, understandably, people are frustrated and they are angry. And what the other side is trying to do is to ride that anger and that frustration all the way to the ballot box.<p>They're not counting on the need to offer good ideas. They're just counting on people being angry and figuring that is sufficient for them to get elected. And when I came in, and Ron and Chris and Debbie and others who work in Washington, when we came in, our hope was that in the midst of crisis we could bring everybody together to work on the challenges that confronted us, because we may be proud Democrats, but we're prouder Americans. And our attitude was we are happy to work across the aisle to solve problems.<p>That was not the attitude that we confronted. Basically, they said no to everything. If I said that the ocean was blue, they'd say no. If I said there were fish in the sea, they'd say no. Their attitude was, if Obama fails, then we win.<p>Now, I couldn't play that game because my responsibility was to make sure that even when the decisions were tough, we took the decisions that were required to get us on the right track. And we have now done that. But moving forward, I can only succeed if I've got help. Now, I know this is a little too obvious, but I've got to use the basketball metaphor for you. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>There's a reason why Dwyane is really excited to have Chris Bosh and LeBron James, because he remembers the last time he won the championship, he had a guy named Shaq running around. Now Shaq is going to try to stop you this time. But he remembers what it was like to have teammates. As great as Magic was, he couldn't do it without Worthy and Jabbar and all those tremendous stars from \\"Showtime.\\"<p>Well, the same is true in politics. I'm pretty good--[<i>laughter</i>]--I'm a pretty good point guard, but I can't do it on my own. If I don't have Ron there, if I don't have a Debbie there, doing the hard work each and every day to move this country's agenda forward, we are not going to succeed.<p>I mean, there are folks right now in Washington, some of the pundits who actually say, you know, Obama might be better off with what happened with Clinton; you lose the House, you lose the Senate, or you lose some seats, and then you can pivot because the Republicans finally have to take responsibility. That may be short-term political thinking in the minds of pundits; that's not how I think because I'm thinking about how do I move the country forward.<p>I've got to make sure that we have an energy policy where we're investing in clean energy here in the United States of America, so that we're building wind turbines and solar panels and electric cars right here in the United States. So I've got to have partners to do that with. I can't do it alone.<p>I've got to make sure that we've got the best education system in the world right here in the United States of America. And that requires continuing to make investments in our young people. And I can't do that by myself. If we're going to help small businesses succeed, then we've got to make sure that we are providing them the loans and the tax cuts that are going to help them, because those startups, that's what creates the vibrancy and the dynamism that helps this economy grow. I can't do that by myself.<p>On every important issue out there, I am going to need help. And the Members of Congress who are here today, they've shown the courage of their convictions. They're willing to take tough votes because they're the right thing to do.<p>If we're going to protect Medicare and Social Security at the same time as we're reducing our deficit, then we're going to have some very difficult budget choices. And we've got to make sure that the folks who are there have the kind of values that say, we're going to make sure that our seniors are always protected, and we're not going to go back to the days where the poverty rate was higher for people in their golden years. That's not acceptable. So we're going to need some help.<p>Now, I hope that we can get help from the other side. But I'm not optimistic right now. I've seen what they call the \\"Pledge to America.\\" And it would have been one thing if after the disaster of their economic policies, they had gone off and gone to a think tank or gone into the desert to meditate and come back and said, you know what, we really screwed up; we've got a whole new set of answers here. But that's not what happened.<p>They have said they will do the exact same thing. The centerpiece of their economic agenda, their big plan for jobs is to borrow $700 billion that we don't have, to give an average $100,000 tax cut to millionaires and billionaires. Ninety-eight percent of the country would not get these tax breaks, and as a consequence, they wouldn't spend them. So it would do nothing to boost the economy in any significant way. And we'd be borrowing the money to do it.<p>And you know how they've proposed paying for it? They haven't--with the exception of a few suggestions like cutting education spending by 20 percent. Think about that. And think about the folks back in your old neighborhood, Magic, all those kids who are working hard, thinking, maybe I can go to go college if I can get a scholarship, if I can get a Pell grant. And we're going to cut support for them at a time when we know that the single most important thing to determine whether we are winners or losers in the global economy is how well our workforce is educated?<p>Imagine that. You think China is cutting back on their education investments? You think South Korea or Germany are saying let's invest less in our young people right now? Of course not. They're not playing for second. And the United States does not play for second either. We play for first place. That's what we're about, and that's what this election is about.<p>I should point out, by the way, that a whole lot of people in this room would get a tax cut under that plan. But the question is--and that includes me, by the way--is that really what's most important to us right now? Or is it more important that we get this country back on track so that it's there for future generations? Are we going to reach back and make sure that somebody else is getting a helping hand?<p>So as I've traveled the country I've been using this analogy: Essentially, the other side drove the car into the ditch. And me and Ron and the rest of the outstanding Democrats here, we all climbed down into that ditch. It was muddy down there and hot. We had to put on boots. There were bugs. But we started pushing, pushing that car out of the ditch. Every once in a while, we'd look up and the Republicans would be standing there fanning themselves, sipping on Slurpees, looking all comfortable. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>We'd say, \\"Why don't you come down and help?\\" \\"No, that's all right, but you all aren't pushing fast enough. You're not pushing the right way.\\"<p>And even though we did not get any help, we kept on pushing, until finally we got that car up on level ground. Now, it's a little banged up, needs some bodywork, needs a tuneup, but we are pointing in the right direction and we are ready to move forward again. And suddenly, we get this tap on our shoulders. We look back, and it's the Republicans. And they're saying, we want the keys back. You can't have the keys back. You don't know how to drive. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, if you want to ride, you can ride in the backseat. But we're not going to give you--[<i>laughter</i>]--give you the wheel. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>That's what this election is about. It is a fundamental choice about the direction of our future. We cannot do it alone. And in the same way that I need a team, Ron needs a team, members of the Democratic delegation here need a team. You are that team. And I need you guys to be as excited as you were in 2008.<p>You know, this is just the first quarter. And we've put up a lot of points, under very adverse circumstances. But we've got three more quarters to play. And if suddenly everybody is acting like, \\"well, that's it, I'm tired,\\" we'll lose. And when I say \\"we,\\" I mean the country will lose. One of the marks of a champion is not just talent, it's not just skill, it's heart. It's perseverance. Are you willing to stick with something until it's finished.<p>The project of bringing about change so that this country is more just and more prosperous and we are growing faster and we can compete in the global stage and our young people are prepared for the 21st century, that project is not done. And it is hard. But we need heart. We need character. And I believe that's what we've got. I believe in this team. I hope you believe in it too. If you do, then I promise you that not only are we going to win this election, we are going to restore the American Dream for every American.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"297" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. Well, it is wonderful to be here. I want to thank a few people at the outset. First of all, I want to thank the Mourning family, who are opening up this beautiful home and arranged this fantastic weather. We're so grateful to them. Yes, you can give them a big round of applause.<p>Chris Van Hollen, this is the only guy who puts in more miles than me. [<i>Laughter</i>] He has been working so hard as the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. He is a great Congressman in his own right, a great leader inside the House, but he's also just been doing a bang-up job in what is one of the more difficult posts in politics.<p>Debbie Wasserman Schultz is here. Where's Debbie? She was here. She was here. Well, we love her, so give her a round of applause. Ron Klain----<p><i>Audience member.</i> Klein.<p><i>The President.</i> No, I've got a--Biden's chief of staff is Ron Klain, and I just talked to him on the phone so I slipped up.<p>Ron Klein is here, and one of the main reasons that we're here--but--if he's not here, I know--is he? Where is he? He's inside. All right, we love him. Kathy Castor is here. Ted Deutch is here and his family.<p>Anybody that I miss? You all are here, and we love you. <p>Now, the main reason we're here is for Ron, who has done such an unbelievable job in Congress, but more importantly, in the community. They've made south Florida their home for the last 25 years. This is where they raised their family, where Ron helped run a small business. That's exactly who Ron has been fighting for since he came to Washington: the families and small-business owners that he grew up with, all of you. Those are the folks he cares about.<p>He fought to bring down the skyrocketing cost of homeowner's insurance. He's fighting to protect and strengthen Medicare and Social Security. He helped write tough new sanctions to crack down on Iran as they try to develop nuclear weapons, something I know that everybody here cares deeply about and my administration has made one of our top priorities. He has made the security of our ally, Israel, a constant theme in his work. He knows the people of south Florida because he's spent so much time listening to your concerns, and he's one of you.<p>And so this election, I think, is representative of what's happening all across the country. We've got wonderful candidates like Ron who are working so hard and have, over the last 20 months, done more to get this country back on track than any Congress in my lifetime--any Congress at least since 1965.<p>You know, 2 years ago, a lot of you worked your hearts out for Ron's campaign and for my campaign. And we knew at that point that the country was on the wrong track. What we didn't realize was how bad it was going to be by the time we took office. We have gone through the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. We have made sure that as a consequence of a bunch of tough actions that we took we didn't slip into the second Great Depression.<p>As Chris was just saying, we now have an economy that is stabilized. An economy that was shrinking by 6 percent when I came into office is now growing. We have seen 9 consecutive months of private sector job growth. Businesses are profitable again and investing again. And all of that is because Members of Congress like Ron and Chris and Ted and Kathy were willing to take tough votes, even in the face of enormous criticism, because they knew it was the right thing to do.<p>And so at a certain point, the reason you send folks to represent you in Washington is not just to put their fingers up to the wind; it's not just to figure out what's going to help keep them in office. You send them there to do what's right and to make sure that they are thinking about you and your families each and every day.<p>And that's what Ron has done, and that's what Chris has done, and that's what I intend to do as long as I have the great honor of being your President. That is our number-one priority.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Thank you.<p><i>The President.</i> Now, of course, things aren't where we want them to be. We've got a lot more work to do. The question in this election is not whether or not things are where we want them to be, the question is who is going to help us get to where we want to be. And on that choice, the answer is absolutely clear.<p>Look at what the Republicans have been offering out here. I mean, they have now been out of power for 2 years, and they had a chance over the last 2 years to try to work with us to figure out how we could move the country forward. And instead, their basic philosophy was, we are just going to say no to everything. We're going to say no to help to small businesses. We're going to say no to putting people back to work. We're going to say no to helping young people get student loans. We're going to say no to making sure that folks aren't thrown off their health care when they get sick or because they have a preexisting condition. They said no each and every time.<p>And now they come before you and they say, we want to lead again. And yet the ideas they're offering are the exact same ideas that got us into this mess in the first place. It's not as if they've gone off and meditated and decided, you know what, we really screwed up; here's a whole bunch of new ideas. [<i>Laughter</i>] They don't have new ideas.<p>The same philosophy that got us into this mess, that you basically give tax cuts mostly to millionaires and billionaires and you cut regulations in the banking industry and in the health care industry and in the oil industry, that you basically leave everybody else to fend for themselves, that philosophy is the same philosophy that produced the most sluggish job growth since World War II, that saw the wages of middle class families decline by 5 percent when they were in power, that resulted in the worst crisis that we've seen in the financial markets that has an impact far beyond Wall Street, and that took a record surplus left by Bill Clinton and got us into record deficits that I inherited when I walked into the White House.<p>Now, that same philosophy is what they're peddling right now. They put a new name on it. What did they'd call it? \\"Pledge to America.\\" And when you actually take the time to read it, it turns out that they are peddling the same snake oil they were before. They put some different names on it, but it's the same concepts.<p>Their big idea for putting people back to work, their main economic proposal is to provide $700 billion in tax cuts to the top 2 percent of the income bracket. The other 98 percent of American people won't get a dime of it. And it's not money that we've got. We'd have to borrow that $700 billion from China or the Saudis. And they don't pay for it, but the proposals that they've talked about to start paying for it include cutting education by 20 percent.<p>Think about that. Here we are trying to compete with China and South Korea and Germany, countries that are investing and as a consequence have created a higher proportion of college graduates than we have, and we're going to cut education? We're going to create a situation where 8 million young people across the country are getting fewer student loans, less help because we want to give tax cuts to folks who don't need them, weren't even asking for them, and won't spend them, so they won't have any impact in terms of boosting demand in our economy. That does not make sense. But that's an example of the lack of ideas that we're seeing from the other side.<p>Now, Ron, myself, others, we've got a different idea of how we need to move this country forward. We envision a situation in which instead of giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas, we give tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in the United States of America.<p>We have a vision where we're rebuilding our infrastructure--I talked about this--so that we're not just rebuilding our roads and our bridges and our rail systems, but we're laying broadband lines, and we're making sure that we have the best Internet service in the world.<p>We want to invest in our young people to make sure that we have the highest proportion of college graduates of any country. We used to be number one; we're now number nine. I want us to get back to number one by the year 2012.<p>I want to invest in clean energy so that solar panels and wind panels--wind turbines and the electric cars and advanced batteries of the future, that those are made not in Asia, not in Europe, but they're made right here in the United States of America with American workers. And by the way, that means we're also saving our environment in the bargain.<p>And yes, I want to get our budget under control, but I don't want to do it on the backs of folks who need it most. I want to make sure that we do it in a responsible way.<p>And again, when you look at the hypocrisy of the other side--we set up a bipartisan fiscal commission that originated as a bipartisan idea, Democrats and Republicans. And when I decided this was a good idea and I endorsed it, and I said, let's vote for it, you know what happened? The Republicans voted against it.<p>So there's a fundamental lack of seriousness in terms of how they want to move this country forward. And these are serious times. And we've got to have people in Congress who are not thinking about the next election but are thinking about the next generation.<p>The analogy I've been using as I've traveled across the country--the other folks, they drove this economy into a ditch. And we decided, even though we hadn't driven it in the ditch, it was our responsibility to get us out of the ditch. So Ron and myself and Chris and Debbie and others, we all went down into the ditch. We put on our boots. It's muddy down there. It's hot. We're sweating. [<i>Laughter</i>] We're pushing and pulling to get that car out of the ditch. And every once in a while we'd look up, and the Republicans would be standing there, waving at us. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And we'd say, \\"Why don't you come on down and help?\\" And they'd say: \\"No, thanks, but you're not pushing hard enough. You're not pushing the right way.\\"<p>But despite the lack of help, we kept on pushing, until finally we've got that car on level ground. Finally it's just sitting there ready to go forward. It's a little banged up. It's got to go to the body shop. It needs a tuneup. But we're pointing in the right direction. And we get a tap on our shoulders, and we look, and lo and behold, it's the Republicans. And they want the keys back. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>We've got to tell them, in this election, you can't have the keys back. You don't know how to drive. You don't know how to drive. You can get in the car, but you got to ride in the backseat. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Audience member.</i> In the trunk!<p><i>The President.</i> In the trunk. [<i>Laughter</i>] No, we wouldn't do that. We got room in the back. But we don't want their hands on the wheel. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And that's why all of you are so important. Look, when I won, when Ron won, we didn't win because of us. We won because of you. We won because you guys believed in something. You decided that you didn't have to have big money, you didn't have to be connected to special interests, you didn't have to be well connected in order to win. You just had to believe in the American Dream and want to align our Government on the side of people who wake up every day, work hard, and just want that piece of that dream for themselves and their family; want to make sure they can have a job that pays a living wage; make sure that they're not bankrupt when they get sick; make sure they can send their kids to college and aspire to things that they didn't dream of; retire with dignity and respect.<p>That's the essence of what Ron's campaign was about, the essence of what my campaign was about. That's why you worked so hard. We're not finished. That day that we got elected on election night and then the Inauguration, that was a lot of fun, but that wasn't the end of the journey. That was just the beginning of the journey. We've got a long ways to go. And we can't get there without you.<p>So I'm grateful for you all being here today, but I'm going to be even more grateful if over the next 3 weeks, you're out there talking to your friends, you're talking to your neighbors, you're talking to your coworkers, you're talking to family members, and you remind them that as frustrating as things are right now, we have come so far in the last 20 months. And if you remind them, we've got so much more to do, if you do that, I'm convinced Ron is going to win. I'm convinced that the American people are going to win.<p>God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"298" "\"<i>Rescue Efforts at the San Jose Mine in Copiapo, Chile</i><p>Good afternoon, everybody. Before we get to what we're here to talk about, which is education, I just want to say a quick word about what so far appears to be a successful rescue of the trapped Chilean miners.<p>This is obviously something that's captivated the world's attention, and this rescue is a tribute not only to the determination of the rescue workers and the Chilean Government, but also the unity and resolve of the Chilean people, who have inspired the world. And I want to express the hopes of the American people that the miners who are still trapped underground will be returned home safely as soon as possible.<p>Let me also commend so many people of good will--not only in Chile, but also from the United States and around the world--who are lending a hand in this rescue effort, from the NASA team that helped design the escape vehicle to American companies that manufactured and delivered parts of the rescue drill to the American engineer who flew in from Afghanistan to operate the drill.<p>Last night, the whole world watched the scene at \\"Camp Esperanza\\" as the first miner was lifted out from under more than 2,000 feet of rock and then embraced by his young son and family. And the tears they shed, after so much time apart, expressed not only their own relief, not only their own joy, but the joy of people everywhere. So it was a thrilling moment, and we're hopeful that those celebrations duplicate themselves throughout the rest of today.<p>Behind me I've got the Mohan family: Edward, Kathleen, and Sarah. Raise your hands--there we go. [<i>Laughter</i>] I've got the O'Mealia family: Mary Ellen with her sons Sean and Tom and her daughters Kelly and Leigh Anne. And we've got the Maynard family: Philip and Joanne with son Gregory and daughters Katherine and Elizabeth.<p>We just had a wonderful visit. And the reason we're here today, all of us, is that one of the most important things that's going to determine our long-term success is education. Over the past 21 months, as we've climbed our way out of this recession, I've often said that if we want Americans--and America itself--to succeed in the 21st century, we need to offer all of our young people the best education the world has to offer.<p>At a time when the un employment rate for folks who've never gone to college is almost double what it is for those who have gone to college, when most of the new jobs being created will require some higher education, when countries that outeducate us today will outcompete us tomorrow, offering our children a world-class education isn't just a moral obligation, it's an economic imperative.<p>And that's why, from the start of my administration, we've been doing everything we can to make that kind of education possible, from the cradle to the classroom, from college through a career. We're reforming Head Start and challenging weak programs to compete for funds, because if you're receiving tax dollars, you should be delivering results for our kids. We're launching a Race to the Top in our States, which is raising standards and promoting excellence in teaching so our students, all of them, can graduate ready for college and a career.<p>We're upgrading our undervalued community colleges so we can link students looking for work with businesses that are looking to hire. We're eliminating tens of billions of dollars in wasteful subsidies for banks to profit as middlemen administering student loans, and we're using that money to make college more affordable for millions of additional students.<p>And we're offering middle class families what's called an American Opportunity Tax Credit, a college tuition tax credit worth up to $2,500 a year. I am calling on Congress to make this tax credit permanent so it's worth up to $10,000 for 4 years of college, because we've got to make sure that in good times or bad, our families can invest in their children's future and in the future of our country.<p>Today the Treasury Department is putting out a report showing what a difference these college tuition tax credits are making. Over our first year in office, we've increased tax cuts for higher education by over 90 percent. We're helping the dream of a college degree--putting that dream within reach of more than 12 million students from working families.<p>And so I'm pleased that the families standing behind me could join me here today. Mary Ellen O'Mealia is a single mom who's been working hard to put each of her four kids, Sean, Kelly, Leigh Anne, and Tom, through college. And it hasn't been easy, but it's been a little easier thanks to what we've done. Like Mary Ellen, Joanne and Philip Maynard are able to put their son Gregory and their daughters Katherine and Elizabeth through UMass Amherst in part because of this American Opportunity Tax Credit. And this tax credit is making possible Kathleen and Edward Mohan to give their daughter Sarah the education she needs to pursue her dream of becoming a nurse.<p>So all these families have benefited directly from this tax credit, and they represent families all across the country from every State. What we need to do is to make it possible for all America's working families to do what the O'Mealias, the Maynards, and the Mohans have been able to do, and that's to send their kids to college.<p>Now, if the Republicans in Congress had their way that would be more difficult. They've proposed cutting back on education by 20 percent. That means reducing financial aid for 8 million students and leaving our community colleges without the resources they need to prepare our students for the jobs of the future.<p>Nothing would be more shortsighted. There's an educational arms race taking place around the world right now, from China to Germany to India to South Korea. Cutting back on education would amount to unilateral disarmament. We can't afford to do that. The nation that educates its children the best will be the nation that leads the global economy in the 21st century.<p>Now, ultimately, this is not just about making our economy more competitive. It's not just about preparing our kids for the jobs of the future, though all those things are absolutely essential. It's also about who we are as a people. It's about building a brighter future where every child in this country has a chance to rise above any barriers of race or faith or station and they can fulfill their God-given potential, where the American Dream is a living reality. By opening the doors of college to anyone who wants to go, that's a future we can help build together.<p>These three families represent those core values, represent those beliefs. The parents who are standing here have worked extraordinarily hard to make sure that their children have opportunities. And we need to reward that sense of responsibility, that sense of commitment to the next generation, by making sure they're not having to do it alone.<p>So thank you all for being here. Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"299" "\"After a decade of hardship for middle class families and a recession that wiped away millions of jobs, we are in the middle of a tough fight to rebuild this economy and put folks back to work.<p>Winning this fight will not depend on government alone. It will depend on the innovation of American entrepreneurs, on the drive of American small-business owners, on the skills and talents of American workers. These are the people who will help us grow our economy and create jobs.<p>But government still has an important responsibility, and that's to create an environment in which someone can raise capital to start a new company, where a business can get a loan to expand, where ingenuity is prized and folks are rewarded for their hard work.<p>That's why I fought so hard to pass a jobs bill to cut taxes and make more loans available for entrepreneurs. It eliminated the capital gains taxes for key investments in small businesses. It increased the deduction to defray the costs of starting a company. And it's freeing up credit for folks who need it. In fact, in just the first 2 weeks since I signed the bill, thousands of business owners have been able to get new loans through the SBA.<p>But we need to do more, so I've proposed additional steps to grow the economy and spur hiring by businesses across America. Now, one of the keys to job creation is to encourage companies to invest more in the United States. But for years, our Tax Code has actually given billions of dollars in tax breaks that encourage companies to create jobs and profits in other countries.<p>I want to close these tax loopholes. Instead, I want to give every business in America a tax break so they can write off the cost of all new equipment they buy next year. That's going to make it easier for folks to expand and hire new people. I also want to make the research and experimentation tax credit permanent. Because promoting new ideas and technologies is how we'll create jobs and retain our edge as the world's engine of discovery and innovation. And I want to provide a tax cut for clean energy manufacturing right here in America, because that's how we'll lead the world in this growing industry.<p>These are commonsense ideas. When more things are made in America, more families make it in America, more jobs are created in America, more businesses thrive in America. But Republicans in Washington have consistently fought to keep these corporate loopholes open. Over the last 4 years alone, Republicans in the House voted 11 times to continue rewarding corporations that create jobs and profits overseas, a policy that costs taxpayers billions of dollars every year.<p>That doesn't make a lot sense. It doesn't make sense for American workers, American businesses, or America's economy. A lot of companies that do business internationally make an important contribution to our economy here at home. That's a good thing. But there is no reason why our Tax Code should actively reward them for creating jobs overseas. Instead, we should be using our tax dollars to reward companies that create jobs and businesses within our borders.<p>We should give tax breaks to American small businesses and manufacturers. We should reward the people who are helping us lead in the industries of the future, like clean energy. That's how we'll ensure that American innovation and ingenuity are what drive the next century. That's how we'll put our people back to work and lead the global economy. And that's what I'll be fighting for in the coming months.<p>Thanks.\" "
"300" "\"Thank you very much. Well, first of all, to Ralph and Wing, thank you for opening up this extraordinary home, and we will not show up unannounced--[<i>laughter</i>]--whatever John may say. You guys have been extraordinarily gracious, and we really appreciate it.<p>To all of you who are here, thank you for being such stalwart supporters not just to the Democratic Party, but supporters of an idea about how America should be organized to make sure that everybody has an opportunity. There are core values that all of you stand for, and that's the reason that you're here today. <p>Now, I want to, obviously, speak about the two gentlemen who are here with me, two of the finest Senators I think the country has ever seen, one who's been there for a while, one who hasn't been there too long, but both John Kerry and Sheldon Whitehouse exemplify what we expect from our public servants: people who are smart and well informed and dedicated.<p>A counterpart in the House of Representatives, Ed Markey, is here, and he does extraordinary work. Marty Meehan is here, and we wish you would stay in the House, but I know that the University of Massachusetts is glad that they have him, and I know he's doing a great job of chancellor. And thank you very much for your service. And Setti, the best of luck to you in being mayor in this wonderful community.<p>Now, I think John gave you a pretty good sense of what's going on out there. So what I want to do is just share a little bit of perspective from the Oval Office in terms of what I've seen over the last 2 years.<p>The reason this is a difficult time politically is because the country has gone through a very difficult time generally. This is the worst crisis we've seen since the Great Depression, since most of our lifetimes.<p>I mean, if you think about--I am--I'll be 50 next year, so I came of age, entered into college just as Ronald Reagan came to power during the last recession that was anything approaching what we've gone through. We had then another recession at the beginning of the nineties, another recession at the beginning of 2000, 2001. If you combine those previous three recessions, the magnitude and impact they've had is less than what we've had just in this one recession. I mean, that gives you some scope, some scale. We had lost 4 million jobs in the 6 months prior to me taking office, and then another 750,000 the month that I was sworn in, and 600,000 several months subsequent to that.<p>So all told, we've lost 8 million jobs during the course of this recession. But that doesn't begin to measure, I think, the full impact of what people have experienced: the fear of suddenly seeing their 401(k)s plummet by 40 percent; the uncertainty of having your home values drop so that suddenly your mortgage is higher than the value of your home; the people who didn't lose their jobs but now are uncertain as to whether those jobs will still be there.<p>And this is all on top of what had been essentially what the Wall Street Journal, not just Democrats, called the lost decade, a decade in which, from 2001 to 2009, the average middle class family actually lost 5 percent of their income. And we had the most sluggish job growth since we had since World War II. In fact, the job growth we've had over the last year was at a faster clip than we had between 2001 and 2009.<p>So families were already struggling before the crisis hit. And obviously, once the crisis hit, it unsettled the entire country and the entire world in ways that we had not seen for a very, very long time.<p>Now, I say that to, first of all, remind us of how far we've come over the last 20 months. An economy that was contracting is now growing. We've had nine consecutive months of private sector job growth. The financial sector is stable.<p>And so in some ways what is remarkable is how, despite this body blow that the country took, the country once again has proven more resilient and more adaptable and more dynamic than I think a lot of folks give us credit for. But it's also to remind you that we've got so much more work to do. People out there are still hurting very badly, and they are still scared.<p>And so part of the reason that our politics seems so tough right now, and facts and science and argument does not seem to be winning the day all the time, is because we're hard-wired not to always think clearly when we're scared. And the country is scared, and they have good reason to be.<p>Our job, then, is to make sure that even as we make progress, that we are also giving people a sense of hope and a vision for the future; a sense that we will get through these tough times, and the country will come out stronger for it, having gone through this trauma.<p>And that's why this election is so absolutely critical, because essentially you can respond in a couple of ways to a trauma like this. I mean, one is to pull back, retrench, respond to your fears by pushing away challenges, looking backwards. And another is to say we can meet these challenges and we are going to move forward. And that's what this election is about.<p>Now, I am confident that if we move forward, that the worst is behind us. And we've got a lot of running room looking forward. It is true that we are in the toughest economic fight of our lives internationally. But you remember back in the eighties, everybody said Japan was going to be taking over? I mean, we periodically go through these moments where we question America's ability to compete. And what happens is we whip ourselves into shape, we stiffen our spines, we become more productive, we reemphasize science and technology and education; we say to ourselves we can no longer do the things that are not productive, we're going to just focus on those things that help us grow for the future, and we adapt. And we're going to do so this time.<p>There is no reason why we won't rank, once again, number one in the proportion of college graduates. There's no reason why we're not going to be the leader in clean energy technology. When we came in, we were getting 2 percent of the world's advanced battery manufacturing. And through the Recovery Act and the help of these guys, we're now on track to have 40 percent of that market by 2015. Just over the course of 2 years, we have built an entire industry.<p>Well, we can duplicate that in every leading industry, whether it's solar panels or wind turbines. I have confidence that the health care reform bill that we passed, as painful as it was, is going to result in a system that is more efficient, more fair; where not only do we have 30 million people now suddenly having health insurance, but we're going to start working with hospitals and doctors to figure out how are we going to eliminate unnecessary tests and how are we going to make sure that we're reducing infection rates in hospitals and how are we going to be more effectively deploying providers so that people are getting better services for lower costs.<p>On every front, there are clear answers out there that can make this country stronger. But we're going to have to get--break through the fear and the frustration that people are feeling right now. And that's going to require all of you not just to write checks, but also to help remind people that we've been through tougher times before and we've gotten through them, and to lift up people's spirits and make sure that they're not reacting just to fear.<p>Now, it also requires me to have a Congress that I can work with. And John is absolutely right when he says that the Republicans made a very calculated decision. And it was--look, I give them credit. It was a smart tactical decision. When I was sworn in with a lot of high spirits, they had two ways to go. They could have cooperated with us, in which case everybody would have ownership in solving problems, but if we were successful, then people would still--would probably give the Democrats' majority more credit. And if we weren't successful, they'd share the blame. So what they instead said was, we'll just let them try it out, and we're not going to lift a finger to help, and--because they figured, we had made such a mess, it's going to take them a really long time to clean it up.<p>But I served in the Senate, and it is true that the kind of obstructionism that we've seen is unprecedented, by every measure. I mean, we can't get Deputy Treasury Secretaries appointed at a time of crisis when we need Deputy Treasury Secretaries. We can't get district court judges called up for a vote, even when they're voted out of the committee unanimously on a bipartisan basis, we cannot overcome--we can't just call those judges up for a vote, a clean vote. We end up having to go through a cloture motion, and they will filibuster, make us wait for days, weeks, figuring out how to schedule it. And then when we finally actually get a vote, it turns out it will be 90 to nothing. They were just doing that just to play games, just to stall. Then that's on the House side--or on the Senate side. I mean, on the House side, we've got similar problems.<p>So I don't anticipate that getting better next year. I anticipate that getting worse. And that is why it is going to be absolutely critical that we do everything we can in the next 3 weeks to make sure that we have a Senate that cares about moving the country's business and is thinking about the next generation and not just the next election; that is operating on the basis of some conviction and not cynicism.<p>These two guys exemplify that, but they're going to need some help because every bit of progress that we need to make is going to be a matter of grinding it out. You know, and I'll just take one example. I mentioned earlier energy. Nobody has been working harder to move an energy policy, an energy agenda, forward than John Kerry; one that is necessary. It's one that's necessary not just for our economy, but it's also necessary for our environment.<p>Now, that is a piece of unfinished business that is going to require a lot of heavy lifting. And John will tell you that we may be able to get 4, 5, 6 Republicans, but it's going to be hard to get 20 Republicans. Our ability to actually map out an energy strategy that is good for our future is going to depend on how much help John Kerry has in that process. And probably nothing is going to have--make as big of a difference, in terms of our long-term economic competitiveness, as us getting this right.<p>The same is true, by the way, on foreign policy. You know, over the last 20 months, we've successfully removed 100,000 of our troops out of Iraq, as I promised and committed to doing. We're going to have a series of tough decisions to make on Afghanistan. We're going to have a series of tough decisions to make on how to sustain momentum in dealing with Iran. We've got a START Treaty that is coming up that would not only reduce nuclear weapons for both the United States and Russia but underpins an entire effort that we've made over the last 20 months to strengthen the nonproliferation treaty so that we can go after Iran and North Korea from a place of moral stature.<p>And that depends on us having some votes--67 to be precise--in the Senate. Again, we may be able to get 5, 6, 7 Republicans on some of these; we can't get 20.<p>So there's almost nothing this room cares about--from how well the financial regulatory reform bill is implemented, to how health care is implemented, to whether we have an energy policy, to whether the investments we've made in higher education continue, to our ability to manage these incredible international challenges--not one of these issues will we be able to make serious progress on if we do not have a strong Democratic Senate.<p>And that's why I need all of you, regardless of what cable news says, regardless of what you're reading in the papers, I need all of you to be hopeful and act with confidence that the American people, as shaken up as they've been, still want us to move forward.<p>And if we can get that message out, facilitated in part by the extraordinary contributions that you've made today and that you've been making for years, if we get that message out, then I think we are going to hold onto the Senate. I think we can win the House. And I think we will continue to make progress.<p>And we will look back on this difficult time, 5 years from now, 10 years from now, 15 years from now, 20 years from now, with extraordinary pride. We'll look back the same way that people look back who helped start Social Security; the same way that people felt when they looked back because they had helped lead the civil rights movement. We'll be able to look back in the same way those who were involved in the space program looked back and said, you know what, we did something that wasn't just out of short-term expedience, we did something that committed this country to greatness over the long term.<p>And you know, I guess I would just leave you with this thought. A lot of people ask me, they say, boy, how do you manage this? You know, you just--all this stuff on your desk and people hollering at you all the time and--[<i>laughter</i>]--and that's just the Democrats. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I'll tell you what keeps me going--two things.<p>Number one, I get enough stories, enough letters from people all across the country, talking about how tough it is for them, that I am reminded of what a great privilege it is for me to try to help, and that nothing I'm going through remotely compares to the courage and tenacity and hardship that the American people are going through.<p>And the other thing that gets me through is the humor and the resilience and the love people have for their children and the love people have for this country. When you hear the American people, they are so extraordinarily decent and there's a goodness at the heart of this country. That makes me confident that we will get through these times and we are going to get to where we need to go.<p>So thanks to all of you for helping us get to where we need to go. God bless you. Thank you.\" "
"301" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat. Have a seat. I've got a lot of thank yous. First of all, to Carole and David Carr, thank you so much for your extraordinary hospitality. Please give them a big round of applause. To John and Carolyn Climaco, who are also cohosts, thank you so much for this great event.<p>We're mainly here for this guy, but there are a couple other folks I want to make mention of. Yvette McGee Brown is going to be an outstanding Lieutenant Governor.<p>Current Lieutenant Governor, soon to be United States Senator, Lee Fisher is in the house. A champion of working people each and every day, Senator Sherrod Brown is here. He's around here somewhere. There he is, back there. He's grabbing some of the big shrimp back there. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>We've got an outstanding congressional delegation, and I want every single one of them back with me: Marcia Fudge, Betty Sutton, John Boccieri, Tim Ryan.<p>I love this Ohio delegation. They have the courage of their convictions. I mean, they have--they get beat up. It's tough being a Member of Congress these days. Ted remembers. <p><i>Gov. Strickland.</i> Right.<p><i>The President.</i> And yet day in, day out, they consistently think what's best for the country, not what's best for my reelection--until 2 weeks before the reelection. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So right now I want to make sure everybody else is thinking about putting them back where they belong, in Congress.<p>I want to say a little something about Michelle. It is not true that more importantly I'm President of the United States. More importantly, I am Michelle Obama's husband and Malia and Sasha's father. And Michelle has put up with me through thick and thin, and I am grateful for her each and every day.<p>And it's fun having her along on this road trip. [<i>Laughter</i>] Usually, I'm all by myself, listening to my iPod. We had a wonderful conversation on the way here, and she was telling me what I should do. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's true. [<i>Applause</i>] It's true. You think I'm joking; I'm not. [<i>Laughter</i>] I have witnesses.<p>It is great to be back in Ohio, and it is great to be back in the Cleveland area. And it's a great honor to be helping somebody who I truly believe is one of the best Governors in this country, Ted Strickland. I truly believe that. They believe it too. [<i>Applause</i>] They believe it too. They believe it too.<p>Now, we all understand Ted took office during an enormously difficult time for Ohio. It was difficult even before this terrible financial crisis struck. Ohio had been hit harder than most States by the loss of manufacturing, jobs moving overseas. And then when the recession hit in 2007, 2008, times got even tougher. But from the day that he took office, Ted hasn't wasted a minute in fighting to make sure that he turned this economy around. Under Ted's watch, Ohio has invested in high-growth industries and new infrastructure. You've provided job training and new skills to more than 150,000 workers. There are over 65,000 more students in college today in Ohio because of the steps that Ted has taken. <p>He's cut redtape. He's kept taxes low so that businesses locate here in Ohio. And he's a fighter. He hasn't just been concerned about the next election, he's been thinking about the next generation. And his work is not yet done.<p>So I implore you to do everything you can over these final 2 weeks to make sure that we've got Ted Strickland in for another 4 years. It is absolutely critical. [<i>Applause</i>] It is absolutely critical.<p>When you have somebody of high character, who hasn't forgotten where he comes from and understands the essence of the American Dream, you make sure that guy gets back into office. And that requires work, because there is a lot of money being spent on the other side to try to defeat Ted. And there are a lot of special interests who would be more than happy to replace him. And the way we make up for that is by effort, by knocking on doors and making phone calls and talking to friends and talking to neighbors.<p>And I know everybody here has contributed to Ted's campaign. Go out and rustle up some more, because he's going to need some help in these last 2 weeks.<p>Now, I want to just speak a little bit about the broader political context, because obviously, this is a tough time for Democrats here in Ohio, but it's a tough time all across the country. We have gone through the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. And so when times are that difficult, elections are going to be difficult, and understandably so.<p>You know, the 6 months before I took office, we lost 4 million jobs across the country--a lot of those were in Ohio--4 million jobs in the 6 months prior to me talking office. We then lost 750,000 jobs the month I was sworn in, 600,000 jobs the month after that, 600,000 jobs the month after that.<p>But it wasn't just the immediate crisis that has been weighing on people. It's the fact that for the previous decade, the middle class had been losing ground. That's not something I'm making up. The statistics are there, and they're clear. From 2001 to 2009, the average middle class family lost 5 percent of their income--lost 5 percent. We had the most sluggish job growth since World War II between 2001 and 2009. Slower, by the way, than it's been over the course of this last year. At the same time, costs of everything were skyrocketing: costs of health care, costs of sending your child to college.<p>And so the bills were piling up for a lot of families at a time when salaries and wages weren't going up. And a lot of families just barely stayed afloat by working the extra job, maxing out on their credit cards, taking out home equity loans. And when this crisis hit, all those efforts to barely stay above water became that much more difficult.<p>So my first job when I got into office, my very first job and the task of all the Members of Congress here, was to stop the bleeding and to prevent this economy from plunging into a second Great Depression. And we did it. And it wasn't always popular, the decisions that we made. Those decisions weren't always popular. There were a whole bunch of folks in Washington who said let the car companies go under, regardless of the impact it would have on States like Ohio. There were a lot of folks who said we don't need to worry about unemployment insurance for folks who had been laid off and were now experiencing long-term unemployment. There were a whole lot of arguments about doing nothing. And we said that's not an option, we can't play politics here.<p>And so we stood up. All these Members of Congress here stood up. Ted Strickland stood up. And we gave it everything we had. And as a consequence, an economy that was contracting is now growing again. An economy that was shedding millions of jobs, we've seen 9 consecutive months of private sector job growth--9 consecutive months.<p>But we've still got a lot of work to do. And part of what's so challenging is when I was first sworn in, the hope was that we'd have partners on the other side of the aisle that, despite some philosophical disagreements, would recognize the critical challenges we were facing and would decide, at least for a while, to put politics aside. That was our hope. Because although we are proud Democrats, we are prouder to be American, and we understood that everybody had to join together--[<i>applause</i>]--that everybody had to join together to make a difference.<p>Unfortunately, the Republican leaders in Washington and some of the Republican leaders in Ohio, they made a different decision. They were focused on the election. And they said to themselves, you know what, we screwed up so bad, the economy is in such a mess, that it's probably going to take a while to fully recover. And so rather than roll up our sleeves and help, we're going to be better off standing on the sidelines and letting the Democrats deal with these problems. Because people are going to be angry, and people are going to be frustrated. People are going to be disheartened. And if things aren't working, then it's Democrats who will end up suffering the political consequences.<p>That was the decision they made. That's not the decision Ted Strickland made. That's not the decision I made. Because there are some things that are more important than politics. And you didn't send me to Washington, you didn't send Ted to the statehouse, to do what was easy. You sent us to do what was right. And that's what we've tried to do over these last several months: do what was right.<p>Now--so make no mistake, the stakes at this point could not be higher. The stakes could not be higher. The chair of the Republican campaign committee said a while back--he was asked, what exactly would you propose to do if you ended up retaking power in Washington? He said, well, we're going to pursue the exact same agenda as before Obama came into power.<p>And they've got the same answer here in Ohio. And we know what that philosophy is. You give tax cuts mostly to millionaires and billionaires, folks who don't need it and weren't even asking for it. You cut regulations for special interests so that the financial system is unregulated, so that those who are polluting are unregulated, so that credit card companies are unregulated or mortgage brokers are unregulated. That's the essence of their agenda. And then you cut the middle class loose. You let them fend for themselves.<p>You call it the ownership society, but basically, what it means is you are on your own. If you don't have health care, tough luck, you're on your own. If you can't find a job, tough luck, you're on your own. If you're a child who showed the poor judgment of not choosing the right parents--[<i>laughter</i>]--so you're born in a poor neighborhood, tough luck, pull up--pull yourself up by your own bootstraps. You're on your own.<p>That's the philosophy that they have been peddling for decades. And it's not as if we haven't tried it. This is not an abstract argument that I'm having with the Republicans--because we did. We tried it for 8 years. And it resulted in the worst economic crisis in our history.<p>And what they're counting on right now is that all of you have forgotten. They are counting on amnesia. That is the essence of their campaign strategy. They're counting on you having forgotten.<p>If they take over Congress, the other side has promised to roll back health care, so that insurance companies can go back to denying coverage for folks who have gotten sick. They've already said they are going to cut back education funding by 20 percent to help pay for tax cuts that would only impact the top 2 percent of the country. We want to give tax cuts to middle class folks, the 98 percent. They're holding those tax cuts hostage for the top 2 percent. And to help pay for them, they want to cut education funding by 20 percent.<p>They're going to be making the same choices here in Ohio if Ted Strickland doesn't get elected because we are going to be in tough fiscal times. We're going to have to make tough decisions. And we're going to have to decide what is most important. And when you hear the national Republicans say the single most important economic agenda item that they have is providing $700 billion worth of tax cuts, an average of $100,000 to millionaires and billionaires at the same time as we're cutting student loans for kids to go to college or help for community colleges that can help bridge people who need to upgrade their skills to find that new job for the future, that is what this election is about. That's the choice in this election.<p>Here's how I've been putting it as I travel around the country. The Republicans drove the car into the ditch. And it was a pretty deep ditch. And so me and Ted and these Members of Congress, we put on our boots, and we went down into the ditch, doing the responsible thing. Let's get the car out of the ditch. And it was hot down there, muddy, bugs. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But we kept on pushing because we knew that that next generation of Americans is going to depend on us getting this car out of the ditch. So we push, and we push. Every once in a while we'd look up, and the Republicans would be standing there, fanning themselves, sipping on a Slurpee. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And every once--and we'd say, \\"Why don't you come down and help?\\" They'd say, \\"No, that's all right, but you're not pushing hard enough.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"You're not pushing the right way.\\"<p>That's okay. We decide we're going to push. We push, we push. Finally, we get this car up on level ground. Finally, we have this car pointing in the right direction. It's a little beat up, needs to go to the body shop, needs a tuneup. But we're moving in the right direction.<p>Suddenly, we get this tap on the shoulder. Who is it? It's the Republicans. They say, \\"Excuse me, we'd like the keys back.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Well, you can't have the keys back. You don't know how to drive! [<i>Applause</i>] You don't know how to drive! You can't have them back. [<i>Applause</i>] You can't have them back. You can't do it. <p>You can ride with us if you want. [<i>Laughter</i>] But you all have to be in the backseat. [<i>Laughter</i>] You've noticed when you want to go forward, what do you do with your car? You put it in \\"D.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] You want to go backwards you put it in \\"R.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] We want to go forward, Ohio. We don't want to go backwards. We've tried that. [<i>Applause</i>] We've tried that.<p>Look, Ted and I have a different idea. Maybe it has to do with our backgrounds, because neither of us were born into fame or wealth or power. We came from working people, folks who worked hard to get into the middle class. We remember the trajectory of our own families. Michelle remembers the trajectory of her family. And so we we've got a different idea about how this country should be working.<p>We don't think that government can solve all our problems. We think government has to be lean and efficient. That's why Ted has consistently made tough decisions to streamline Ohio government, to make sure that it works. But in the words of the first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, who'd have a great deal of trouble getting a nomination in the Republican Party right now. [<i>Laughter</i>] You know that's true. [<i>Laughter</i>] He said that government should leave to the people--let them do what they can do best for themselves. But government should also be there to do things that the people can't do so well for themselves.<p>There are some things we've got to do together: build an infrastructure, investing in clean energy, making sure our kids get the education that they need. The notion that I am my brother's keeper and I am my sister's keeper and that we are going to rise or fall together, that you are not on your own, that's what we believe.<p>We believe in an America that rewards hard work and responsibility, but also one where we look after one another. We believe in an America that prizes innovation and ingenuity. And that's why Ted has made such a push on clean energy. That's why we're seeing advanced battery manufacturing and solar panels and wind turbines. We don't want those jobs going to Europe or Asia.<p>We want the new electric car. We want the solar panel. We want that built right here in the United States of America with American workers. And I know that's what our Members of Congress want as well. That's the choice in this election.<p>For that same reason, we do not accept the notion of cutting education spending. You think China is cutting education spending right now or South Korea or Germany? Those countries aren't playing for second place. They are playing for first. And the United States of America doesn't play for second place either. We've got to invest in our young people.<p>That's why with the help of these Members of Congress, we completely transformed our student loan program so we've got tens of billions of dollars more going to millions of students all across the country so that they can afford their education. That's why we passed an American opportunity tax credit that provides up to $10,000 for young people to go to college.<p>And you combined that with the efforts Ted's made at the State level. That's why Ohio has been able to move forward on the education front. And we can't start moving backwards. That's the choice that we're making in this election. That's what this election is all about.<p>We see an America where the middle class is growing and opportunity is shared. And the only limit to your success is how hard you're willing to try. And we believe in an America that makes sure that it treats our seniors with the dignity and the respect that they deserve, which is why when I hear some folks in the other party still talking about privatization of Social Security, we say, not on my watch, because we're not going to allow a generation's savings to go get wasted on Wall Street.<p>We want to make sure that insurance companies are giving you a fair deal, that if you've been paying your premiums, that they're not dropping you suddenly when you get sick, and that you can still get health insurance even if your child has a preexisting condition. And if you're a young person graduated from college, that you can stay on your parent's policy until you can finally get a job that offers health insurance.<p>We want to make sure that credit card companies are treating you fairly and not jacking up your rates unnecessarily. We want to make sure that mortgage brokers aren't steering you into predatory loans. We do this not because we think that government has all the answers, but rather that the free market works best when it's got some basic rules of the road and consumers are protected and you're getting a fair deal.<p>We're promoting fair dealing all across America, and businesses are competing based on the best product and the best service and the best price. There's nothing antibusiness about that. That's the essence of how America got built.<p>We want to build our infrastructure. We used to have the best infrastructure in the world. And now suddenly, you've got countries in Asia that boast better trains and better airports. What happened? What happened to our sense of imagination, our sense of destiny?<p>That's what Ted and I and these Members of Congress, that's what we're fighting for. That's the choice in this election, not a small, cramped vision of what America should be, where each of us just worry about ourselves, but a big, large vision, a generous vision about what America can be. That's what's at stake in this election.<p>But look, I can give the most magnificent speeches, and Michelle can go travel around the country and campaign, and we can have the greatest candidates and an outstanding Governor with a great track record. None of this means anything if you don't believe, if you don't commit.<p>I know it's a long time since election night 2 years ago and Inauguration Day, and Beyonce singing and Bono. [<i>Laughter</i>] And everybody was having a fine old time. And because things have been so tough, because there are families out there still hanging on a thread, because you know family members who maybe are still looking for a job, because the news has been so tough, and frankly, because you have been inundated with millions of dollars of negative advertising day in, day out, I know that there are times where probably it's hard to recapture that sense of possibility.<p>It's hard sometimes to say, \\"Yes, we can.\\" You start thinking, well, maybe, I don't know. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's not as inspiring a slogan.<p>But I said during the campaign, this has never been easy. This has never been easy. The idea of America has never been easy. The notion of 13 Colonies coming together and overthrowing the greatest empire in the world and then drafting a document that says we find these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, endowed with certain inalienable rights, that's hard.<p>And then having to overcome the stain of slavery and figuring out how we are going to get everybody included, and how are we going give women the right to vote, and how are we going to make sure that workers aren't taken advantage of? And how are we going to grow this economy so that it works for everybody? And then after two world wars and veterans coming back, how do we make sure they get an education so that they can live out this idea of America, that you can make it if you try?<p>Every step of the way has been hard. And if our parents and our grandparents and our great-grandparents, if they hadn't had that stick-to-it-ness, if they had just gotten disheartened because some folks got grumpy and said some mean things about them and got cynical and told them you couldn't do it, we would not be here.<p>And now it's our turn. So yes, it's hard. That's okay. It's supposed to be hard because nothing worthwhile is easy. Ted Strickland understands that. These Members of Congress understand that. I want all of you to understand that. I want you to knock on some doors, make some phone calls, call in some chips, get organized, get mobilized. Because if you do, we're going to reelect Ted Strickland as Governor of Ohio. We're going to get all these Members of Congress back into Congress. I'm going to keep on working for you. I'm going to keep on fighting for you. We are going to grow this middle class, grow this economy, and make sure the American Dream is there for the next generation.<p>God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"302" "\"Good evening, everybody. Thank you so much. It is wonderful to see all of you. Rajeev and Seema and your wonderful children, thank you for your extraordinary hospitality and bringing your mom, who I love. It's wonderful to see her. And, Seema, your parents, it's wonderful to meet them as well.<p>I want to, before I begin, just say that, Maryland, you are graced with two of the finest Senators in the United States Senate in Barbara Mikulski and Ben Cardin. We are so proud of them. Everything that I've been able to accomplish over the last couple of years has been because I had just great partners. And these are two of the best partners, and they were also wonderful colleagues when I was in the United States Senate. And so I am just truly blessed to have them with me.<p>Rajeev's introduction was so eloquent, I almost don't want to add to it. But I think that he touched on the essence of what this upcoming election is about and what this historical moment is about.<p>Most of us here came from someplace else, or our parents came from someplace else, or our grandparents, our great-grandparents came from someplace else. And they were inspired by a particular idea, this idea of America. As wonderful as the land is here in the United States, as much as we have been blessed by the bounty of this magnificent continent that stretches from the Atlantic to the Pacific, what makes this place special is not something physical. It has to do with this idea that was started by Thirteen Colonies that decided to throw off the yoke of an empire and said, \\"We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that each of us are endowed with certain inalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.\\"<p>And that idea, over the course of 200-plus years, evolved into an understanding--not just here in America, but around the world--that in the United States, if you were willing to make the effort, if you're willing to apply the energy that your parents applied when they came here, if you were willing to make sacrifices for the future and not just think about short-term gain, that somehow it would be possible for you to achieve dreams that someplace else you might never imagine possible.<p>And that American Dream is what inspired me and, I suspect, inspired Barbara and Ben, to get into public service, because what we understood was that although the essence of the American Dream is that each individual can succeed, what underwrites that dream is also the understanding that we're all in this together and that it's incumbent upon us to make sure that we're creating the climate, the environment, the opportunity for everybody to succeed, not just some people to succeed. There's no caste system in the United States of America. Anybody who is willing to make the effort can succeed.<p>And part of why this is such an important historical moment is, frankly, over the last decade, that idea that ended up creating this emerging middle class that became the engine of our economic growth and the envy of the world has been pretty hard hit. Obviously, it's been hard hit by this recession, but I want to go before the recession. The period from 2001 to 2009, every middle class family lost about 5 percent of its income. During that same period, job growth was more sluggish than it had been at any time since World War II. There was a sense on the part of, I think, a lot of ordinary Americans that no matter how hard they tried, it was becoming more and more difficult to make it.<p>And the things that helped to make America the envy of the world--our infrastructure, our education system, our health care systems--all those things had become--had begun to break down in pretty substantial ways, so that whereas we used to rank number one in the proportion of college graduates, by 2009, 2010, we ranked 9th or 10th. Our students now rank--15-year-olds typically rank 21st in science and 25th in math in the world, where we used to be number one.<p>Our health care system was broken, wildly expensive, leaving 30 million without health insurance and burdening families, businesses, and the Federal Treasury, as well as State treasuries.<p>Our infrastructure, which used to be the best in the world, suddenly we have bridges that are falling apart, airports that are outdated and making a very unpleasant experience for those of you who still have to travel through commercial flights. I've got to admit I've got my own plane now, so it's a little easier for me. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And so when I ran for President 2 years ago, we already knew that we had to change direction, that we had to deal with some of these fundamental challenges that we've been putting off for years: education, energy, health care, infrastructure. We had to make sure that we were creating an environment in which people could, in fact, succeed, and they were rewarded for their hard work and their responsibility, not for reckless risk-taking, not for short-term thinking.<p>This was all before the crisis hit, the worst financial crisis that we've experienced since the Great Depression. So my first job, Barbara's first job, Ben's first job when we got back in--when I was sworn in, in January of 2009, we had lost 4 million jobs in the 6 months that preceded me being sworn in, 750,000 the month that I was sworn in, 600,000 the month after that, 600,000 the month after that. My first job was to stop the crisis.<p>And we did that. And sometimes that took some unpopular decisions. But I wasn't elected to do what was easy, I was elected to do what was right. And so since that time, over the course of 20 months, whereas we were--the economy was shrinking when I took office, the economy is now growing again. Where we were losing jobs, we've now seen 9 consecutive months of public sector job growth--of private sector job growth.<p>So not only did we deal with the crisis, but we also started finally making progress on all those things that we've been putting off. So Rajeev talked about clean energy and the efforts of his company. One of our first tasks in the Recovery Act was figuring out how do we not only boost demand and make sure that we're dealing with this crisis, but also how do we invest in some long-term thinking. And so we made the largest clean energy investment in our history.<p>Then we said if we really want to jump-start education, what do we need to do? And we started something called Race to the Top that is now investing in competition in States all across the country, making sure that they're focused on proven mechanisms to boost math learning and science learning and make sure that we've got the best possible teachers in the classroom.<p>And then we said, well, how do we make sure that every young person can go to college once they get through that high school? And we shifted billions of dollars that were going to banks in the form of unwarranted subsidies, and we took that money and we made sure that that money was going directly to student loans and Pell grants so that young people would never feel as if they were barred from opportunity simply because they didn't come from a wealthy family.<p>And yes, then we took on health care because we understood that if we didn't start taking it on now we would continue to see a system in which we were subsidizing a system that wasn't working for too many Americans and too many businesses. And because of those efforts we now can say to the American people that if you don't have health insurance, you're going to be able to get health insurance that's affordable. And if you do have health insurance, then insurance companies are going to have to treat you fairly. And in the process, we're going to start making the system overall more efficient so that suddenly doctors and hospitals are thinking in more innovative ways about how we can improve system deliveries, and we suddenly are investing in health information technology, so instead of having multiple tests, you can take one test and have it e-mailed to every doctor and specialist that you're dealing with, and that over time we're going to bring down the cost of health care for everybody.<p>All these efforts we made because we had folks like Ben and Barbara there who were willing to think not about the next election, but about the next generation. And that's a hard thing for politicians to do because we live in an environment in which politics has become meaner and coarser than it used to be; where millions of dollars of negative ads are thrown at candidates; where, frankly, what used to be a spirit of occasional bipartisanship in order to get things done has now given way to constant partisanship, so that over the last 2 years, we've had Republicans not supporting us even on issues that they used to sponsor simply because these were issues that we supported.<p>So it's not easy for elected officials to think long term. And yet because of the challenges we face, because or the emergency situation we were in, that's what we saw a whole bunch of legislators do. And I couldn't be prouder of what we accomplished together over the last 2 years.<p>What we also know, though, is our work is unfinished. We were just talking about clean energy. The fact of the matter is, we still don't have an overarching energy policy that makes sense for the future--for the 21st century. So we've got to make more investments in innovation, in research and development in clean energy, because I want the solar panels and the wind turbines and the biodiesel and other clean energy approaches that are available. I want those investments made right here in the United States of America. And in order for us to do that, I've got to have a Congress that again is willing to think long term.<p>We've still got a lot more work to do with respect to education reform. And when I see my Republican colleagues suggesting that we might cut education spending by 20 percent, at a time when I know that China and South Korea and Germany are not cutting education by 20 percent. They understand this is going to be the single most important determinant of how well we're able to compete in the 21st century. And I know that I've got to have some partners in Congress who understand what's at stake.<p>We've got to rebuild our infrastructure. We just got started with the Recovery Act. Even though I know that there's a lot of road work being done all across the country and here in Maryland as well, we still have $2 trillion worth of infrastructure that's crumbling, unattended to, that we're going to have to rebuild. And what an opportunity--at a time when interest rates are low, when contractors are coming in under budget, people are desperate for work, construction workers have been laid off because the housing bubble burst--for us to put those folks back to work doing the work that America needs done.<p>We've still got to get control of our deficit in a serious way. And that's going to require more than just platitudes, it's going to require tough choices. And the question is going to be, do we have people in place who are making those choices not based on what's politically expedient or what special interests are lobbying for, but rather what's good for America over the long term?<p>So we've got a lot of work to do. I try to explain to folks who, in a town like Washington where everybody is watching the polls day to day and everybody is obsessed with sort of short-term thinking, I try to explain, we're just in the first quarter. We've got a big chunk of the game left to play. And I need to have teammates who are thinking about that story that Rajeev told, that essential part of America that we have to make sure is there for the next generation, for these young people, an America in which everybody has opportunity.<p>And that's what this election is about. That's the choice in this election. Now, this is a difficult political environment right now. Unemployment is still 9.6 percent. And that means it doesn't matter how good of a job you've done, people want to know what are you going to do now. <p>And the way I've been describing it around the country, it's as if the Republicans drove the economy into the ditch. And Barbara and Ben and me, we've gone into the ditch, and we've been pushing the car out. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we finally got the car out, and the Republicans suddenly tap us on the shoulder and say, \\"Well, we want the keys back,\\" after not having lifted a finger to help us get the car out of the ditch. And we have to explain to them, \\"Well, you know, you can't have the keys back because you don't know how to drive.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] You can drive with us. You can--we'll have to put you in the backseat. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But it's still a challenging environment. And so the support that you're providing is going to make a difference in us making the case for why we've got to keep moving forward, why we can't go backwards, why we can't go back to the economic policies that resulted in this mess in the first place.<p>And I am absolutely confident that if all of you are talking to your friends and talking to your neighbors and talking to your coworkers, if we have the resources to be able to get our message out--not just here in Maryland, but all across the country--that the American people, they still want to dream big. They still believe in that story that Rajeev told because they know that it was true for their family as well. It's been true for generations of Americans.<p>I'll close just by telling a quick story about the highlight not just of my day but probably of my week, maybe of my month.<p>We hosted a science fair today at the White House. This is the first time that we'd ever hosted a science fair at the White House. And the reason we did it was because I kept on having over these championship basketball teams and football teams. We had the Alabama Crimson Tide. We had the New Orleans Saints. We had the Los Angeles Lakers. And it's a lot of fun having these great sports teams come by. And I said, but how about all these kids who are involved in science and math and engineering? Why aren't we celebrating them?<p>So we hosted this science fair. And they actually set up exhibits in the State Dining Room. And this was just a sampling of some of the young people that we'd invited. And you walk through, and at each booth, you met the most amazing young people you would ever care to meet.<p>There was a team from Tennessee that had designed a self-powered water filtration plant. It had a water wheel on it, and it ran the battery that then filtered the water. And they explained that up in the Appalachian regions, a lot of homes still didn't have clean water and this was a cheap way to do it. For a thousand bucks, you could provide all the water that 60 or 70 families needed. Just designed it--high school kids.<p>You had robots that were running around doing all kinds of things. [<i>Laughter</i>] And there was a family--young children who had emigrated from Turkey that were now in public schools here, and they had designed a whole town that would be more energy efficient and had created a whole model for how it could be done.<p>And then there was this--the last person I spoke to was a young woman, looked like she was of Chinese heritage, lived in Dallas, 16 years old. When she was a freshman in high school, she studied biology and became interested in life sciences and became interested in cancer research. So she decided during the summer to teach herself chemistry--[<i>laughter</i>]--taught herself chemistry and designed as a science project exploration of the development of a new cancer drug, based on some experimental cancer drugs that are currently being put together that involve injecting the drug and then it's activated by light. And it allows a more localized treatment that isolates the cancer cells--kills the cancer cells, but leaves the healthy cells untouched.<p>And the problem is clinical trials and treatments have shown that it's okay for skin cancer and other diseases where they're close to the surface, but it's harder to penetrate. Bottom line is she decided she was going to design a new drug that would work better for harder-to-reach cancers, having taught herself chemistry--[<i>laughter</i>]--at 16 years old.<p>She went on to win the international science competition. And now she and her teacher, her high school science teacher, are being approached by laboratories all across the country who want to collaborate with them in thinking about this new potential breakthrough cancer drug.<p>So I'm talking to her, pretending like I understand everything that she's saying. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I'm thinking to myself, think about what this means. You've got the portrait of Lincoln in the State Dining Room looking down over us. You've got an African American President named Barack Obama. You've got a young Chinese American girl, 16 years old, who is designing cancer drugs, having taught herself chemistry in high school. That idea of America is alive and well. But we have to nurture it, and we have to sustain it.<p>And for all the meanness of our political season and the yelling and nonsense that we see day in and day out on television, that is something that is worth remembering, because I think sometimes during difficult times, some of us may get discouraged or lose heart.<p>I don't want you to be discouraged. Just think about those young people, think about the young people who are here. Think about Rajeev and his family and Seema and her family, and think about Barbara and Ben and their families, when they emigrated. That story continues. We just have to build on it. We have to have confidence in it.<p>And we have to remember that as long as we're unified as opposed to divided, as long as we think towards the future and not just toward the present, that America will prosper and that the 21st century will be the American century, just as the 20th was.<p>Thank you so much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"303" "\"Thank you, everybody. Everybody, please have a seat. I am having so much fun. [<i>Laughter</i>] It is great to see all of you here for our first White House science fair. I have been looking forward to doing this for a long time. One of the great joys of being President is getting to meet young people like all of you and some of the folks in the other room, who I just had a chance to see some of their exhibits and the work that they were doing. It's inspiring, and I never miss a chance to see cool robots when I get a chance. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>We are joined by several Nobel laureates, including our Energy Secretary, Dr. Steven Chu. These are obviously the older folks who have helped to expand the frontiers of human knowledge. But we're also joined by a few people who inspire young people to pursue that knowledge. One of them is the one and only Science Guy, Bill Nye, who's in the house. I'm also pleased to welcome Jamie Hyneman and Adam Savage, known as the MythBusters. I can announce today that I taped a special guest appearance for their show, although I didn't get to blow anything up. [<i>Laughter</i>] I was a little frustrated with that.<p>I also want to welcome and congratulate Subra Suresh, who was sworn in this morning as the Director of the National Science Foundation, and who's here with his family. Please stand up. We are very grateful to have Subra taking this new task. He has been at MIT and has been leading one of the top engineering programs in the country, and for him now to be able to apply that to the National Science Foundation is just going to be outstanding. So we're very grateful for your service.<p>But the main reason I'm here is, I just want to recognize all the incredibly talented young men and women who've traveled here from every corner of this country to demonstrate their experiments and their inventions. And I just had a chance to meet with some of them, and it's hard to describe just how impressive these young people are. Their work--from cancer therapies to solar-powered cars, water purification systems, robotic wheelchairs--all of it is a testament to the potential that awaits when we inspire young people to take part in the scientific enterprise: tackling tough problems; testing new hypotheses; to try, and then to fail, and then to try again until they succeed.<p>And it's hard to single out any of the folks that I saw--who I met with, because everybody was so impressive. But just to give you one example, the last young lady that I talked to, between her freshman and sophomore years in high school, taught herself chemistry, and then decided that she wanted to see if she could create a new drug to deal with cancer cells using light activation and won the international science competition and is now being contacted by laboratories across the country to see if this might actually have applications in terms of curing cancer.<p>Now, if that doesn't inspire you--[<i>laughter</i>]--if that doesn't make you feel good about America and the possibilities of our young people when they apply themselves to science and math, I don't know what will.<p>And so that's just one example. Now, another example, in Tennessee, there was a team that decided--up in Appalachia, sometimes it's hard to get purified water. And so they constructed an entire system, self-contained system, powered by--with a water wheel that would purify water and could potentially be used for an entire community, so a very practical application of the knowledge that they had gained in the classroom.<p>You just saw example after example of that, and it's incredibly impressive. The importance of tapping this potential is why we're here. It's why I wanted to host this fair, which culminates this weekend in a science and engineering festival on the National Mall and across the country, where more than a million people are expected to participate.<p>So we welcome championship sports teams to the White House to celebrate their victories. I've had the Lakers here. I've had the Saints here, the Crimson Tide. I thought we ought to do the same thing for the winners of science fairs and robotic contests and math competitions, because often we don't give these victories the attention that they deserve. And when you win first place at a science fair, nobody is rushing the field or dumping Gatorade over your head. [<i>Laughter</i>] But in many ways, our future depends on what happens in those contests, what happens when a young person is engaged in conducting an experiment or writing a piece of software or solving a hard math problem or designing a new gadget.<p>It's in these pursuits that talents are discovered and passions are lit and the future scientists, engineers, inventors, entrepreneurs are born. That's what's going to help ensure that we succeed in the next century, that we're leading the world in developing the technologies, businesses, and industries of the future.<p>And this is the reason my administration has put such a focus on math and science education. Because despite the importance of inspiring and educating our children in these fields, in recent years, the fact is we've been outpaced by a lot of our competitors. One assessment shows that American 15-year-olds ranked 21st in science and 25th in math when compared to their peers around the world. Now, obviously, the young people who are here all boosted our averages considerably. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But the point is, is that there are tens of millions of talented young people out there who haven't been similarly inspired, and we've got to figure out how do we make sure that everybody who's got that same talent and inclination, how do we give them the tools that they need so that they can succeed, so that they're entering international science competitions, so that they're up to snuff when it comes to math.<p>It is unacceptable to me, and I know it's unacceptable to you, for us to be ranked, on average, as 21st or 25th, not with so much at stake. We don't play for second place here in America. We certainly don't play for 25th. So I've set this goal: We will move from the middle to the top in math and science education over the next decade. We are on our way to meeting this goal.<p>We're doing it in a couple of ways. Under the leadership of my Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan, we've launched an initiative called Race to the Top. And through Race to the Top, States are actively competing to produce innovative math and science programs, to raise standards, to turn around struggling schools, and to recruit and retain more outstanding teachers.<p>And when budget cuts across America threatened the jobs of countless teachers, we fought some tough opposition to save the jobs of hundreds of thousands of educators and school workers, because nothing is more important than the investment we're making in education. These are the folks in the classroom right now who are there because we refuse to accept a lesser education for our children, even when the economic times are tough.<p>But what I've said for a long time is, is that success is not going to be achieved just by government. It depends on teachers and parents and students and the broader community supporting excellence. And that's why last year, I challenged scientists and business leaders to think of creative ways that we can engage young people in math and science.<p>And it was interesting, when I was talking to some folks--how did you get interested in this? How did you first enter a robotics contest? And a lot of times it turned out that a young person had been inspired because they had seen some older kid involved in a robotics contest. Or there had been a teacher who had connected up with some international contest, and it gave them a focal point for their energy and their attention and their interest.<p>This is a challenge that will determine our leadership in the 21st-century global economy. So we need all hands on deck. Everybody has got to be involved. And I'm pleased that there are a lot of people out there who are answering the call. Companies, not-for-profits, they're coming together to replicate successful existing science programs.<p>We've got new public-private partnerships that are working to offer additional training to more than 100,000 current teachers and to prepare more than 10,000 new teachers in the next 5 years. Businesses are working with nonprofits to launch robotics competitions and other ways for kids to make things and learn things with their hands. And more than 100 leaders from some of the Nation's top companies have launched a new organization called Change the Equation to help us move to the top in math and science education.<p>As of this moment, more than $700 million has been committed by the private sector to this historic effort. And today I want to announce two new public-private initiatives.<p>The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, also known as DARPA--and I think those of you who are interested in science and technology know what an extraordinary role DARPA has played in all sorts of innovations that we now take for granted--DARPA is launching a campaign to inspire young people in science and engineering, to help create what DARPA Director Regina Dugan has called a \\"renaissance of wonder.\\"<p>So, for example, teams of students in a thousand schools will be able to use advanced 3-D printers to manufacture unmanned vehicles and mobile robots for competitions. In addition, leading CEOs are going to be part of a new online campaign to show young people the array of jobs that their companies offer scientists and engineers. And they ought to know. This is an interesting statistic, particularly at a time when young people are thinking about their careers: The most common educational background of CEOs in the S&P 500 companies--all right, the Nation's most successful, most powerful corporations--the most common study of CEOs is not business, it's not finance, it's not economics, it's actually engineering. It's engineering. So I want all the young people out there to think about that. Nothing can prepare you better for success than the education you're receiving in math and science.<p>And this is a difficult time for our country, and it would be easy to grow cynical and wonder if America's best days are behind us, especially at a time of economic hardship and when so many people, from Wall Street to Washington, seem to have failed to take responsibility for moving this country forward for so long. But when you have a chance to talk to these young people that I had a chance to meet with, these incredibly bright and creative young men and women, it can't help but leave you optimistic about our future.<p>They remind us that this country was not built on greed; it wasn't built on reckless risks; it wasn't build on short-term thinking; it wasn't built on shortsighted policies. It was forged of stronger stuff, by bold men and women who dared to invent something new or improve something old, who took chances, who crafted and built and who tested our assumptions, and who believed that in America, all things are possible.<p>We can think of Einstein, Edison, Franklin, Tesla, and the founders of Google and Apple and Microsoft. But now we've got some other people to think about, like Mikayla Nelson, who's here today. Where's Mikayla? Is she here? There she is, right there. Mikayla--I had a chance to--Mikayla is from Billings, Montana. She works with an entire team. I'm sorry to embarrass you here, Mikayla. [<i>Laughter</i>] She's like, \\"Oh, God, he called on me.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>She's representing Will James Middle School. She and her classmates built a solar-powered car that won the design award in the National Science Bowl. She's in ninth grade. She's already trying to earn a pilot's license, and she's working on building an actual plane. She wants to be an engineer. There's no doubt we can expect great things from her.<p>We can think of Diego Vazquez and Antonio Hernandez, representing Cesar Chavez High School in Phoenix. Where are those guys? I met them earlier. There they are, right there. They developed a new motorized chair to help a classmate with disabilities and won a grant competition as a result. They did not have a lot of money to do this. They didn't have a lot of advantages in life. In fact, the first time they were ever on an airplane was when they flew to present their invention. But they did have a desire to work together to help a friend and to build something that never existed before.<p>And by the way, the way they funded their project--they had--they and their folks made tamales. They had a huge tamale-making session and were selling them. And they were showing me the video of how they raised the funds to be able to enter in this competition. Unbelievable.<p>That's not just the power of science. That's the promise of America. Anybody with a good idea can prosper. Anybody with talent can succeed. That's why we're here today. That's what we're all celebrating. And that's why it's so important that we promote math education and science education, on behalf of not just this generation, but all the generations to follow.<p>So to all the young people who are here, I could not be prouder of you. I expect some of you to be back here as Nobel Prize winners and whatnot. In the meantime, just keep on doing what you're doing.<p>And to the parents and the teachers who have helped to inspire these young people, thank you. What you're doing is paying huge dividends not just for the young people themselves, but for the country. We're very proud of you.<p>Thank you, everybody.\" "
"304" "\"Excellent. Everybody, please be seated. Welcome to the White House, everybody. Thank you, Javier, for that outstanding introduction. I will not play you chess. [<i>Laughter</i>] You may not have won at the nationals, but you'd beat me. [<i>Laughter</i>] And then Malia and Sasha would laugh about it. [<i>Laughter</i>] We are very proud of you, and we're glad you are here.<p>Thank you also to the University of Texas-Pan American Mariachis that performed for us. And hello to everybody across the country participating in watch parties and in education reform efforts in your own communities. It's precisely that kind of participation--engaging the American people, giving all of you more say in the policies that affect your lives, and holding ourselves accountable to deliver real results in return--that is at the heart of a new Executive order I'm about to sign to strengthen the White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for Hispanics.<p>Now, before I sign this document, I'd like to acknowledge a few people who have been and will continue to be instrumental to our success: our Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education, Thelma Melendez de Santa Ana; our Assistant Secretary for Post-Secondary Education, Eduardo Ochoa; and our Assistant Deputy Secretary, Rosalinda Barrera.<p>I also want to thank Eduardo Padron, the president of Miami Dade Community College, who has been a leader in my administration's efforts to strengthen America's community colleges. And because that's not enough, in addition to running a community college, he's also agreed to serve as the Chair of this initiative's Presidential advisory commission. So we are grateful to you. This will be a group of 30 Latino leaders who are going to make sure that, when it comes to our children's education, my administration hears the voices of the Latino community loud and clear.<p>And I also want to give a special recognition to our recently confirmed Ambassador to the Dominican Republic, Raul Yzaguirre. It was Raul's vision and tenacious commitment to equal education for all our people that helped this initiative become a reality back in 1990 under George H.W. Bush. And so we are very proud that he is here today to see that his work continues.<p>The question then back in 1990 is the same question we face now: How do we best improve educational opportunities and outcomes for our Hispanic students? Over the past year and a half, under Juan Sepulveda's leadership--and Juan, thank you for your outstanding work--over the last year and a half, this initiative has worked to gather the answers from those who know best, people in communities across this country. Juan hosted more than a hundred conversations. He's taken comments from more than 10,000 Americans. And he's worked with leaders from more than 30 States, as well as the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, to come up with real solutions that work best for our kids.<p>We know why this is so important. Today, Latinos make up the largest minority group in America's schools--more than one in five students overall--and they face challenges of monumental proportions. Latino students are more likely to attend our lowest performing schools, more likely to learn in larger class sizes, more likely to drop out at higher rates. Fewer than half take part in early childhood education. Only about half graduate on time from high school. And those who do make it to college often find themselves underprepared for its rigors. In just a single generation, America has fallen from first to ninth in college completion rates for all our students.<p>Now, this is not just a Latino problem, this is an American problem. We've got to solve it because if we allow these trends to continue, it won't just be one community that falls behind, we will all fall behind together. At a time when the unemployment rate for Americans who've never gone to college is almost double what it is for those who have gone to college, when most of the new jobs that are being created require some higher education, when other countries are outeducating us today to outcompete us tomorrow, making sure that we offer all our kids, regardless of race, a world-class education is more than a moral obligation. It is an economic imperative if we want to succeed in the 21st century.<p>And that's why, when I took office, I set two big goals for American education. One was to make sure all our students, like the ones who are here with us today, receive a complete and competitive education from cradle to career. And number two, by the year 2020--the year Javier will graduate from college--America will once again have a higher share of college graduates than any other nation on Earth. That is our goal.<p>Now, improving educational outcomes for the Hispanic community is critical to reaching these overall goals. And reaching these goals is behind every battle that we've waged on behalf of our children's education since I took office.<p>We are expanding and reforming early childhood education so that our children aren't behind by the time they reach the schoolhouse door. We're challenging programs that don't measure up to compete for their funding, because if you're receiving tax dollars, you'd better be able to deliver results for our children.<p>We've launched a Race to the Top encouraging States to change their schools from the bottom up for all our children, Black, White, and Latino alike. Already, 48 States and DC have competed to raise standards, improve curricula, and turn around struggling schools. And we'll take steps to recruit and train more good teachers, including bilingual teachers.<p>We're tackling the dropout crisis that affects the Hispanic community more than any other community. And we're challenging States and communities to turn around our 5,000 worst schools, including many of the ones that produce the most Latino and African American dropouts. <p>To reach the second goal that I've set, leading the world in the proportion of college graduates, we're offering middle class families the American opportunity tax credit, which is a tax credit worth up to $2,500 a year that's already helped put the dream of a college degree within the reach of more than 12 million students from working families.<p>We're upgrading our community colleges so that we can link students looking for work with businesses looking to hire. We're funding and implementing the post-9/11 GI bill so our veterans, including our outstanding Latino veterans, can come home to the same chance to earn a college education as my grandfather had when he came back from World War II.<p>We're eliminating $60 billion over the next decade in wasteful giveaways to banks that profited from a broken student loan system, and we're using that money to make college more affordable for millions of students. In fact, we estimate that these steps will make college more affordable for more than 150,000 additional Latino students.<p>And as I've said before, Congress should finally pass the \\" DREAM Act.\\" I've supported this bill--[<i>applause</i>]--I have supported this bill for years, and I'll do everything it takes to sign it into law on behalf of students seeking a college education and those who wish to serve in our country's uniform.<p> Turning around our troubled schools, putting the dream of a college education within the reach of working families, educating our kids--all of them--to graduate ready for college, ready for a career, ready to make the most of their lives, that's what we're doing. That is why we're here.<p>But while strengthening Hispanic education in America is the purpose of this initiative, it's not something that can fall on the Department of Education alone. I expect agencies across the Federal Government to take this initiative seriously and support its mission. And it's also not something the Government can do by itself. It's going to take all of us--public and private sectors, teachers and principals, all of you at home at those watch parties, parents getting involved in their kids' education and students giving their best--because the farther they go in school, the farther they will go in life, and that means the farther we'll go as a country.<p>Now I know there will be cynics out there who say that this improvement that we're seeking is not possible, that the reforms won't work, the problems in our education system are too entrenched. It's easy to think that way. This initiative, for example, has been around for 20 years, and we still face many of the same challenges. And it's true, as I've said ever since I ran for this office--and as everyone here knows firsthand--that change is hard. Change takes time. Fixing what is broken in our education system will not be easy. We won't see results overnight. It may take years, even decades, for all these changes to pay off.<p>But that's no reason not to get started. That's no reason not to strive for these changes. That's a reason for us, in fact, to start making them right now. It's a reason for us to follow through. And as long as I'm President, I will not give in to calls to shortchange any of our students.<p>So in the end, this is about building a brighter future where every child in this country--Black, White, Latino, Asian, or Native American; regardless of color, class, creed--has a chance to rise above any barrier to fulfill their God-given potential. It's about keeping the promise at the heart of this country that we love. The promise of a better life, the promise that our children will dream bigger, hope deeper, climb higher than we could ever imagine, that's the promise that so many of you work to advance each and every day in your own respective fields. And as long as I have the privilege of being your President, that's a promise that I intend to work to keep.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. Now I'm going to sign this initiative. Thank you.\" "
"305" "\"Please have a seat. I'm going to come to you, and I'm not going to bore you with a long speech because I'm going to be able to sit with each of you at your table and to have a terrific conversation.<p>My main message is to say thank you to Zachary and Marissa for opening up this wonderful home. I was especially thrilled to see the pumpkins--[<i>laughter</i>]--and the Halloween stuff out there because in the Obama household, Halloween is big. And in fact, for all the campaigning I'm going to be doing over the next 10 days, I will be home on Sunday night--[<i>laughter</i>]--when the girls get dressed up and do some trick-or-treating.<p>I see a lot of old friends here, people who have supported us for a very long time, and I see some new ones as well. Some of you I had a chance to meet around the same time I first met Marissa. I remember that first visit to Google very well. In fact, it made it into my second book. And I talked about how inspiring it was and how it spoke to the essence of America, the American idea that if we're innovating, if people have the tools to let their imaginations run, that there's nothing we can't do in this country.<p>And that's I think the spirit that all of us want to see recaptured after a decade in which, frankly, that can-do spirit had been lost. Obviously, we're going through a very difficult time right now, the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, the worst recession since the Great Depression. But my task over the last 2 years hasn't just been to stop the bleeding. My task has also been to try to figure out how do we address some of the structural problems in the economy that have prevented more Googles from being created, prevented more Hewlett-Packards from being created, prevented more engineers from being trained in our schools; how do we unleash this incredible energy and dynamism that we know has always driven America, decade after decade.<p>We've made a start on all these fronts. I think our education reform agenda has been as innovative and aggressive as anything that we've seen, and we're now partnering with the private sector to figure out how do we get more math and science education so that we can train more engineers and more computer scientists and more mathematicians and more researchers to help drive the next wave of technology.<p>We have tackled things like health care that have been weights around the necks of not just individual families and businesses, but also our Federal budget. We're taking on clean energy in ways that we have not seen before. We've raised the national CAFE standards on cars and trucks for the first time in 30 years, made the largest investment in clean energy in history. We're seeing solar panels and wind turbines and advanced battery manufacturing all across the country because of the efforts that we've been making.<p>And so I'm optimistic about the future. But in the short term, we've got a long way to go. There are a lot of people out there who are hurting, a lot of families who are struggling to make a mortgage payment or pay the bills, a lot of kids who still aren't sure whether they can finance their college educations.<p>And so we're going to have a big choice in this election in an environment in which people are frustrated and hurting. And it's going to be very important that we're able to make the choice clear about going forwards or going backwards. And the only way we can get that message out effectively is if we've got the support of folks like you, because in a place like California, frankly, as many people as I meet when I travel here, I can't meet everybody. At some point, we're going to have to be able to get the message out, and you help us do that.<p>So I'm grateful to you. We are excited about these last 10 days. I've been traveling around the country. We had rallies in Portland and Seattle earlier over the last couple of days, I think 15,000 in each place; 35,000 in Columbus, Ohio; 30,000 in Madison, Wisconsin.<p>And as we travel around the country, although everybody recognizes that the last 2 years have been tough, what has been remarkable is the degree of resilience people feel and the sense that as hard as things have been, we're still going to keep on fighting to make sure that we have a better future for our kids and our grandkids.<p>Your presence here represents that. I am going to be quiet now because I want to make sure that I have a chance to talk to all of you and hear from all of you. And if at any time people want to come in here and provide an update on the Giants game--[<i>laughter</i>]--I am perfectly happy to hear from them.<p>So again, to our hosts, thank you very much. To all of you, it's great to see you again, and I look forward to a good conversation.\" "
"306" "\"Over the past 2 years, we've won a number of battles to defend the interests of the middle class. One of the most important victories we achieved was the passage of Wall Street reform.<p>This was a bill designed to rein in the secret deals and reckless gambling that nearly brought down the financial system. It set new rules so that taxpayers would never again be on the hook for a bailout if a big financial company went under. And reform included the strongest consumer protections in history to put an end to a lot of the hidden fees, deceptive mortgages, and other abusive practices used to tilt the table against ordinary people in their financial dealings.<p>It was a tough fight. The special interests poured millions into a lobbying campaign to prevent us from reforming the system, a system that worked a lot better for them than for middle class families. Some in the financial industry were eager to protect a status quo that basically allowed them to play by their own rules. And these interests held common cause with Republican leaders in Washington who were looking to score a political victory in an election year.<p>But their efforts failed. And we succeeded in passing reform in the hopes of ensuring that we never again face a crisis like the one we've been through, a crisis that unleashed an economic downturn as deep as any since the Great Depression. Even today, we're still digging out of the damage it unleashed on the economy. Millions of people are still out of work. Millions of families are still hurting.<p>We're also seeing the reverberations of this crisis with the rise in foreclosures. And recently, we've seen problems in foreclosure proceedings, mistakes that have led to disruptions in the housing markets. This is only one more piece of evidence as to why Wall Street reform is so necessary. In fact, as part of reform, a new consumer watchdog is now standing up. It will have just one job: looking out for ordinary consumers in the financial system. And this watchdog will have the authority to guard against unfair practices in mortgage transactions and foreclosures.<p>Yet despite the importance of this law and despite the terrible economic dislocation caused by the failures in our financial system under the old rules, top Republicans in Congress are now beating the drum to repeal all of these reforms and consumer protections. Recently, one of the Republican leaders in the Senate said that if Republicans take charge of Congress, repeal would be one of the first orders of business. And he joins the top Republican in the House who actually called for the law to be repealed even before it passed.<p>I think that would be a terrible mistake. Our economy depends on a financial system in which everyone competes on a level playing field and everyone is held to the same rules, whether you're a big bank, a small-business owner, or a family looking to buy a house or open a credit card. And as we saw, without sound oversight and commonsense protections for consumers, the whole economy is put in jeopardy. That doesn't serve Main Street. That doesn't serve Wall Street. That doesn't serve anyone. And that's why I think it's so important that we not take this country backward, that we don't go back to the broken system we had before. We've got to keep moving forward.<p>Thanks.\" "
"307" "\"Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat, have a seat. You're going to make me blush. [<i>Laughter</i>] I am thrilled to see all of you here today. And let me, first of all, say that Minnesota has one of the finest congressional delegations of any in the country. I am grateful to your two wonderful Senators who I've gotten a chance to know over the last several years: Amy Klobuchar, who I served with--hey, Amy, how are you? And Al Franken, who we were very happy to see arrive in Washington. The outstanding Members of the House--Keith Ellison, Betty McCollum, Jim Oberstar, and Tim Walz--all who are here; we're thrilled to have them.<p>The great congressional candidates who are with us here today, we are proud of you. And Mark Dayton, who I had a chance to serve with as Senator. He was dedicated, he had a heart as big as this room, and he is going to be just an outstanding Governor for this State. So we are proud of you.<p>And what can I say about Nancy Pelosi, who will go down in history as one of the finest Speakers in the history of the United States of America? She is--Nancy is just so elegant and beautiful, and people just don't realize she is tough. [<i>Laughter</i>] She is tough. And she has to be tough, because we are in a very difficult political cycle.<p>And so I just want to give you a sense of--oh, I'm sorry, I didn't know you were here--a guy who has his own tough job--Chris Van Hollen, the head of the DCCC, who's doing great work each and every day. Almost missed Chris. Chris is working like a dog, so I want to make sure everybody knows what wonderful work he's doing.<p>Chris will tell you this is a difficult political environment we're in right now. And it's because we've gone through as tough a couple of years as this country has ever seen, certainly the toughest couple years since the 1930s. And Nancy alluded to it, but just to give people a sense of perspective here: We lost 4 million jobs in the 6 months before I was sworn in, 4 million jobs in the 6 months before I was sworn in. We lost 750,000 jobs the month I was sworn in, 600,000 the month after that, 600,000 the month after that. Almost all of the 8 million jobs that would ultimately be lost during this recession were lost before any of the Democrats' economic policies were able to be put into place. Before the Recovery Act could really take root, before some of the other steps that we took in terms of small-business loans, tax cuts, could take seed.<p>And so we saw a massive hole. And that in and of itself would be sufficient to make this a difficult political environment, but what makes it worse is that crisis was really a culmination of what some have called the lost decade. Between 2001 and 2009, we had the slowest job growth in any time since World War II. Between 2001 and 2009, we actually saw the middle class lose 5 percent of their income--5 percent of their income. This is at a time when the costs of health care, the costs of a college education were all skyrocketing. People were watching manufacturing ship out to other countries.<p>And so you had a sense already, before the crisis on Wall Street, that we had not prepared ourselves for the future; that we had left too many challenges untended to; that our politics in Washington had become simply a mechanism for special interests to advance their narrow causes, but that we had lost the capacity to do big things and to finally tackle some of those structural issues that were impeding us from creating the kind of future that we want for our children and our grandchildren.<p>So we had a big job when we first came in. And our first job was obviously to stop the bleeding, and we did that. An economy that was shrinking is now growing again. An economy that was shedding hundreds of thousands of jobs every month, we've now seen 9 months of consecutive job growth in the public sector--in the private sector. That's in addition to all the jobs that we've saved for teachers and firefighters and social workers and police officers here in Minnesota and all across the country.<p>And so the good news is, is that we've been able to stabilize the economy. The bad news is, is that we're nowhere near done. We've got so much more work to do. There are still millions of people out of work who are desperate and just hanging on by a thread. There are hundreds of thousands of folks who are concerned about losing their homes. People are scared. People are nervous.<p>And that's why the tactics that were deployed by the other side, at the beginning of my Presidency, are so frustrating to so many of us, those of us who deeply care about the future of this country. Because their basic strategy was, boy, we made such a big mess that rather than take responsibility for it--which most of us would have hoped was going to happen, right? Our thinking was we're going to come in, and even though the other folks caused it, we're going to be part of the solution, not part of the problem. We're not going to play politics. We're not going to point fingers. We're going to roll up our sleeves and start getting to work, because although we are proud Democrats, we are prouder to be Americans. That was our hope and expectation.<p>And instead, the other side made a tactical decision which was, this is such a mess, it's probably going to take several years to solve. And so we're better off sitting on the sidelines saying no to everything, obstructing every possible bit of progress that could be made, so that we are well positioned by the time the next election rolls around to simply point our fingers and say the Democrats are to blame.<p>In other words, their political strategy was based on amnesia--[<i>laughter</i>]--based on the premise that people would not remember that they were the folks who were responsible for the devastation to our economy.<p>Now, we made a different decision. And because of the Members of Congress who are in this room, because of the leadership of Nancy Pelosi, because of the leadership of Harry Reid in the Senate, we didn't think about the next election, we thought about the next generation. And we also decided, even as we were going to solve the immediate crisis, that it was time once and for all for us to tackle the big issues that were holding us back as a country.<p>And so we started off with education. We've seen a transformation of our education agenda. Not only did we save the jobs of teachers, but we also instituted a reform agenda that now has States all across the country raising standards, training teachers more effectively, going out there each and every day and finding out what are the best practices that can ensure that our kids can learn and compete in the 21st century. And that's K-12.<p>And then we said, that's not enough. We've got to make sure that every young person in America is prepared for college and then can afford to go to college. So we took tens of billions of dollars that were going to the banks in unwarranted subsidies, and we shifted those to our student loan programs and our Pell grant programs. And we've got millions of young people all across the country who are now able to afford college because of the steps that these courageous Members of Congress were willing to take during the course of this year.<p>That's on education. We took on health care. And obviously, health care is something that's been debated a lot. It's going to be very interesting, now that the other side says their main agenda is repealing health care. What exactly do they want to repeal? Do they want to repeal us saying to 30 million people, you now finally have affordable health care? Are they just going to say, you know what, tough luck, you're on your own? Are they going to want to repeal provisions that say young people can stay on their parents' health insurance until they're 26 years old if they can't get health insurance on the job? Do they want to repeal us closing the doughnut hole so that senior citizens can afford their prescription drugs when they get sick and don't have to choose between groceries and their medicine?<p>Are they going to want to repeal what essentially was the most robust patient bill of rights in our history that says to insurance companies, you can't drop coverage for people when they get sick, you can't preclude them from getting health insurance when they've got a preexisting condition, you can't impose arbitrary lifetime limits that leave people bankrupt even though they've been paying premiums all their lives?<p>What exactly are you going to repeal? And are you going to repeal all the mechanisms that Nancy alluded to, to lower the costs and improve the quality of care so that the Congressional Budget Office says we will actually save over a trillion dollars in deficits as a consequence of this program?<p>It's going to be an interesting exercise if they think that they can follow through on that, because the American people may have heard a lot of arguments on Capitol Hill, but when they see what actually is being delivered I don't think the Republicans are going to feel so good about this repeal call.<p>But the reason they're moving forward on it is because they're being driven by the special interests who have been paying for their campaigns over the course of the last several months.<p>The same is true on Wall Street reform. We said that we've got to have a financial system that is vibrant and dynamic, but also a financial system that has basic rules of the road, that works for everybody, not just for some. So we made sure that credit card companies can't jack up your interest rates arbitrarily, without notice. We made certain that mortgage brokers can't steer you to more expensive interest rate mortgages. We made sure that we got systems in place to guard against the kind of structural breakdowns that resulted in the taxpayer bailouts that all of us find unacceptable.<p>And now you've got folks on the other side who have said one of their first agenda items is to try to repeal Wall Street reform. Think about this. This is in the wake of the worst financial crisis since the 1930s, and they want to go back to the status quo, business as usual.<p>Across the board--energy, education, health care, our financial systems, consumer protections--their basic agenda is, we're going to do the things exactly as we were doing them before President Obama got into office. And that's an agenda that America simply can't afford. It is an agenda that folks simply can't afford.<p>We were at a rally right before we came here, and I've been using this analogy around the country. They drove this economy into a ditch. And Nancy and I, we've had to put our boots on--[<i>laughter</i>]--and the rest of the congressional delegation, we had to rappel down into the ditch, and we're trying to push to get that car out of there. And the Republicans are just standing on the sidelines watching us, fanning themselves, sipping on a Slurpee. [<i>Laughter</i>]. They're kicking dirt back into the ditch. [<i>Laughter</i>] We're getting it into our eyes. Didn't lift a finger to help. All they did was point and say, you're not pushing hard enough; you're not doing it the right way.<p>We finally have gotten this car out of the ditch, and it's taken a lot of effort. And yes, the car is banged up; it is dented, it is in need of some bodywork and a tuneup, but it's moving in the right direction. We're about to go forward.<p>And suddenly, we get this tap on our fingers, and we look back, and it's the Republicans asking for the keys back. And our basic attitude is, no, you can't have the keys back. You don't know how to drive. [<i>Laughter</i>] You don't know how to drive.<p>Now, I want to be clear, they are more than happy to join us for the ride, but they've got to sit in the backseat, because we want America's families in the front seat. We want them in shotgun, not special interests, not the folks who've been calling the shots in the past.<p>That's the challenge that we face. Because, look, every Democrat who is here--Al, Nancy, Chris, Tim, Keith, Betty, Jim--every--Amy--what binds us together as Democrats is a shared vision about what America is. We believe in hard work and responsibility and individual initiative. We know government can't solve every problem. We understand that government needs to be lean and efficient. Nobody here wants to waste taxpayer dollars.<p>In fact, one of our most important agendas is restoring people's confidence that, in fact, government in a serious way can do what it's supposed to be doing, nothing more, nothing less. But we also believe that part of being an American is, is that we look out for one another; that I am my brother's keeper, I am my sister's keeper; that we are willing to invest not just in the here and now, but in the future; that we're investing in our kids' education, we're investing in our workers' skills; that we're investing in our infrastructure.<p>And frankly, that's not what we've been doing for a very long time. And that's part of the change in mindset that we've been undergoing over the last couple of years. We've got to be thinking about the next generation.<p>In the words of Abraham Lincoln, we believe that every individual should be able to do what they do best for themselves, but we also believe that government should be able to do what people can't do for themselves as well as government can do. And there are some basic things that we include in that<p>Right now the Republican agenda, what they call the promise for America, they want to cut education spending by 20 percent in order to pay for $700 billion worth of tax cuts that would only go to the top 2 percent. We don't have the $700 billion. We'd have to borrow from China to pay for it, and in part to pay for a tiny amount of that tax cut they would cut education by 20 percent.<p>Do you think China is cutting education by 20 percent right now? Do you think South Korea or Germany or India are cutting education spending by 20 percent? It makes no sense.<p>We want to restart rebuilding our infrastructure and putting people back to work right now. Yes, we've saved 3.5 million jobs. We've got a whole bunch more jobs that we could create out there, putting people to work doing the work that needs to be done. Anybody who's been to Beijing or Singapore, and you walk through their airports and you say, America used to have the best infrastructure. We used to have the best airports; we used to have the best roads, the best bridges. And now we're investing less than half of what Europe or Asia are investing in their infrastructure.<p>Where is that going to leave our children and our grandchildren 10 years from now, 20 years from now, 50 years from now? Why aren't the best railway lines, the best high-speed rails, the best broadband lines here in the United States of America?<p>We've got a race to see who's going to determine the clean energy future. And one of the things we did in the Recovery Act was invest in solar panels and wind turbines and advanced battery manufacturing here in the United States of America. I want those things made here. But right now we're getting our clock cleaned because we have not been serious about making those investments. And we haven't set the guideposts where private capital could come in and start making those investments. And that means losing that race. That's not acceptable.<p>And so we've got a lot of work to do. And as much progress as we've made over the last 2 years, the only way we're going to continue on that progress is if each and every one of you are out there talking to your friends and your neighbors, knocking on doors, making phone calls--yes, writing checks to these outstanding Members of Congress--because I've got to have a partner. I've got to have folks working with me who are willing to put aside their short-term political interests when it comes to the interests of the country.<p>And so let me just leave you with this thought. I know that because this has been a tough couple of years, I've had people come back--come up to me sometimes and say, gosh, when you were elected in 2008, that was so exciting. Election night was just unbelievable, and then Inauguration Day, you had Beyonce singing and--[<i>laughter</i>]--Bono. And I was at the Inauguration, and it was just so inspiring. And I've got to admit, Mr. President, sometimes over the last couple of years, with all the negative ads and all the money that's been pouring in, all the filibustering and obstruction in Congress, sometimes, I just start losing altitude, start losing hope. It just seems like change is so hard to bring about.<p>And I've got to remind people, first of all, I warned you it was going to be hard. I never said it was going to be easy. If it was easy, it would have already been done. We knew it was going to be hard. But what I also tell people is, don't let anybody tell you that what we've been fighting for hasn't made this country better, hasn't been worth it. <p>Because of the work that these Members of Congress did, because of the support that you've provided them, there are people right here in Minnesota who are able to get coverage for their cancer treatments instead of having to sell their house. Right now, today. Because of what you did, there are small businesses that are open right now that otherwise would have shuttered their doors.<p>Because of what you did, there are parents here in Minnesota who are able to look their kids in the eye and say, you know what, even though our savings got blasted by the economic downturn and the fall in the stock market, despite all that we can guarantee that you're going to go to college.<p>Because of what you did, there are 100,000 young men and women who've come home from Iraq, no longer involved in that combat mission. And because of what you did, when those 100,000 come home, they're getting the treatment they need, they're getting the benefits that they deserve. They got a post-9/11 GI bill that they can count on so that they can be part of this latest and greatest generation and help grow and expand and build our middle class.<p>Those are all the consequences of the work that you did. And so yes, things don't happen as quickly as we want; they're not always as smooth as people would want. This is a big, messy democracy. That's the nature of America. It's always been that way. This Nation was founded on hard. A revolution of Thirteen Colonies breaking away from the greatest empire on Earth, that was hard. It was hard to free the slaves and ensure that we weren't living half free and half slave. It was hard for all those immigrants, our grandparents and great-grandparents and great-great-grandparents, to come here and try to carve out a life for themselves. It was hard to overcome war and depression. And it was hard to fight for civil rights and women's rights and workers' rights.<p>But they did it because they understood that in America, when citizens join together and decide they've got a vision for the future; when they decide our destiny is not written for us, it is written by us; when they made that decision, we can't be stopped. And that's what this election is about: whether we continue with that trajectory, whether we continue with that tradition.<p>I'm absolutely confident we can. So I want everybody here to understand that we're just in the first quarter. We're just starting. We've got a lot more work to do. And the only way we're going to be able to do it is if each and every one of you had that same spirit of possibility, are undaunted in the face of uncertainty, are unafraid in the face of difficulty. If you will join with us, I promise you we will look back on this period and we will say, yes, we were tested, but we met that test for future generations.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"308" "\"Thanks so much. Please, everybody have a seat. It is just wonderful to be at American Cord and Webbing. And thank you. I just saw all the great work that's being done here. I want to acknowledge a few friends here in the first row. First of all, your outstanding senior Senator, Jack Reed; we're so proud of him. And your equally outstanding junior Senator, Sheldon Whitehouse, is here; we got my dear friend Congressman Patrick Kennedy. And I want to just say, right now Providence Mayor Dave Cicilline--soon could have another job. Congressman Jim Langevin is just a great friend and an inspiration to all of us. We've got Woonsocket mayor, Leo Fontaine is here. Where's Mr. Mayor? There he is, right there. And of course, somebody all of you know, Mark Krauss. Where's Mark? [<i>Applause</i>] And Ray Velino, right here. [<i>Applause</i>] Hey! You guys are pretty popular. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's nice.<p>It is great to be here in Rhode Island, and it is great to be here at American Cord and Webbing. I just had a chance to take a quick tour and see the outstanding work that so many of the workers are doing here. These guys make webbing, cords, buckles, plastic and metal hardware for sporting goods, outdoor goods, travel gear. They are also making customized leashes for Bo--[<i>laughter</i>]--that I am very proud of, and it is clear that they take enormous pride in what they do.<p>This is a third-generation company, and Mark was telling me how it got started with his grandfather and--1917? And it's just a testament to American ingenuity and American entrepreneurship. And now he's got four beautiful kids, along with his lovely wife. And one of them or two of them may end up continuing the business once Mark decides he's ready to retire. But that looks like a long ways off. [<i>Laughter</i>] He looks pretty young and pretty fit.<p>Like most small businesses, American Cord and Webbing has gone through some tough times in the past few years. Early in 2009, they lost customers and had to lay off some workers. But they buckled down--that was a pun. [<i>Laughter</i>] You got that? You catch that one? And they invested in new products and pursued new customers. And over the past year, they've hired back all the workers they had to lay off. And today business is going well. In fact--[<i>applause</i>].<p>So this year, Mark expects to turn a profit. He's going to invest in new machinery and new equipment. And just last month, this company was approved for an SBA loan that's going to help them expand this facility by nearly half, which is going to be very exciting.<p>Now, this is important, not just for this particular business and these particular workers, but for America. It's small businesses like this one, after all, that are the bricks and blocks, the cord and webbing, if you will, of our economy. But the financial crisis made it very difficult for them to get the loans that they needed to grow.<p>The recession meant that folks are spending less. And across the country, many small businesses that were once the cornerstones of their communities are now empty storefronts that haunt our Main Streets.<p>So the bottom line is, when our small businesses don't do well, America doesn't do well. So we all have a stake in helping our small businesses grow and succeed. And because small businesses create two out of every three new jobs in America, our economy depends on it.<p>And that's why, over the past 20 months, we've done everything we can to boost small businesses like this one. And what's guided us is a simple principle: Government can't guarantee your success, can't guarantee Mark's success--he doesn't expect it to--but government can knock down some of the barriers that stand in the way of small-business success and help create the conditions where small businesses can grow and hire and create new products and prosper.<p>That's why we've now passed, with the help of these outstanding Members of Congress, 16 different tax cuts for America's small businesses over the last couple years--16 tax cuts over the last couple years.<p>We've passed tax cuts for hiring back unemployed workers. We've passed tax cuts for investing in new equipment. There are 4 million small businesses right now that are poised to get a tax break of up to 35 percent of the premiums they pay if they are providing health insurance to their employees, and that's a tax break that can free up tens of thousands of dollars to upgrade facilities, buy new equipment, or hire a few new workers.<p>And last month, after plenty of political obstacles, after months in which thousands of small-business owners across America were waiting for the loans and tax cuts they badly needed to grow their business and hire new employees, I signed into law the Small Business Jobs Act.<p>Now, that act extended provisions that helped support tens of thousands of new SBA loans under the Recovery Act, and it waived fees on those loans to save owners money on their payments, something that saved this particular company more than $9,000.<p>In less than a month since that new law took effect, more than 3,600 small-business owners have already received more than $1.4 billion worth of new loans, with more to come, and the SBA has already begun offering larger loans for small businesses--small-business owners who need them.<p>The law also accelerates $55 billion in new tax cuts for businesses both large and small that make job-creating investments over the next year. It eliminates capital gains taxes on key new investments made in small businesses until the end of this year. It dramatically increases the amount small businesses can write off on new equipment investments, and we want to do more so that you can write it all off. These are tax cuts that can help America--help businesses like American Cord and Webbing that are making new investments right now. And it can help create jobs.<p>Finally, that--the law that we signed creates new initiatives to increase lending to small businesses. It strengthens State programs that spur private sector lending, and that's a step that will support $15 billion in new small-business loans across the country. And it sets up a new small-business lending fund that will support Main Street banks that lend to Main Street businesses.<p>We're doing all this because when times are tough, I believe we should be cutting taxes for small-business owners. We should be cutting taxes for companies that are investing here in Rhode Island and here in the United States of America.<p>When new loans are hard to come by, I believe we should help free up lending. When some companies are shipping jobs overseas, we should be helping companies like this one: our small businesses, our manufacturers, our clean energy companies. I think those are pretty commonsense values that we can all agree on.<p>Now, I will confess, I wish that Republican leaders in Congress had agreed earlier. They voted against these ideas again and again. They talk a good game about tax cuts and giving entrepreneurs the freedom to succeed, when, in fact, they also ended up voting against tax cuts for the middle class; they voted against tax breaks for companies creating jobs here in the United States.<p>Now, when you vote against small-business tax relief and you hold up a small-business jobs bill for months, that doesn't do anything to support small businesses like this one. It doesn't do anything to support the outstanding workers at this company. It's just playing politics. If you're going to talk a big game, then you need to deliver.<p>So I hope that my friends on the other side of the aisle are going to change their minds going forward, because putting the American people back to work, boosting our small businesses, rebuilding the economic security of the middle class, these are big national challenges. And we've all got a stake in solving them. And it's not going to be enough just to play politics. You can't just focus on the next election, you've got to focus on the next generation.<p>That's how Mark's company has succeeded, by focusing on the next generation. And that's how we have to think about our work in Washington.<p>So let me just again congratulate the company for doing the great work that you're doing. Thank you for your hospitality. I know it's always a big fuss when I show up. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And to all of you here in Rhode Island and all across the country, when I tour plants like this, it makes me optimistic. We've got big problems, and it's going to take some time to solve them. It took us a long time to get into this economic hole that we've been in.<p>And the recession that we inherited was so deep that it's going to take some time to get out. But we are going to get out. And I'm absolutely convinced that there are brighter days ahead for America, an America where businesses like this one aren't just thriving, but are powering our economic growth, where workers like the ones who are here are rewarded for the work that you do, where our middle class is growing, where opportunity is shared by all our people and the American Dream is back within the reach of those who are willing to work for it. <p>So that's what we're working for. That's the guiding principle behind all of my administration's activities, is how do we make sure that the economy is growing and that the middle class is growing, because that's the beating heart of this economy. What you do here is a great example of what we've got to be able to do all across this country.<p>We're proud of you, and I thank you so much for letting us join you here today and seeing the wonderful success that you've been able to accomplish.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"309" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Rhode Island! Thank you so much. Thank you. Are you fired up?<p><i>Audience members.</i> Woo!<p><i>The President.</i> It is good to be back in Rhode Island. It is good to be here for an outstanding soon-to-be Member of Congress, Dave Cicilline.<p>Now, you already have some great Members of Congress, and so I just want to make quick mention of them. Your senior Senator, one of the finest Senators that I know, Jack Reed is in the house; his great partner, junior Senator Sheldon Whitehouse. A dear friend, Patrick Kennedy, is here. Outstanding legislator Jim Langevin is here. And somebody who's working so hard to maintain a Democratic majority across the country, the head of the DCCC, Chris Van Hollen, is here. Thank you, Chris. And all of you are here. And I'm really happy about that.<p>Now, Providence, 1 week from tomorrow, you have the chance to set the direction not just for this State, but for this country, not just for the next 2 years, but for the next two decades. And just like you did in 2008, you have the chance to defy the conventional wisdom.<p>Now, you remember in 2008, everybody looks back and says, oh, that was easy. No, it wasn't easy. [<i>Laughter</i>] In retrospect it looked easy. But at the time, everybody said, you can't overcome the cynicism in our politics. You can't overcome all the special interest money. You can't take on the biggest challenges that we face. You certainly can't elect a skinny guy named Barack Obama. And you said, \\"Yes, we can.\\" And a week from tomorrow, we have a chance to say \\"Yes, we can\\" again. We've got a chance to say \\"Yes, we can\\" again.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes, we can! Yes, we can! Yes, we can!<p><i>The President.</i> Yes, we can! [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes, we can! Yes, we can! Yes, we can!<p><i>The President.</i> Look, there is no doubt that this is going to be a difficult election. I'm confident that David is going to win. I feel good about it.<p>But look, this is going to be a difficult election because we've been through an incredibly difficult time as a nation. For most of the last decade, middle class families have just barely been treading water.<p>I want to give you a couple of statistics. Between 2001 and 2009, we had the slowest job growth of any time since World War II. In fact, job growth was slower during those 8 years than it has been over the last year.<p>Between that same period, 2001 to 2009, middle class families, on average, lost 5 percent of their income. Think about that. This is at a time when health care costs skyrocketed, college tuition off the charts, more jobs being shipped overseas, families just barely keeping up, working two jobs, three jobs to pay the mortgage, to pay the bills. Too many parents were saying to their kids, I'm not sure we can afford college; too many families saying, we can't afford to see a doctor when we get sick. It's just too expensive.<p>And then all these problems that had been building up for a decade culminated in the worst financial crisis and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. In the 6 months before I took office, we lost 4 million jobs in America--in 6 months. We lost 750,000 the month I took office, 600,000 the month after that, 600,000 the month after that. We lost almost 8 million jobs before any of the economic policies the Democrats had a chance to put into place could take effect--almost 8 million jobs.<p>Now, our hope was that because of the magnitude of the crisis, that me and Jack and Sheldon, Jim, others, Patrick--our hope was that finally we'd be able to come together with the Republicans and start solving problems instead of playing politics. We figured this is a once-in-a-generation challenge, and so let's see if we can put the bickering aside and the gamesmanship that had dominated Washington for way too long, because, although we're proud to be Democrats, we are prouder to be Americans.<p>And there are a lot of Republicans that, I think, felt the same way. But Republican leaders in Congress, they made a different decision. Their basic strategy was, you know what, we really screwed up. This is such a big mess. We've lost so many jobs. The economy is so bad that it's going to take a while to fix all these problems. And if we're there helping, then, gosh, who knows, they might realize that we're to blame. So we're better off just standing on the sidelines and saying no to everything. And people are going to get angry and frustrated. And they may forget that, in fact, we were the folks in power when this crisis occurred. And we'll be able to point our fingers and pretend we had nothing to do with it.<p>That was their tactic. That was their strategy. In other words, their main electoral strategy, their political strategy was amnesia. [<i>Laughter</i>] They are banking on you forgetting who caused this mess in the first place. But, Providence, it is up to you to let them know we have not forgotten. We have not forgotten.<p>We have not forgotten, and it's up to you to remember that this is a choice in the election between the politics that got us into this mess and the politics that are getting us out: between hope and fear, between the past and the future, between moving forward and moving backwards. And I don't know about you, but I want to move forward. David, I want to move forward. I want to move forward.<p>Look, if they win this election, the chair of the Republican campaign committee has already promised to pursue--and I'm quoting here--\\"the exact same agenda\\" as they pursued before I took office.<p>And we know what that agenda is. It does have the virtue of simplicity. [<i>Laughter</i>] You cut taxes, mostly for millionaires and billionaires, you cut rules for special interests, and then you cut middle class families to fend for themselves.<p>So if you're a family that doesn't have health care, tough luck, you're on your own. If you're a young person who can't afford to go to college, too bad, you're on your own. If you've lost your job, you need a little help with unemployment insurance, you need a little help with some job training, tough luck, you're on your own.<p>And this is all done under the guise, under the banner of fiscal conservatism, except it turns out that this same agenda turned record surpluses under a Democratic President and converted them into record deficits that allowed Wall Street to run wild that nearly destroyed our economy.<p>Now, I bring all this up not because I want to reargue the past. I bring it up because I don't want to relive the past. It's not as if, Providence, we haven't tried what they're peddling. We tried it for 8 years. It didn't work. We can't go back.<p><i>Audience member.</i> We can't go back. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> We can't go back. Look, I've been using this analogy as I travel the country. Imagine the Republicans driving the economy into a ditch. And it's a deep ditch. It's a big ditch. And somehow they walked away from the accident, and we put on our boots and we rappelled down into the ditch--me and Jack and Sheldon and Jim and Patrick. We've been pushing, pushing, trying to get that car out of the ditch.<p>And meanwhile, the Republicans are standing there, sipping on a Slurpee--[<i>laughter</i>]--fanning themselves. We're hot and sweaty and pushing, and they're kicking dirt into the ditch--[<i>laughter</i>]--getting it into our faces. But that's okay. We said--every once in a while we'd ask them, do you want to come down and help? They'd say, no, but you're not pushing the right way though; push harder.<p>Finally, we get this car out of the ditch, and it's banged up. It needs some bodywork, needs a tuneup. But it's pointing in the right direction. The engine is turning and it's ready to go. And we suddenly get this tap on our shoulders. We look back, who is it? The Republicans. And they're saying, excuse me, we want the keys back. You can't have the keys back. You don't know how to drive! You can't have them back; can't do it. Not after we've worked this hard.<p>We can't have special interests sitting shotgun. [<i>Laughter</i>] You know, we got to have middle class families up in front. We can't--we don't mind the Republicans joining us. They can come for the ride, but they got to sit in back. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Look, these 2 years have been incredibly difficult. And not every decision we've made has always been popular, but they've been the right things to do, because you sent me there not to do what was easy, but do what was right. That's why you sent me there.<p>And because of the steps we've taken, we no longer face the possibility of a second depression. The economy is growing again. We've seen private sector job growth for 9 months in a row. I just had a chance to visit with some of the elected officials at a wonderful small business here that is representative of small businesses all across the country. They survived the recession, and they're now ready to grow and expand.<p>And we've passed tax cuts and provided them additional financing so they can hire more workers. But you know what? We've still got a long way to go. We know we do. There are a lot of people hurting out there. There are a lot of folks who have been looking for work for months and still can't find it, a lot of families still hanging on by a thread.<p>That's what keeps me up at night. That's what keeps David up at night. That's what we're focused on, because we've got a different idea about what the future should look like. And it's an idea rooted in our own families, our own backgrounds, about our understanding about how this country was built.<p>I didn't come from money. I didn't have a famous, well-connected family. And I was raised by my parents to believe--and my grandparents to believe in self-reliance. We know government doesn't have all the answers to our problems. We know our young people--if our schools are going to succeed--our young people have to work hard in school. Parents have to do a good job parenting.<p>We believe government should be lean and efficient and that each of us should take responsibility for contributing to our community. But in the words of the first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, we also believe that government should do for the people what they can't do better for themselves.<p>So we believe in hard work and responsibility and individual initiative. But we also believe in an America that invests in its future, invests in its people, in the education of our children, in the skills of our workers.<p>We believe in a country where we look out for one another, where I am my brother's keeper, I am my sister's keeper. That's the America I know. That's the choice in this election. That's the choice in this election.<p>If we give the other side the keys to the car, you know what they're going to do? They're going to keep on giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas. I believe in tax breaks for companies like the one that I just visited, companies that are investing here in the United States, small businesses, American manufacturers, clean energy companies.<p>I don't want solar panels and electric cars made in Europe or Asia. I want them made right here in the United States with American workers. That's the choice in this election.<p>I think a lot of Americans right now, what they're asking--they're seeing all the negative ads on TV. What they really want to know is, what's your plan to move America forward; what's your plan to put people back to work?<p>And we've put forward plans to rebuild our infrastructure. We used to have the best infrastructure in the world. But we don't now. We've got to invest in that. We've got to invest in research and development. We want to make sure that we're giving incentives to companies to push their investments forward into next year so that we can jump-start the economy and help move it forward. Very concrete plans about how we're going to invest in education so every one of our young people have the skills to compete in this new global economy.<p>You know what the other side's big idea is? And I'm not exaggerating, they've got one idea. And their idea is to cut taxes for the top 2 percent wealthiest Americans--would mean an average $100,000 check to millionaires and billionaires; it would cost $700 billion that we do not have. We'd have to borrow it from China. And when you ask them, \\"Well, how else are you going to pay for it other than just borrowing?\\" they say, \\"Well, we'll cut some programs.\\" It turns out part of what they're proposing is a cut of 20 percent in our education budget.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo!<p><i>The President.</i> Now, think about this. Do you think, at a time when education will probably make more of a difference in terms of how well our economy performs than any other single indicator, that we should be cutting education by 20 percent? Do you think China is cutting it by 20 percent? You think Germany and South Korea are cutting education by 20 percent? Of course not, because they're not playing for second place. They're playing for first place. And we need to play for first place. That's what we do in the United States of America.<p>That's why, with the help of a Democratic Congress, we took tens of billions of dollars that were being put into unwarranted subsidies for banks in the student loan program. We said, let's not do that. Let's have the money go where it belongs, to the students. And we now have millions more young people who are able to get student loans and Pell grants, higher levels of grants, a $10,000 tuition relief credit for each student. That's our agenda for economic growth. That's what's going to make a difference.<p>That's why when we talk about tax cuts, we want to give permanent tax relief to middle class families. They need the relief. That's the choice in this election.<p>Look--and let me just say, they've already said, the other side has already said, we're going to roll back regulations and put special interests back in charge in Washington. This is not me making it up. The person who would take over the energy committee in the House of Representatives is the guy who apologized to BP when we said, you've got to pay for all the small businesses and families that have been--and fishermen that have been hurt by the oil spill.<p>That's the head of the energy company [committee]*. Another one of their members has already promised that one of their first orders of business would be to repeal Wall Street reform. Now, we just went through the worst financial crisis in our history, and we finally now have some rules of the road that are going to say no taxpayer bailouts; you got to have higher capital requirements. We're going to make sure that we've got tough overseers that protect consumers from everything from predatory mortgages to unwarranted credit card fees. And their main agenda is rolling these rules back? Why? Why would we do that?<p>We can't let that happen, Providence. Look, we believe in making sure that people don't get ripped off when they sign up for a mortgage. We believe credit card companies shouldn't be able to jack up your rates without notice. We believe that insurance companies, if you're paying your premiums, they actually have to pay when you get sick. They can't drop your health insurance when you get sick.<p>We think it's a good idea that young people should be able to stay on their parents' health insurance until they're 26 years old. We think it's a good idea that senior citizens see that doughnut hole closed so that they can actually afford their prescription drug coverage. Those are ideas that we believe can move America forward.<p>That's the choice in this election. We believe Social Security should never be privatized, not as long as I'm President. We're not going to take the retirement savings of a generation of Americans and hand it over to Wall Street. That's the choice in the election. That's what we're fighting for.<p>But understand, the other side is fighting back. The same special interests we've been battling on your behalf over the last 2 years, they are fighting back hard. And they are now using these phony front groups to funnel hundreds of millions of dollars in negative ads all across the country, distorting the records of Democrats. And you know what? They are not even willing to disclose where the money is coming from. You don't know. Could be from insurance companies, could be from oil companies, could be from Wall Street banks. You don't know.<p>This is all the consequence of a Supreme Court decision, so don't let anybody tell you that the Supreme Court doesn't matter. That's why I put Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan there. We need to have some Supreme Court Justices who are looking out for you.<p>But because of this campaign finance loophole, you've got hundreds of billions of dollars. It's not just a threat to Democrats. It's a threat to our democracy. I mean, imagine if you can--if special interests can just spend as much money as they want and you don't know who they are. They've got these innocent sounding names: Americans for Prosperity or Moms for Motherhood. [<i>Laughter</i>] No, I made the last one up. [<i>Laughter</i>] But you don't know.<p>And that cheapens our discourse. It hurts our democracy. And there's only one way to fight back against those millions of dollars, and that's with the millions of voices of people like you. It's all of you saying--[<i>applause</i>]--it's all of you being willing to finish what we started in 2008.<p>I've got to have you come out in droves and vote in this election. You've got to come out and vote. And look, if everybody who voted in 2008 votes in 2010, we are confident we will win this election.<p>And a lot of you--[<i>applause</i>]--a lot of you got involved in 2008, some of you for the very first time, because you understood that we're at a crossroads in our history, that the decisions we make now don't just affect us, they affect our children and our grandchildren and our great-grandchildren. That's why some of you knocked on doors. That's why some of you made phone calls. That's why many of you stood in line to cast your ballots.<p>And it turns out, you know what, actually delivering change is very hard. I warned you. [<i>Laughter</i>] I said it was going to be hard. And so over the last 2 years, we've been grinding it out. And sometimes I know it gets frustrating. Some of you may get discouraged. You say, gosh, we have these bigger majorities, and things are being filibustered, and there's all this nastiness on TV. And maybe you just can't change politics.<p>But I want everybody to understand we're just in the first quarter. We got a whole game to play. We've got a whole game to play. We've got a whole game to play.<p>And I want everybody here to understand that because I've had good teammates, like the folks you sent here from Rhode Island, we have made a huge difference. Don't let anybody tell you we haven't made a difference.<p>Because of you, there's somebody here in Rhode Island somewhere who is going to be able to get their treatment for cancer without having to give up their house or go bankrupt. Because of you, there are folks--small businesses right here in New Hampshire--who are able to keep their doors open in the depths of recession.<p>Because of you, there are young people right here in Rhode Island who are going to be able to go to college and otherwise couldn't go to college. Because of you, there are 100,000 young men and women who are returning home from Iraq--because of you. Because of the things that you did in 2008, we have made huge changes.<p>So don't let people tell you you're not making a difference. Yes, it's hard. But it's always been hard. The history of America has been hard, starting with a revolution to found this country. The idea of America is hard, based on a document and ideas that had never been tried before: \\"We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.\\"<p>That's a hard idea. And we had to overcome slavery. We had to fight for women's rights. And we had to fight for workers' rights. But each successive generation hasn't shied away just because it's hard. We kept on going. We kept moving forward.<p>And that's why we're here today. And we want 20 years from now, 30 years from now, 100 years ago--100 years from now, we want people to be able to look back and say, you know what, this generation did the same thing. That same spirit that got us through war and depression, that helped to perfect this Union, that same spirit is alive and well in 2010.<p>That's what I need all of you to show me. And if you do, I promise you David is going to Congress. And we will continue to help rebuild the American Dream for all people.<p>Thank you very much, Rhode Island. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"310" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you so much. I was back in the kitchen making sure everything was going okay. [<i>Laughter</i>] It smells really good.<p>So first of all, I just want to thank Johnnie and Buff and the whole Chace family for opening up this spectacular home. And we are so grateful for your hospitality.<p>I want to make sure to recognize a couple of folks that are here. Obviously, Chris Van Hollen, this guy is the hardest working man in politics right now. [<i>Laughter</i>] He is having to run around all across the country, working so hard on our behalf. And we are really proud of what he's accomplished against daunting odds. I think we are going to end up doing really well, partly because of his leadership. So please give him a big round of applause.<p>Looking around here, I don't see the Rhode Island delegation. I don't know where--[<i>laughter</i>]--there they are. All right, there they are. All right. Sheldon, Jack, and Patrick, we could not have accomplished half of what we accomplished this year if it hadn't been for them. You guys have an outstanding congressional delegation. And so I am grateful to them not only for their hard work, but also for their friendship and good counsel. I really appreciate it.<p>We are 10 days away, is that right? Nine?<p><i>Audience member.</i> Eight. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> I've been on the road a lot. [<i>Laughter</i>] Seems like it will be 10. But I have been traveling all across the country over the last several weeks, and the mood out there is interesting. I mean, this is going to be a difficult election, there's no doubt about it, because we've gone through one of the most difficult times in our Nation's history. I think the magnitude of the crisis isn't fully appreciated, partly because the terrific actions that were taken by Congress helped to stem the crisis fairly early on. But the devastation is something that we are feeling and will continue to feel for a while.<p>I was mentioning in a speech earlier, we lost 4 million jobs in the 6 months before I took office, before I was sworn in, 750,000 jobs the month I was sworn in, 600,000 the month after that, 600,000 the month after that. So most of the 8 million jobs that we ended up losing in this recession we had lost before any of the economic policies that we had a chance to put into place could take effect. And most economists estimate, including John McCain's economist, that had we not taken these steps, unemployment might be at 12 percent or 13 percent.<p>So an economy that was shrinking is now growing. We've seen 9 months straight of public sector job growth. But the fact is, people are still hurting. I mean, the consequences of that crisis are felt everywhere, here in Rhode Island and all across the country: people who have been looking for work in some cases for over a year and still can't find a job, families that have seen the values of their homes decline drastically. They're having trouble maybe financing their kid's college education because of what happened to their savings accounts or their investment accounts.<p>And so it's not surprising that the country is angry and the country is frustrated. And essentially the strategy of the Republicans when we came in was to try to ride that anger as long as possible. We had hoped that in this once-in-a-generation challenge that we were facing that we would see an end to some of the game-playing and posturing and politicizing of everything we did because there would be a recognition that this was an urgent time and we had to take some key steps not only for the next several years, but to ensure that we were going to be competitive in generations to come.<p>And frankly, the Republicans made a strategic decision which said, you know what, we are going to just step back, say no, do nothing, obstruct, and hopefully, then people will forget how we got into this mess in the first place. In other words, their electoral strategy is amnesia. And although it may have seemed like a smart political tactic, it wasn't right for the country.<p>And so we made a different decision, which was that we were going to do everything that we could not only to deal with the immediate crisis, but also to start finally tackling some of the structural problems that had been holding this country back for far too long.<p>And some of those decisions might not be popular, but we determined they were the right thing to do. And I know that Sheldon and Jack and Chris and Patrick and certainly I felt that you guys sent us there not to do what was easy, but to do what was right, and that we did not go to Washington for fancy offices or titles.<p>We went there because somewhere in our lives, somebody had helped us. Somewhere in our life stories, we had seen an America in which we looked after one another; we gave everybody an opportunity; that we made investments in education and worker training and infrastructure; we didn't just think about the next election, but we thought about the next generation.<p>And that's what we've done over the last 2 years. And I could not be prouder of the record of accomplishment in this Congress. A lot of it happened so fast people didn't realize it. I mean, within the first few months, not only had we made investments in clean energy that were unprecedented, not only did we significantly increase our research and development so that we could continue to be an innovation economy, not only did we make the largest investment in infrastructure since Eisenhower built the Interstate Highway System, not only did we make the largest investment in education in history, but we had made sure that 4 million children who hadn't previously gotten it had health insurance.<p>We had made sure that mortgage fraud was actually policed, that credit card companies couldn't abuse their customers. We expanded national service larger than any expansion since the Peace Corps. And this was all before we started tackling some of the enormous issues that we tackled, like health care reform and financial regulatory reform.<p>And it was interesting, Ira Magaziner is here; so he was there for the last round in '94 and remembers how tough this was. And I have to tell you, when it comes to health care reform, we knew how tough it was going to be, because it is a huge, complicated system with a lot of interests. And we had neglected it for so long that inevitably, it was going to be a contentious fight.<p>But what we also knew was if we didn't start tackling it now, that not only were you going to continue to see 30 million people without health insurance, not only were we going to continue to waste money on preventable diseases like diabetes because people weren't getting regular checkups, but there was no way that we could ever hope to deal with our deficit, because the primary driver of our deficit--almost by a magnitude of several times--the biggest driver of our deficit and our debt, long term, is our health care costs. And we've got to bring those costs down.<p>So we have taken steps that essentially encompass the biggest patient's bill of rights in our history, combined with measures that over time can actually make sure that we are bending the cost curve and making smarter health care investments that will result in higher quality and lower costs. And in the bargain, 30 million people are going to end up getting health care.<p>You've got young people who are able to stay on their health care up until the age of 26 if they're not getting it on the job. You've got folks with preexisting conditions who now have some hope of getting coverage and won't be bankrupted when they get sick.<p>Oh, and by the way, it turns that according to the Congressional Budget Office, it reduces our deficit by over a trillion dollars over the course of two decades. So we--[<i>applause</i>].<p>On financial regulatory reform, the other big project that we had, my general theory is, if you've gone through the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, probably something's not working. And we rolled up our sleeves and put together a set of rules that allow for innovation in the financial markets; that allow Wall Street to do well, but not at somebody else's expense; make sure that we've got consumer protections; make sure there aren't taxpayer bailouts; make sure that if one company goes under, it's not too big to fail, because we've got a mechanism to let them go into bankruptcy without bringing the entire financial system down with it.<p>All of these things were huge battles, and this is just on the domestic front. By the way, I had two wars to deal with at the same time. And so we've brought home 100,000 troops from Iraq. We've got a strategy in Afghanistan that will allow us to start phasing down our troop levels next year at the same time as we're going to provide an opportunity for Afghans to stand up and start strengthening their own security capacity.<p>Incredibly proud of what we've done. But we've got so much more to do. I mean, not only do we have 9.5 percent unemployment, which is a huge drag on our economy and has just an enormous human toll that keeps me up at night every day, but there are a bunch of things that we're going to have to do to make sure that we can compete in what is going to be the most competitive global economy imaginable.<p>We used to have the best infrastructure in the world. We don't now. Anybody who has been to the airport in Beijing or in Singapore will tell you that we're losing ground. <p>We used to stitch the entire country together with our rail systems, and now our rail systems are 20th century--19th century in some cases--compared to the 21st-century high-speed rail around the world.<p>We still underinvest in research and development. We don't have an energy policy that will allow us to be the leaders in solar and wind and biodiesel that can not only help protect our environment, but also create the jobs of the future.<p>We've got so much work left to do, and the only way I can do it is if I've got good partners in Congress. The only way I can do it is if Chris and Jack and Sheldon are not in the minority, but are the majority, that they are the ones who are helping to guide these issues through.<p>I know that a lot of times people wonder, gosh, you know, why did it take--why did the health care take so long? Well, this is not a monarchy we live in. This is a democracy. And it's a big, messy democracy. And there's supposed to be debate, and there's supposed to be contentiousness, and it's supposed to be hard to make big changes.<p>But ultimately, we got those changes done because we had leaders in Congress who were willing not just to put their fingers up to the wind, but instead were committed to doing what was right. And we're going to need more of that in not just the next couple of years, but for the next decade if we want to make sure that finally we are positioning ourselves so that our kids can live out the American Dream and we're handing an America off that is stronger than the one we inherited.<p>That's going to require some very tough choices. And I'll just use as one example fiscal issues. We do have a big debt, and we've got a big deficit. Most of it was structural and inherited from the previous administration, where we went to--from record surpluses to record deficits. A bunch of it is a consequence of this huge economic crisis that we just went through. But it is real, and we're going to have to deal with it.<p>And that means choices. And so when you've got the other party saying, let's provide $700 billion worth of tax cuts to the top 2 percent--so, many of the people in this room, those of us who don't need it and aren't asking for it and are not going to be making different decisions as a consequence of it--and we don't have this $700 billion, so we'd have to borrow it from China or Saudi Arabia or others, and when you've got the other side, in their \\"Pledge to America,\\" saying that a portion of this will be paid for by cutting education by 20 percent at a time when we know that the biggest determinant of our success is going to be how well our workforce is educated, that's the choice that makes this election so absolutely critical.<p>I mean, we made a different choice when it comes to education. Not only have we been willing to reform education--in ways that sometimes offends some of our core base--because it's the right thing to do, but we also, for example, took tens of billions of dollars that were going in unwarranted subsidies to banks, and they're now going to students in direct student loans and in increased Pell grants and making college much more affordable and boosting up our community colleges, which serve as a gateway for so many working families.<p>There are going to be choices like that repeatedly over the next year, the next 2 years, the next 5 years, where you make decisions about are we going to invest in our future, are we going to invest in our infrastructure, are we going to invest in research and development?<p>When we cut spending, do we do so intelligently with a scalpel to make sure that it's not hurting the most vulnerable and to make sure that it's not essentially impacting our ability to compete over the long term? Or are we just doing it in a knee-jerk fashion because of whatever is politically fashionable?<p>That's what's at stake in this election. But it's going to be hard. The only way we succeed is if we've got the ability to get out the message, particularly in this last week. Because we are getting snowed under by unsupervised spending, undisclosed spending through these front groups that so many of you have read about: Americans for Prosperity and Moms for Motherhood. That last one I made up. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But there are a whole bunch of groups out there, mostly run and coordinated by Republican operatives, as a consequence of the Supreme Court Citizens United decision that are just spending millions of dollars in----<p><i>Audience member.</i> And they're liars.<p><i>The President.</i> Well, and these ads completely distort Democrats' records. But it's a powerful force. I mean, if you're in a competitive House race right now, if you're in a State like Colorado and you just watch this stuff, I mean, it is just a blizzard of negative ads.<p>And so we're going to have to do our best to match that, mostly with the--just by telling the truth. But also we're going to have to have enough money to be able to get that truth out. And that's where all of you come in.<p>So I am grateful to all of you for the kind of support that you've already shown us. I want to just close by saying this. I meet a lot of people who say, boy, I got really involved in politics for the first time in 2008. I was so inspired, and I was so excited. And I knocked on doors, and my kids, they talked to me about it. They got involved. It was just a magical time, and then election night and Inauguration, and Beyonce was singing. [<i>Laughter</i>] And Michelle looked so pretty in her dress. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And I understand that excitement. It was a good thing because I think it reminded us of what is possible when citizens get involved. It was a moment where we overcame the cynicism of our politics and the conventional wisdom of Washington, and we said, you know what, when people join together, we can do amazing things, unlikely things.<p>And I know that over the course of the 2 years, sometimes, people feel like, gosh, that magical moment now has given way to just the grinding it out and filibusters and cable chatter. And you just start feeling like, boy, this is exhausting. And a lot of people come up and say that to me.<p>And yet I just want everybody to understand, because of you being involved, right now there's a woman in New Hampshire somewhere who doesn't have to give up her house to get her cancer treatments. And right now there are young people around the country who didn't think they could finance their college educations that now can. And right now there are incredible scientific experiments and research being done in cutting-edge areas that otherwise wouldn't be happening and might set the groundwork for amazing industries of the future. And right now there's small businesses here in Rhode Island that might have shut down in the middle of--in the depths of recession had we not made those investments. And right now there are 100,000 young men and women of incredible courage who are home because of what you've done.<p>So don't let people tell you you haven't made a difference. This is what change looks like. It is slow; it is methodical. There are times where we'll experience setbacks. But the trajectory is sound. We're going in the right direction. We just got to keep on going. So thank you, guys.<p>The last thing I have to do is to make sure that you all send your mayor to Congress. And I want to just say something special about David. I had a chance to meet him when I was still running--was I running for Senator or was I running for President at that point?<p><i>Mayor David N. Cicilline of Providence, RI.</i> For President.<p><i>The President.</i> I was already running for President. [<i>Laughter</i>] It all blurs together. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And when I came here, the interesting thing was, everybody I talked to said, boy, you should see our mayor. He's just like--he's exciting, and he's smart, and he's funny, and he's passionate. And I got to know David, and he was exactly as advertised--unless it's the other guy running them. [<i>Laughter</i>] None of that stuff is true.<p>Look, the truth of the matter is, we feel confident that David is going to be joining us in Congress because of the incredible support of all of you. But the key is making sure that when David gets there, he's able to get something done. And I promise you, it's a lot easier to get something done in the majority than in the minority. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So obviously, I need everybody. Don't take it for granted; run scared. I know he will. He's going to be knocking on doors and making phone calls. And you need to be doing the same on his behalf. But the fact that you're here tonight reminds us that even beyond this one particular race, we've got races all across the country with great candidates like David. And they need that support, and they need that help as well. And that's what you're showing here tonight.<p>So thank you so much to the Chaces. Thank you. I've got to get home because Michelle is on the road, so I've got to be home to tuck in the girls and walk the dog. [<i>Laughter</i>] And scoop the poop. [<i>Laughter</i>] So I apologize that I can't stay for dinner, but it looks simply spectacular. And again, I thank you all for being here tonight. All right?\" "
"311" "\"Thank you, everybody. Everybody, please have a seat. Thank you so much.<p>Let me just be clear: Biden's boss is Dr. Jill Biden. [<i>Laughter</i>] So let there be no confusion about that. <p>I want to begin obviously by recognizing my Vice President for the unbelievable leadership that he has shown for more than two decades on this issue, fighting alongside all the advocates who are here today. Great work. <p>He started holding hearings on domestic violence back in 1990. He wrote and gathered the support to pass the Violence Against Women's Act, a law that has saved countless lives, transformed how we address these all too pervasive crimes. And as Vice President, he hasn't let up. He is helping us to step up our efforts across all relevant Federal agencies. So nobody feels more passionately about this than Joe, and I am grateful to him for all of his leadership. We're really proud of him. <p>I also want to thank Valerie Jarrett, my Senior Adviser and Chair of our Council on Women and Girls. Valerie has helped to ensure that the issues that we're talking about today--the concerns of women and girls--are addressed at the highest levels of our Government. <p>I want to acknowledge Lynn Rosenthal, the first-ever adviser at the White House--[<i>applause</i>]. So we're proud of Lynn. I guess you know her. [<i>Laughter</i>] She's been calling you up a little bit. But she's doing great work helping to advise us on these issues.<p>I want to thank Judge Susan Carbon, the Director of the Office on Violence Against Women at the Department of Justice. We're proud of what we're doing here.<p>I want to thank my Secretary for Health and Human Services, Secretary Sebelius, who is helping to coordinate our efforts.<p>And finally, I want to thank everybody who is here today for the work that you're doing to stop domestic violence and to help its survivors. You've got champions like Senator Frank Lautenberg and Congresswoman Donna Edwards who have done extraordinary work in Congress. You've got leaders like Mayor Mitch Landrieu of New Orleans. And I think you already heard about some of the interesting work that they're doing down in that city. <p>There are so many organizations that are represented here today. We are very proud of you and what you do. I'm thrilled to see Joe Torre, who's here, who understands this issue personally and deeply, and for him to lend his name to this is extraordinarily important. And we hope that the Dodgers do better next year. [<i>Laughter</i>] My White Sox aren't doing so hot either, so--[<i>laughter</i>].<p>As you all know, domestic violence was for far too long seen as a lesser offense. As Valerie said, it was frequently treated like a private matter. Victims were often sent home from the hospital without intervention; children were left to suffer in silence. And as a consequence, abuse could go on for years. In many cases, this violence would only end with the death of a woman or a child.<p>And we've come an incredibly long way since that time. We have changed laws. We've made progress in changing the way people think about domestic abuse. As Joe pointed out, we've reduced the incidence of domestic violence. We've done so in no small part because of the advocacy of your organizations and the willingness of victims to tell their own stories, even when it's difficult.<p>And if there's one group that I want to thank, am grateful for, it's people who are willing to tell their stories, because it's hard. It's hard stuff. When Joe Torre stands up and talks about growing up in an abusive household, about being afraid to come home when he saw his dad's car parked in the front of the house, and finding a refuge in baseball, that connects in a way that no speech by a politician can connect. <p>As a consequence, he started Safe At Home, a foundation for children going through what he went through, and it's helping kids all across the country. <p>We're joined by Lori Stone and Ruth Glenn, both of whom were victims of years of violent abuse in their marriages. And they're sharing their stories in the hope that nobody else has to experience the pain and fear that they lived with every day.<p>Those stories remind us of how cruel, how menacing domestic violence can be because it happens at home, the place where you should feel safe; because the abuse comes at the hands of the people who are supposed to love you and trust you; because escaping domestic violence is not only associated with a great deal of fear, but also incredible financial and legal challenges that often leave victims of abuse feeling trapped.<p>That's what we have to change. And I say that not only as a President, but as a son, as a husband, as the father of two daughters. Now, we've made a great deal of progress in recent years. But everybody in this room understands that our work is not yet finished, not when there's more we can do to help folks looking to restart their lives and achieve financial independence; not when there's more to do to ensure that the victims of abuse have access to legal protection; not when children are trapped in abusive homes, especially when we know the lingering damage and despair that this can cause in a child's life; not when one in every four women experiences domestic violence and one in six women are sexually assaulted at some point in their lives.<p>It's not acceptable. And I know that Valerie and Joe spoke about some of our efforts in detail, but I just want to highlight a few key parts of what is a new, coordinated effort to protect victims and break the cycle of abuse.<p>We're helping the victims of violence to overcome the financial barriers they often face getting back on their feet. And Lori's experience serves as an example. Lori had not only--had suffered abuse at the hands of her husband physically, he also destroyed their credit. And she had to spend her limited savings on legal representation to keep custody of her children.<p>So we're going to start taking steps to connect survivors with jobs, to help them save, to make it easier for them to rebuild their credit, to make sure that no one has to choose between a violent home and no home at all. And--[<i>applause</i>].<p> Secretary Donovan at the Department of Housing and Urban Development is releasing new rules today to prevent the victims of domestic violence from being evicted or denied assisted housing because a crime was committed against them. That's not right, and we're going to put a stop to it. <p>We're also doing more to help the victims of domestic violence access legal services and protections. So today the Justice Department is releasing new tools and best practices to judges, to advocates, to law enforcement to help ensure that protective orders are issued and enforced. And the Vice President and the Justice Department are launching a new effort to help victims of domestic abuse find lawyers to represent them pro bono. You heard Joe talk about that. That's critical; that's important.<p>As the advocates in this room can attest, when a victim of abuse leaves a violent relationship, it's often a particularly vulnerable time. I know that's when Ruth Glenn was viciously attacked by her husband. And there are many stories like this--too many stories. We need to make sure that we're doing everything we can for victims in this critical period to ensure that folks who are seeking help and protection get that help and get that protection. That's our responsibility.<p>So these are just a few of the steps that we're taking. But the bottom line is this: Nobody in America should live in fear because they are unsafe in their own home--no adult, no child. And no one who is the victim of abuse should ever feel that they have no way to get out. We need to make sure every victim of domestic violence knows that they are not alone, that there are resources available to them in their moment of greatest need. And as a society, we need to ensure that if a victim of abuse reaches out for help, we are there to lend a hand.<p>This is not just the job of government, it's a job for all of us. So I want to thank all of you for the work that you do in your respective communities. And I want you to know that this administration is going to stand with you each and every step of the way.<p>So congratulations on your great work. We've got more work to do. And I couldn't be prouder to be part of this effort. Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"312" "\"Hello, everybody. Good to see you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Everybody, please have a seat. It is wonderful to be here at Stromberg Metal Works. And I want to thank Bob Gawne and his lovely bride of 58 years, Patricia, for their incredible hospitality.<p>I also want to note that you've got your great Senator from the State of Maryland, Ben Cardin, in the house. Give him a big round of applause. Your other Senator, Barbara Mikulski, couldn't make it but wanted me to say hello on her behalf, as well as Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, who couldn't make it but wants to say hello as well. And I know they are all incredibly proud of this amazing facility.<p>I just took a tour with Bob and saw a little bit of what you guys do here, saw the workers turning raw metal into sheets, cutting it into shapes, banging it into finished products. Everybody here is proud of what they do, and it shows in the great work that you do. This is a company with a proud history. Paul Stromberg, a former Navy metalsmith, founded it in 1940. In 1958, a young former marine--Bob--came on as chief engineer. And nearly 30 years later, Bob bought the company. Today, it is in its 70th year of operation, it is employee owned, it continues to grow. We've got a unionized workforce that--where folks who put in a hard day's work get a living wage that allows them to support a family. This is a community business where even during downturns and tough times, people are looking out for each other.<p>So it just describes, I think, what's best about America and what's best about American business. And we are very, very proud of you. It's an all-American success story, and I'm proud to be here. [<i>Applause</i>] That's right.<p>Now, this morning we learned that our economy grew at a rate of 2 percent over the last 3 months. We've had 9 consecutive months of private sector job growth, after nearly 2 years of job loss. But as we continue to dig out from the worst recession in 80 years, our mission is to accelerate that recovery and encourage more rapid growth so that businesses like this one can continue to prosper and we can get the millions of Americans who are still looking for jobs back to work.<p>Now, I don't believe that government can or should guarantee the success of this company or any company. I don't think Bob or any business owner expects government to guarantee success. Success has to be earned. It has to be earned the old-fashioned way through great ideas and hard work and great employees. That's the American way.<p>But there are times, like in the past few years, when our economy is hit with as devastating a blow as we've seen--when credit is frozen, when demand is stalled--that we've got a responsibility to offer temporary and targeted incentives to spur investment, to knock down the barriers that stand in your way, and to help create the conditions you need to grow and to hire and to prosper. And that's what we've done.<p>Since I took office, we've cut taxes for small businesses 16 times, 16 different tax cuts for small businesses. Instead of providing tax breaks for companies that are shipping jobs overseas, we're giving tax breaks to encourage companies to invest right here in the United States of America, in small businesses, in clean energy firms, in manufacturers, in businesses like this one. And we've taken steps to expand lending to small businesses, which, even with good credit, continue to have difficulty borrowing the capital they need to grow.<p>It's been just over 1 month since I signed the Small Business Jobs Act into law. And in that month--just 1 month, through just one provision in that bill--the Small Business Administration, the SBA, has supported nearly $3 billion in new loans to more than 5,000 small businesses across the country. That's fast. And we expect that when all is said and done, these steps will help support tens of billions of dollars in loans to our entrepreneurs so they can expand, they can grow, and they can hire new workers in communities like this one.<p>Now, that same initiative also accelerated $55 billion in new tax relief for businesses that make job-creating investments over the next year, including by extending a provision in the Recovery Act called business expensing, or bonus depreciation. Now, this is a pretty simple concept. What it does is allow a business like this one to immediately deduct 50 percent of the cost of certain investments like new equipment.<p>And I was talking to Bob, and he says he's got to buy a new piece of equipment for this plant basically every year. The reason this company is able to compete against low-wage countries, against nonunion workforces, is because it's got better equipment and it's got more skilled, better workers. That's the reason that it's succeeding. <p>So what I want to do to accelerate this recovery is to allow businesses of all sizes to immediately deduct the entire cost of these investments--100 percent--all next year, through the end of 2011. And that means that business owners like Bob who decide to upgrade their plants, upgrade their equipment, that means that they are able to write off immediately that depreciation in 1 year. And that means that they're going to have additional money to invest in workers and in other plants and equipment.<p>So let's just take the example of Stromberg. Let's say that a similar business is thinking about buying $1 million worth of additional shop equipment next year. Typically, the business might only be able to deduct the value of that new equipment over the course of several years. Under this proposal, a business like this one would be able to deduct all $1 million next year. That accelerates hundreds of thousands of dollars in tax cuts, real money that businesses can use to expand or hire new workers.<p>Now, this is not a shot in the dark. This is a proposal that works. A new report from the Treasury Department estimates that it will accelerate $150 billion in tax cuts for 2 million businesses large and small around the country.<p>It would temporarily lower the average cost of investment by more than 75 percent for companies like Stromberg, creating a powerful new incentive for businesses to invest more right now--perhaps about $50 billion--which will generate more jobs and more growth.<p>So this is a good idea. It's a proven idea. It's an idea that will allow more equipment to be purchased and, eventually, more folks to be hired. And it will put a dent in the jobless rate that we've got to keep on working on because it's way too high right now.<p>And look, I know we're at the height of political season. I just had my guy show me a little button showing that he had already voted--early voted. So I hope everybody else is using that as an example. But it is political season. Political season is going to be over soon. And when it does, all of us are going to have a responsibility, Democrats and Republicans, to work together wherever we can to promote jobs and growth.<p>And the idea I'm advancing today is one that both Democrats and Republicans should be able to support. In fact, Republicans have actually offered this idea in the past. It's a simple proposal that will make a serious difference for this company and others like it. It will encourage business investment right now. It will create jobs right now. It will help our economy grow right now. And when many of our friends and neighbors are still navigating through some tough times, that's what America needs right now.<p>When I hear Bob and Patricia talk about their lives together and building this--helping to build this company, I'm reminded that this country has been through tough times before. We've weathered tough times before. And it's precisely in those times that we regrouped, we reinvested, we retooled, and we rebuilt. It's in those times that we recaptured the ingenuity and the resilience that makes us a great people and makes this a great country.<p>And that's the spirit that we've got to recapture and unleash once again, a spirit of optimism and confidence and hope that has made America the most dynamic country in the world. And standing here with all of you, I am absolutely convinced that there are going to be brighter days ahead for America, an America where businesses like this one are leading our economy forward and workers like all of you are rewarded for the work that you do, where our middle class is growing again and investment is being made here in the United States again and the American Dream is back within the reach for all who are willing to work for it, where we're forging our future the way you forge your steel right here, with hard work and sweat, with American know-how and ingenuity, cooperating together, working together. That's how the folks who came before us built the first American century in plants just like this one. That's how we're going to make sure that the 21st century is an American century as well.<p>So thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless America. Bob and Patricia, thanks for the great work that you do. Thank you.\" "
"313" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. I want to briefly update the American people on a credible terrorist threat against our country and the actions that we're taking with our friends and our partners to respond to it.<p>Last night and earlier today, our intelligence and law enforcement professionals, working with our friends and allies, identified two suspicious packages bound for the United States, specifically, two places of Jewish worship in Chicago. Those packages have been located in Dubai and East Midlands Airport in the United Kingdom. An initial examination of those packages has determined that they do apparently contain explosive material.<p>I was alerted to this threat last night by my top counterterrorism adviser, John Brennan. I directed the Department of Homeland Security and all our law enforcement and intelligence agencies to take whatever steps are necessary to protect our citizens from this type of attack. Those measures led to additional screening of some planes in Newark and Philadelphia.<p>The Department of Homeland Security is also taking steps to enhance the safety of air travel, including additional cargo screening. We will continue to pursue additional protective measures for as long as it takes to ensure the safety and security of our citizens.<p>I've also directed that we spare no effort in investigating the origins of these suspicious packages and their connection to any additional terrorist plotting. Although we are still pursuing all the facts, we do know that the packages originated in Yemen. We also know that Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, a terrorist group based in Yemen, continues to plan attacks against our homeland, our citizens, and our friends and allies.<p>John Brennan, who you will be hearing from, spoke with President Salih of Yemen today about the seriousness of this threat, and President Salih pledged the full cooperation of the Yemeni Government in this investigation.<p>Going forward, we will continue to strengthen our cooperation with the Yemeni Government to disrupt plotting by Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula and to destroy this Al Qaida affiliate. We'll also continue our efforts to strengthen a more stable, secure, and prosperous Yemen so that terrorist groups do not have the time and space they need to plan attacks from within its borders.<p>The events of the past 24 hours underscores the necessity of remaining vigilant against terrorism. As usual, our intelligence, law enforcement, and homeland security professionals have served with extraordinary skill and resolve and with the commitment that their enormous responsibilities demand. We're also coordinating closely and effectively with our friends and our allies, who are essential to this fight.<p>As we obtain more information, we will keep the public fully informed. But at this stage, the American people should know that the counterterrorism professionals are taking this threat very seriously and are taking all necessary and prudent steps to ensure our security. And the American people should be confident that we will not waver in our resolve to defeat Al Qaida and its affiliates and to root out violent extremism in all its forms.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"314" "\"Tuesday is election day, and here in Washington, the talk is all about who will win and who will lose, about parties and politics. But around kitchen tables, I'm pretty sure you're talking about other things: about your family finances, or maybe the state of the economy in your hometown; about your kids and what their futures will bring. And your hope is that once this election is over, the folks you choose to represent you will put the politics aside for a while and work together to solve problems. That's my hope too.<p>Whatever the outcome on Tuesday, we need to come together to help put people who are still looking for jobs back to work. And there are some practical steps we can take right away to promote growth and encourage businesses to hire and expand. These are steps we all should be able to agree on, not Democratic or Republican ideas, but proposals that have traditionally been supported by both parties.<p>We ought to provide continued tax relief for middle class families who have borne the brunt of the recession. We ought to allow businesses to defer taxes on the equipment they buy next year. And we ought to make the research and experimentation tax credit bigger and permanent to spur innovation and foster new products and technologies.<p>Beyond these near-term steps, we should work together to tackle the broader challenges facing our country so that we remain competitive and prosperous in a global economy. That means ensuring that our young people have the skills and education to fill the jobs of a new age. That means building new infrastructure, from high-speed trains to high-speed internet, so that our economy has room to grow. And that means fostering a climate of innovation and entrepreneurship that will allow American businesses and American workers to lead in growth industries like clean energy.<p>On these issues--issues that will determine our success or failure in this new century--I believe it's the fundamental responsibility of all who hold elective office to seek out common ground. It may not always be easy to find agreement; at times we'll have legitimate philosophical differences. And it may not always be the best politics. But it is the right thing to do for our country.<p>That's why I found the recent comments by the top two Republicans in Congress so troubling. The Republican leader of the House actually said that \\"this is not the time for compromise.\\" And the Republican leader of the Senate said his main goal after this election is simply to win the next one.<p>I know that we're in the final days of a campaign, so it's not surprising that we're seeing this heated rhetoric. That's politics. But when the ballots are cast and the voting is done, we need to put this kind of partisanship aside, win, lose, or draw.<p>In the end, it comes down to a simple choice. We can spend the next 2 years arguing with one another, trapped in stale debates, mired in gridlock, unable to make progress in solving the serious problems facing our country. We can stand still while our competitors, like China and others around the world, try to pass us by, making the critical decisions that will allow them to gain an edge in new industries.<p>Or we can do what the American people are demanding that we do. We can move forward. We can promote new jobs and businesses by harnessing the talents and ingenuity of our people. We can take the necessary steps to help the next generation, instead of just worrying about the next election. We can live up to an allegiance far stronger than our membership in any political party. And that's the allegiance we hold to our country.<p>Thanks.\" "
"315" "\"Hello, everybody. I just want to make a few quick remarks to expand on some things that I said yesterday. Obviously, Tuesday was a big election. I've congratulated the Republicans and consoled some of our Democratic friends about the results. And I think it's clear that the voters sent a message, which is, they want us to focus on the economy and jobs and moving this country forward. They're concerned about making sure that taxpayer money is not wasted, and they want to change the tone here in Washington, where the two parties are coming together and focusing on the people's business, as opposed to scoring political points.<p>I just had a meeting with my Cabinet and key staff to let them know that we have to take that message to heart and make a sincere and consistent effort to try to change how Washington operates. And the folks around this table have done extraordinary work in their agencies. They have cooperated consistently with Congress. I think they are interested in bipartisan ideas. And so they are going to be integral in helping me to root out waste in Government, make our agencies more efficient, and generate more ideas so that we can put the American people back to work.<p>Now, at the same time, obviously, what's going to be critically important over the coming months is creating a better working relationship between this White House and the congressional leadership that's coming in, as well as the congressional leadership that carries over from the previous Congress. And so I want everybody to know that I have already called Mitch McConnell, John Boehner, Harry Reid, and Nancy Pelosi to invite them to a meeting here at the White House in the first week of the lame duck on November 18. This is going to be a meeting in which I want us to talk substantively about how we can move the American people's agenda forward. It's not just going to be a photo op. Hopefully, it may spill over into dinner. And the immediate focus is going to be what we need to get done during the lame duck session.<p>I mentioned yesterday, we have to act in order to assure that middle class families don't see a big tax spike because of how the Bush tax cuts have been structured. It is very important that we extend those middle class tax provisions to hold middle class families harmless.<p>But there are a whole range of other economic issues that have to be addressed: unemployment insurance for folks who are still out there looking for work; business extenders, which are essentially provisions to encourage businesses to invest here in the United States, and if we don't have those, we're losing a very important tool for us to be able to increase business investment and increase job growth over the coming year. We've got to provide businesses some certainty about what their tax landscape's going to look like, and we've got to provide families certainty. That's critical to maintain our recovery.<p>I should mention that in addition to those economic issues, there are some things during the lame duck that relate to foreign policy that are going to be very important for us to deal with, and I'll make mention of one in particular, and that's the START Treaty. We have negotiated with the Russians significant reductions in our nuclear arms. This is something that traditionally has received strong bipartisan support. We've got people like George Shultz, who helped to organize arms control treaties with the Russians back when it was the Soviet Union, who have come out forcefully in favor of this.<p>This is not a traditionally Democratic or Republican issue, but rather, a issue of American national security. And I am hopeful that we can get that done before we leave and send a strong signal to Russia that we are serious about reducing nuclear arsenals, but also send a signal to the world that we're serious about nonproliferation. We've made great progress when it comes to sending a message to Iran that they are isolated internationally, in part because people have seen that we are serious about taking our responsibilities when it comes to nonproliferation, and that has to continue.<p>So there is going to be a whole range of work that needs to get done in a relatively short period of time, and I'm looking forward to having a conversation with the leadership about some agenda items that they may be concerned about.<p>Last point I'll make is that I've also invited the newly elected Democratic and Republican Governors here to the White House on December 2 because I think it's a terrific opportunity to hear from them, folks who are working at the State and local levels, about what they're seeing, what ideas they think Washington needs to be paying more attention to.<p>A lot of times things are a little less ideological when you get Governors together, because they've got very practical problems that they've got to solve in terms of how do they make sure that roads and bridges are funded and how do they make sure that schools stay open and teachers stay on the job. That kind of nuts-and-bolts stuff, I think, oftentimes yields the kind of commonsense approach that the American people, I think, are looking for right now.<p>So in sum, we've got a lot of work to do. People are still catching their breath from the election. The dust is still settling. But the one thing I'm absolutely certain of is that the American people don't want us just standing still and they don't want us engaged in gridlock. They want us to do the people's business, partly because they understand that the world is not standing still.<p>I'm going to be leaving at the--tomorrow for India, and the primary purpose is to take a bunch of U.S. companies and open up markets so that we can sell in Asia, in some of the fastest growing markets in the world, and we can create jobs here in the United States of America. And my hope is, is that we've got some specific announcements that show the connection between what we're doing overseas and what happens here at home when it comes to job growth and economic growth.<p>But the bottom line is, is that all around the world, countries are moving. They are serious about competing. They are serious about competing with us not just on manufacturing, but on services. They're competing with us when it comes to educational attainment, when it comes to scientific discovery.<p>And so we can't afford 2 years of just squabbling. What we need to do is make sure that everybody is pulling together, Democrats and Republicans and Independents, folks at the Federal level and the State levels, private sector with the public sector, to make sure that America retains it competitiveness, retains its leadership in the world. And that's something that I'm very much looking forward to helping to be a part of.<p>So thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"316" "\"Good morning, everybody. We are in the middle of a tough fight to get our economy growing faster so that businesses across our country can open and expand, so that people can find good jobs, and so that we can repair the terrible damage that was done by the worst recession in our lifetimes. Today we received some encouraging news.<p>Based on today's jobs report, we've now seen private sector job growth for 10 straight months. That means that since January, the private sector has added 1.1 million jobs. Let me repeat: Over the course of the last several months, we've seen over a million jobs added to the American economy. In October, the private sector has added 159,000 jobs. And we learned that businesses added more than 100,000 jobs in both August and September as well. So we've now seen 4 months of private sector job growth above 100,000, which is the first time we've seen this kind of increase in over 4 years. <p>Now, that's not good enough. The unemployment rate is still unacceptably high, and we've got a lot of work to do. This recession caused a great deal of hardship, and it put millions of people out of work. So in order to repair this damage, in order to create the jobs to meet the large need, we need to accelerate our economic growth so that we are producing jobs at a faster pace. <p>Because the fact is an encouraging jobs report doesn't make a difference if you're still one of the millions of people who are looking for work. And I won't be satisfied until everybody who is looking for a job can find one. So we've got to keep fighting for every job, for every new business, for every opportunity to get this economy moving. And just as we passed a small-business jobs bill based on ideas of both parties and the private sector, I am open to any idea, any proposal, any way we can get the economy growing faster so that people who need work can find it faster.<p>This includes tax breaks for small businesses, like deferring taxes on new equipment, so that they've got an incentive to expand and hire, as well as tax cuts to make it cheaper for entrepreneurs to start companies. This includes building new infrastructure, from high-speed trains to high-speed Internet, so that our economy can run faster and smarter. It includes promoting research and innovation and creating incentives in growth sectors like the clean energy economy. And it certainly includes keeping tax rates low for middle class families and extending unemployment benefits to help those hardest hit in--by the downturn while generating more demand in the economy. <p>It's also absolutely clear that one of the keys to creating jobs is to open markets to American goods made by American workers. Our prosperity depends not just on consuming things, but also on being the maker of things. In fact, for every $1 billion we increase in exports, thousands of jobs are supported here at home. And that's why I've set a goal of doubling America's exports over the next 5 years. And that's why on the trip that I'm about to take, I'm going to be talking about opening up additional markets in places like India, so that American businesses can sell more products abroad in order to create more jobs here at home.<p>And this is a reminder, as well, that the most important competition we face in this new century will not be between Democrats and Republicans, it's the competition with countries around the world to lead the global economy. And our success or failure in this race will depend on whether we can come together as a nation. Our future depends on putting politics aside to solve problems, to worry about the next generation instead of the next election. <p>We can't spend the next 2 years mired in gridlock. Other countries, like China, aren't standing still. So we can't stand still either. We've got to move forward. <p>I'm confident that if we can do that, if we can work together, then this country will not only recover, but it will prosper. And I'm looking very much forward to helping to pry some markets open, help American businesses, and put people back to work here at home during the course of this trip. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"317" "\"On behalf of Michelle and myself, I want to say what an extraordinary honor it is to be here in India. I want to thank the people of Mumbai and all of you here today for your extraordinarily warm welcome. And I want to say to the people of India how much we are looking forward to spending the next 3 days in this remarkable country and to deepening the partnership between our two countries.<p>I know there's been a great deal of commentary on our decision to begin our visit here in this dynamic city, at this historic hotel. And to those who have asked whether this is intended to send a message, my answer is simply, absolutely. Mumbai is a symbol of the incredible energy and optimism that defines India in the 21st century. And ever since those horrific days 2 years ago, the Taj has been the symbol of the strength and the resilience of the Indian people. <p>So yes, we visit here to send a very clear message that in our determination to give our people a future of security and prosperity, the United States and India stand united.<p>A few moments ago, Michelle and I had the opportunity to visit the memorial here and to honor the memory of those who were lost. And we also had the privilege of meeting with some of their families, as well as some of the courageous survivors. I thank them all for joining us here today, along with so many others who endured the anguish of those 4 days in November.<p>We'll never forget the awful images of 26/11, including the flames from this hotel that lit up the night sky. We'll never forget how the world, including the American people, watched and grieved with all of India. <p>But the resolve and the resilience of the Indian people during those attacks stood in stark contrast to the savagery of the terrorists. The murderers came to kill innocent civilians that day. But those of you here risked everything to save human life.<p>You were strangers who helped strangers; hostages who worked together to break free and escape; hotel staff who stayed behind to escort guests to safety, including the hotel manager, even after he lost his own family; a nanny who braved the bullets to protect a young boy; and Indians in uniform who stopped the carnage and whose colleagues made the ultimate sacrifice.<p>The perpetrators wanted to pit believers of different faiths against one another, but they failed. Because here in Mumbai, the diversity that is India's strength was on full display: Hindus, Sikhs, Christians, Jews, and Muslims protecting each other, saving each other, living the common truth of all the world's great religions, that we are all children of God.<p>Those who attacked Mumbai wanted to demoralize this city and this country. But they failed, because the very next day, Mumbaikars came back to work. Hotel staff reported for their shifts; workers returned to their businesses. And within weeks, this hotel was once again welcoming guests from around the world.<p>By striking the places where our countries and people come together, those who perpetrated these horrific attacks hoped to drive us apart. But just as Indian citizens lost their lives on 9/11, American citizens lost their lives here on 26/11, along with the citizens of many nations. And just as our people prayed together at candlelight vigils, our Governments have worked closer than ever, sharing intelligence, preventing more attacks, and demanding that the perpetrators be brought to justice.<p>Indeed, today, the United States and India are working together more closely than ever to keep our people safe. And I look forward to deepening our counterterrorism cooperation even further when I meet with Prime Minister Singh in New Delhi.<p>We go forward with confidence, knowing that history is on our side. Because those who target the innocent, they offer nothing but death and destruction. What we seek to build--to welcome people of different faiths and backgrounds and to offer our citizens a future of dignity and opportunity--that is the spirit of the gateway behind us, which in its architecture reflects all the beauty and strength of different faiths and traditions and which has welcomed people to this city for a century.<p>That is the hope that in towns and villages across India, across this vast nation, leads people to board crowded trains and set out to forge their futures in this city of dreams. And that is the shared determination of India and the United States, two partners that will never waver in our defense of our people or the democratic values that we share.<p>For just as your first Prime Minister said the day that the father of your nation was taken from you, we shall never allow that torch of freedom to be blown out, however high the wind or stormy the tempest. We believe that in America, and we know you believe it here in India.<p>God bless you, and thank you very much.\" "
"318" "\"This week, Americans across the country cast their votes and made their voices heard. And your message was clear. You're rightly frustrated with the pace of our economic recovery. So am I. You're fed up with partisan politics and want results. I do too.<p>So I congratulate all of this week's winners: Republicans, Democrats, and Independents. But now the campaign season is over, and it's time to focus on our shared responsibilities to work together and deliver those results: speeding up our economic recovery, creating jobs, and strengthening the middle class so that the American Dream feels like it's back within reach.<p>That's why I've asked to sit down soon with leaders of both parties so that we can have an extended discussion about what we can do together to move this country forward. And over the next few weeks, we're going to have a chance to work together in the brief upcoming session of Congress. <p>Here's why this lame duck session is so important. Early in the last decade, President Bush and Congress enacted a series of tax cuts that were designed to expire at the end of this year. What that means is, if Congress doesn't act by New Year's Eve, middle class families will see their taxes go up starting on New Year's Day.<p>But the last thing we should do is raise taxes on middle class families. For the past decade, they saw their costs rise, their incomes fall, and too many jobs go overseas. They're the ones bearing the brunt of the recession. They're the ones having trouble making ends meet. They're the ones who need relief right now.<p>So something's got to be done, and I believe there's room for us to compromise and get it done together.<p>Let's start where we agree. All of us want certainty for middle class Americans. None of us want them to wake up on January 1 with a higher tax bill. That's why I believe we should permanently extend the Bush tax cuts for all families making less than $250,000 a year. That's 98 percent of the American people. <p>We also agree on the need to start cutting spending and bringing down our deficit. That's going to require everyone to make some tough choices. In fact, if Congress were to implement my proposal to freeze nonsecurity discretionary spending for 3 years, it would bring this spending down to its lowest level as a share of the economy in 50 years. <p>But at a time when we are going to ask folks across the board to make such difficult sacrifices, I don't see how we can afford to borrow an additional $700 billion from other countries to make all the Bush tax cuts permanent, even for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans. We'd be digging ourselves into an even deeper fiscal hole and passing the burden on to our children. <p>I recognize that both parties are going to have to work together and compromise to get something done here. But I want to make my priorities clear from the start. One, middle class families need permanent tax relief. And two, I believe we can't afford to borrow and spend another $700 billion on permanent tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires.<p>There are new public servants in Washington, but we still face the same challenges. And you made it clear that it's time for results. This is a great opportunity to show everyone that we got the message and that we're willing, in this postelection season, to come together and do what's best for the country we all love.<p>Thanks.\" "
"319" "\"Thank you very much. Please, everyone, be seated. Good afternoon, everyone. Namaste. Thank you all for an extraordinarily warm welcome. And before I get started, I just want to acknowledge some outstanding public servants, some wonderful dignitaries who are in the room: Anand Sharma, our Commerce and Industry Minister here in India; Khurshid Salman, the Minister of Corporate Affairs and Minority Affairs, who's here; Dr. Montek Singh Ahluwalia, State Planning Commission deputy chairman; Gary Locke, who is the Secretary of Commerce for the United States; Terry McGraw, the chairman of the U.S.-India Business Council; Hari Bhartia, the president of the Confederation of Indian Industries; and Rajan Bharti Mittal, president of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry. <p>On behalf of my wife Michelle and myself, thank you to the people of Mumbai and the people India for the incredible hospitality you have already shown just in the few hours since I've arrived in this magnificent country. <p>We are especially honored to be here as you celebrate Diwali. Now, last year I was--[<i>applause</i>]. Some of you may know this, last year, I was honored to become the first American President to help celebrate the Festival of Lights in the White House. And I know that today families are lighting their diyas and giving thanks for their blessings and looking ahead to the new year. So to all of you who are observing this sacred holiday here and around the world, happy Diwali and Saal Mubarak. <p>I want to thank all the organizations that have brought us together today, as well as the business leaders, the CEOs, the Government officials who have joined us here in Mumbai. I just had some incredibly productive discussions with American business leaders and Indian entrepreneurs, and today I want to speak with you about why we all benefit from the strengthening ties between our nations.<p>This is my first trip to India, but this will be my longest visit to another country since becoming President. And that's because I believe that the relationship between the United States and India will be one of the defining and indispensable partnerships of the 21st century. <p>Our nations are the two largest democracies on Earth. We are bound by a common language and common values, shared aspirations, and a shared belief that opportunity should be limited only by how hard you're willing to work, only by how hard you are willing to try. Trade and commerce between our people has been happening for centuries, even before we were independent nations. Indian immigrants crossed oceans to work on farms in the United States, and later generations came to practice medicine and do cutting-edge research and to start businesses. American researchers, in turn, partnered with Indian scientists to launch the Green Revolution that transformed life for generations of Indians. Americans have helped build India, and India has helped to build America. <p>Today, your country is one of the fastest growing economies in the world. And while there are many amazing success stories and rapidly expanding markets in Asia, the sheer size and pace of India's progress in just two decades is one of the most stunning achievements in human history. This is a fact. Since your reform of the Licensing Raj and embrace of the global economy, India has lifted tens of millions of people from poverty and created one of the largest middle classes on the planet. <p>You are now a nation of rapid growth and rising incomes and massive investments in infrastructure and energy and education. In the coming decades, you will be the world's most populous nation, with the largest workforce and one of the largest economies in the world. Now, undoubtedly, that means that the United States and India will engage in a healthy competition for markets and jobs and industries of the future. But it also offers the prospect of expanded commercial ties that strongly benefit both countries. <p>The United States sees Asia, and especially India, as a market of the future. We don't simply welcome your rise as a nation and a people, we ardently support it. We want to invest in it. And I'm here because I believe that in our interconnected world, increased commerce between the United States and India can be and will be a win-win proposition for both nations. <p>I realize that for some, this truth may not be readily apparent. I want to be honest. There are many Americans whose only experience with trade and globalization has been a shuttered factory or a job that was shipped overseas. And there still exists a caricature of India as a land of call centers and back offices that cost American jobs. That's a real perception. Here in India, I know that many still see the arrival of American companies and products as a threat to small shopkeepers and to India's ancient and proud culture. <p>But these old stereotypes, these old concerns ignore today's reality: In 2010, trade between our countries is not just a one-way street of American jobs and companies moving to India. It is a dynamic, two-way relationship that is creating jobs, growth, and higher living standards in both our countries. And that is the truth. <p>As we look to India today, the United States sees an opportunity to sell our exports in one of the fastest growing markets in the world. For America, this is a jobs strategy. As we recover from this recession, we are determined to rebuild our economy on a new, stronger foundation for growth. And part of that foundation involves doing what America has always been known for: discovering and creating and building the products that are sold all over the world. That's why I've set a goal of doubling America's exports over the next 5 years, because for every $1 billion in exports, thousands of jobs are supported at home.<p>And already, our exports to India have quadrupled in recent years, growing much faster than our exports to many other countries. The goods we sell in this country currently support tens of thousands of manufacturing jobs across the United States, from California and Washington to Pennsylvania and Florida. And that doesn't even include all the American jobs supported by our other exports to India, from agriculture to travel to educational services. <p>As we speak, American-made machinery is helping India improve its infrastructure, including the new airport here in Mumbai where I landed this morning. This year, there was a new sight on India's highways, American-made Harley-Davidson motorcycles. [<i>Laughter</i>] A growing number of American-made aircraft are taking flight in your skies. And soon there will be more. <p>That's because today, just moments before I arrived here, several landmark deals were sealed between the United States and India. Boeing, one of America's largest companies, is on track to sell India dozens of commercial and cargo aircraft. General Electric, another American company, will sell more than a hundred advanced jet engines. And I'm pleased that two U.S. firms are finalists for a major locomotive tender. Now, these are just a few of the more than 20 deals being announced today, totaling nearly $10 billion in U.S. exports. <p>From medical equipment and helicopters to turbines and mining equipment, American companies stand ready to support India's growing economy, the needs of your people, and your ability to defend this nation. And today's deals will lead to more than 50,000 jobs in the United States--50,000 jobs--everything from high-tech jobs in Southern California to manufacturing jobs in Ohio. <p>Now, these are major deals that are significant for both our nations. But our trade relationship is not just about what America sells India, it's also about what Indian investment in America is doing. Indian investment in America is among the fastest growing of any country. In recent years, Indian companies have invested billions of dollars in the United States: in American machinery, manufacturing, mining, research, technology. Today, these investments support tens of thousands of American jobs.<p>And at the same time, hundreds of American companies, including many small businesses, are investing in India, not just in telecommunications, but in industries from clean energy to agriculture. This means more choices for Indian consumers and more jobs for Indians and Americans. <p>Our relationship is also about more than the goods that we sell or the investments we make; it's about the innovative partnerships we forge in the name of progress. Before I came here, I had a fascinating meeting. I met with business leaders from both our countries, including some incredibly young Indian entrepreneurs. And what's fascinating is the way that they are now partnering to take technology that has had one application and use in the United States and found entirely new uses and new business models here in India.<p>They're working together to make cell towers across India that can run on solar and not diesel. They're putting American technology into Indian electric cars, they're trying to bring new filtration systems and clean drinking water to rural India, and they're trying to develop better drugs for diseases like malaria. These are examples of American companies doing well and Indian companies doing well.<p>And these partnerships remind us that by pursuing trade and commerce, we are unleashing the most powerful force the world has ever known for eradicating poverty and creating opportunity, and that's broad-based economic growth.<p>Now, despite all this progress, the economic relationship between the United States and India is still one of enormous untapped potential. Of all the goods that India imports, less than 10 percent come from the United States. Of all the goods that America exports to the world, less than 2 percent go to India. Our entire trade with your country is still less than our trade with the Netherlands; this is a country with a smaller population than the city of Mumbai. As a result, India is only our 12th largest trade partner.<p>I have no doubt we can do better than that; we can do much better. There's no reason this nation can't be one of our top trading partners. And that's why we want to work together with you to remove the barriers to increased trade and investment between our nations. <p>In the United States, we're committed to doing our part. With India and our other G-20 partners, we've resisted the protectionism that would have plunged the global economy even deeper into recession. Today, our country remains one of the most open economies in the world. And while I make no apologies about doing whatever it takes to encourage job creation and business investment in America, I still work to make sure our efforts don't unfairly target companies and workers from this nation or any nation. <p>And to further increase our exports to places like India, we're marshalling the full resources of the United States Government to help our companies sell their goods and services in other markets. We're increasing export financing for small and medium-sized businesses. We're being a better advocate for our businesses. We're increasing our trade missions. In fact, my Secretary of Commerce, Gary Locke, will be leading another trade mission to India in the next few months. And we're reforming our export control system, so that even as we strengthen our national security, we make sure that unnecessary barriers don't stand in the way of high-tech trade between our countries. Today I'm pleased to announce that we will work with India to fundamentally reform our controls on exports, which will allow greater cooperation in a range of high-tech sectors and strengthen our nonproliferation efforts. <p>So we're taking the necessary steps to strengthen this relationship. India can also do its part. Over the past two decades, it has become much easier for companies to do business and invest here in India. It was striking talking to some of the American CEOs who are here who've come frequently over decades and seen the incredible progress that's been made. But I don't think it's any secret that infrastructure, regulatory barriers, and other issues of uncertainty still pose some serious challenges. <p>Today, India is making major investments in its infrastructure and creating greater transparency to support growth and entrepreneurship. Going forward, that commitment must be matched by a steady reduction in barriers to trade and foreign investment--from agriculture to infrastructure, from retail to telecommunications--because in a global economy, new growth and jobs flow to countries that lower barriers to trade and investment. <p>These are steps we can take together to strengthen the economic ties between our nations, ties that hold incredible promise for our people and our future: the promise of new jobs, new industries, and new growth. Whether or not that promise is fulfilled depends on us, on the decisions we make and the partnership we build in the coming years. <p>We must admit it won't always be an easy road, but as I stand here today, I can tell you that I'm absolutely confident we will meet this challenge, because in our two nations, I see the fundamental ingredients to success in the 21st century. <p>I'm confident because we both cherish the entrepreneurial spirit that empowers innovation and risk-taking and allows them to turn a good idea into a new product or company that changes the world. And we have examples of Indian entrepreneurs and American entrepreneurs sitting right here who've already begun to do that.<p>And I'm confident because we both know that for those businesses to thrive, our nations need to invest in science and technology, in research and development, and an infrastructure for the 21st century. <p>I'm confident because we both recognize that knowledge is the currency of the future and that we must give our children the skills and education that success requires in a global economy. <p>And I'm confident because our countries are blessed with the most effective form of government the world has ever known: democracy. Even if it can be slow at times, even if it can be messy, even if sometimes the election doesn't turn out as you'd like. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>For we know that when governments are accountable to their people, their people are more likely to prosper and that, over the long run, democracy and economic growth, freedom in the political sphere and freedom in the economic sphere, go hand in hand. We believe that.<p>What gives me the most confidence about our future is our greatest resource, the drive and ingenuity of our people: workers and entrepreneurs, students and innovators, Indians and Americans, including the nearly 3 million Indian Americans who bind our nations together. <p>For despite all the sweeping changes of the last few decades, from the reform of the Licensing Raj to the technological revolutions that continue to shape our global economy, it has been people who have driven our progress. It is individual men and women like you who put their shoulder to the wheel of history and push: an American scientist who discovers an agricultural breakthrough; an Indian engineer who builds the next-generation electric car; a small-business owner in Detroit who sells his product to a new company in New Delhi; and all the Mumbaikars who get up every day in this \\"City of Dreams\\" to forge a better life for their children, from the boardrooms of world-class Indian companies to the shops in the winding alleys of Dharavi. <p>This is the spirit of optimism and determination that has driven our people since before we were nations, the same spirit that will drive our future. And that's why I'm thrilled to be in India and with you here today. And that's why I'm confident that we can and will forge new economic partnerships and deliver the jobs and broad-based growth that our peoples so richly deserve. And I am absolutely certain that the relationship between the United States and India is going to be one of the defining partnerships of the 21st century. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"320" "\"Well, here's the good news, is that in the United States we are trying to do some of the same things that you're doing: trying to make government more transparent, trying to make government more accountable, trying to make government more efficient. And one of the incredible benefits of the technology we're seeing right here is that in many ways India may be in a position to leapfrog some of the intermediate stages of government service delivery, avoiding some of the 20th-century mechanisms for delivering services and going straight to the 21st.<p>But many of the issues that you're talking about here are ones that we're trying to apply in the United States as well. For example, in many rural areas in the United States, it's hard sometimes to get to a hospital. Even though the infrastructure may be better developed, there's still significant distances. And to the extent that we can use technology to provide people with basic health information--in some cases, simple diagnoses--that can save people time, it can save the Government money, and we can end up with better health outcomes. And obviously, the same applies for all the services you mentioned.<p>So I want to congratulate all of you for doing the terrific work. And I look forward to watching this terrific experiment in democracy continue to expand all throughout India, and you'll be a model for countries around the world.\" "
"321" "\"Well, first of all, I want to thank all the people of India for the extraordinary hospitality and welcome that Michelle and I and my delegation have already received. <p>And we took this trip with the intention of strengthening what is already an incredible friendship between the United States and India. As I've said earlier during my visit, I believe that the partnership between the United States and India will be one of the defining partnerships of the 21st century. We are the two largest democracies in the world. We share extraordinary people-to-people contacts. Most importantly, we share a core set of values. <p>And my hope is that during the course of these discussions between myself and the Prime Minister, myself and the President, and other members of the Indian delegation, that we will be able to continue to build on the commercial ties that we already have to strengthen our cooperation in our bilateral relations in the international economy; that we'll be able to focus on issues like counterterrorism in order to assure that both the United States and India are secure well into the future; that we can build on the people-to-people ties that are in part grounded in the millions of Indian Americans who contribute so much to our country and help give us an appreciation of Indian life; and that, given that India is not simply an emerging power, but now is a world power, that the United States and India will be able to work together to promote the international principles, the rules of interaction between nations that can promote peace and stability and prosperity not only for our two nations, but for the world as a whole.<p>So to all the people of India, Michelle and I express our extraordinary thanks for the wonderful hospitality that we've received, and also we want to send our warmest regards from the people of the United States to all the people of India.<p>Thank you so much.\" "
"322" "\"Madam President, thank you for your very gracious words and for the example of your leadership that inspires so many women, as well as men, across this nation. I was observing that one of the reasons I think India is doing so well is because it has so many strong women leaders. And I want to thank you and Dr. Shekhawat for hosting us this evening and your extraordinary hospitality.<p>To our dear friends, Prime Minister Singh and Mrs. Kaur; to distinguished guests; ladies and gentlemen: On behalf of Michelle and I, we just want to thank you for this extraordinary expression of friendship between our two nations.<p>I've done a lot of speaking today, so I want to be relatively brief. We've learned several things from this trip in India. We've learned that despite geographic distances between our nations, we are now closer than ever before. We've learned that although we may have traveled different paths to reach this moment in history, that we can walk towards the future together. We've also learned that no matter how hard I try, Michelle will always be a better dancer. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Let me say, it's been a particular pleasure to be here during Diwali. And last year during the state visit when Prime Minister Singh and Mrs. Kaur came, it was during our Thanksgiving season. And the fact that we can share some of our most meaningful holidays with each other speaks to the closeness of our countries and the values that we share as well as the common hopes for the future.<p>To my good friend and partner, Prime Minister Singh, from humble beginnings to high office, your life reflects all the progress and possibility of this great nation. And so all of us thank you not only for leading this nation and our partnership to new heights, but for the spirit with which you've led your life, with compassion, truth, commitment, humility, and love.<p>And to all who are gathered here tonight and to the people of India, for the past 3 days you've opened your country to us. Like so many before, we learned that you don't simply visit India, you experience India, in the richness of its traditions, in its diversity, the optimism and the warmth of its people.<p>From extraordinarily difficult circumstances, India has achieved what many thought was impossible. And in doing so, you captured the imagination of the world. Now our two nations have a chance to do what many also thought was impossible, and that is to build a global partnership in a new century.<p>And so I'd like to close with the words that your President spoke in this building on the day that India declared itself a republic, words describing how this diverse nation has stayed united and strong and because they speak to the spirit that binds our two countries together as well.<p>I propose a toast, knowing that our ties subsist because they are not of iron or steel or even of gold, but of the silken cords of the human spirit. Cheers.\" "
"323" "\"Mr. Vice President, Madam Speaker, Mr. Prime Minister, Members of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, and most of all, the people of India: I thank you for the great honor of addressing the representatives of more than 1 billion Indians and the world's largest democracy. I bring the greetings and friendship of the world's oldest democracy, the United States of America, including nearly 3 million proud and patriotic Indian Americans. <p>Over the past 3 days, my wife Michelle and I have experienced the beauty and dynamism of India and its people, from the majesty of Humayun's Tomb to the advanced technologies that are empowering farmers and women who are the backbone of Indian society; from the Diwali celebrations with schoolchildren to the innovators who are fueling India's economic rise; from the university students who will chart India's future to you, leaders who helped to bring India to this moment of extraordinary promise.<p>At every stop, we have been welcomed with the hospitality for which Indians have always been known. So to you and the people of India, on behalf of me, Michelle, and the American people, please accept my deepest thanks. Bahoot dhanyavad.<p>Now, I am not the first American President to visit India, nor will I be the last. But I am proud to visit India so early in my Presidency. It's no coincidence that India is my first stop on a visit to Asia, or that this has been my longest visit to another country since becoming President. For in Asia and around the world, India is not simply emerging, India has emerged. <p>And it is my firm belief that the relationship between the United States and India, bound by our shared interests and our shared values, will be one of the defining partnerships of the 21st century. This is the partnership that I've come here to build. This is the vision that our nations can realize together.<p>My confidence in our shared future is grounded in my respect for India's treasured past, a civilization that's been shaping the world for thousands of years. Indians unlocked the intricacies of the human body and the vastness of our universe. It's no exaggeration to say that our information age is rooted in Indian innovations, including the number zero.<p>Of course, India not only opened our minds, she expanded our moral imaginations with religious texts that still summon the faithful to lives of dignity and discipline, with poets who imagined a future \\"where the mind is without fear and the head is held high,\\" and with a man whose message of love and justice endures, the father of your nation, Mahatma Gandhi. <p>For me and Michelle, this visit has therefore held special meaning. See, throughout my life, including my work as a young man on behalf of the urban poor, I've always found inspiration in the life of Gandhi and his simple and profound lesson to be the change we seek in the world. And just as he summoned Indians to seek their destiny, he influenced champions of equality in my own country, including a young preacher named Martin Luther King. After making his pilgrimage to India a half-century ago, Dr. King called Gandhi's philosophy of nonviolent resistance \\"the only logical and moral approach\\" in the struggle for justice and progress. <p>So we were honored to visit the residence where Gandhi and King both stayed, Mani Bhavan. And we were humbled to pay our respects at Raj Ghat. And I am mindful that I might not be standing before you today, as President of the United States, had it not been for Gandhi and the message he shared and inspired with America and the world. <p>An ancient civilization of science and innovation, a fundamental faith in human progress, this is the sturdy foundation upon which you have built ever since that stroke of midnight when the tricolor was raised over a free and independent India. And despite the skeptics who said this country was simply too poor or too vast or too diverse to succeed, you surmounted overwhelming odds and became a model to the world. <p>Instead of slipping into starvation, you launched a Green Revolution that fed millions. Instead of becoming dependent on commodities and exports, you invested in science and technology and in your greatest resource, the Indian people. And the world sees the results, from the supercomputers you build to the Indian flag that you put on the Moon.<p>Instead of resisting the global economy, you became one of its engines, reforming the Licensing Raj and unleashing an economic marvel that has lifted tens of millions of people from poverty and created one of the world's largest middle classes.<p>Instead of succumbing to division, you have shown that the strength of India--the very idea of India--is its embrace of all colors, all castes, all creeds. It's the diversity represented in this chamber today. It's the richness of faiths celebrated by a visitor to my hometown of Chicago more than a century ago, the renowned Swami Vivekananda. He said that \\"holiness, purity, and charity are not the exclusive possessions of any church in the world, and that every system has produced men and women of the most exalted character.\\"<p>And instead of being lured by the false notion that progress must come at the expense of freedom, you built the institutions upon which true democracy depends: free and fair elections, which enable citizens to choose their own leaders without recourse to arms; an independent judiciary and the rule of law, which allows people to address their grievances; and a thriving free press and vibrant civil society, which allows every voice to be heard. This year, as India marks 60 years with a strong and democratic constitution, the lesson is clear: India has succeeded not in spite of democracy, India has succeeded because of democracy.<p>Now, just as India has changed, so too has the relationship between our two nations. In the decades after independence, India advanced its interests as a proud leader of the nonaligned movement. Yet too often, the United States and India found ourselves on opposite sides of a north-south divide, estranged by a long cold war. Those days are over.<p>Here in India, two successive Governments led by different parties have recognized that deeper partnership with America is both natural and necessary. And in the United States, both of my predecessors--one a Democrat, one a Republican--worked to bring us closer, leading to increased trade and a landmark civil nuclear agreement. <p>So since that time, people in both our countries have asked: What's next? How can we build on this progress and realize the full potential of our partnership? That's what I want to address today, the future that the United States seeks in an interconnected world, and why I believe that India is indispensable to this vision; how we can forge a truly global partnership, not just in one or two areas, but across many; not just for our mutual benefit, but for the benefit of the world.<p>Of course, only Indians can determine India's national interests and how to advance them on the world stage. But I stand before you today because I am convinced that the interests of the United States--and the interests we share with India--are best advanced in partnership. I believe that. <p>The United States seeks security: the security of our country, our allies, and partners. We seek prosperity, a strong and growing economy in an open international economic system. We seek respect for universal values. And we seek a just and sustainable international order that promotes peace and security by meeting global challenges through stronger global cooperation.<p>Now, to advance these interests, I have committed the United States to comprehensive engagement with the world, based on mutual interest and mutual respect. And a central pillar of this engagement is forging deeper cooperation with 21st-century centers of influence, and that must necessarily include India. <p>Now, India is not the only emerging power in the world. But relationships between our countries is unique, for we are two strong democracies whose Constitutions begin with the same revolutionary words: \\"We the people.\\" We are two great republics dedicated to the liberty and justice and equality of all people. And we are two free market economies where people have the freedom to pursue ideas and innovation that can change the world. And that's why I believe that India and America are indispensable partners in meeting the challenges of our time. <p>Since taking office, I've therefore made our relationship a priority. I was proud to welcome Prime Minister Singh for the first official state visit of my Presidency. For the first time ever, our Governments are working together across the whole range of common challenges that we face. Now, let me say it as clearly as I can: The United States not only welcomes India as a rising global power, we fervently support it, and we have worked to help make it a reality.<p>Together with our partners, we have made the G-20 the premier forum for international economic cooperation, bringing more voices to the table of global economic decisionmaking, and that has included India. We've increased the role of emerging economies like India at international financial institutions. We valued India's important role at Copenhagen, where for the first time, all major economies committed to take action to confront climate change and to stand by those actions. We salute India's long history as a leading contributor to United Nations peacekeeping missions. And we welcome India as it prepares to take its seat on the United Nations Security Council.<p>In short, with India assuming its rightful place in the world, we have an historic opportunity to make the relationship between our two countries a defining partnership of the century ahead. And I believe we can do so by working together in three important areas.<p>First, as global partners we can promote prosperity in both our countries. Together, we can create the high-tech, high-wage jobs of the future. With my visit, we are now ready to begin implementing our civil nuclear agreement. This will help meet India's growing energy needs and create thousands of jobs in both of our countries.<p>We need to forge partnerships in high-tech sectors like defense and civil space. So we've removed Indian organizations from our so-called entity list. And we will work to remove--and reform our controls on exports. Both of these steps will ensure that Indian companies seeking high-tech trade and technologies from America are treated the same as our very closest allies and partners.<p>We can pursue joint research and development to create green jobs, give India more access to cleaner, affordable energy, meet the commitments we made at Copenhagen, and show the possibilities of low-carbon growth.<p>And together, we can resist the protectionism that stifles growth and innovation. The United States remains--and will continue to remain--one of the most open economies in the world. And by opening markets and reducing barriers to foreign investment, India can realize its full economic potential as well. As G-20 partners, we can make sure the global economic recovery is strong and is durable. And we can keep striving for a Doha round that is ambitious and is balanced, with the courage to make the compromises that are necessary so global trade works for all economies.<p>Together, we can strengthen agriculture. Cooperation between Indian and American researchers and scientists sparked the Green Revolution. Today, India is a leader in using technology to empower farmers, like those I met yesterday who get free updates on market and weather conditions on their cell phones. And the United States is a leader in agricultural productivity and research. Now, as farmers and rural areas face the effects of climate change and drought, we'll work together to spark a second, more sustainable Evergreen Revolution. <p>Together, we're improving Indian weather forecasting systems before the next monsoon season. We aim to help millions of Indian farmers--farming households save water and increase productivity, improve food processing so crops don't spoil on the way to market, and enhance climate and crop forecasting to avoid losses that cripple communities and drive up food prices. <p>And as part of our food security initiative, we're going to share India's expertise with farmers in Africa. And this is an indication of India's rise, that we can now export hard-earned expertise to countries that see India as a model for agricultural development. It's another powerful example of how American and Indian partnership can address an urgent global challenge.<p>Because the wealth of a nation also depends on the health of its people, we'll continue to support India's effort against diseases like tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS, and as global partners, we'll work to improve global health by preventing the spread of pandemic flu. And because knowledge is the currency of the 21st century, we will increase exchanges between our students, our colleges, and our universities, which are among the best in the world. <p>As we work to advance our shared prosperity, we can partner to address a second priority, and that is our shared security. In Mumbai, I met with the courageous families and survivors of that barbaric attack. And here in Parliament, which was itself targeted because of the democracy it represents, we honor the memory of all those who have been taken from us, including American citizens on 26/11 and Indian citizens on 9/11. <p>This is the bond that we share. It's why we insist that nothing ever justifies the slaughter of innocent men, women, and children. It's why we're working together, more closely than ever, to prevent terrorist attacks and to deepen our cooperation even further. And it's why, as strong and resilient societies, we refuse to live in fear. We will not sacrifice the values and rule of law that defines us, and we will never waver in the defense of our people.<p>America's fight against Al Qaida and its terrorist affiliates is why we persevere in Afghanistan, where major development assistance from India has improved the lives of the Afghan people. We're making progress in our mission to break the Taliban's momentum and to train Afghan forces so they can take the lead for their security. And while I have made it clear that American forces will begin the transition to Afghan responsibility next summer, I've also made it clear that America's commitment to the Afghan people will endure. The United States will not abandon the people of Afghanistan--or the region--to violent extremists who threaten us all. <p>Our strategy to disrupt and dismantle and defeat Al Qaida and its affiliates has to succeed on both sides of the border. And that's why we have worked with the Pakistani Government to address the threat of terrorist networks in the border region. The Pakistani Government increasingly recognizes that these networks are not just a threat outside of Pakistan, they are a threat to the Pakistani people as well. They've suffered greatly at the hands of violent extremists over the last several years. <p>And we'll continue to insist to Pakistan's leaders that terrorist safe havens within their borders are unacceptable and that terrorists behind the Mumbai attacks must be brought to justice. We must also recognize that all of us have an interest in both an Afghanistan and a Pakistan that is stable and prosperous and democratic, and India has an interest in that as well. <p>In pursuit of regional security, we will continue to welcome dialogue between India and Pakistan, even as we recognize that disputes between your two countries can only be resolved by the people of your two countries. <p>More broadly, India and the United States can partner in Asia. Today, the United States is once again playing a leadership role in Asia: strengthening old alliances; deepening relationships, as we are doing with China; and we're reengaging with regional organizations like ASEAN and joining the East Asia summit, organizations in which India is also a partner. Like your neighbors in Southeast Asia, we want India not only to Look East, we want India to Engage East, because it will increase the security and prosperity of all our nations.<p>As two global leaders, the United States and India can partner for global security, especially as India serves on the Security Council over the next 2 years. Indeed, the just and sustainable international order that America seeks includes a United Nations that is efficient, effective, credible, and legitimate. That is why I can say today, in the years ahead, I look forward to a reformed United Nations Security Council that includes India as a permanent member. <p>Now, let me suggest that with increased power comes increased responsibility. The United Nations exists to fulfill its founding ideals of preserving peace and security, promoting global cooperation, and advancing human rights. These are the responsibilities of all nations, but especially those that seek to lead in the 21st century. And so we look forward to working with India and other nations that aspire to Security Council membership to ensure that the Security Council is effective, that resolutions are implemented, that sanctions are enforced, that we strengthen the international norms which recognize the rights and responsibilities of all nations and all individuals.<p>This includes our responsibility to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons. Since I took office, the United States has reduced the role of nuclear weapons in our national security strategy, and we've agreed with Russia to reduce our own arsenals. We have put preventing nuclear proliferation and nuclear terrorism at the top of our nuclear agenda, and we have strengthened the cornerstone of the global nonproliferation regime, which is the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. <p>Together, the United States and India can pursue our goal of securing the world's vulnerable nuclear materials. We can make it clear that even as every nation has the right to peaceful nuclear energy, every nation must also meet its international obligations, and that includes the Islamic Republic of Iran. And together, we can pursue a vision that Indian leaders have espoused since independence, a world without nuclear weapons. <p>And this leads me to the final area where our countries can partner: strengthening the foundations of democratic governance, not only at home, but abroad. <p>In the United States, my administration has worked to make government more open and transparent and accountable to people. Here in India, you're harnessing technologies to do the same, as I saw yesterday at an expo in Mumbai. Your landmark Right to Information Act is empowering citizens with the ability to get the services to which they're entitled and to hold officials accountable. Voters can get information about candidates by text message. And you're delivering education and health care services to rural communities, as I saw yesterday when I joined an e-Panchayat with villagers in Rajasthan. <p>Now, in a new collaboration on open government, our two countries are going to share our experience, identify what works, and develop the next generation of tools to empower citizens. And in another example of how American and Indian partnership can address global challenges, we're going to share these innovations with civil society groups and countries around the world. We're going to show that democracy, more than any other form of government, delivers for the common man and woman. <p>Likewise, when Indians vote, the whole world watches. Thousands of political parties, hundreds of thousands of polling centers, millions of candidates and poll workers, and 700 million voters: There's nothing like it on the planet. There is so much that countries transitioning to democracy could learn from India's experience, so much expertise that India can share with the world. And that too is what is possible when the world's largest democracy embraces its role as a global leader. <p>As the world's two largest democracies, we must never forget that the price of our own freedom is standing up for the freedom of others. Indians know this, for it is the story of your nation. Before he ever began his struggle for Indian independence, Gandhi stood up for the rights of Indians in South Africa. Just as others, including the United States, supported Indian independence, India championed the self-determination of peoples from Africa to Asia as they too broke free from colonialism. And along with the United States, you've been a leader in supporting democratic development and civil society groups around the world. And this too is part of India's greatness.<p>Now, we all understand every country will follow its own path. No one nation has a monopoly on wisdom, and no nation should ever try to impose its values on another. But when peaceful democratic movements are suppressed--as they have been in Burma, for example--then the democracies of the world cannot remain silent. For it is unacceptable to gun down peaceful protestors and incarcerate political prisoners, decade after decade. It is unacceptable to hold the aspirations of an entire people hostage to the greed and paranoia of bankrupt regimes. It is unacceptable to steal elections, as the regime in Burma has done again for all the world to see. <p>Faced with such gross violations of human rights, it is the responsibility of the international community--especially leaders like the United States and India--to condemn it. And if I can be frank, in international fora, India has often shied away from some of these issues. But speaking up for those who cannot do so for themselves is not interfering in the affairs of other countries. It's not violating the rights of sovereign nations. It is staying true to our democratic principles. It is giving meaning to the human rights that we say are universal. And it sustains the progress that in Asia and around the world has helped turn dictatorships into democracies and ultimately increased our security in the world. <p>So promoting shared prosperity, preserving peace and security, strengthening democratic governance and human rights, these are the responsibilities of leadership. And as global partners, this is the leadership that the United States and India can offer in the 21st century. Ultimately, though, this cannot be a relationship only between Presidents and Prime Ministers, or in the halls of this Parliament. Ultimately, this must be a partnership between our peoples. So I want to conclude by speaking directly to the people of India who are watching today. <p>In your lives, you have overcome odds that might have overwhelmed a lesser country. In just decades, you have achieved progress and development that took other nations centuries. You are now assuming your rightful place as a leader among nations. Your parents and grandparents imagined this. Your children and grandchildren will look back on this. But only this generation of Indians can seize the possibilities of the moment. <p>As you carry on with the hard work ahead, I want every Indian citizen to know: The United States of America will not simply be cheering you on from the sidelines. We will be right there with you, shoulder to shoulder, because we believe in the promise of India. We believe that the future is what we make it. We believe that no matter who you are or where you come from, every person can fulfill their God-given potential, just as a Dalit like Dr. Ambedkar could lift himself up and pen the words of the Constitution that protects the rights of all Indians. <p>We believe that no matter where you live--whether a village in Punjab or the bylanes of Chandni Chowk--[<i>laughter</i>]--an old section of Kolkata or a new highrise in Bangalore--every person deserves the same chance to live in security and dignity, to get an education, to find work, to give their children a better future.<p>And we believe that when countries and cultures put aside old habits and attitudes that keep people apart, when we recognize our common humanity, then we can begin to fulfill these aspirations that we share. It's a simple lesson contained in that collection of stories which has guided Indians for centuries, the \\"Panchatantra.\\" And it's the spirit of the inscription seen by all who enter this great hall: \\"That one is mine and the other a stranger is the concept of little minds. But to the large-hearted, the world itself is their family.\\"<p>This is the story of India, this is the story of America: that despite their differences, people can see themselves in one another and work together and succeed together as one proud nation. And it can be the spirit of partnership between our nations, that even as we honor the histories which in different times kept us apart, even as we preserve what makes us unique in a globalized world, we can recognize how much we can achieve together. <p>And if we let this simple concept be our guide, if we pursue the vision I've described today, a global partnership to meet global challenges, then I have no doubt that future generations--Indians and Americans--will live in a world that is more prosperous and more secure and more just because of the bonds that our generation has forged today.<p>So thank you, and Jai Hind. And long live the partnership between India and the United States.\" "
"324" "\"President Yudhoyono, Mrs. Yudhoyono, to all the distinguished guests who are here today, thank you for this extraordinary honor. I am proud and humbled to accept this award on behalf of my mother. And although she could not be here in person, I know that my sister Maya Soetoro would be equally proud.<p>Now, I'm going to have the opportunity to speak tomorrow, and so I will try to keep my remarks brief. First of all, thank you for the bakso--[<i>laughter</i>]--and the nasi goreng, the emping, the kerupuk. [<i>Laughter</i>] Semuanya enak. [<i>Laughter</i>] Thank you very much. <p>But the fact, President, that you would choose to recognize my mother in this way speaks to the bonds that she forged over many years with the people of this magnificent country. And in honoring her, you honor the spirit that led her to travel into villages throughout the country, often on the back of motorcycles, because that was the only way to get into some of these villages.<p>She believed that we all share common aspirations: to live in dignity and security, to get an education, to provide for our families, to give our children a better future, to leave the world better than we found it. She also believed, by the way, in the importance of educating girls and empowering women, because she understood that when we provide education to young women, when we honor and respect women, that we are in fact developing the entire country. That's what kept bringing my mother back to this country for so many years, that's the lesson that she passed on to me, and that's the lesson that Michelle and I try to pass on to our daughters.<p>So on behalf of our entire family, we thank you. I am deeply moved. It is this same largeness of heart that compels us tonight to keep in our thoughts and prayers all those who are suffering from the eruptions and the tsunami and the earthquake. With so many in need tonight, that's one more reason for me to keep my remarks short.<p>As a young boy in Menteng Dalam 40 years ago, I could never imagine that I would one day be hosted here at Istana Negara--never mind as President of the United States. I didn't think I would be stepping into this building ever. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And I know that much has been made about how a young boy could move between such different countries and cultures as Indonesia and the United States. But the truth is, is that our countries have far more in common than most people realize. We are two peoples who both broke free from colonial rule. We are both two vast nations that stretch thousands of miles. We are both two societies that find strength in our diversity. And we are two democracies where power resides in the people. And so it's only natural that we should be partners in the world.<p>I am fortunate to have a very strong partner in President Yudhoyono, Indonesia's first directly elected President, and a leader who has guided this nation through its journey into democracy. And our two nations are fortunate that we are forging a partnership for the 21st century. And as we go forward, I'm reminded of a proverb: Bagai air dengan tebing--like bamboo and the river bank, we rely on each other.<p>And so I'd like to propose a toast. In the spirit of friendship between our two countries, we are reminded of the truth that no nation is an island, not even when you're made up of thousands of islands. We all rely on each other together, like bamboo and the river bank. And like my mother riding between villages on a motorcycle, we are all stronger and safer when we see our common humanity in each other.<p>So, President Yudhoyono, and to all the distinguished guests who are here, thank you for your extraordinary friendship and the warmth with which you have received Michelle and myself. And I promise that it won't take so long before I come back.\" "
"325" "\"<i>The President.</i> Terima kasih. Terima kasih. Thank you so much. Thank you, everybody. Selamat pagi.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Selamat pagi!<p><i>The President.</i> It is wonderful to be here at the University of Indonesia. To the faculty and the staff and the students, and to Dr. Gumilar Rusliwa Somantri, thank you so much for your hospitality.<p>Assalamu alaikum dan salam sejahtera. Thank you for this wonderful welcome. Thank you to the people of Jakarta, and thank you to the people of Indonesia.<p>Pulang kampung nih. I am so glad that I made it back to Indonesia and that Michelle was able to join me. We had a couple of false starts this year, but I was determined to visit a country that's meant so much to me. And unfortunately, this visit is too short, but I look forward to coming back a year from now when Indonesia hosts the East Asia summit. <p>Before I go any further, I want to say that our thoughts and prayers are with all of those Indonesians who are affected by the recent tsunami and the volcanic eruptions, particularly those who've lost loved ones and those who've been displaced. And I want you all to know that as always, the United States stands with Indonesia in responding to natural disasters, and we are pleased to be able to help as needed. As neighbors help neighbors and families take in the displaced, I know that the strength and the resilience of the Indonesian people will pull you through once more. <p>Let me begin with a simple statement: Indonesia bagian dari diri saya. I first came to this country when my mother married an Indonesian named Lolo Soetoro. And as a young boy, I was coming to a different world. But the people of Indonesia quickly made me feel at home.<p>Jakarta--now, Jakarta looked very different in those days. The city was filled with buildings that were no more than a few stories tall. This was back in 1967, '68--most of you weren't born yet. [<i>Laughter</i>] The Hotel Indonesia was one of the few high rises, and there was just one big department store called Sarinah. That was it. Becaks and bemos, that's how you got around. They outnumbered automobiles in those days. And you didn't have all the big highways that you have today. Most of them gave way to unpaved roads and the kampungs. <p>So we moved to Menteng Dalam, where--[<i>applause</i>]--hey, some folks from Menteng Dalam right here. And we lived in a small house. We had a mango tree out front. And I learned to love Indonesia while flying kites and running along the paddy fields and catching dragonflies, buying sate and bakso from the street vendors. I still remember the call of the vendors: \\"Sate!\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] I remember that. \\"Bakso!\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Enak, ya? But most of all, I remember the people: the old men and women who welcomed us with smiles, the children who made a foreign child feel like a neighbor and a friend, and the teachers who helped me learn about this country.<p>Because Indonesia is made up of thousands of islands and hundreds of languages and people from scores of regions and ethnic groups, my time here helped me appreciate the common humanity of all people. And while my stepfather, like most Indonesians, was raised a Muslim, he firmly believed that all religions were worthy of respect. And in this way, he reflected the spirit of religious tolerance that is enshrined in Indonesia's Constitution, and that remains one of this country's defining and inspiring characteristics. <p>Now, I stayed here for 4 years, a time that helped shape my childhood, a time that saw the birth of my wonderful sister Maya, a time that made such an impression on my mother that she kept returning to Indonesia over the next 20 years to live and to work and to travel and to pursue her passion of promoting opportunity in Indonesia's villages, especially opportunity for women and for girls. And I was so honored when President Yudhoyono last night at the state dinner presented an award on behalf of my mother, recognizing the work that she did. And she would have been so proud, because my mother held Indonesia and its people very close to her heart for her entire life. <p>Now, so much has changed in the four decades since I boarded a plane to move back to Hawaii. If you asked me--or any of my schoolmates who knew me back then--I don't think any of us could have anticipated that one day I would come back to Jakarta as the President of the United States. And few could have anticipated the remarkable story of Indonesia over these last four decades. <p>The Jakarta that I once knew has grown into a teeming city of nearly 10 million, with skyscrapers that dwarf the Hotel Indonesia and thriving centers of culture and of commerce. While my Indonesian friends and I used to run in fields with water buffalo and goats--[<i>laughter</i>]--a new generation of Indonesians is among the most wired in the world, connected through cell phones and social networks. And while Indonesia as a young nation focused inward, a growing Indonesia now plays a key role in the Asia-Pacific and in the global economy. <p>Now, this change also extends to politics. When my stepfather was a boy, he watched his own father and older brother leave home to fight and die in the struggle for Indonesian independence. And I'm happy to be here on Heroes Day to honor the memory of so many Indonesians who have sacrificed on behalf of this great country. <p>When I moved to Jakarta, it was 1967, and it was a time that had followed great suffering and conflict in parts of this country. And even though my stepfather had served in the army, the violence and killing during that time of political upheaval was largely unknown to me because it was unspoken by my Indonesian family and friends. In my household, like so many others across Indonesia, the memories of that time were an invisible presence. Indonesians had their independence, but oftentimes they were afraid to speak their minds about issues.<p>In the years since then, Indonesia has charted its own course through an extraordinary democratic transformation, from the rule of an iron fist to the rule of the people. In recent years, the world has watched with hope and admiration as Indonesians embraced the peaceful transfer of power and the direct election of leaders. And just as your democracy is symbolized by your elected President and legislature, your democracy is sustained and fortified by its checks and balances: a dynamic civil society, political parties and unions, a vibrant media, and engaged citizens who have ensured that in Indonesia, there will be no turning back from democracy.<p>But even as this land of my youth has changed in so many ways, those things that I learned to love about Indonesia, that spirit of tolerance that's written into your Constitution, symbolized in mosques and churches and temples standing alongside each other, that spirit that's embodied in your people, that still lives on: Bhinneka Tunggal Ika--unity in diversity. This is the foundation of Indonesia's example to the world, and this is why Indonesia will play such an important part in the 21st century. <p>So today I return to Indonesia as a friend, but also as a President who seeks a deep and enduring partnership between our two countries. Because as vast and diverse countries, as neighbors on either side of the Pacific, and above all, as democracies, the United States and Indonesia are bound together by shared interests and shared values. <p>Yesterday President Yudhoyono and I announced a new comprehensive partnership between the United States and Indonesia. We are increasing ties between our Governments in many different areas, and just as importantly, we are increasing ties among our people. This is a partnership of equals, grounded in mutual interests and mutual respect. <p>So with the rest of my time today, I'd like to talk about why the story I just told--the story of Indonesia since the days when I lived here--is so important to the United States and to the world. I will focus on three areas that are closely related, and fundamental to human progress: development, democracy, and religious faith. <p>First, the friendship between the United States and Indonesia can advance our mutual interest in development. When I moved to Indonesia, it would have been hard to imagine a future in which the prosperity of families in Chicago and Jakarta would be connected. But our economies are now global, and Indonesians have experienced both the promise and the perils of globalization, from the shock of the Asian financial crisis in the nineties to the millions lifted out of poverty because of increased trade and commerce. And what that means, and what we learned in the recent economic crisis, is that we have a stake in each other's success. <p>America has a stake in Indonesia growing and developing, with prosperity that is broadly shared among the Indonesian people, because a rising middle class here in Indonesia means new markets for our goods, just as America is a market for goods coming from Indonesia. So we are investing more in Indonesia, and our exports have grown by nearly 50 percent, and we are opening doors for Americans and Indonesians to do business with one another. <p>America has a stake in an Indonesia that plays its rightful role in shaping the global economy. Gone are the days when seven or eight countries would come together to determine the direction of global markets. That's why the G-20 is now the center of international economic cooperation, so that emerging economies like Indonesia have a greater voice and also bear greater responsibility for guiding the global economy. And through its leadership of the G-20's anticorruption group, Indonesia should lead on the world stage and by example in embracing transparency and accountability. <p>America has a stake in an Indonesia that pursues sustainable development, because the way we grow will determine the quality of our lives and the health of our planet. And that's why we're developing clean energy technologies that can power industry and preserve Indonesia's precious natural resources, and America welcomes your country's strong leadership in the global effort to combat climate change. <p>Above all, America has a stake in the success of the Indonesian people. Underneath the headlines of the day, we must build bridges between our people because our future security and prosperity is shared. And that is exactly what we're doing, by increasing collaboration among our scientists and researchers and by working together to foster entrepreneurship. And I'm especially pleased that we have committed to double the number of American and Indonesian students studying in our respective countries. We want more Indonesian students in American schools, and we want more American students to come study in this country. We want to forge new ties and greater understanding between young people in this young century. <p>These are the issues that really matter in our daily lives. Development, after all, is not simply about growth rates and numbers on a balance sheet. It's about whether a child can learn the skills they need to make it in a changing world. It's about whether a good idea is allowed to grow into a business and not suffocated by corruption. It's about whether those forces that have transformed the Jakarta I once knew--technology and trade and the flow of people and goods--can translate into a better life for all Indonesians, for all human beings, a life marked by dignity and opportunity.<p>Now, this kind of development is inseparable from the role of democracy. Today, we sometimes hear that democracy stands in the way of economic progress. This is not a new argument. Particularly in times of change and economic uncertainty, some will say that it is easier to take a shortcut to development by trading away the right of human beings for the power of the state. But that's not what I saw on my trip to India, and that is not what I see here in Indonesia. Your achievements demonstrate that democracy and development reinforce one another. <p>Like any democracy, you have known setbacks along the way. America is no different. Our own Constitution spoke of the effort to forge a \\"more perfect Union,\\" and that is a journey that we've traveled ever since. We've endured civil war, and we struggled to extend equal rights to all of our citizens. But it is precisely this effort that has allowed us to become stronger and more prosperous, while also becoming a more just and a more free society. <p>Like other countries that emerged from colonial rule in the last century, Indonesia struggled and sacrificed for the right to determine your destiny. That is what Heroes Day is all about, an Indonesia that belongs to Indonesians. But you also ultimately decided that freedom cannot mean replacing the strong hand of a colonizer with a strongman of your own. <p>Of course, democracy is messy. Not everyone likes the results of every election. You go through your ups and downs. But the journey is worthwhile, and it goes beyond casting a ballot. It takes strong institutions to check the power--the concentration of power. It takes open markets to allow individuals to thrive. It takes a free press and an independent justice system to root out abuses and excess and to insist on accountability. It takes open society and active citizens to reject inequality and injustice.<p>These are the forces that will propel Indonesia forward. And it will require a refusal to tolerate the corruption that stands in the way of opportunity, a commitment to transparency that gives every Indonesian a stake in their Government, and a belief that the freedom of Indonesians--that Indonesians have fought for is what holds this great nation together. <p>That is the message of the Indonesians who have advanced this democratic story, from those who fought in the Battle of Surabaya 55 years ago today, to the students who marched peacefully for democracy in the 1990s, to leaders who have embraced the peaceful transition of power in this young century. Because ultimately, it will be the rights of citizens that will stitch together this remarkable Nusantara that stretches from Sabang to Merauke, an insistence that every child born in this country should be treated equally, whether they come from Java or Aceh, from Bali or Papua, that all Indonesians have equal rights.<p>That effort extends to the example that Indonesia is now setting abroad. Indonesia took the initiative to establish the Bali Democracy Forum, an open forum for countries to share their experiences and best practices in fostering democracy. Indonesia has also been at the forefront of pushing for more attention to human rights within ASEAN. The nations of Southeast Asia must have the right to determine their own destiny, and the United States will strongly support that right. But the people of Southeast Asia must have the right to determine their own destiny as well. And that's why we condemned elections in Burma recently that were neither free nor fair. That is why we are supporting your vibrant civil society in working with counterparts across this region. Because there's no reason why respect for human rights should stop at the border of any country. <p>Now, hand in hand, that is what development and democracy are about, the notion that certain values are universal. Prosperity without freedom is just another form of poverty, because there are aspirations that human beings share: the liberty of knowing that your leader is accountable to you, that you won't be locked up for disagreeing with them, the opportunity to get an education and to be able to work with dignity, the freedom to practice your faith without fear or restriction. Those are universal values that must be observed everywhere. <p>Now, religion is the final topic that I want to address today, and like democracy and development, it is fundamental to the Indonesian story. <p>Like the other Asian nations that I'm visiting on this trip, Indonesia is steeped in spirituality, a place where people worship God in many different ways. Along with this rich diversity, it is also home to the world's largest Muslim population, a truth I came to know as a boy when I heard the call to prayer across Jakarta.<p>Just as individuals are not defined solely by their faith, Indonesia is defined by more than its Muslim population. But we also know that relations between the United States and Muslim communities have frayed over many years. As President, I've made it a priority to begin to repair these relations. As part of that effort, I went to Cairo last June, and I called for a new beginning between the United States and Muslims around the world, one that creates a path for us to move beyond our differences. <p>I said then and I will repeat now that no single speech can eradicate years of mistrust. But I believed then and I believe today that we do have a choice. We can choose to be defined by our differences and give in to a future of suspicion and mistrust, or we can choose to do the hard work of forging common ground and commit ourselves to the steady pursuit of progress. And I can promise you, no matter what setbacks may come, the United States is committed to human progress. That is who we are. That is what we've done. And that is what we will do. <p>Now, we know well the issues that have caused tensions for many years, and these are issues that I addressed in Cairo. In the 17 months that have passed since that speech, we have made some progress, but we have much more work to do. <p>Innocent civilians in America, in Indonesia, and across the world are still targeted by violent extremism. I made it clear that America is not and never will be at war with Islam. Instead, all of us must work together to defeat Al Qaida and its affiliates, who have no claim to be leaders of any religion, certainly not a great world religion like Islam. But those who want to build must not cede ground to terrorists who seek to destroy. And this is not a task for America alone. Indeed, here in Indonesia, you've made progress in rooting out extremists and combating such violence. <p>In Afghanistan, we continue to work with a coalition of nations to build the capacity of the Afghan Government to secure its future. Our shared interest is in building peace in a war-torn land, a peace that provides no safe haven for violent extremists and that provide hope for the Afghan people. <p>Meanwhile, we've made progress on one of our core commitments, our effort to end the war in Iraq. Nearly 100,000 American troops have now left Iraq under my Presidency. Iraqis have taken full responsibility for their security. And we will continue to support Iraq as it forms an inclusive government, and we will bring all of our troops home. <p>In the Middle East, we have faced false starts and setbacks, but we've been persistent in our pursuit of peace. Israelis and Palestinians restarted direct talks, but enormous obstacles remain. There should be no illusion that peace and security will come easy. But let there be no doubt: America will spare no effort in working for the outcome that is just and that is in the interests of all the parties involved. Two states, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace and security; that is our goal.<p>The stakes are high in resolving all of these issues. For our world has grown smaller, and while those forces that connect us have unleashed great opportunity and great wealth, they also empower those who seek to derail progress. One bomb in a marketplace can obliterate the bustle of daily commerce. One whispered rumor can obscure the truth and set off violence between communities that once lived together in peace. In an age of rapid change and colliding cultures, what we share as human beings can sometimes be lost.<p>But I believe that the history of both America and Indonesia should give us hope. It is a story written into our national mottoes. In the United States, our motto is E pluribus unum--out of many, one. Bhinneka Tunggal Ika--unity in diversity. We are two nations, which have traveled different paths. Yet our nations show that hundreds of millions who hold different beliefs can be united in freedom under one flag. And we are now building on that shared humanity, through young people who will study in each other's schools, through the entrepreneurs forging ties that can lead to greater prosperity, and through our embrace of fundamental democratic values and human aspirations.<p>You know, before I came here, I visited Istiqlal Mosque, a place of worship that was still under construction when I lived in Jakarta. And I admired its soaring minaret and its imposing dome and welcoming space. But its name and history also speak to what makes Indonesia great. Istiqlal means independence, and its construction was in part a testament to the nation's struggle for freedom. Moreover, this house of worship for many thousands of Muslims was designed by a Christian architect.<p>Such is Indonesia's spirit. Such is the message of Indonesia's inclusive philosophy, Pancasila. Across an archipelago that contains some of God's most beautiful creations, islands rising above an ocean named for peace, people choose to worship God as they please. Islam flourishes, but so do other faiths. Development is strengthened by an emerging democracy. Ancient traditions endure, even as a rising power is on the move.<p>This is not to say that Indonesia is without imperfections. No country is. But here we can find the ability to bridge divides of race and region and religion, that ability to see yourself in other people. As a child of a different race who came here from a distant country, I found this spirit in the greeting that I received upon moving here: Selamat datang. As a Christian visiting a mosque on this visit, I found it in the words of a leader who was asked about my visit and said: \\"Muslims are also allowed in churches. We are all God's followers.\\" <p>That spark of the divine lives within each of us. We cannot give in to doubt or cynicism or despair. The stories of Indonesia and America should make us optimistic, because it tells us that history is on the side of human progress, that unity is more powerful than division, and that the people of this world can live together in peace. May our two nations, working together, with faith and determination, share these truths with all mankind.<p>Sebagai penutup, saya mengucapkan kepada seluruh rakyat Indonesia: terima kasih atas. Terima kasih. Assalamu alaikum. Thank you.\" "
"326" "\"Hello, Yongsan! Oh, it is wonderful to be here. Give another round of applause to Army Specialist Courtney Newby for the great introduction.<p>A few other people that I want to just make mention of. We are so proud and want to thank our outstanding representatives here in the Republic of Korea, Ambassador Kathleen Stephens and General Skip Sharp. Please give them a big round of applause.<p>A former colleague of mine in the Illinois State Senate who is now a Congressman from the great State of Illinois, Peter Roskam, is with us here today. So give him a big round of applause. Where's Peter? Where is he? There he is up there.<p>And our great friend and ally from the Republic of Korea is here--General Jung is here. Give him a big round of applause--deputy commander, Combined Forces. A few other people I want to give thanks to: Lieutenant General John Johnson, Command Sergeant Major Robert Winzenried.<p>We are so proud to have with us U.S. and Republic of Korea vets of the Korean war who are here, and we are greatly honored by their presence. And I want to make special mention of one of them, Congressional Medal of Honor recipient Hector Cafferata, Jr. Please give him an extraordinary round of applause.<p>It is an enormous honor to be here at Yongsan Garrison. As President of the United States, I have no greater privilege than serving as Commander in Chief of the finest military that the world has ever known. And on this Veterans Day, there's no place I'd rather be than right here with U.S. Forces Korea.<p>We've got 8th Army in the house. We've got members of the 7th Air Force. We've got U.S. Navy Forces Korea. We've got just about every marine in South Korea here today. Happy birthday, Marines, by the way. And we've got a whole lot of DOD civilians too. So we are very proud of you.<p>It's good to see some spouses and family members in the audience. You bear the burden of your loved ones' service in ways that are often immeasurable: an empty chair at the dinner table or another holiday where mom and dad are someplace far away. So I just want you to know that this Nation recognizes the sacrifices of families as well. And we are grateful for your service as well.<p>Now, on this day, we honor every man and woman who has ever worn the uniform of the United States of America. We salute fallen heroes and keep in our prayers those who are still in harm's way, like the men and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan.<p>We recall acts of uncommon bravery and selflessness. But we also remember that honoring those who've served is about more than the words we say on Veterans Day or Memorial Day. It's about how we treat our veterans every single day of the year. It's about making sure they have the care they need and the benefits that they've earned when they come home. It's about serving all of you as well as you've served the United States of America.<p>This has been one of my highest priorities since taking office. It's why I asked for one of the largest increases in the VA budget in the past 30 years. It's why we've dramatically increased funding for veterans' health care. It's why we're improving care for wounded warriors, especially those with posttraumatic stress and traumatic brain injury. It's why we're working to eliminate the backlog at the VA and reforming the entire process with electronic claims and medical records. It's why there are fewer homeless veterans on the streets than there were 2 years ago. It's why there are nearly 400,000 veterans and their families who are going to college because of the post-9/11 GI bill.<p>So I want all of you to know, when you come home, your country's going to be there for you. That is the commitment I make to you as Commander in Chief. That is the sacred trust between the United States of America and all who defend its ideals.<p>It's a trust that's been forged in places far from our shores, from the beaches of Europe to the jungles of Vietnam, from the deserts of Iraq and the mountains of Afghanistan to the peninsula where we stand today.<p>Sixty years have come and gone since the Communist armies first crossed the 38th parallel. Within 3 days, they'd captured Seoul. By the end of the next month, they had driven the Korean Army all the way south to Pusan. And from where things stood in the summer of 1950, it didn't appear that the Republic of Korea would survive much longer.<p>At the time, many Americans had probably never heard of Korea. It had only been 5 years since we had finished fighting the last war. But we knew that if we allowed the unprovoked invasion of a free nation, then all free nations would be threatened. And so for the first time since its creation, the United Nations voted to use armed forces to repel the attack from North Korea.<p>And so on September 15, 1950, American forces landed at Inchon. The conditions they fought under were some of the worst that Americans had ever experienced. The temperatures reached more than 30 below zero in the winter, over 100 degrees in the summer. In many places, Americans and our Korean allies were outgunned and outmanned, sometimes by as much as 20 to 1. At one point, they were hit with 24,000 artillery shells a day. By the end, the fighting had sometimes devolved into trench warfare, waged on hands and knees in the middle of the night.<p>And yet our soldiers fought on. Nearly 37,000 Americans would give their lives in Korea--37,000. But after 3 years of fighting, our forces finally succeeded in driving the invading armies back over the 38th parallel. One war historian said that while he believed Korea was \\"the greatest of all trials\\" for American troops, their performance was \\"nothing short of miraculous.\\"<p>Many of the men responsible for this miracle were only teenagers. Others had just finished fighting in the Second World War. Most would go home to raise their families and live out their lives. And 62 veterans of the Korean war have returned to be with us here today.<p>Gentlemen, we are honored by your presence. We are grateful for your service. The world is better off because of what you did here. And for those who can, I would ask that, again, you receive the thanks of a grateful nation. If any--actually, they're all standing now, so it looks like they're doing great. But please give them a big round of applause.<p>I also want to recognize the Korean soldiers who battled side by side with our own. These men fought bravely and sacrificed greatly for their country, and some of them have joined us here as well. So thank you, friends. Katchi kapshida--we go together.<p>The veterans who have traveled here today saw battle at the Inchon landing and the Pusan Perimeter. They survived the bloodshed at Heartbreak Ridge and the ambush at Chosin Reservoir. At one point in that battle, the enemy tossed a grenade into a trench where multiple marines lay wounded. And that is where Private Hector Cafferata ran into that trench, picked up that grenade, and threw it back. It detonated in his hand and severely injured his arm. But because of what he did, Private Cafferata served the lives of his fellow marines. He received the Medal of Honor for his heroism. He is here today. Again, please give him an incredible--[<i>applause</i>].<p>Each of these men served their Nation with incredible courage and commitment. They left their homes and their families and risked their lives in what's often been called the forgotten war. So today we all want you to know this: We remember. We remember your courage; we remember your sacrifice. And the legacy of your service lives on in a free and prosperous Republic of Korea.<p>Real change comes slowly. Many people don't live to see the difference they've made in the lives of others. But for the men and women who have served on this peninsula, all you have to do is look around. Whether you're a veteran who landed in 1950 or one of the Yongsan troops today, the security you've provided has made possible one of the great success stories of our time.<p>There are Koreans who can still remember when this country was little more than rice paddies and villages that would flood during monsoon season. Not two generations later, highways and skyscrapers line the horizon of one of the most prosperous, fastest growing democracies in all of the world. That progress has transformed the lives of millions of people.<p>And you should know, one of these people is a man who went from grinding poverty to the Presidency of this country. When I visited last year, I had lunch with President Lee, who I'll be seeing later today, and he shared with me his story of what it was like growing up poor as a child in Korea. And he said, \\"I hope the American people understand how grateful we are for what you've done, because we would not be the strong, prosperous nation we are were it not for the sacrifices made by the men and women of the United States military.\\" That's from the President of this country.<p>Because the Korean war ended where it began geographically, some ended up using the phrase \\"die for a tie\\" to describe the sacrifices of those who fought here. But as we look around in this thriving democracy and its grateful, hopeful citizens, one thing is clear: This was no tie. This was victory.<p>This was a victory then, and it is a victory today. And 60 years later, a friendship that was forged in a war has become an alliance that has led to greater security and untold progress, not only in the Republic of Korea, but throughout Asia. That is something that everyone here can be extraordinarily proud of.<p>Now, it's also a reminder of what still lies on the other side of the 38th parallel. Today, the Korean Peninsula provides the world's clearest contrast between a society that is open and a society that is closed, between a nation that is dynamic and growing and a government that would rather starve its people than change. It's a contrast that's so stark, you can see it from space, as the brilliant lights of Seoul give way to the utter darkness of the North.<p>This is not an accident of history. This is a direct result of the path that's been taken by North Korea, a path of confrontation and provocation, one that includes the pursuit of nuclear weapons and the attack on the Cheonan last March.<p>And in the wake of this aggression, Pyongyang should not be mistaken: The United States will never waver in our commitment to the security of the Republic of Korea. We will not waver.<p>The alliance between our two nations has never been stronger, and along with the rest of the world, we've made it clear that the North Korea's pursuit of nuclear weapons will only lead to more isolation and less security for them.<p>There is another path available to North Korea. If they choose to fulfill their international obligations and commitments to the international community, they will have the chance to offer their people lives of growing opportunity instead of crushing poverty, a future of greater security and greater respect, a future that includes the prosperity and opportunity available to citizens on this end of the Korean Peninsula.<p>Until that day comes, the world can take comfort in knowing that the men and women of the United States Armed Forces are standing watch on freedom's frontier. In doing so, you carry on the legacy of service and sacrifice that we saw from those who landed here all those years ago. It's a legacy we honor and cherish on this Veterans Day.<p>At the Korean War Memorial in Washington, there's a plaque right near the inscription that lists the number of Americans who were killed, wounded, missing in action, and held as prisoners of war. And it says, \\"Our Nation honors her sons and daughters who answered the call to defend a country they never knew and a people they never met.\\"<p>A country they never knew and a people they never met. I know of no better words to capture the selflessness and generosity of every man or woman who has ever worn the uniform of the United States of America. At a time when it has never been more tempting or accepted to pursue narrow self-interest and personal ambition, all of you here remind us that there are few things that are more fundamentally American than doing what we can to make a difference in the lives of others.<p>And that's why you'll always be the best that America has to offer the world. And that is why people who never met you, who never knew you, will always be grateful to the friend and ally they found in the United States of America.<p>So thank you for your service. May God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"327" "\"Well, thank you very much. Good afternoon, everybody. And again, to President Lee and the people of the Republic of Korea, thank you for your incredible hospitality.<p>I'm just going to be very brief. I think we all recognize that economic growth is critical for all our countries. And although it's the big companies that get most of the attention, when it comes to creating jobs and opportunity, oftentimes, it's the small and medium-sized enterprises that make all the difference in people's lives.<p>And one of the biggest challenges for such companies is to make sure that they receive the financing that they need. I am very pleased that we have been able through the G-20 to launch this concrete program that is making a difference in people's lives.<p>Between Koreans, Canadians, and the United States, we're going to contribute $528 million to put some of the extraordinary ideas that are represented by the winners into practice and to boost the excellent work that they're already doing.<p>So to all the winners who are here today, congratulations, keep up the outstanding work. And we look forward to--as a consequence of this award--seeing more and more creative mechanisms to finance worthy enterprises. And many of the lessons that are going to be learned from these projects are ones that, hopefully, can be expanded to a whole host of countries for years to come.<p>So thank you very much for your excellent work.\" "
"328" "\"This weekend, I'm concluding a trip to Asia whose purpose was to open new markets for American products in this fast-growing part of the world. The economic battle for these markets is fierce, and we're up against strong competitors. But as I've said many times, America doesn't play for second place. The future we're fighting for isn't as the world's largest importer, consuming products made elsewhere, but as the world's largest manufacturer of ideas and goods sold around the world.<p>Opening new markets will not only help America's businesses create new jobs for American workers, it will also help us reduce our deficits, because the single greatest tool for getting our fiscal house in order is robust economic growth. That kind of growth will require ensuring that our students are getting the best education possible, that we're on the cutting edge of research and development, and that we're rebuilding our roads and railways, runways and ports, so our infrastructure is up to the challenges of the 21st century.<p>Given the deficits that have mounted up over the past decade, we can't afford to make these investments unless we're also willing to cut what we don't need. That's why I've submitted to Congress a plan for a 3-year budget freeze, and I'm prepared to offer additional savings. But as we work to reform our budget, Congress should also put some skin in the game. I agree with those Republicans and Democratic Members of Congress who've recently said that in these challenging days, we can't afford what are called earmarks. These are items inserted into spending bills by Members of Congress without adequate review.<p>Now, some of these earmarks support worthy projects in our local communities. But many others do not. We can't afford bridges to nowhere like the one that was planned a few years back in Alaska. Earmarks like these represent a relatively small part of overall Federal spending, but when it comes to signaling our commitment to fiscal responsibility, addressing them would have an important impact.<p>As a Senator, I helped eliminate anonymous earmarks and created new measures of transparency so Americans can better follow how their tax dollars are being spent. As President, time and again, I've called for new limitations on earmarks. We've reduced the cost of earmarks by over $3 billion, and we've put in place higher standards of transparency by putting as much information as possible on earmarks.gov. In fact, this week, we updated the site with more information about where last year's earmarks were actually spent and made it easier to look up Members of Congress and the earmarks they fought for.<p>Today, we have a chance to go further. We have a chance to not only shine a light on a bad Washington habit that wastes billions of taxpayer dollars, but take a step towards restoring public trust. We have a chance to advance the interests not of Republicans or Democrats, but of the American people, to put our country on the path of fiscal discipline and responsibility that will lead to a brighter economic future for all. And that's a future I hope we can reach across party lines to build together.<p>Thanks, everybody, and have a great weekend.\" "
"329" "\"Thank you so much. Thank you. Good morning. And thank you to Mr. Yonekura for the kind introduction. And thanks to everyone at Nippon Keidanren for hosting APEC's CEO summit this year.<p>I also want to thank my good friend, Prime Minister Kan, and the Japanese people for their generosity and their hospitality in hosting APEC. It is wonderful to be back in this beautiful country. And we in America are very much looking forward to hosting APEC next year in my home State of Hawaii.<p>Now, Yokohama is my last stop on a journey that's taken me from Mumbai to New Delhi to Jakarta and to Seoul. And in each place, we have deepened friendships, we have strengthened partnerships, and we have reaffirmed a fundamental truth of our time: In the 21st century, the security and prosperity of the American people is linked inextricably to the security and prosperity of Asia. That's why this was not my first trip here and why it will not be my last. America is leading again in Asia, and today I'd like to talk about why.<p>Now, the story of Asia over the last few decades is the story of change that is so rapid and transformative that it may be without precedent in human history. The economic miracle that began here in Japan after the Second World War has now swept across the Pacific and throughout the wider region. Countries where people once lived on a few dollars a day are now some of the fastest growing economies in the world, with incomes and living standards that few could have imagined 40 or 50 years ago.<p>For example, when I lived in Jakarta as a young boy, I can remember the buildings being no more than a few stories tall. There was just one modern shopping center. On Tuesday, I returned to a teeming city of nearly 10 million, filled with skyscrapers and thriving centers of culture and commerce. In Seoul, I noted that there are Koreans who can still remember when their country was little more than rice paddies and small villages. And today, it is one of the most prosperous democracies in the world. When I was in Mumbai, I met with young entrepreneurs who were putting American technology into Indian electric cars and selling clean water to Indians from filtration equipment purchased from the United States. These are breakthroughs that will continue to fuel growth in a nation that has already lifted millions from poverty.<p>In barely two generations, these sweeping changes have improved the lives and fortunes of millions of people here in the Asia-Pacific. But in today's interconnected world, what happens in Japan or China or Indonesia also has a direct effect on the lives and fortunes of the American people. That's why I came here.<p>The Asia-Pacific is where the United States engages in much of our trade and our commerce, where our businesses invest and where we attract investment to our shores, where we buy and where we sell many of our goods and services, exports that support millions of jobs for our people.<p> Seven of America's 15 top trading partners are now APEC members. Sixty percent of the goods we export go to this region of the world. The United States is also the largest export market for Asia, which has led to more affordable goods and services for American consumers.<p>And what's more, this is a relationship that will only become more important as this region continues to grow. Within 5 years, Asia's economy is expected to be about 50 percent larger than it is today. And for at least the next 4 years, Asia-Pacific economies will grow faster than the world average.<p>Now, undoubtedly, this rapid growth will lead to a healthy competition for the jobs and industries of the future. And as President of the United States, I make no apologies for doing whatever I can to bring those jobs and industries to America. But what I've also said throughout this trip is that in the 21st century, there is no need to view trade, commerce, or economic growth as zero-sum games, where one country always has to prosper at the expense of another. If we work together and act together, strengthening our economic ties can be a win-win for all of our nations.<p>Now, that cooperation was on display yesterday at the first G-20 summit in an Asia-Pacific nation. Having successfully worked together to avoid global depression, our challenge now is a global recovery that is both balanced and sustained. Yesterday there was a broad agreement on the way forward, an agreement based on the framework that we put forward.<p>First, we agreed to keep focusing on growth. As the largest economy in the world, an engine for global growth, that's particularly important for the United States. As Prime Minister Singh of India said when I was visiting there, \\"A strong, robust, fast-growing United States is in the interests of the world\\" and \\"would help the cause of global prosperity.\\"<p>And that's why we passed an economic plan that has led to 5 consecutive quarters of economic growth and 10 consecutive months of private sector job growth. That's why we passed and are implementing the toughest set of financial reforms since the Great Depression, something that our G-20 partners need to do with the same sense of urgency.<p>And that's why we're cutting back on nonessentials in the face of serious fiscal challenges. Already, we're on track to meet our goal of cutting our deficit in half by 2013. And I'm absolutely committed to making the tough choices necessary to get us the rest of the way there and bring down our deficits in the long run.<p>But we are not cutting back on the investments that are essential to America's long-term economic growth: education, clean energy, research, and infrastructure. We will make sacrifices, but everyone here should know that as long as I'm President, we are not going to sacrifice America's future or our leadership in the world.<p>The second major thing we agreed on in Seoul was that in order for the recovery to be sustained, economic growth must be balanced. One of the important lessons the economic crisis taught us is the limits of depending primarily on American consumers and Asian exports to drive economic growth.<p>Going forward, countries with large surpluses must shift away from an unhealthy dependence on exports and take steps to boost domestic demand. As I said, going forward, no nation should assume that their path to prosperity is simply paved with exports to America.<p>In the United States, we see the need for rebalancing as an opportunity to rebuild our economy on a new, stronger foundation for growth, where we save more and we spend less, where we're known not just for what we consume, but for what we produce. We want to get back to doing what American has always been known for: discovering, creating, and building the products that are sold all over the world.<p>And that's why I've set a goal of doubling U.S. exports over the next 5 years. This is a big part of what brought me to Asia this week. In this region, the United States sees a huge opportunity to increase our exports in some of the fastest growing markets in the world.<p>For America, this is a jobs strategy, because with every $1 billion we sell in exports, 5,000 jobs are supported at home. And jobs supported by exports pay up to 18 percent higher than the national average. Meanwhile, for Asia-Pacific nations, these U.S. goods and products also provide more choice for consumers who are enjoying higher standards of living throughout the region. This is a win-win for all of us.<p>Over the course of this trip, we've made good progress toward our export goals. While we were in India, I was pleased to announce a set of trade deals that total nearly $10 billion in U.S. exports. From medical equipment and helicopters to turbines and mining equipment, these deals support more than 50,000 jobs in the United States.<p>In Indonesia, a fast-growing market where we have been steadily increased our exports, President Yudhoyono and I discussed ways to encourage additional trade and investment between our nations.<p>And in South Korea, President Lee and I moved closer to completing a trade deal. There are some outstanding issues that are difficult, and we need to get a deal that is good for American workers and businesses. But completion of this deal could lead to billions of dollars in increased exports and thousands of American jobs for American workers. So I'm committed to seeing this through, and I'm pleased that President Lee offered to send a team of negotiators to Washington in the coming weeks so we can try to finish the job.<p>The United States is also looking to expand trade and commerce throughout the Asia-Pacific. Even though our exports in this region have risen by more than 60 percent over the last 5 years, our overall share of trade in the region has declined in favor of our competitors, and we want to change that. We don't want to lose the opportunity to sell our goods and services in fast-growing markets. We don't want to lose the opportunity to create new jobs back home. That's why we want to keep working with our fellow APEC economies to reduce trade barriers. And that's why we want to pursue the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would facilitate trade and open markets throughout the Asia-Pacific.<p>Agreements like this will obviously benefit our economies and our people, but they will also send a strong signal that when it comes to this growing, sprawling region of the world, the United States is here to stay. We are invested in your success because it's connected to our own. We have a stake in your future because our destiny is shared. It was a Japanese poet who said: \\"Individually, we are one drop. Together, we are an ocean.\\" So it must be with the billions of people whose lives are linked in the swirling currents of the Pacific.<p>In the last century, the American people have contributed greatly to the security and prosperity of this region. The strength of our alliances and the bravery of our men and women in uniform helped keep the peace. And the openness of our markets helped to fuel the rise of the Asian miracle.<p>In this young century, we stand ready to lead again. Yes, we've gone through a difficult time and there are challenges that remain that are great. There will be setbacks and disagreements, and we won't solve every issue in one meeting or one trip or even one term of my Presidency.<p>But I've never been more confident in what the United States of America has to offer the world at this moment in history: in our universities and our research centers that continue to produce the most promising minds and discoveries and innovations; in our businesses that keep developing products and technologies that are transforming the lives of millions; in the spirit of tolerance and diversity that sends a powerful example to a world that is smaller and more connected than at any time in human history; and in the most effective form of government the world has ever known, namely, democracy. For it will always be true that when leaders are accountable to their people, their people are more likely to prosper.<p>Indeed, what has characterized America from the start, the idea of America that endures, is particularly indispensable in times of great challenge and great change. It's the idea that led us westward and skyward, to roads and railways that cut through wilderness, to ships and planes and fiber-optic lines that carry American commerce around the world. It is the idea that through hard work and sacrifice, it is possible to end up in a better place than where you started, and it's possible to give your children chances you never had. And it's the idea that even when circumstances seem bleak and challenges seem daunting, it is possible to overcome, to persevere, and ultimately to succeed.<p>In different ways and different places over the last week, I've seen this idea alive in the teeming, thriving democracies of Asia. And that gives me great confidence in the ties that bind our people and great hope in our ability to move together towards the future not as drops, but with the strength of an ocean.<p>So I thank you for your hospitality. I congratulate all the outstanding businesses who are here today. And I look forward to our close cooperation in the months and years to come. Thank you very much. Thank you.\" "
"330" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. Please be seated. On behalf of Michelle and myself, welcome to the White House. Thank you, Chaplain Carver, for that beautiful invocation.<p>Of all the privileges that come with serving as President of the United States, I have none greater than serving as Commander in Chief of the finest military that the world has ever known. And of all the military decorations that a President and a nation can bestow, there is none higher than the Medal of Honor.<p>Now, today is particularly special. Since the end of the Vietnam war, the Medal of Honor has been awarded nine times for conspicuous gallantry in an ongoing or recent conflict. Sadly, our Nation has been unable to present this decoration to the recipients themselves, because each gave his life--his last full measure of devotion--for our country. Indeed, as President, I have presented the Medal of Honor three times, and each time to the families of a fallen hero.<p>Today, therefore, marks the first time in nearly 40 years that the recipient of the Medal of Honor for an ongoing conflict has been able to come to the White House and accept this recognition in person. It is my privilege to present our Nation's highest military decoration, the Medal of Honor, to a soldier as humble as he is heroic: Staff Sergeant Salvatore A. Giunta.<p>Now, I'm going to go off script here for a second and just say, I really like this guy. [<i>Laughter</i>] I think anybody--we all just get a sense of people and who they are, and when you meet Sal and you meet his family, you are just absolutely convinced that this is what America is all about. And it just makes you proud. And so this is a joyous occasion for me, something that I have been looking forward to.<p>The Medal of Honor reflects the gratitude of an entire nation. So we are also joined here today by several Members of Congress, including both Senators and several Representatives from Staff Sergeant Giunta's home State of Iowa. We are also joined by leaders from across my administration and the Department of Defense, including the Secretary of Defense, Robert Gates; chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mike Mullen--where's Mike?--there he is, right there; Army Secretary John McHugh; and Chief of Staff of the Army General George Casey.<p>We are especially honored to be joined by Staff Sergeant Giunta's fellow soldiers, his teammates and brothers from Battle Company, 2d of the 503d of the 173d Airborne Brigade, and several members of that rarest of fraternities that now welcomes him into its ranks, the Medal of Honor Society. Please give them a big round of applause.<p>We also welcome the friends and family who made Staff Sergeant Giunta into the man that he is, including his lovely wife Jenny and his parents Steven and Rosemary, as well as his siblings, who are here. It was his mother, after all, who apparently taught him as a young boy in small-town Iowa how to remove the screen from his bedroom window in case of fire. [<i>Laughter</i>] What she didn't know was that by teaching Sal how to jump from his bedroom and sneaking off in the dead of night, she was unleashing a future paratrooper--[<i>laughter</i>]--who would one day fight in the rugged mountains of Afghanistan 7,000 miles away.<p>Now, during the first of his two tours of duty in Afghanistan, Staff Sergeant Giunta was forced early on to come to terms with the loss of comrades and friends. His team leader at the time gave him a piece of advice: \\"You just try--you just got to try to do everything you can when it's your time to do it.\\" You've just got to try to do everything you can when it's your time to do it.<p>Salvatore Giunta's time came on October 25, 2007. He was a specialist then, just 22 years old.<p>Sal and his platoon were several days into a mission in the Korengal Valley, the most dangerous valley in northeast Afghanistan. The Moon was full. The light it cast was enough to travel by without using their night-vision goggles. With heavy gear on their backs and air support overhead, they made their way single file down a rocky ridge crest, along terrain so steep that sliding was sometimes easier than walking.<p>They hadn't traveled a quarter mile before the silence was shattered. It was an ambush so close that the cracks of the guns and the whiz of the bullets were simultaneous. Tracer fire hammered the ridge at hundreds of rounds per minute, \\"more,\\" Sal said later, \\"than the stars in the sky.\\"<p>The Apache gunships above saw it all, but couldn't engage with the enemy so close to our soldiers. The next platoon heard the shooting, but were too far away to join the fight in time.<p>And the two lead men were hit by enemy fire and knocked down instantly. When the third was struck in the helmet and fell to the ground, Sal charged headlong into the wall of bullets to pull him to safety behind what little cover there was. As he did, Sal was hit twice, one round slamming into his body armor, the other shattering a weapon slung across his back.<p>They were pinned down, and two wounded Americans still lay up ahead. So Sal and his comrades regrouped and counterattacked. They threw grenades, using the explosions as cover to run forward, shooting at the muzzle flashes still erupting from the trees. Then they did it again, and again, throwing grenades, charging ahead. Finally, they reached one of their men. He'd been shot twice in the leg, but he had kept returning fire until his gun jammed.<p>As another soldier tended to his wounds, Sal sprinted ahead, at every step meeting relentless enemy fire with his own. He crested a hill alone, with no cover but the dust kicked up by the storm of bullets still biting into the ground. There, he saw a chilling sight: the silhouettes of two insurgents carrying the other wounded American away, who happened to be one of Sal's best friends. Sal never broke stride. He leapt forward. He took aim. He killed one of the insurgents and wounded the other, who ran off.<p>Sal found his friend alive, but badly wounded. Sal had saved him from the enemy; now he had to try to save his life. Even as bullets impacted all around him, Sal grabbed his friend by the vest and dragged him to cover. For nearly half an hour, Sal worked to stop the bleeding and help his friend breathe until the medevac arrived to lift the wounded from the ridge. American gunships worked to clear the enemy from the hills. And with the battle over, 1st Platoon picked up their gear and resumed their march through the valley. They continued their mission.<p>It had been as intense and violent a firefight as any soldier will experience. By the time it was finished, every member of 1st Platoon had shrapnel or a bullet hole in their gear. Five were wounded, and two gave their lives: Sal's friend, Sergeant Joshua C. Brennan, and the platoon medic, Specialist Hugo V. Mendoza.<p>Now, the parents of Joshua and Hugo are here today. And I know that there are no words that, even 3 years later, can ease the ache in your hearts or repay the debt that America owes to you. But on behalf of a grateful nation, let me express profound thanks to your sons' service and their sacrifice. And could the parents of Joshua and Hugo please stand briefly?<p>Now, I already mentioned I like this guy Sal. And as I found out myself when I first spoke with him on the phone and when we met in the Oval Office today, he is a low-key guy, a humble guy, and he doesn't seek the limelight. And he'll tell you that he didn't do anything special, that he was just doing his job, that any of his brothers in the unit would do the same thing. In fact, he just lived up to what his team leader instructed him to do years before: \\"You do everything you can.\\"<p>Staff Sergeant Giunta, repeatedly and without hesitation, you charged forward through extreme enemy fire, embodying the warrior ethos that says, \\"I will never leave a fallen comrade.\\" Your actions disrupted a devastating ambush before it could claim more lives. Your courage prevented the capture of an American soldier and brought that soldier back to his family. You may believe that you don't deserve this honor, but it was your fellow soldiers who recommended you for it. In fact, your commander specifically said in his recommendation that you lived up to the standards of the most decorated American soldier of World War II, Audie Murphy, who famously repelled an overwhelming enemy attack by himself for one simple reason: \\"They were killing my friends.\\"<p>That's why Salvatore Giunta risked his life for his fellow soldiers, because they would risk their lives for him. That's what fueled his bravery, not just the urgent impulse to have their backs, but the absolute confidence that they had his. One of them, Sal has said--of these young men that he was with, he said, \\"They are just as much of me as I am.\\" They are just as much of me as I am.<p>So I would ask Sal's team, all of Battle Company who were with him that day, to please stand and be recognized as well. Gentlemen, thank you for your service. We're all in your debt. And I'm proud to be your Commander in Chief.<p>These are the soldiers of our Armed Forces, highly trained, battle-hardened, each with specialized roles and responsibilities, but all with one thing in common: They volunteered. In an era when it's never been more tempting to chase personal ambition or narrow self-interest, they chose the opposite. They felt a tug; they answered a call. They said, \\"I'll go.\\" And for the better part of a decade, they have endured tour after tour in distant and difficult places, they have protected us from danger, they have given others the opportunity to earn a better and more secure life. <p>They are the courageous men and women serving in Afghanistan even as we speak. They keep clear focus on their mission: to deny safe haven for terrorists who would attack our country, to break the back of the Taliban insurgency, to build the Afghans' capacity to defend themselves. They possess the steely resolve to see their mission through. They are made of the same strong stuff as the troops in this room, and I am absolutely confident that they will continue to succeed in the missions that we give them, in Afghanistan and beyond.<p>After all, our brave service men and women and their families have done everything they've been asked to do. They have been everything that we have asked them to be. \\"If I am a hero,\\" Sal has said, \\"then every man who stands around me, every woman in the military, every person who defends this country is.\\" And he's right.<p>This medal today is a testament to his uncommon valor, but also to the parents and the community that raised him, the military that trained him, and all the men and women who served by his side.<p>All of them deserve our enduring thanks and gratitude. They represent a small fraction of the American population, but they and the families who await their safe return carry far more than their fair share of our burden. They fight halfway around the globe, but they do it in hopes that our children and our grandchildren won't have to.<p>They are the very best part of us. They are our friends, our family, our neighbors, our classmates, our coworkers. They are why our banner still waves, our founding principles still shine, and our country--the United States of America--still stands as a force for good all over the world.<p>So please join me in welcoming Staff Sergeant Salvatore A. Giunta for the reading of the citation.\" "
"331" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you so much, everybody. Thank you. Wonderful to see you. Please, everyone sit down, sit down. We've got a lot of work to do here. [<i>Laughter</i>] Have a seat.<p>Welcome to the White House. It is a great honor to be joined by so many leading researchers and innovators. I want to give some special thanks to a few members of my Cabinet, Members of Congress who are here today. Secretary Gary Locke, our Commerce Secretary, is here. Members of Congress: We have Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania and Bart Gordon of Tennessee. Please give them a big round of applause for their great work.<p>We also have NASA Administrator Bolden, who is here--Charlie. Dr. Subra Suresh, who's the Director of our National Science Foundation, is here. Mr. Dave Kappos, who's the Director of the Patent and Trademark Office, he was here--he may have had some work to do; Dr. Patrick Gallagher, who's the Director of our National Institute of Standards and Technology; and Dr. Larry Strickling, Administrator of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration.<p>Now, the achievements of the men and women who are onstage today stand as a testament to the ingenuity, to their zeal for discovery, and to the willingness to give of themselves and to sacrifice in order to expand the reach of human understanding.<p>All of us have benefited from their work. The scientists in this room helped develop the semiconductors and microprocessors that have propelled the information age. They've modeled the inner workings of the human mind and the complex processes that shape the Earth's climate. They've conducted pioneering research, from mathematics to quantum physics, into the sometimes strange and unexpected laws that govern our universe.<p>Folks here can also claim inventions like the digital camera, which has revolutionized photography--as all these folks back here will testify--[<i>laughter</i>]--as well as superglue, which, in addition to fascinating children--[<i>laughter</i>]--has actually saved lives as a means of sealing wounds. And the men and women we celebrate today have helped to unlock the secrets of genetics and disease, of nanotechnology and solar energy, of chemistry and biology, breakthroughs that provide so many benefits and hold so much potential, from new sources of electricity to new ways of diagnosing and treating illness.<p>Along the way, many of these folks have broken down barriers for women and minorities, who've traditionally been underrepresented in scientific fields, but obviously are no less capable of contributing to the scientific enterprise. Just as an example, at the start of her career, decades ago, Esther Cornwell [Conwell]* was hired as an assistant engineer, but soon after, she was told that this position wasn't open to a woman. She had to serve as an engineer's assistant instead. Of course, that didn't stop her from becoming a pioneer in semiconductors and materials science.<p>It's no exaggeration to say that the scientists and innovators in this room have saved lives, improved our health and well-being, helped unleash whole new industries and millions of jobs, transformed the way we work and learn and communicate. And this incredible contribution serves as proof not only of their incredible creativity and skill, but of the promise of science itself.<p>Every day, in research laboratories and on proving grounds, in private labs and university campuses, men and women conduct the difficult, often frustrating work of discovery. It isn't easy. It may take years to prove a hypothesis correct or decades to learn that it isn't correct. Often the competition can be fierce, whether in designing a product or securing a grant. And rarely do those who give their all to this pursuit receive the attention or the acclaim they deserve.<p>Yet it is in these labs, often late at night, often fueled by a dangerous combination of coffee and obsession--[<i>laughter</i>]--that our future is being won. For in a global economy, the key to our prosperity will never be to compete by paying our workers less or building cheaper, lower quality products. That's not our advantage. The key to our success, as it has always been, will be to compete by developing new products, by generating new industries, by maintaining our role as the world's engine of scientific discovery and technological innovation. It's absolutely essential to our future.<p>And that's why we're here today and why I look forward to events like these. I believe one of the most important jobs that I have as President is to restore science to its rightful place. That means strengthening our commitment to research. It means ensuring that our Government makes decisions based on the best evidence, rather than politics. It means reforming and improving math and science education and encouraging the private sector to inspire young people to pursue careers in science and engineering. And it means fostering a climate of innovation and entrepreneurship, from incentives in clean energy to tax breaks to startups. I'd also point out, that's not just a job for government. Creating this climate depends on all of us, including businesses and universities and nonprofits.<p>One of the most important ways in which we can restore science to its rightful place is by celebrating the contributions of men and women like all of you, because that's how we'll excite a new generation to follow in your footsteps. That's how we can spark the imagination of a young person who just might change the world. I was reminded of how important this is just a few weeks ago. We held a science fair here at the White House. Some of you may have heard about it.<p>We welcome all the time championship sports teams to the White House to celebrate their victories. I thought we ought to do the same thing for the winners of science fairs and robotic contests and math competitions, because those young people often don't get the credit that they deserve. Nobody rushes on the field and dumps Gatorade on them--[<i>laughter</i>]--when you win a science award. Maybe they should. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So I got to meet these incredibly talented and enthusiastic young men and women. There was a team of high school kids from Tennessee that had designed a self-powered water purification system. We had robots running all over through the State Dining Room. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>The last young person I spoke to was a young woman from Texas. She was 16 years old. She was studying biology as a freshman, decided she was interested in cancer research, so taught herself chemistry during the summer, then designed a science project to look at new cancer drugs based on some experimental drugs that are activated by light. They could allow a more focused treatment that targets the cancer cells while living, healthy cells remain unharmed.<p>She goes on to design her own drug, wins the international science competition. And she told me that she and her high school science teacher are being approached by laboratories across the country to collaborate on this potential new cancer treatment. This is a true story: 16 years old, taught herself chemistry, incredibly inspiring.<p>And at a time of significant challenge in this country, at a moment when people are feeling so much hardship in their lives, this has to give us hope for the future. It ought to remind us of the incredible potential of this country and its people, as long as we unlock it, as long as we put resources into it and we celebrate it and we encourage it, we embrace it.<p>You know, Carl Sagan once said, \\"Science is a way of thinking much more than it is a body of knowledge.\\" That way of thinking, that combination of curiosity and skepticism, the sense of wonder and the willingness to test our assumptions, it's what, at root, we are honoring today. It's what has spurred countless advances and conferred untold benefits on our society. And it's an idea that has driven our success for as long as we have been a nation.<p>And I'm confident that this spirit of discovery and invention will continue to help us succeed in the years and decades to come. And our country owes every one of our laureates with us today a big measure of thanks for nurturing that spirit and expanding the boundaries of human knowledge.<p>So it is now my privilege to present the National Medals of Science and the National Medals of Technology and Innovation.<p>[<i>At this point, Maj. Reginald McClam, USMC, Marine Corps Aide to the President, read the citations, and the President presented the medals.</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Well, let me make two closing points. Number one, I feel really smart just standing up here with these folks. [<i>Laughter</i>] I think it kind of rubbed off on me. [<i>Laughter</i>] Number two, I want to congratulate our military aide for being able to read all those things. [<i>Laughter</i>] I want to assure you, he practiced a lot. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And finally, let me just once again say to all the honorees who are here tonight, you have truly revolutionized the world in ways that are profoundly important to people in their day-to-day lives, but also help to create those steps in human progress that really make us who we are as human beings. And so we could not be prouder of you, could not be more grateful to you for your contributions.<p>Please give them one last big round of applause.<p>All right. Everybody, enjoy the party. [<i>Laughter</i>]\" "
"332" "\"Hello, everybody. Good afternoon. Today one of the toughest tales of the recession took another big step towards becoming a success story. General Motors relaunched itself as a public company, cutting the Government's stake in the company by nearly half. What's more, American taxpayers are now positioned to recover more than my administration invested in GM. And that's a very good thing.<p>Last year, we told GM's management and workers that if they made the tough decisions necessary to make themselves more competitive in the 21st century--decisions requiring real leadership, fresh thinking, and also some shared sacrifice--then we would stand by them. And because they did, the American auto industry--an industry that's been the proud symbol of America's manufacturing might for a century, an industry that helped to build our middle class--is once again on the rise.<p>Our automakers are in the midst of their strongest period of job growth in more than a decade. Since GM and Chrysler emerged from bankruptcy, the industry has created more than 75,000 new jobs. For the first time in 6 years, Ford, GM, and Chrysler are all operating at a profit. In fact, last week, GM announced its best quarter in over 11 years. And most importantly, American workers are back at the assembly line manufacturing the high-quality, fuel-efficient, American-made cars of tomorrow, capable of going toe to toe with any other manufacturer in the world.<p>Just 2 years ago, this seemed impossible. In fact, there were plenty of doubters and naysayers who said it couldn't be done, who were prepared to throw in the towel and read the American auto industry last rites. Independent estimates suggested, however, that had we taken that step, had we given up, we would have lost more than 1 million jobs across all 50 States. It would have also resulted in economic chaos, devastating communities across the country and costing governments tens of billions of dollars in additional social safety net benefits and lost revenue.<p>That wasn't an acceptable option--to throw up our hands and to quit. That's not what we do. This is a country of optimistic and determined people who don't give up when times are tough. We do what's necessary to move forward.<p>So these last 2 years haven't been easy on anybody. They haven't been without pain or sacrifice, as the tough restructuring of GM reminds us. And obviously, we've still got a long road ahead and a lot of work to do to rebuild this economy, to put people back to work, to make America more competitive for the future, and to secure the American Dream for our children and our grandchildren.<p>But we are finally beginning to see some of these tough decisions that we made in the midst of crisis pay off. And I'm absolutely confident that we're going to keep on making progress. I believe we're going to get through this tougher and stronger than we were before. Because just as I had faith in the ability of our autoworkers to persevere and succeed, I have faith in the American people's ability to persevere and succeed. And I have faith that America's best days and America's--and American manufacturing's best days are still ahead of us.<p>Finally, I just want to embarrass a couple of people. Ron Bloom and Brian Deese are key members of the team that helped to engineer this rescue of GM and Chrysler. So had it not been for these two gentlemen, a whole lot of people might be out of work right now. We are very proud of them, and I figured that I'd go ahead and--you can see they're all looking sheepish--point them out to you.<p>So thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"333" "\"Good evening, everybody. I just wanted to take a few minutes to talk about the substantial progress that the United States and our NATO allies have made here today. <p>We head into tomorrow's meeting with an alliance that is fully aligned in its vision and approach to collective security for the 21st century. After a year of discussions, and sometimes debate, the new strategic concept that we are embracing shows that NATO is fully united about the way forward and committing to addressing the full range of security challenges of this century.<p>Our article 5 commitment remains the center of our approach, of course. An attack on one NATO member is an attack on all. And just as we will always back up that commitment with the conventional and nuclear strength that is necessary to defend our allies, we are now backing up that commitment with new capabilities as well.<p>That's why I'm pleased to announce that for the first time we've agreed to develop missile defense capability that is strong enough to cover all NATO European territory and populations, as well as the United States. This important step forward builds on the new phased adaptive approach to missile defense that I announced for the United States last year. It offers a role for all of our allies. It responds to the threats of our times. It shows our determination to protect our citizens from the threat of ballistic missiles. And tomorrow we look forward to working with Russia to build our cooperation with them in this area as well, recognizing that we share many of the same threats.<p>Under the leadership of Secretary General Rasmussen, I'm also pleased that we're looking at the full range of capabilities that we need to secure our people, from more deployable capabilities, to new measures to deal with new threats like improvised explosives, to the cyber defenses that will be so essential in the years to come.<p>And just as we have full agreement on our new strategic concept, tomorrow our NATO allies, ISAF partners, and the Afghan Government will work to align our approach on Afghanistan, particularly in two areas: our transition to full Afghan lead between 2011 and 2014, and the long-term partnership that we're building in Afghanistan.<p>Finally, let me say a few words about the need to ratify the new START Treaty. As I've said, this is a national security imperative for the United States. We need to ratify new START to put in place on-the-ground inspections of Russian nuclear arsenals, to reduce our deployed weapons and launchers, and to build on our cooperation with Russia, which has helped us put pressure on Iran and helped us to equip our mission in Afghanistan.<p>But just as this is a national security priority for the United States, the message that I've received since I've arrived from my fellow leaders here at NATO could not be clearer: New START will strengthen our alliance, and it will strengthen European security.<p>Nobody is aware--nobody is more aware of the need for a strong, secure, and democratic Europe than our Eastern and Central European allies. And my friend, the Foreign Minister of Poland, Radoslaw Sikorski, put it well when he said that new START will, and I quote, \\"bolster our country's security, and that of Europe as a whole.\\"<p>On the other hand, we know that failure to ratify and move forward with new START will put at risk the substantial progress that has been made in advancing our nuclear security and our partnership with Russia on behalf of global security.<p>Indeed, tomorrow we will build on the reset of U.S.-Russian relations by resetting relations between NATO and Russia as well through the NATO-Russia Council, which opens the door to cooperation on a range of security interests, cooperation that can lead to a more secure Europe and a more secure world.<p>So I want to thank all of my fellow leaders for the work that has been done. The progress that we've already made here today gives me great confidence that this will be a landmark summit in Lisbon and that the strong ties between the United States and Europe will continue to grow in the years to come.<p>Thanks very much, everybody.\" "
"334" "\"Today I'd like to speak with you about an issue that is fundamental to America's national security: the need for the Senate to approve the new START Treaty this year.<p>This treaty is rooted in a practice that dates back to Ronald Reagan. The idea is simple: As the two nations with over 90 percent of the world's nuclear weapons, the United States and Russia have a responsibility to work together to reduce our arsenals. And to ensure that our national security is protected, the United States has an interest in tracking Russia's nuclear arsenal through a verification effort that puts U.S. inspectors on the ground. As President Reagan said when he signed a nuclear arms treaty with the Soviet Union in 1987, \\"Trust, but verify.\\"<p>That is precisely what the new START Treaty does. After nearly a full year of negotiations, we completed an agreement earlier this year that cuts by a third the number of long-range nuclear weapons and delivery vehicles that the United States and Russia can deploy, while ensuring that America retains a strong nuclear deterrent and can put inspectors back on the ground in Russia.<p>The treaty also helped us reset our relations with Russia, which led to concrete benefits. For instance, Russia has been indispensable to our efforts to enforce strong sanctions on Iran, to secure loose nuclear material from terrorists, and to equip our troops in Afghanistan.<p>All of this will be put to risk if the Senate does not pass the new START Treaty.<p>Without ratification this year, the United States will have no inspectors on the ground and no ability to verify Russian nuclear activities. So those who would block this treaty are breaking President Reagan's rule. They want to trust, but not verify.<p>Without ratification, we put at risk the coalition that we have built to put pressure on Iran and the transit route through Russia that we use to equip our troops in Afghanistan. And without ratification, we risk undoing decades of American leadership on nuclear security and decades of bipartisanship on this issue. Our security and our position in the world are at stake.<p>Indeed, since the Reagan years, every President has pursued a negotiated, verified, arms reduction treaty. And every time that these treaties have been reviewed by the Senate, they have passed with over 85 votes. Bipartisan support for new START could not be stronger. It has been endorsed by Republicans from the Reagan administration and both Bush administrations, including Colin Powell, George Shultz, Jim Baker, and Henry Kissinger. And it was approved by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee by a strong bipartisan vote of 14 to 4.<p>Over the last several months, several questions have been asked about new START, and we have answered every single one. Some have asked whether it will limit our missile defense; it will not. Some, including Senator Jon Kyl, have asked that we modernize our nuclear infrastructure for the 21st century. We are doing so and plan to invest at least $85 billion in that effort over the next 10 years, a significant increase from the Bush administration.<p>Finally, some make no argument against the treaty, they just ask for more time. But remember this: It has already been 11 months since we've had inspectors in Russia, and every day that goes by without ratification is a day that we lose confidence in our understanding of Russia's nuclear weapons. If the Senate doesn't act this year--after 6 months, 18 hearings, and nearly a thousand questions answered--it would have to start over from scratch in January.<p>The choice is clear: A failure to ratify new START would be a dangerous gamble with America's national security, setting back our understanding of Russia's nuclear weapons, as well as our leadership in the world. That is not what the American people sent us to Washington to do.<p>There is enough gridlock, enough bickering. If there is one issue that should unite us--as Republicans and Democrats--it should be our national security.<p>Some things are bigger than politics. As Republican Dick Lugar said the other day, \\"Every Senator has an obligation in the national security interest to take a stand, to do his or her duty.\\"<p>Senator Lugar is right. And if the Senate passes this treaty, it will not be an achievement for Democrats or Republicans, it will be a win for America.<p>Thanks.\" "
"335" "\"Well, thank you very much. Good evening, everyone. It is a pleasure to be here with President Barroso and President Van Rompuy.<p>I am proud to be here. I was proud to meet with the leaders of the 27 European member states during our summit in Prague last year. I was pleased to welcome President Barroso and the EU leadership to the White House last fall. I have been pleased to work with both Herman and Jose at the G-20 context, and today marks our first summit under the EU's Lisbon Treaty. So--it was also wonderful to meet Cathy Ashton, who's doing outstanding work.<p>This summit was not as exciting as other summits because we basically agree on everything. But nevertheless, I value these meetings for a simple reason: America's relationship with our European allies and partners is the cornerstone of our engagement with the world, and it's a catalyst for global cooperation.<p>Whether it's creating jobs for our people, sustaining global economic recovery, protecting our citizens, preventing nuclear proliferation, the United States has no closer partner than Europe. And we're not simply united by shared interests. We're united by shared history, by shared democratic values, a shared set of traditions that have endured for generations.<p>That's why the United States needs and wants a strong and united Europe. That's why our summit today focused on three important areas of mutual interest.<p>First, we agreed to take a series of steps to increase trade and investment, which already amounts to a $4.4 trillion relationship and supports millions of jobs on both sides of the Atlantic. We directed our Transatlantic Economic Council to focus on streamlining regulations, encouraging innovation, eliminating barriers that hamper trade and investment. And building on the progress of the G-20 summit in Seoul, we reaffirmed the need for currencies that are market driven and for countries with large surpluses to boost domestic demand.<p>Second, we reviewed our close security cooperation. We saw with the recent security alerts in Europe, as well as the plot that was disrupted to detonate explosives in cargo flights, that we have to work every day to keep our citizens safe. And we will continue to do so.<p>From our common efforts to address Iran's nuclear program to our work together in Sudan, we're also partners in promoting stability and averting crises around the world. And now that the--that NATO has agreed that the transition to Afghan responsibility will begin early next year, the EU's role as a major donor to Afghanistan and a trainer for police forces will only become more important.<p>Finally, we're coordinating on a series of global issues. With regard to climate change, we directed our U.S.-EU Energy Council to find ways to bring clean energy technologies to market faster, and we're standing by our Copenhagen commitments to reduce emissions as we work towards Cancun.<p>And as the world's source of most of--as the source of most of the world's development assistance, we agreed to better coordinate our assistance and ensure a more effective division of labor to avoid duplication and inefficiency, as I've called for in our new development strategy.<p>So again, I want to thank President Barroso, President Van Rompuy for their strong leadership and their partnership. I am confident that if we continue to deepen the close cooperation between the United States and the EU, we can deliver greater security and greater prosperity for our 800 million citizens on both sides of the Atlantic.<p>And let me just use this opportunity once again to thank the people of Portugal for the wonderful hospitality. I plan to come back when I have fewer meetings. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"336" "\"Everybody, have a seat. Thank you so much. Thank you, Joe. Thank you, Kokomo. I have to just say, by the way, Joe is not only one of the best Vice Presidents in history, he's also one of the best introducers in history. [<i>Laughter</i>] I try to take him wherever I can.<p>I want to thank your plant manager, Jeremy Keating, for the great tour and the great work that he's doing here. He is proud of the work that's being done at this plant. I want to thank your local UAW president, Richie Boruff, who's here; thank them for showing me around.<p>A couple other hotshots: U.S. Senator Evan Bayh is here; Congressman Joe Donnelly is in the house; Congressman Andre Carson is here; Congressman Baron Hill is here. By the way, Congressman Baron Hill is in the Indiana Basketball Hall of Fame. Now, that's pretty cool. Being a Congressman's cool; being in the Basketball Hall of Fame in Indiana, that's something.<p>Mayor of Kokomo, Greg Goodnight, is here, doing outstanding work. The CEO of Chrysler Group, Sergio Marchionne, is here. President of UAW, Bob King, is in the house.<p>We've got some of the best workers in the United States of America right here at this plant. And I had a chance to meet some of you as we were going around seeing these amazing transmissions that you're building. And I was very happy to hear that after a couple of tough years, this plant is now running at full capacity. And that's why I'm here today. That's why I'm here today.<p>Now, we all know that one plant by itself doesn't mean that there aren't people in Kokomo who are still hurting. I had lunch with the mayor and some firefighters, and there's still a long way to go. The mayor's got all kinds of great plans, and there are businesses that are looking to start expanding. But the fact is there are millions of people around the country who are still looking for work in the wake of the worst recession in our lifetimes. I don't have to tell you that. Many of you still have friends or neighbors, a husband or a wife who is still struggling.<p>And I know that before this plant started rehiring, a lot of you were in the same position. So you remember that it is a tough, tough thing when you're out of work, especially when you've taken a lifetime of pride in working and supporting a family and making great products.<p>But even as we continue to face serious challenges, what's happening here at this plant, the changes we're seeing throughout Kokomo, are signs of hope and confidence in the future, in our future, together. You're showing us the way forward. You're living up to that spirit of optimism and determination, that grit that's always been at the heart of who we are as a people, at the heart of America.<p>I remember coming to Kokomo a little over 2 years ago. Joe will remember this. Some of you might have been here. What was happening here reflected what was happening all over the country, all over this region. For a decade or more, families had felt a growing sense of economic insecurity. A lot of manufacturing had left the area. And then a recession started taking hold, and folks were seeing job losses and facing new hardships.<p>That was before anybody knew how devastating the recession was going to be. So by the time I took office, just a few months later, the financial crisis had hit, the auto industry teetered on the brink, and we were losing millions of jobs.<p>And that left Joe and I with some tough choices. One was to help the auto industry restructure. And that wasn't an easy call. I understood that there were some reservations of those who said that the industry should pay a price for some poor decisions by the part of management. But we also knew that millions of jobs hung in the balance. We also knew that the very survival of places like Kokomo were on the line. And we knew that the collapse of the American auto industry would lead to an even deeper disaster for our economy.<p>And you know what, we also believed that America, which popularized the automobile, whose middle class was made on the basis of manufacturing, that we couldn't just give up. We couldn't throw in the towel. That was not an option.<p>There were those who were prepared to give up on Kokomo and our auto industry. There were those who said it was going to be too difficult or that it was bad politics or it was throwing good money after bad. You remember the voices arguing for us to do nothing. They were pretty loud, suggesting we should just step back and watch an entire sector of our economy fall apart. <p>But we knew that the auto industry was not built, and this country was not built, by doing the easy thing. It wasn't built by doing nothing. It was built by doing what was necessary, even when it's difficult. So we made the decision to stand behind the auto industry if automakers, if CEOs like Sergio, were willing to do what was necessary to make themselves competitive in the 21st century and if they had the cooperation of workers, who were taking pride in the products that they made.<p>We made the decision to stand with you because we had confidence in the American worker, more than anything. And today, we know that was the right decision. We know that was the right decision.<p>Today, each of the Big Three automakers has increased their market share--each of them. For the first time in over a decade, Americans are buying a larger share of Chryslers, Fords, and GM cars and a smaller share of their foreign counterparts--for the first time in decades.<p>We're coming back; we're on the move. All three American companies are profitable, and they are growing. Some of you read last week, GM's stock offering exceeded expectations as investors expressed their confidence in a future that seemed so dim just 18 months ago. And as a result, the Treasury was able to sell half of its GM stock.<p>So here's the lesson: Don't bet against America. Don't bet against the American auto industry. Don't bet against American ingenuity. Don't bet against the American worker. Don't bet against us. Don't bet against us.<p>Don't bet against us. This plant is a shining example of why you shouldn't. Two years ago, production here was plummeting. A lot of folks had lost their jobs. Today, this plant is coming back. The company has invested more than $300 million in this factory to retool.<p>But it gets better. Sergio just told me today, Chrysler is announcing an additional investment of more than $800 million in its Kokomo facilities--$800 million. That's good; that's good news. That's real money, $800 million. See, the mayor's got a big grin on his face. All right, you're pretty happy about that.<p>Over the next few years, folks here expect to manufacture more transmissions than ever before. And as a result, hundreds of workers are back on the job, and Jeremy said we're going to be hiring more.<p>This includes--I'm going to name a couple of people just to embarrass them a little bit. Where's Sharon Ybarra? Is Sharon here? Right here. Sharon lost her job of 20 years at a paper mill. She was only able to find work that paid her far less than her old job, until she was hired by Chrysler. And now she is doing a great job right here at Chrysler. We're proud of you.<p>Jim Faurote is here. Where's Jim? Jim's right next to her. Jim worked for Chrysler for a decade, right? Then he lost his job when the plant he worked at in New Castle shut down. Over the next few years, he could only find intermittent work on and off. It wasn't until after the restructuring that he was able to have a job he could count on. And he is back at work now for more than a year, doing an outstanding job, making great products here at Chrysler. So--[<i>applause</i>].<p>At a plant down the road, workers are manufacturing parts for hybrid vehicles. That's already led to dozens of jobs and will lead to nearly 200 jobs over the next few years. A few miles outside of Kokomo, in Tipton, a clean energy company called Abound is going to be able to hire 900 workers, taking over a plant that had to shut down a few years ago.<p>So a factory that was empty and dark will come back to life. And when people have a paycheck, as Joe said, they can go to the store, they're able to spend. That helps the economy grow. And so on Main Street in Kokomo, we're seeing a revival with new businesses opening downtown.<p>So for anybody who says our country's best days are behind us, anybody who would doubt our prospects for the future, anybody who doesn't believe in the Midwest, anybody who doesn't believe in manufacturing, have them come to Kokomo. Have them come to Kokomo. Come here, meet these workers, visit these plants. Come back to this city that's fighting block by block, business by business, job by job. <p>This is a reminder of what we do as Americans--what we can do as Americans when we come together, when we're not divided. We're not spending all our time bickering, but instead focusing on getting the job done. We don't give up, we don't turn back. We fight for our future.<p>No, we're not out of the woods yet. It took a lot of years to get us into this mess. It will take longer than anybody would like to get us out. But I want everybody to be absolutely clear: We are moving in the right direction. We learned that the economy--[<i>applause</i>]--we learned today that the economy is growing at a faster pace than we previously thought. That's welcome news. But we're going to keep on making it grow faster. We're going to keep on creating more jobs. We need to do everything we can to make that happen.<p>That's why in the coming days it is so important, the coming months it's so important that Democrats and Republicans work together to speed up our recovery. We've got to put aside our differences. The election's over. We've got to find places where we can agree. We've got to remember the most important contest we face, it's not between Democrats and Republicans, it's between America and our economic competitors. Other nations are already making investments in--[<i>applause</i>]. Other nations are making investments in education, energy and infrastructure, technology, because they know that's how they're going to be able to attract the new jobs of the future. And throughout our history, Democrats and Republicans have agreed on making these investments.<p>If we don't want to cede our economic leadership to nations like China, we've got to do the same today. We've got to make sure our workers have the skills and the training to compete with any workers in the world. We should give our businesses more incentive to invest in research and innovation that leads to new jobs and new products and new industries like the ones we're seeing here in Kokomo. We should make it easier, not harder, for middle class families to get ahead.<p>I'll give you an example on taxes. Next year, taxes are set to go up for middle class families, unless Congress acts. If we don't act by the end of the year, a typical middle class family will wake up on January 1 to a tax increase of $3,000 per year.<p>So in the next few weeks, I'm asking Congress to take up this issue. The last thing we can afford to do right now is raise taxes on middle class families. If we allow these taxes to go up, the result would be that a lot of people most likely would spend less, and that means that the economy would grow less. So we ought to resolve this issue in the next couple of weeks so you've got the assurance that your taxes won't go up when the clock strikes midnight.<p>Now, this is actually an area where Democrats and Republicans agree. The only place where we disagree is whether we can afford to also borrow $700 billion to pay for an extra tax cut for the wealthiest Americans, for millionaires and billionaires. I don't think we can afford it right now, not when we are going to have to make some tough decisions to rein in our deficits. That's going to require sacrifice from all Americans, including those who can most afford it. So I'm eager to sit down with leaders from both parties next week and to hammer this out, but we need to hammer it out.<p>Long before transmissions were coming off the line at this plant--and by the way, you look at these transmissions today and somebody 20 years ago or 10 years ago might not recognize them; they're amazing. Before Henry Ford built the Model T or Walter Chrysler took up the reins at a startup called Buick, a man by the name of Elwood Haynes decided to do a little experiment right here in Kokomo.<p>He set up a 1-horsepower boat engine on his kitchen; he bolted it to the ground. His idea was that he might be able to rig the motor to a carriage. So he starts it up, and the engine worked great. In fact, it worked so well that it came loose from the bolts and destroyed the kitchen floor. And after a brief and what I imagine was a difficult conversation with his wife, Elwood decided to continue his tests in his machine shop. And he toiled for months. But when he was finished, he had completed one of the earliest working automobiles ever built in America. And he named it the Pioneer. <p>So Kokomo has a storied place in our history. This is a city where people came to invent things and to build things, to make things here in America, to work hard in the hopes of producing something of value and something that people could be proud of.<p>That's the legacy of all of you. You are all heirs to that tradition right here at this plant. That's the legacy that has made this country the envy of the world. And I am absolutely convinced this legacy is one you will continue to uphold for years and decades to come.<p>Congratulations, Chrysler. Congratulations, Kokomo. Proud of you.\" "
"337" "\"<i>The President.</i> Please, everybody, have a seat. Good morning. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Good morning.<p><i>The President.</i> I have my two trusty assistants here--[<i>laughter</i>]--Malia and Sasha, for one of the most important duties that I carry out as President.<p>Before everybody heads home for Thanksgiving, there is one official duty I am sworn to uphold as the leader of the most powerful nation on Earth. Today I have the awesome responsibility of granting a Presidential pardon to a pair of turkeys. Now, for the record, let me say that it feels pretty good to stop at least one shellacking this November. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>This year's national turkey goes by the name of Apple, and his feathered understudy is appropriately named Cider. They are being presented today by the chairman of the National Turkey Federation, Yubert Envia--and I want to just point out that Yubert seems very comfortable with that turkey--[<i>laughter</i>]--as well as the man who helped raise and handle them since birth, Ira Brister. Where's Ira? There's Ira. Give Ira a big round of applause for raising such outstanding turkeys. I want to thank you both for joining us here at the White House. <p>Now, Apple and Cider came to us from the Foster Farms Wellsford Ranch, just outside of Modesto, California. Out of about 20,000 turkeys born at Foster Farms this summer, 25 were selected for a final competition that involved strutting their stuff before a panel of judges with an eclectic mix of music playing in the background. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's kind of like a turkey version of \\"Dancing With the Stars\\"--[<i>laughter</i>]--except the stakes for the contestants was much higher. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Only one pair would survive and win the big prize: life--[<i>laughter</i>]--and an all-expenses-paid trip to Washington, where they've been living it up on corn feed at the W hotel. The W hotel has really been putting them up. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's great advertising. [<i>Laughter</i>] It makes you want to stay at the W. [<i>Laughter</i>] And after today, Apple and Cider will spend their retirement at the same beautiful place our first President spent his: Mount Vernon, Virginia.<p>So later this afternoon, our family will also deliver two turkeys who didn't quite make the cut to Martha's Table, which is an organization that does extraordinary work helping folks who are struggling here in DC. And I want to thank the good people at Jaindl's Turkey Farm in Orefield, Pennsylvania, who have now donated these turkeys 2 years in a row. <p>Now, this, of course, is what's truly meant by Thanksgiving, a holiday that asks us to be thankful for what we have and generous to those who have less. It's a time to spend with the ones we love and a chance to show compassion and concern to people we've never met. It's a tradition that's brought us together as a community since before we were a nation, when the ground we're standing on was nothing but wilderness. <p>Back then, the simple act of survival was often the greatest blessing of all. And later, President Lincoln declared the first National Day of Thanksgiving in the midst of the Civil War. During the depths of the Great Depression, local businesses gave donations and charities opened their doors to families who didn't have a place to celebrate Thanksgiving. In times of war, our military has gone through great lengths to give our men and women on the frontlines a turkey dinner and a taste of home. <p>So in America, we come together when times are hard. We don't give up, we don't complain, and we don't turn our backs on one another. Instead, we look out for another and we pitch in and we give what we can. And in the process, we reveal to the world what we love so much about this country. <p>That's who we are. And that's who Thanksgiving reminds us to be. So I hope everyone takes some time during this holiday season to give back and serve their community in some way. And I also want to take a moment to say how grateful I am to the men and women who are serving this country bravely and selflessly in places far away from home right now. You and your families are in our thoughts and in our prayers, and you make me so very proud to be your Commander in Chief. <p>So on behalf of Michelle, Sasha, Malia, and myself, I want to wish everybody a wonderful and happy and safe Thanksgiving. And now it is my great honor as well to give Apple and Cider a new lease on life. So as President of the United States, you are hereby pardoned from the Thanksgiving dinner table. [<i>Laughter</i>] May you have a wonderful and joyful life at Mount Vernon.<p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. All right.<p>[<i>At this point, the President and his daughters Sasha and Malia left the podium to approach the turkey. As they approached, the turkey gobbled.</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> You see? He made a little noise to thank me. [<i>Laughter</i>] Let's go take a closer look at him.<p><i>National Turkey Federation Chairman Yubert Envia.</i> Mr. President, I'd like to introduce Apple.<p><i>The President.</i> That's some kind of waddle. All right, you have my blessing. [<i>Laughter</i>] You want to touch him on the back of the head? You want to touch him? Not really?<p>[<i>The President began to pet the turkey.</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Yeah, buddy.<p><i>Mr. Envia.</i> You keep doing that, he's going to fall asleep.<p><i>The President.</i> Now, can somebody explain to me what the whole waddle thing is about?<p><i>Mr. Envia.</i> The whole waddle, that's how they dissipate heat.<p><i>The President.</i> That's how they dissipate heat?<p><i>Mr. Envia.</i> They don't have sweat glands, so all the blood rushes to the waddle, and that's how they dissipate heat in the wild.<p><i>The President.</i> Interesting. I guess we're glad we have sweat glands. [<i>Laughter</i>] Otherwise, we'd be carrying these around. <p>This feels pretty good, do you want to try it? No? No. <p>All right, thank you very much.<p><i>Mr. Envia.</i> Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you.<p><i>The President.</i> All right. Have a good life, man. [<i>Laughter</i>]\" "
"338" "\"Today, like millions of other families across America, Michelle, Malia, Sasha, and I will sit down to share a Thanksgiving filled with family and friends--and a few helpings of food and football too. And just as folks have done in every Thanksgiving since the first, we'll spend some time taking stock of what we're thankful for: the God-given bounty of America and the blessings of one another.<p>This is also a holiday that captures that distinctly American impulse to give something of ourselves. Even as we speak, there are countless Americans serving at soup kitchens and food pantries, contributing to their communities, and standing guard around the world.<p>And in a larger sense, that's emblematic of what Americans have always done. We come together and done what's required to make tomorrow better than today. That's who we are.<p>Consider our journey since that first Thanksgiving. We are among the world's youngest of peoples, but time and again, we have boldly and resiliently led the way forward. Against tough odds, we are a people who endure, who explored and settled a vast and untamed continent, who built a powerful economy and stood against tyranny in all its forms, who marched and fought for equality and connected a globe with our science and imagination.<p>None of that progress was predestined. None of it came easily. Instead, the blessings for which we give thanks today are the product of choices made by our parents and grandparents and generations before whose determination and sacrifice ensured a better future for us.<p>This holiday season, we must resolve once more to do the same.<p>This is not the hardest Thanksgiving America has ever faced. But as long as many members of our American family are hurting, we've got to look out for one another. As long as many of our sons and daughters and husbands and wives are at war, we've got to support their mission and honor their service. And as long as many of our friends and neighbors are looking for work, we've got to do everything we can to accelerate this recovery and keep our economy moving forward.<p>And we will. But we won't do it as any one political party. We've got to do it as one people. And in the coming weeks and months, I hope that we can work together, Democrats and Republicans and Independents alike, to make progress on these and other issues.<p>That's why next week I've invited the leadership of both parties to the White House for a real and honest discussion. Because I believe that if we stop talking at one another and start talking with one another, we can get a lot done.<p>For what we are called to do again today isn't about Democrats or Republicans. It's not about left or right. It's about us. It's about what we know this country is capable of. It's about what we want America to be in this new century: a vibrant nation that makes sure its children are the best educated in the world; a healthy, growing economy that runs on clean energy and creates the jobs of tomorrow; a responsible government that reduces its deficits; an America where every citizen is able to go as far as he or she desires.<p>We can do all this, because we've done it before. We're made of the same sturdy stuff as the travelers who first sat down to that Thanksgiving dinner, and all who came after, who worked and sacrificed and invested because they believed that their efforts would make the difference for us.<p>That's who we are. We shape our own destiny with conviction and compassion and clear and common purpose. We honor our past and press forward with the knowledge that tomorrow will be better than today. We are Americans. That's the vision we won't lose sight of. That's the legacy that falls to our generation. That's the challenge that together, we are going to meet.<p>To every American, I am thankful for the privilege of being your President. To all our servicemembers stationed around the world, I am honored to be your Commander in Chief. And from the Obama family to yours, have a very happy Thanksgiving. Thanks.\" "
"339" "\"Good morning, everybody. Let me begin by pointing out that although Washington is supposed to be a town of sharp elbows, it's getting a little carried away. For those of you who are worried about my lip, I should be okay. The doctor has given me a clean bill of health, and I will continue to be playing basketball whenever I get a chance. In fact, I played yesterday with Sasha and Malia, and they took it easy on me because they were feeling pity.<p>I hope everybody had a great Thanksgiving, but now it's time to get back to work. Congress is back in town this week. And I'm looking forward to sitting down with Republican leaders tomorrow to discuss many issues, foremost among them the American people's business that remains to be done this year. My hope is that tomorrow's meeting will mark a first step towards a new and productive working relationship. Because we now have a shared responsibility to deliver for the American people on the issues that define not only these times, but our future, and I hope we can do that in a cooperative and serious way.<p>Our two most fundamental challenges are keeping the American people safe and growing our economy, and it's in that spirit that I look forward to sitting down tomorrow and talking about urgent matters like the ratification of the new START Treaty, which is so essential to our safety and security, and the status of the Bush-era tax cuts that are set to expire at the end of this year. And this is just one of the many economic issues we've got to tackle together in the months ahead.<p>As I said a few weeks ago, the most important contest of our time is not the contest between Democrats and Republicans, it's between America and our economic competitors all around the world. And winning that contest means that we've got to ensure our children are the best educated in the world, that our research and development is second to none, and that we lead the globe in renewable energy and technological innovation.<p>It also means making sure that in the future we're not dragged down by long-term debt. This is a challenge that both parties have a responsibility to address: to get Federal spending under control and bring down the deficits that have been growing for most of the last decade.<p>Now, there's no doubt that if we want to bring down our deficits, it's critical to keep growing our economy. More importantly, there's still a lot of pain out there, and we can't afford to take any steps that might derail our recovery or our efforts to put Americans back to work and to make Main Street whole again. So we can't put the brakes on too quickly. And I'm going to be interested in hearing ideas from my Republican colleagues, as well as Democrats, about how we continue to grow the economy and how we put people back to work.<p>But we do have to correct our long-term fiscal course. And that's why earlier this year I created a bipartisan deficit commission that is poised to report back later this week with ideas that I hope will spark a serious and long-overdue conversation in this town. Those of us who have been charged to lead will have to confront some very difficult decisions, cutting spending we don't need in order to invest in the things that we do. <p>As President, I'm committed to doing my part. From the earliest days of my administration, we've worked to eliminate wasteful spending and streamline Government. I promised to go through the budget line by line to eliminate programs that have outlived their usefulness, and in each of the budgets I've put forward so far, we've proposed approximately $20 billion in savings through shrinking or ending more than 120 of such programs.<p>I've also set goals for this Government that we're on track to meet: reducing improper payments by $50 billion, saving $40 billion in contracting, and selling off $8 billion of unneeded Federal land and buildings.<p>I've also proposed a 3-year freeze on all nonsecurity discretionary spending, a step that would bring that spending to its lowest level as a share of the economy in 50 years. And we've brought unprecedented transparency to Federal spending by placing all of it online at USAspending.gov and recovery.gov so Americans can see how their tax dollars are spent.<p>The hard truth is that getting this deficit under control is going to require some broad sacrifice. And that sacrifice must be shared by the employees of the Federal Government.<p>After all, small businesses and families are tightening their belts; their Government should too. And that's why, on my first day as President, I froze all pay for my senior staff. This year, I've proposed extending that freeze for senior political appointees throughout the Government and eliminating bonuses for all political appointees.<p>And today I'm proposing a 2-year pay freeze for all civilian Federal workers. This would save $2 billion over the rest of this fiscal year and $28 billion in cumulative savings over the next 5 years. And I want to be clear: This freeze does not apply to the men and women of our Armed Forces, who along with their families continue to bear enormous burdens with our Nation at war.<p>I did not reach this decision easily. This is not just a line item on a Federal ledger, these are people's lives. They're doctors and nurses who care for our veterans, scientists who search for better treatments and cures, men and women who care for our national parks and secure our borders and our skies, Americans who see that the Social Security checks get out on time, who make sure that scholarships comes through, who devote themselves to our safety. They're patriots who love their country and often make many sacrifices to serve their country.<p>In these challenging times, we want the best and brightest to join and make a difference. But these are also times where all of us are called on to make some sacrifices. And I'm asking civil servants to do what they've always done: play their part.<p>Going forward, we're going to have to make some additional very tough decisions that this town has put off for a very long time. And that's what this upcoming week is really about. My hope is that, starting today, we can begin a bipartisan conversation about our future, because we face challenges that will require the cooperation of Democrats, Republicans, and Independents. Everybody is going to have to cooperate. We can't afford to fall back onto the same old ideologies or the same stale sound bites. We're going to have to budge on some deeply held positions and compromise for the good of the country. We're going to have to set aside the politics of the moment to make progress for the long term. <p>And as I've often said, we're going to have to think not just about the next election, but about the next generation, because if there's anything the American people said this month, it's that they want their leaders to have one single focus: making sure their work is rewarded so that the American Dream remains within their reach. It would be unwise to assume they prefer one way of thinking over another. That wasn't the lesson that I took when I entered into office, and it's not the lesson today.<p>So while our ideas may be different, our goals must be the same: growing this economy, putting people back to work, and securing the dream for all who work for it; to summon what's best for each of us to make lives better for all of us. And that's why we are here, and that's why we serve. That's how we've moved this country forward in the past, and I'm absolutely confident that that is how we are going to move this country forward once again.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"340" "\"Hello, everybody. By the way, for those of you who are curious, we're using this room because we've got about a hundred volunteers decorating the White House. So we're spending a little more time in the EEOB.<p>I just wrapped up a meeting with leaders from both parties. It was our first chance to get together face to face since the election to talk about how we can best work together to move the country forward.<p>It's no secret that we have had differences that have led us to part ways on many issues in the past. But we are Americans first, and we share a responsibility for the stewardship of our Nation. The American people did not vote for gridlock. They didn't vote for unyielding partisanship. They're demanding cooperation, and they're demanding progress. And they'll hold all of us--and I mean all of us--accountable for it. And I was very encouraged by the fact that there was broad recognition of that fact in the room.<p>I just want to say I thought it was a productive meeting. I thought that people came to it with a spirit of trying to work together. And I think it's a good start as we move forward.<p>I think everybody understands that the American people want us to focus on their jobs, not ours. They want us to come together around strategies to accelerate the recovery and get Americans back to work. They want us to confront the long-term deficits that cloud our future. They want us to focus on their safety and security and not allow matters of urgent importance to become locked up in the politics of Washington.<p>So today we had the beginning of a new dialogue that I hope--and I'm sure most Americans hope--will help break through the noise and produce real gains. And as we all agreed, that should begin today because there's some things we need to get done in the weeks before Congress leaves town for the holidays.<p>First, we should work to make sure that taxes will not go up by thousands of dollars on hard-working middle class Americans come January 1, which would be disastrous for those families, but also could be crippling for the economy. There was broad agreement that we need to work to get that resolved before the end of the year.<p>Now, there's still differences about how to get there. Republican leaders want to permanently extend tax cuts not only to middle class families, but also to some of the wealthiest Americans at the same time. And here we disagree. I believe--and the other Democrats who were in the room believe--that this would add an additional $700 billion to our debt in the next 10 years. And I continue to believe that it would be unwise and unfair, particularly at a time when we're contemplating deep budget cuts that require broad sacrifice.<p>Having said that, we agreed that there must be some sensible common ground. So I appointed my Treasury Secretary, Tim Geithner, and my Budget Director, Jack Lew, to work with representatives of both parties to break through this logjam. I've asked the leaders to appoint Members to help in this negotiation process. They agreed to do that. That process is beginning right away and we expect to get some answers back over the next couple of days about how we can accomplish our key goal, which is to make sure the economy continues to grow and we are putting people back to work. And we also want to make sure that we're giving the middle class the peace of mind of knowing that their taxes will not be raised come January 1.<p>I also urged both parties to move quickly to preserve a number of other tax breaks for individuals and businesses that are helping our recovery right now and that are set to expire at the end of the year. This includes a tax credit for college tuition, a tax credit for 95 percent--a tax break for 95 percent of working families that I initiated at the beginning of my Presidency, as well as a tax cut worth thousands of dollars for businesses that hire unemployed workers.<p>We discussed a number of other issues as well, including the importance of ratifying the new START Treaty so we can monitor Russia's nuclear arsenal, reduce our nuclear weapons, and strengthen our relationship with Russia. I reminded the room that this treaty has been vetted for 7 months now; it's gone through 18 hearings; it has support from Senators of both parties; it has broad bipartisan support from National Security Advisers and Secretaries of Defense and Secretaries of State from previous administrations, both Democrat and Republican; and that it's absolutely essential to our national security. We need to get it done.<p>We also talked about the work of the bipartisan deficit reduction commission and the difficult choices that will be required in order to get our fiscal house in order. We discussed working together to keep the Government running this year and running in a fiscally responsible way. And we discussed unemployment insurance, which expires today. I've asked that Congress act to extend this emergency relief without delay to folks who are facing tough times by no fault of their own.<p>Now, none of this is going to be easy. We have two parties for a reason. There are real philosophical differences, deeply held principles to which each party holds. And although the atmosphere in today's meeting was extremely civil, there's no doubt that those differences are going to remain no matter how many meetings we have. And the truth is, there's always going to be a political incentive against working together, particularly in the current hyperpartisan climate. There are always those who argue that the best strategy is simply to try to defeat your opposition instead of working with them.<p>And frankly, even the notion of bipartisanship itself has gotten caught up in this mentality. A lot of times, coming out of these meetings, both sides claim they want to work together, but try to paint the opponent as unyielding and unwilling to cooperate. Both sides come to the table, they read their talking points, then they head out to the microphones, trying to win the news cycle instead of solving problems, and it becomes just another move in an old Washington game.<p>But I think there was recognition today that that's a game that we can't afford, not in these times. And in a private meeting that I had without staff--without betraying any confidences--I was pleased to see several of my friends in the room say, let's try not to duplicate that. Let's not try to work the Washington spin cycle to suggest that somehow the other side is not being cooperative. I think that there was a sincere effort on the part of everybody involved to actually commit to work together to try to deal with these problems.<p>And they understand that these aren't times for us to be playing games. As I told the leaders at the beginning of the meeting, the next election is 2 years away and there will be plenty of time for campaigning. But right now we're facing some very serious challenges. We share an obligation to meet them. And that will require choosing the best of our ideas over the worst of our politics.<p>So that's the spirit in which I invited both parties here today. I'm happy with how the meeting went. And I told all the leadership that I look forward to holding additional meetings, including at Camp David.<p>Harry Reid mentioned that he's been in Congress for 28 years; he's never been to Camp David. And so I told him, well, we're going to have to get them all up there sometime soon.<p>And I very much appreciate their presence today. I appreciate the tenor of the conversations. I think it will actually yield results before the end of the year, and I look forward to continuing this dialogue in the months ahead.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"341" "\"Thank you very much. Please, have a seat, have a seat. Well, congratulations, first of all, to all of you for your victories, and welcome to the Blair House. You are part of a long line of illustrious visitors in this space. Winston Churchill used to hang out here when he was in the midst of working with FDR during World War II. Truman stayed here for 4 years when they were redoing the White House residence. And Abraham Lincoln was a close friend of the Blairs, so he used to visit here almost every night.<p>And as some of you I'm sure are aware, I read Lincoln a lot and think about Lincoln a lot. And I think one story that comes to mind right now is, at the time that he was President, visitors used to be able to come in, Secret Service weren't there to nag you and frisk you. And somebody demands to see him and insists on waiting. And finally, Lincoln lets him in, and then the guy says, \\"I'm responsible for you being elected President of the United States.\\" And Lincoln says, \\"Really?\\" He says, \\"Yes, I did all the work. I was one of your hardest workers. And now I expect some help.\\" And Lincoln says, \\"Well, let me tell you, if you are indeed responsible for helping me get elected, I forgive you.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now, some of you may feel the same way, or at least you will in a month or so. But the truth is that as somebody who served in State government, I'm aware of the fact that State government and local government is where rubber hits the road. A lot of times we have a lot of abstract debates here in Washington, but each day--and every day--you are close to the ground and you are seeing the impacts of the decisions that are made, whether in Washington or in your State capitals, in very intimate ways.<p>And so I have nothing but respect and regard for the chief executives of all 50 of our States. And I am looking forward to working with each and every one of you. I want to spend most of my time in a dialogue, so I'm not going to give a long speech. I'm just going to remark on a couple of points.<p>Point number one, we have just had a very vigorously contested election, but the election is over. And now I think it's time for all of us to make sure that we're working together. I am a very proud Democrat, as some of you in the room are, although not as many as I had expected. [<i>Laughter</i>] Some of you are very proud Republicans. But we're all prouder to be Americans.<p>And this country has just gone through a wrenching 2 years: the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression and the toughest economy that most of us have seen in our lifetimes. And so as a consequence, I think it's absolutely critical that whatever our positions, whatever our parties, that wherever we can we can pull together to make sure that we're doing right by the American people. And I know that everybody in this room believes that.<p>In that spirit, just earlier this week, we had a meeting with both Democratic and Republican leaders here in Washington to start talking about how we can find ways to agree on promoting growth and promoting jobs across all 50 States. And I'm actually optimistic that before the end of the year we are going to have come to some agreements on some critical issues.<p>Obviously, issue number one is making sure that on January 1, middle class families aren't seeing their taxes go up as a consequence of the expiration of some of the Bush tax cuts that are currently in place and some of the tax cuts that we've put in place over the last 2 years. And so that's going to be an important discussion over the next several days. I believe it will get resolved.<p>That doesn't mean there may not be some posturing over the next several days. But I'm confident in the end people are going to recognize that it's important for families who are still struggling to have some relief, and it's important for our economy to make sure that money is still out there circulating at a time when we are recovering, but we're not recovering as fast as we need to.<p>Along those same lines, I'm hopeful that we get the issue of unemployment insurance resolved. Some of you may be aware that as of today, you've got 2 million people who stand to lose their unemployment insurance. Over the course of the year, if we don't do something, 7 million people could lose their unemployment insurance. That's not also--that's not just a potential tragedy for those individual families, it could have a huge impact on your local economies, because every economist of every stripe will tell you that unemployment insurance dollars are probably the ones that are most likely to be spent, most likely to be recirculated, most likely to help to boost small business and services all across your States, and are going to have an effect on your sales revenue.<p>So our hope and expectation is, is that unemployment insurance--something that traditionally has had bipartisan support--is something that once again will be dealt with as part of a broader package.<p>Here's the good news: The economy is on the uptick. We've now had 5 consecutive quarters of economic growth, and we've had 10 consecutive months of private sector job growth. But I think we all recognize that it's not moving as quickly as it needs to be. And there are going to be a whole range of issues that we're going to have to focus on together, at the Federal and State levels, to assure not only that we get out of this crisis, but more importantly, that we're laying the foundation for long-term growth in the future.<p>And although there are going to be some disagreements on how we get there, there are going to be some areas where I think we agree. We all agree that we're going to have to have the best educated workforce in the world because our children are now not just competing against other children in other States in our Union, they're now competing against kids in Beijing and Bangalore and Seoul, South Korea. And if they don't have what it takes to compete, then America is going to have problems economically over the long term.<p>That's why I'm so proud, under the guidance of Arne Duncan, that we have initiated some reforms that have garnered strong bipartisan support. And frankly, as a Democrat, I've been willing to go after some long-held dogmas in our party in order to spring loose a smarter conversation about how we're educating our kids.<p>Our Race to the Top program is something that has allowed States across the country to initiate reforms in a competitive way and make sure that ideas like charter schools get traction, despite previous resistance. And I'm hoping that we can cooperate with all of you to see how we can continue to make progress on the education front.<p>All of us are going to be interested in innovation and research and development. And there are Governors here or Governors-elect here from both parties who are interested in clean energy, for example, and what can we do to make sure that wind turbines and solar panels and electric cars are made here in the United States, that that doesn't become one more source of imports from other countries. And I'm eager to work with all of you on those issues.<p>I think it's going to be very important that we work together on issues of spending. And each of you are going to be struggling with some very tough budgets. Washington is going to be in very tough budget circumstances. And many of you were elected on the basis that we've got to get control of spending, because you care about the next generation. And if we continue down the path that we're on, then we're going to have problems. And what that means is, we're going to be interested in hearing from all of you about programs that you think are working, but also programs that you think are not working. Contrary to the mythology, believe it or not, it turns out that I would love to eliminate programs that don't work. And you guys are the ones oftentimes who are implementing them.<p>If there's redtape or bureaucracy that we can eliminate it, we want to eliminate that. We have no interest in making your life harder. We want to be a partner for all of you in being responsive to your constituencies.<p>Now, I will confess that there are going to be times where we do believe that having basic national standards are going to be important, that there are certain things that we as a country, we as a people, aspire to, and that we need to maintain some consistency across the States. But for the most part, if there are going to be--if there's going to be experimentation, if States are going to continue to be laboratories for democracy, that's something that we welcome and embrace.<p>And so if you have ideas around any of the issues that my Cabinet members who are here are responsible for, I guarantee you will get a serious response from them in terms of how we can work together.<p>So to sum up my initial remarks, I heard--I overheard Joe say that he will always take your call. I promise you, he will be calling you. At a certain point you may say, \\"Golly, it's Biden again.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] But I think the same is going to be true for Valerie Jarrett, who heads up our intergovernmental affairs. The same is going to be true for our various Cabinet officials. They are going to want to hear from you.<p>And the one thing that I would urge is, don't wait until you're really mad about something before you call us. We'd prefer not to read about it in the press. [<i>Laughter</i>] We'd rather you call us ahead of time and say, you know what, we think this isn't working. We think this is a better way of doing things. And we'll work with you. And if we don't agree with you, we will spell out in great detail why we don't agree with you. And it's not going to be based on ideology, it's not going to be based on partisanship, it will be based upon our best judgment about how we move forward with the policy objectives that we all share.<p>And if we end up disagreeing on something, I promise you we will not be disagreeable about it. And we will keep on working until, hopefully, we can figure out a way to solve problems.<p>In the end, I think that's what this most recent election was all about. People are frustrated, understandably, with an economy that has stalled and is not doing as well as it should for American families. And that was true not just during this crisis, but it was true for the decade before this crisis. And I think what the American people are expecting from all of us is that--not that we suddenly put aside politics, not that we put aside principles, because everybody here is driven oftentimes with some very strongly held principles about what America should be and how we can move forward, but that at a certain point we also concern ourselves with governing and delivering for them.<p>And I know of no group of people who more consistently steer in that direction than Governors, because ultimately the buck stops with you in your State, just as the buck stops with me at the national level.<p>And so I look forward to working with you, and I look forward to seeing you again fairly soon. We usually host a Governors' bash early in the year, and that way I'll have a chance to meet all your spouses and you guys will get dressed up and look really good. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>All right? Okay. With that, we're going to clear the press out of the room so that all these folks can be--tell me what they really think about me. [<i>Laughter</i>]\" "
"342" "\"<i>The President.</i> Oh, this is a good-looking group right here. [<i>Laughter</i>] Good evening, everybody.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Good evening.<p><i>The President.</i> Welcome to the White House. I want to thank all of you for joining us in celebrating the second night of Hanukkah. Happy Hanukkah, everybody. <p>We are joined tonight by Ambassador Michael Oren of Israel. Where's Michael? He's way back there. And so I want to begin by offering our deepest condolences to the families and loved ones of all of those who've died as a result of the terrible forest fire in northern Israel.<p>As rescuers and firefighters continue in their work, the United States is acting to help our Israeli friends respond to the disaster. A short while ago, our Ambassador in Tel Aviv, Jim Cunningham, issued a disaster declaration which has launched an effort across the U.S. Government to identify the firefighting assistance we have available and provide it to Israel as quickly as possible. Of course, that's what friends do for each other.<p>And, Mr. Ambassador, our thoughts and prayers are with everybody in Israel who is affected by this tragedy and the family and loved ones of those in harm's way.<p>Tonight it's an honor to welcome so many friends and leaders from the Jewish community and beyond. And I want to start by recognizing my Special Envoy for Middle East Peace, George Mitchell, who is here. Please give him a round of applause, and all the other outstanding members of the diplomatic corps who are here.<p>One third of the Supreme Court is here. One of my favorites, Justice Ginsburg, is hiding out here in the front. [<i>Laughter</i>] She really is here. It's hard to see. [<i>Laughter</i>] Justice Breyer is here. And--where's Justice Breyer? There he is right here. And our newest addition and former colleague of mine when we were teaching together, Elena Kagan is in the house.<p>I want to also acknowledge somebody who I rely on day in, day out, who is not only a great Vice President, but is also--[<i>laughter</i>]--one of my dearest friends, Joe Biden is in the house.<p>And to all the members of the administration and Members of Congress and all the State and local leaders who are with us today, welcome. I want to thank Joshua Redman for gracing us with his talent and helping us with the music. And finally, I want to thank the rabbis and lay leaders who have traveled from all over the country to be here. Yes, you can give yourselves a round of applause.<p>Now, tonight we gather to celebrate a story as simple as it is timeless. It's a story of ancient Israel, suffering under the yoke of empire, where Jews were forbidden to practice their religion openly and the Holy Temple, including the Holy of Holies, had been desecrated.<p>It was then that a small band of believers, led by Judah Maccabee, rose up to take back their city and free their people. And when the Maccabees entered the temple, the oil that should have lasted for a single night ended up burning for eight.<p>That miracle gave hope to all those who had been struggling in despair. And in the 2,000 years since, in every corner of the world, the tiny candles of Hanukkah have reminded us of the importance of faith and perseverance. They have illuminated a path for us when the way forward was shrouded in darkness.<p>And as we prepare to light another candle on the menorah, let us remember the sacrifices that others have made so that we may all be free. Let us pray for the members of our military who guard that freedom every day and who may be spending this holiday far away from home.<p>Let us also think of those for whom these candles represent not just a triumph of the past, but also hope for the future: the men, women, and children of all faiths who still suffer under tyranny and oppression.<p>That's why families everywhere are taught to place the menorah in public view, so the entire world can see its light. Because, as the Talmud teaches us, \\"So long as a person still has life, they should never abandon faith.\\"<p>Now, the menorah we're using tonight, and the family who is going to help us light it, both stand as powerful symbols of that faith.<p>This beautiful menorah has been generously loaned to us by Congregation Beth Israel in New Orleans. Five years ago, when Hurricane Katrina hit, the synagogue was covered in 8 feet of water. Later, as the cleanup crew dug through the rubble, they discovered this menorah caked in dirt and mold. And today it stands as a reminder of the tragedy and a source of inspiration for the future. <p>And that feeling is shared by Susan Retik. It's a feeling they know all too well. After her husband David was killed on September 11th, Susan could have easily lost herself in feelings of hopelessness and grief. But instead, she turned her personal loss into a humanitarian mission, cofounding Beyond the 11th, a group that reaches out to Afghan widows facing their own struggles.<p>So on this second night of Hanukkah, let us give thanks to the blessings that all of us enjoy. Let us be mindful of those who need our prayers. And let us draw strength from the words of a great philosopher who said that a miracle is \\"a confirmation of what is possible.\\"<p>And now I'd like to turn it over to Susan, who, by the way, has been on this stage before, receiving a Presidential award for her outstanding work. But she happens to be joined by a beautiful family: Donald, Ben, Molly, Dina, and Rebecca. [<i>Laughter</i>] Rebecca is down here. So I want to turn--there she is. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Aww!<p><i>The President.</i> Yes, she is adorable. [<i>Laughter</i>] As Michelle said as we were getting on stage, she will be stealing the show. [<i>Laughter</i>] So we're going to turn it over to Susan and her family for the blessings.<p>[<i>At this point, a blessing was offered, and the menorah was lit. Afterwards, saxophonist Joshua Redman performed a Hanukkah song. Some members of the audience sang along.</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> So happy Hanukkah to all of you. We're going to see most of you downstairs. Be patient in the line. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I just want to let everybody know that, yes, they will be able to Photoshop my lip for the picture. [<i>Laughter</i>] Happy Hanukkah, everybody.\" "
"343" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody! [<i>Applause</i>] I'm sorry, Bagram, I can't hear you. [<i>Applause</i>] Air Assault! [<i>Applause</i>] It is great to be back.<p>Let me first of all thank the 101st Airborne Division Band. Where's the band? Give them a big round of applause. Thank you to Chief Thomas Hager--and--the commander and conductor. I gather we had a couple of other bands playing: Manifest Destiny and Nuts. I don't know about, you know--I don't know how they sounded. What did you think? Were they pretty good?<p><i>Audience members.</i> Hooah!<p><i>The President.</i> It is great to be back. And I apologize for keeping you guys up late, coming on such short notice. But I wanted to make sure that I could spend a little time this holiday with the men and women of the finest fighting force that the world has ever known, and that's all of you.<p>I want to thank General Petraeus, not only for the introduction and the T-shirts, but for General Petraeus's lifetime of service. This is somebody who has helped change the way we fight wars and win wars in the 21st century. And I am very grateful that he agreed to take command of our efforts here in Afghanistan. He has been an extraordinary warrior on behalf of the American people. Thank you, David Petraeus.<p>I want to thank all your outstanding leaders who welcomed me here, including General John Campbell, Admiral Bill McRaven; from the 455th Air Expeditionary Wing, Colonel Todd Canterbury. I want to salute your great senior enlisted leaders, including Command Sergeant Major Scott Schroeder, Command Sergeant Major Chris Farris, and Command Chief Craig Adams.<p>I also want to acknowledge the outstanding work that our civilians are doing each and every day, starting with Karl Eikenberry all the way through to your senior civilian representative, Thomas Gibbons, and all the civilians who are here. They are fighting alongside you. They are putting themselves at risk. They are away from their families. And we are very, very grateful to them as well. So give them a big round of applause.<p>I think we've got every service here tonight. We've got Army. We've got Navy. We've got Air Force. I think we may have a few Marines around too, and a whole lot of folks from the 101st Airborne Division, the \\"Screaming Eagles.\\"<p><i>Audience members.</i> [<i>Inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Here in Afghanistan, you are all--Coast Guard, is that what I heard? [<i>Laughter</i>] Here in Afghanistan, all of you are part of one team, serving together, succeeding together, except maybe in next week's Army-Navy game. As your Commander in Chief, I've got to stay neutral on that. [<i>Laughter</i>] We also have some ISAF partners here as well.<p>You know, when I was here in the spring, we had a coalition of 43 nations. Now we've got a coalition of 49 nations. And this sends a powerful message that the coalition of nations that supports Afghanistan is strong and is growing.<p>Now, I'm not here to give a long speech. I want to shake as many hands as I can. But let me say that at this time of year, Americans are giving thanks for all the blessings that we have. And as we begin this holiday season, there is no place that I'd rather be than be here with you.<p>I know it's not easy for all of you to be away from home, especially during the holidays. And I know it's hard on your families. They've got an empty seat at the dinner table. Sometimes during the holiday season, that's when you feel the absence of somebody you love most acutely.<p>But here's what I want you to know. As President of the United States, I have no greater responsibility than keeping the American people secure. I could not meet that responsibility, we could not protect the American people, we could not enjoy the blessings of our liberty without the extraordinary service that each and every one of you perform each and every day.<p>So on behalf of me, on behalf of Michelle, on behalf of Malia and Sasha, on behalf of more than 300 million Americans, we are here to say thank you. We are here to say thank you for everything that you do.<p>Now, I also want to say thank you to your families back home so that when you talk to them, you know that they know. They're serving here with you in mind and spirit, if not in body.<p>Millions of Americans give thanks this holiday season just as generations have before when they think about our Armed Services. You're part of an unbroken line of Americans who have given up your comfort, your ease, your convenience for America's security.<p>It was on another cold December more than 200 years ago that a band of patriots helped to found our Nation, defeat an empire. From that icy river to the fields of Europe, from the islands in the Pacific to the hills of Korea, from the jungles of Vietnam to the deserts of Iraq, those who went before you, they also found themselves in this season of peace serving in war. They did it for the same reason that all of you do, because the freedom and the liberty that we treasure, that's not simply a birthright. It has to be earned by the sacrifices of generations, generations of patriots. Men and women who step forward and say: \\"Send me. I know somebody has got to do it, and I'm willing to serve.\\" Men and women who are willing to risk all, and some who gave all, to keep us safe and to keep us free.<p>In our time, in this 21st century, when so many other institutions seem to be shirking their responsibilities, you've embraced your responsibilities. You've shown why the United States military remains the most trusted institution in America. And that's the legacy that your generation has forged during this decade of trial in Iraq and here in Afghanistan. That's the legacy that you're carrying forward.<p>As General Petraeus mentioned, 1 year ago I ordered additional troops to serve in this country that was the staging ground for the 9/11 attacks. All of those troops are now in place. And thanks to your service, we are making important progress. You are protecting your country. You're achieving your objectives. You will succeed in your mission.<p>We said we were going to break the Taliban's momentum, and that's what you're doing. You're going on the offense, tired of playing defense, targeting their leaders, pushing them out of their strongholds. Today, we can be proud that there are fewer areas under Taliban control and more Afghans have a chance to build a more hopeful future.<p>We said a year ago that we're going to build the capacity of the Afghan people. And that's what you're doing, meeting our recruitment targets, training Afghan forces, partnering with those Afghans who want to build a stronger and more stable and more prosperous Afghanistan.<p>Now, I don't need to tell you this is a tough fight. I just came from the medical unit and saw our wounded warriors, pinned some Purple Hearts. I just talked to the platoon that lost six of their buddies in a senseless act of violence.<p>This is tough business. Progress comes slow. There are going to be difficult days ahead. Progress comes at a high price. So many of you have stood before the solemn battle cross, display of boots, a rifle, a helmet, and said goodbye to a fallen comrade.<p>This year alone nearly 100 members of the 101st have given their last full measure of devotion. There are few days when I don't sign a letter to a military family expressing our Nation's gratitude and grief at their profound sacrifice. And this holiday season, our thoughts and prayers are with those who've lost a loved one: the father and mother, the son or daughter, the brother or sister or friend who's not coming home. And we know that their memories will never be forgotten and that their life has added to the life of our Nation.<p>And because of the service of the men and women of the United States military, because of the progress you're making, we look forward to a new phase next year, the beginning of a transition to Afghan responsibility.<p>As we do, we continue to forge a partnership with the Afghan people for the long term. And we will never let this country serve as a safe haven for terrorists who would attack the United States of America again. That will never happen. <p>This part of the world is the center of a global effort where we are going to disrupt and dismantle and defeat Al Qaida and its extremist allies. And that's why you're here. That's why your mission matters so much. That's why you must succeed, because this effort is about the safety of our communities back home and the dignity of the Afghan people who don't want to live in tyranny.<p>Now, even though it is a hallmark of American democracy that we have our arguments back home, we have our debates, we have our elections, I can say without hesitation that there is no division on one thing, no hesitation on one thing, and that is the uniform support of our men and women who are serving in the Armed Services.<p>Everybody is behind you. Everybody back home is behind you. Everybody, from north to south to east to west, from sea to shining sea, the American people are united in support of you and your families.<p>And as your Commander in Chief, I also want you to know that we will do whatever it takes to make sure that you have the strategy and the resources and the equipment and the leadership to get this done.<p>You may have noticed that during these tough budget times, I took the step of freezing pay for our Federal workforce. But because of the service that you rendered, all who wear the uniform of the United States of America are exempt from that action.<p>And we're going to make--we're going to spare no effort to make sure that your families have the support that they deserve as well. That doesn't just matter to me. It's also a top priority for Michelle to make sure that Americans understand the sacrifices that your families are making. As she likes to say, 100 percent of Americans need to be right there supporting you and your families--100 percent. Only 1 percent are fighting these wars, but 100 percent of us have to be behind you and your families.<p>Your generation, the generation of Afghanistan and Iraq, has met every mission that you've been given. You've served tour after tour. You've earned not just our admiration; you've earned your place in American history alongside those greatest generations.<p>And the stories of those who served in these wars are too numerous to tell. But one of my greatest privileges as President is to get to know the stories of those who earn the Medal of Honor.<p>Two months ago, I presented the Medal to the parents of Staff Sergeant Robert Miller, who gave his life here in Afghanistan as a member of the Green Berets. His valor, charging toward some 150 insurgents, saved the lives of nearly 2 dozen American and Afghan comrades.<p>Last month, we held another ceremony. For the first time in nearly 40 years, the recipient of the Medal of Honor for an ongoing conflict was actually able to accept it in person. His name is Staff Sergeant Salvatore Giunta. And some of you may have seen his story, but I want to tell it again tonight because of what it says not just about our Armed Forces, but also what it says about the country that we love.<p>So 3 years ago, Sal and his platoon were in Korengal Valley. When their patrol was ambushed, two Americans lay wounded up ahead. That's when Sal and his men counterattacked, again and again and again. They were being rained down with fire, but they just kept counterattacking because they wanted to get their two buddies.<p>And when he saw one of his teammates wounded and being carried away by insurgents, Sal rushed in to help his friends, despite the bullets. Despite the danger, he kept on pressing forward. It was an incredibly intense firefight. And by the time it was finished, every single member of that platoon had shrapnel or a bullet hole in their gear. Five were wounded, and two had given their lives.<p>Now, Sal is a pretty humble guy. And so when he came to the White House, he said, \\"You know, I didn't do anything special.\\" He said he was just doing his job, that he didn't do anything that his brothers wouldn't have done for him.<p>\\"If I'm a hero,\\" he said, \\"then every man who stands around me, every woman in the military, every person who defends this country is also a hero.\\" <p>And he's right. Each of you has your own story. Each of you is writing your own chapter in the story of America and the story of American Armed Forces. Each of you have some losses. Each of you have made sacrifices. You come from every conceivable background: from big cities and small towns, from every race and faith and station. You've come together to serve a greater cause, one that matters to the citizens of your country back home and to strangers who live a world away.<p>So make no mistake, through your service, you demonstrate the content of the American character. Sal is right: Every single one of you is a hero.<p>Some people ask whether America's best days lie ahead or whether our greatness stretches back behind us in the stories of those who've gone before. And when I look out at all of you, I know the answer to that. You give me hope. You give me inspiration. Your resolve shows that Americans will never succumb to fear. Your selfless service shows who we are, who we always will be--united as one people and united as one Nation--for you embody and stand up for the values that make us what we are as a people.<p>America is not defined by our borders. We are defined by a common creed. In this holiday season, it's worth remembering that \\"we hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that we are endowed by our Creator with certain inalienable rights, that among these are the right to life and liberty and the pursuit of happiness.\\"<p>And that's what you're fighting for here in Afghanistan, and that's what you're protecting back home. And that belief is more powerful than any adversary.<p>So we may face a tough enemy in Afghanistan, and we're in a period of tough challenges back home, but we did not become the nation that we are because we do what's easy. As Americans we've endured and we've grown stronger and we remain the land of the free only because we are also home of the brave.<p>And because of you, I know that once more, we will prevail. So thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.<p>Thank you, everybody, and happy New Year. Thank you, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"344" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. Today I want to speak briefly about two issues that matter most to me and matter most to the American people: creating jobs and economic growth on which our country's prosperity depends.<p>Yesterday's job report showed that despite 11 consecutive months of private sector job growth, despite creating more than 1 million private sector jobs this year, it's not enough. We have to do more to accelerate the economic recovery and create jobs for the millions of Americans who are still looking for work.<p>And essential to that effort is opening new markets around the world to products that are \\"Made in America.\\" Because we don't simply want to be an economy that consumes other countries' goods, we want to be building and exporting the goods that create jobs here in America and that keeps the United States competitive in the 21st century.<p>That's why today I am very pleased that the United States and South Korea have reached agreement on a landmark trade deal between our two countries. I'm joined this morning by my outstanding U.S. Trade Representative, Ambassador Ron Kirk, as well as Michael Froman, who was one of our lead negotiators. As you'll remember, we did not finalize this agreement on my recent visit to South Korea. And I didn't agree to it then for a very simple reason: The deal wasn't good enough. It wasn't good enough for the American economy, and it wasn't good enough for American workers.<p>As I said in Seoul, I'm not interested in signing trade agreements for the sake of signing trade agreements, I'm interested in agreements that increase jobs and exports for the American people and that also help our partners grow their economies. So I told Ron and our team to take the time to get this right and get the best deal for America. And that is what they have done. The agreement we're announcing today includes several important improvements and achieves what I believe trade deals must do: It's a win-win for both our countries.<p>This deal is a win for American workers. For our farmers and ranchers, it will increase exports of American agricultural products. From aerospace to electronics, it will increase our manufacturing exports to Korea, which already support some 200,000 American jobs and many small businesses. In particular, manufacturers of American cars and trucks will have much more access to the Korean market, we'll encourage the development of electric cars and green technology in the United States, and we'll continue to ensure a level playing field for American automakers here at home.<p>In short, the tariff reductions in this agreement alone are expected to boost annual exports of American goods by up to $11 billion. And all told, this agreement, including the opening of the Korean services market, will support at least 70,000 American jobs. It will contribute significantly to achieving my goal of doubling U.S. exports over the next 5 years. In fact, it's estimated that today's deal alone will increase American economic output by more than our last nine free trade agreements combined.<p>This deal is also a win for our ally and friend South Korea. They will gain greater access to our markets and make American products more affordable for Korean households and businesses, resulting in more choices for Korean consumers and more jobs for Americans.<p>I would add that today is also a win for the strong alliance between the United States and South Korea, which for decades has ensured that the security that has maintained stability on the peninsula continues. It's also allowed South Korea its extraordinary rise from poverty to prosperity. At a time in which there are increasing tensions on the Korean Peninsula, following the North's unprovoked attack on the South Korean people, today we are showing that the defense alliance and partnership of the United States and South Korea is stronger than ever.<p>I'm especially pleased that this agreement includes groundbreaking protections for workers' rights and for the environment. In this sense, it's an example of the kind of fair trade agreement that I will continue to work for as President, in Asia and around the world.<p>This agreement also shows that the United States of America is determined to lead and compete in our global economy. We're going to stand up for American companies and American workers, who are among the most productive and innovative in the world. And we're going to compete aggressively for the jobs and markets of the 21st century.<p>Now, reaching this agreement was not easy. But I want to give special thanks to my partner, South Korean President Lee, for his commitment to a successful outcome. And again, I want to thank Ron and Mike for their outstanding work and their entire team for their tireless efforts. They were up late a lot of nights over the last several months.<p>We're going to continue to work with our Korean partners to fully implement this agreement and build on our progress in other areas, such as ensuring full access for U.S. beef to the Korean market.<p>And I look forward to working with Congress and leaders in both parties to approve this pact. Because if there's one thing Democrats and Republicans should be able to agree on, it should be creating jobs and opportunity for our people.<p>Which brings me to the other issue I want to address. Earlier today the Senate voted on two provisions to extend tax cuts for the middle class. And I'll admit, I am very disappointed that the Senate did not pass legislation that had already passed the House of Representatives to make middle class tax cuts permanent. Those provisions should have passed. I continue to believe that it makes no sense to hold tax cuts for the middle class hostage to permanent tax cuts for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans, especially when those high income tax cuts would cost an additional $700 billion that we don't have and would add to our deficit.<p>But with so much at stake, today's votes cannot be the end of the discussion. It is absolutely essential to our hard-working middle class families and to our economy to make sure that their taxes don't go up on January 1.<p>I've spoken with the Democratic leadership in Congress, and I look forward to speaking with the Republican leadership as well. And my message to them is going to be the same: We need to redouble our efforts to resolve this impasse in the next few days to give the American people the peace of mind that their taxes will not go up on January 1. It will require some compromise, but I'm confident that we can get it done. And the American people should expect no less.<p>As we work our way through this issue, we must not forget that last week some 2 million Americans who have lost their jobs also saw their unemployment insurance expire, right in the middle of the holiday season. And that's not how we should do business here in America. I believe it is simply wrong to even consider giving permanent tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans while denying relief to so many Americans who desperately need it and have lost their jobs through no fault of their own.<p>So we are going to continue to work on this issue through the weekend, into early next week. And I'm going to be rolling up my sleeves with the leaders of both parties in Congress. We need to get this resolved, and I'm confident we can do it.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"345" "\"<i>The President.</i> Everybody, thank you so much. Please have a seat, have a seat. Well, what a good-looking crowd. [<i>Laughter</i>] Say we do what we can, huh? [<i>Laughter</i>] Happy holidays, everybody. And on behalf of Michelle and myself, I want to welcome all of you to the White House.<p>And I want to start by giving special thanks to Speaker Nancy Pelosi and all the Members of Congress who are here. Nobody has done more for our country over the last couple of years than Nancy Pelosi.<p>None of this would be possible without some people who have put great effort into this evening: David Rubenstein, Michael Kaiser, the Kennedy Center trustees, and all the people who have made the Kennedy Center such a wonderful place for Americans of all ages to enjoy the arts.<p>And on that note, I also want to give special thanks to Caroline Kennedy--where's--is Caroline here tonight? Hey, Caroline--and all the other members of the Kennedy family who are here tonight. It's wonderful to see them. <p>And finally, I want to recognize the Cochairs of the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities--my good friend George Stevens.<p>George and his son Michael are the brains behind the Kennedy Center Honors, and I want to thank them all for their great creativity.<p>This is a season of celebration and of giving. And that's why it's my greatest privilege as President to honor the five men and women who have given our Nation the extraordinary gift of the arts.<p>The arts have always had the power to challenge and the power to inspire, to help us celebrate in times of joy and find hope in times of trouble. And although the honorees on this stage each possess a staggering amount of talent, the truth is, they aren't being recognized tonight simply because of their careers as great lyricists or songwriters or dancers or entertainers. Instead, they're being honored for their unique ability to bring us closer together and to capture something larger about who we are, not just as Americans, but as human beings.<p>That's what Merle Haggard has been doing for more than 40 years. Often called the \\"poet of the common man,\\" Merle likes to say that he's living proof that things can go wrong in America, but also that things can go right. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>In a day and age when so many country singers claim to be rambling, gambling outlaws, Merle actually is one. [<i>Laughter</i>] He hopped his first freight train at the age of 10 and was locked up some 17 times as a boy, pulling off almost as many escapes.<p>Later, after becoming a bona fide country star, Merle met Johnny Cash and mentioned that he had seen Cash perform years earlier at San Quentin prison. \\"That's funny,\\" Cash said, \\"because I don't remember you being in the show.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And Merle had to explain to the Man in Black that he hadn't been in the show, he had been in the audience. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>That performance had inspired Merle to start writing songs, and he's written thousands of them since, about three or four hundred \\"keepers\\" in Merle's opinion. Thirty-eight of those songs have been number one on the charts, including \\"Okie from Muskogee,\\" which he performed for Richard Nixon right here in this room back in 1973.<p>Through it all, Merle's power has always come from the truth he tells about life and love and everything in between. As he says, \\"the best songs feel like they've always been there.\\" So tonight we honor a man who feels like he's always been here, Merle Haggard.<p>Now, growing up in New Jersey, Jerry Herman and his family used to play Broadway tunes in the living room: Jerry on the piano, his mother on the accordion, and his father playing the sax. And he never took a music lesson, but always had the ability to play anything he heard by ear.<p>Then, when he was 14, Jerry went to see the great Ethel Merman perform in \\"Annie Get Your Gun.\\" In his words, \\"I got a load of that great lady and was gone.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Jerry was determined to be a songwriter, even though he didn't think he could ever make a career out of doing something that was so much fun.<p>But that's exactly what he's done, penning songs for such iconic musicals as \\"Hello, Dolly!\\" and \\"La Cage aux Folles\\" and drawing audiences everywhere out of their seats and into the world of his imagination. Those songs earned Jerry a shelf full of Tonys, and he's still the only composer and lyricist to have had three shows on Broadway at the same time.<p>Today, that same kid from Jersey City is still doing what he loves. As Jerry says, \\"I never wanted to do anything but make people hum.\\" So thank you, Jerry, for doing just that. Jerry Herman.<p>If Jerry Herman wanted to make people hum, Bill T. Jones wanted to open their eyes and make them move. The youngest of 12 children, Bill's parents were migrant workers--\\"poorer than poor\\"--who made a living picking fruits and vegetables up and down the East Coast. Early on, Bill struggled to find his identity in a segregated world where he often felt like he didn't belong.<p>Then he began to dance. Bill likes to say that a good dancer has \\"heart, guts, strength, intelligence, and personality,\\" and he's been blessed with plenty of each. As the cofounder of the Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane Dance Company, Bill has earned widespread acclaim and artistic success in the hypercompetitive world of modern dance, all while battling poverty and homophobia and racism.<p>His unique performances have always been provocative, challenging audiences to confront important issues in a way that is at once captivating, agitating, and extremely personal. To date, he's created over 140 works on subjects ranging from terminal illness to Abraham Lincoln, securing his place as one of the most decorated and controversial choreographers of our time.<p>And through it all, Bill has never compromised his sense of purpose or lost his ability to inspire others to greater heights. \\"I'm not afraid to stand up,\\" Bill once said. \\"I'm not afraid to be looked at. Making my art is a way of saying to people--gay people, HIV-positive people--that life is worth it.\\" And for that, we are forever grateful. Bill T. Jones.<p>Now, there's not a lot that I can tell you about our next honoree that you don't already know. I can tell you he's become something of a regular here at the White House. We decided we would just give him all possible awards this year. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So this summer, Paul McCartney was here to accept the Gershwin Prize for Popular Song. It was a thrill of a lifetime to hear him sing \\"Michelle\\" to Michelle. Although apparently, Paul joked afterwards that he was worried he might become the \\"first guy ever to get punched out by the President.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I will say he was a little emotive during the song. [<i>Laughter</i>] I can't afford another one. [<i>Laughter</i>] You have nothing to worry about. I just recovered from my last tussle on the basketball court. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And so tonight I am pleased once again to honor a man widely considered to be among the greatest songwriters in history. Paul first picked up a guitar at age 14, and soon it never left his side. Homework went undone, my understanding is. Comics went unread. He would play it in the bathroom.<p>It wasn't long before he gravitated towards other young musicians who shared his passion, including a young man named John Lennon. But when Paul and his bandmates played their first set in a hole-in-the-wall jazz club in England, expectations were still low: They thought they'd be pretty big in Liverpool.<p>That band went on to change the way the world thought about music. Their songs were the soundtrack for an era of immense creativity and change. And when Paul continued his musical journey alone after the Beatles broke up, he would become one of the few performers inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame twice, as a Beatle and as a solo artist.<p>Now, Paul admits that the only possible explanation is supernatural. He says, \\"The most important ingredient to making a song work is magic. You've got a melody, you've got words, but on the most successful songs, there's a sort of magic glow that just makes the songs sort of roll out.\\"<p>We may not understand it, Paul, but for the last five decades, you've taken millions of fans on a pretty magical ride. And I should point out, that includes a whole new generation. When Malia and Sasha were here--remember, Michelle? We went upstairs, and she said, \\"That song 'Penny Lane,' that's a really neat song.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And she started trying to play it on our piano upstairs. And so you continue to inspire, all those years since Liverpool. Thank you, Paul McCartney.<p>And what can I say about our final honoree? Michelle and I love Oprah Winfrey. [<i>Laughter</i>] Personally love this woman. And the more you know Oprah, the more spectacular you realize her character and her soul are and the more you appreciate what a wonderful, gifted person she is.<p>It's easy to forget sometimes that Oprah was once a girl with a funny name--[<i>laughter</i>]--in a little town down South. Back then, nobody would have ever dreamed that she would become someone who moves an entire nation each and every day. But the signs were there.<p>After 2 days of kindergarten, Oprah wrote a note to her teacher that read: \\"I don't think I belong here because I know a lot of big words.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Her teacher agreed, and she moved on to the first grade.<p>And while she was working as a reporter in Baltimore, Oprah was told she was too engaged and too emotional about her stories, so the station put her on a talk show to run out her contract. That worked well. [<i>Laughter</i>] How's payback? [<i>Laughter</i>] That planted the seed for what would become the highest rated talk show in American television history.<p>Oprah's gift--as a host, as a producer, as an Oscar-nominated actress--has always been her ability to relate to her audience, to laugh with us, to cry with us, to draw us in and connect our most fervent hopes and deepest fears to her own. The reason we share ourselves with Oprah is because she shares herself with us: her childhood of abuse, her personal battles, her life as a woman, as an African American, as someone who is determined to confront both great injustices of the world and the private struggles of everyday life.<p>She has taught us to find strength in overcoming, to take a stand for ourselves and what we know is right. And she has shown millions of people around the world--people she probably will never meet--what it means to believe in \\"the dream of your own life.\\" Oprah Winfrey.<p>So Merle Haggard, Jerry Herman, Bill T. Jones, Paul McCart--what's your name again?--[<i>laughter</i>]--Paul McCartney, Oprah Winfrey. Their lives and their stories as are----<p>[<i>At this point, a cell phone rang.</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Who's calling? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>----are as diverse as any you can imagine. Yet in their own way, each of these honorees help us understand the human experience--to illuminate our past, to help us understand our present, and to give us the courage to face our future.<p>Being here with tonight's honorees, reflecting on their contributions, I'm reminded of a Supreme Court opinion by the great Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes. In a case argued before the Court in 1926, the majority ruled that the State of New York couldn't regulate the price of theater tickets because, in the opinion of the majority, the theater was not a public necessity. They argued, in effect, that the experience of attending the theater was superfluous. And this is what Justice Holmes had to say: \\"Too many people,\\" he wrote in his dissent, \\"the\\"--let me start that over. \\"To many people, the superfluous--superfluous\\"--it's this lip that's--[<i>laughter</i>]--it's hard to say. [<i>Laughter</i>] You try it when you've had 12 stitches. [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"The superfluous\\"--[<i>applause</i>]--thank you. All right. \\"To many people, the superfluous is necessary.\\"<p>The theater is necessary. Dance is necessary. Song is necessary. The arts are necessary. They are a necessary part of our lives.<p>The men and women here tonight embody that idea. Their work has enriched our lives. It's inspired us to greatness. And tonight it is my honor to offer them the appreciation of a grateful nation.<p>Thank you very much, all five of you. God bless you. Thank you.\" "
"346" "\"Thank you, everybody. Thank you so much. Everybody, please, everybody have a seat, have a seat. It is good to be back in North Carolina. Love North Carolina. Although, I have to say, I came down here for slightly warmer weather. [<i>Laughter</i>] What's snow doing on the ground in North Carolina? [<i>Laughter</i>] Come on, now. Anyway, it is a great honor to be with you here at Forsyth Technical Community College.<p>There are a few people I want to acknowledge who are just doing outstanding work. First of all, your incredibly impressive college president, Gary Green, is here. Your wonderful Governor, Bev Perdue, is in the house; your Senators, Richard Burr and the better looking one, Kay Hagan; two hard-working Congressmen, Mel Watt and Brad Miller, are here. We've got Secretary of State Elaine Marshall in the house. And Mayor Allen Joines is here.<p>Well, it's been about a month now since the midterm elections. And in Washington, at least, much of the chatter is still about the political implications of those elections: what the results mean for Democrats, what they mean for Republicans. And already, we're hearing what this means for the next election. And I have to tell you, I came to Winston-Salem because I believe that right now there are bigger issues at stake for our country than politics. And these issues call on us to respond not as partisans, but as Americans.<p>At this moment, we are still emerging from a once-in-a-lifetime recession that has taken a terrible toll on millions of families, many here in North Carolina who have lost their jobs or their businesses, and their sense of security.<p>Now, fortunately, we've seen some encouraging signs that a recovery is beginning to take hold. An economy that had been shrinking for nearly a year is now growing. After nearly 2 years of job loss, our economy has added over 1 million private sector jobs in 2010.<p>Now, I was just talking to Bev, and she was mentioning that here in North Carolina, we've seen 50,000 new jobs here in North Carolina. And after teetering on the brink of liquidation not 2 years ago, our auto industry is posting healthy gains. So we're seeing progress across the country.<p>But as we also saw in November's jobs report, the recovery is simply not happening fast enough. Plenty of Americans are still without work. Plenty of Americans are still hurting. And our challenge now is to do whatever it takes to accelerate job creation and economic growth.<p>Now, in the short term, that means preventing the middle class tax increase that's currently scheduled for January 1. Right now Democrats and Republicans in Congress are working through some differences to try to get this done. And there are some serious debates that are still taking place. Republicans want to make permanent the tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. I have argued that we can't afford it right now. But what I've also said is we've got to find consensus here, because a middle class tax hike would be very tough not only on working families, it would also be a drag on our economy at this moment.<p>So I believe we should keep in place tax cuts for workers and small businesses that are set to expire. We've got to make sure that we're coming up with a solution, even if it's not a hundred percent of what I want or what the Republicans want. There's no reason that ordinary Americans should see their taxes go up next year.<p>We should also extend unemployment insurance for workers who've lost their jobs through no fault of their own. That is a priority. And I should mention that's not only the right thing to do, it's the smart thing to do, because if millions of Americans who aren't getting unemployment benefits stop spending money, that slows down businesses. That slows down hiring. It slows down our recovery.<p>Now, even if we take these and other steps to boost our recovery in the short term, we're also going to have to make some serious decisions about our economy in the long run. We've got to look ahead, not just to the next year but to the next 10 years, the next 20 years. We've got to ask ourselves, where will the new jobs come from? What will it take to get them? And what will it take to keep the American Dream alive for our children and our grandchildren?<p>Think about North Carolina. Obviously, this recession had a devastating effect here, like it did everywhere else. But the trends have been going on for quite some time.<p>I was just visiting with President Green, with some of the students here in the biotech field, wonderful people, from every walk of life. You had folks who had just gotten out of high school, and you had folks who had--were in midlife and had been laid off from a manufacturing job and had come here to retrain. But a bunch of them mentioned, \\"Well, I was laid off because the textile industry has moved away here in North Carolina.\\" \\"I was laid off because the furniture industry has moved away here in North Carolina.\\"<p>Those were long-term trends. And that means we've got to have a long-term vision about where we want to be 10 years from now, 20 years from now, 30 years from now.<p>Just like past generations did, we must be prepared to answer these questions in our time. And over the next several weeks, I'm going to be meeting with my economic team, with business leaders, and others to develop specific policies and budget recommendations for the coming year. Today I want to outline the broader vision that I believe should guide these policies, and it's a vision that will keep our economy strong and growing and competitive in the 21st century.<p>And that vision begins with a recognition of how our economy has changed over time. When Forsyth Technical opened 50 years ago, it was known as Forsyth County Industrial Education Center, right? That's a mouthful. [<i>Laughter</i>] Machine shops and automotive mechanics were some of the first classes you could take. Of course, back then you didn't even need a degree to earn a decent living. You could get a job at the local tobacco or textile plant and still be able to provide for yourself and your family.<p>That world has changed. In the last few decades, revolutions in communications, revolutions in technology, have made businesses mobile and has made commerce global. So today, a company can set up shop, hire workers, and sell their products wherever there's an Internet connection. That's a transformation that's touched off a fierce competition among nations for the jobs and industries of the future.<p>Some of you know I traveled through Asia several weeks ago. You've got a billion people in India who are suddenly plugged into the world economy. You've got over a billion people in China who are suddenly plugged into the global economy. And that means competition is going to be much more fierce, and the winners of this competition will be the countries that have the most educated workers, a serious commitment to research and technology, and access to quality infrastructure like roads and airports and high-speed rail and high-speed Internet. Those are the seeds of economic growth in the 21st century. Where they are planted, the most jobs and businesses will take root.<p>Now, in the last century, America was that place where innovation happened and jobs and industry always took root. The business of America was business. Our economic leadership in the world went unmatched. Now it's up to us to make sure that we maintain that leadership in this century. And at this moment, the most important contest we face is not between Democrats and Republicans, it's between America and our economic competitors all around the world. That's the competition we've got to spend time thinking about.<p>Now, I have no doubt we can win this competition. We are the home of the world's best universities, the best research facilities, the most brilliant scientists, the brightest minds, some of the hardest working, most entrepreneurial people on Earth, right here in America. It's in our DNA. Think about it. People came from all over the world to live here in the United States. That's been our history. And those were the go-getters, the risk takers who came here. The folks who didn't want to take risks, they stayed back home. [<i>Laughter</i>] Right? So there's no doubt that we are well equipped to win.<p>But as it stands right now, the hard truth is this: In the race for the future, America is in danger of falling behind. That's just the truth. And when--if you hear a politician say it's not, they're not paying attention. In a generation, we have fallen from first place to ninth place in the proportion of young people with college degrees. When it comes to high school graduation rates, we're ranked 18th out of 24 industrialized nations--18th. We're 27th in the proportion of science and engineering degrees we hand out. We lag behind other nations in the quality of our math and science education.<p>When global firms were asked a few years back where they planned on building new research and development facilities, nearly 80 percent said either China or India, because those countries are focused on math and science, and they're focused on training and educating their workforce. <p>I sat down with President Lee of South Korea, and I asked him, what's the biggest problem you have in education? He said, \\"You know, these parents, they come to me and they are constantly pressuring me; they want their kids to learn so fast, so much--they're even making me import English-speaking teachers in, because they want first-graders to know English.\\" I asked him about investment in research and development. He says, \\"We're putting aside 5 percent of our gross domestic product in research and development, 3 percent of it in clean energy.\\"<p>You go to Shanghai, China, and they've built more high-speed rail in the last year than we've built in the last 30 years. The largest private solar research and development facility in the world has recently opened in China, by an American company. Today, China also has the fastest trains and the fastest supercomputer in the world.<p>In 1957, just before this college opened, the Soviet Union beat us into space by launching a satellite known as Sputnik. And that was a wake-up call that caused the United States to boost our investment in innovation and education, particularly in math and science. And as a result, once we put our minds to it, once we got focused, once we got unified, not only did we surpass the Soviets, we developed new American technologies, industries, and jobs.<p>So, 50 years later, our generation's Sputnik moment is back. This is our moment. If the recession has taught us anything, it's that we cannot go back to an economy that's driven by too much spending, too much borrowing, running up credit cards, taking out a lot of home equity loans, paper profits that are built on financial speculation. We've got to rebuild on a new and stronger foundation for economic growth.<p>We need to do what America has always been known for: building, innovating, educating, making things. We don't want to be a nation that simply buys and consumes products from other countries. We want to create and sell products all over the world that are stamped with three simple words: Made in America. That's our goal.<p>So I came to Forsyth today because you've shown what this future can look like. Half a century later, you're still giving students the skills and training they need to get good jobs, but of course--but courses in machine shop and car mechanics have now broadened to degrees in mechanical engineering technology and nanotechnology and biotechnology. And meanwhile, your unique partnerships that you're building with advanced manufacturing and biotechnology firms will ensure that the businesses of the future locate here: they come here, they stay here, they hire right here in Winston-Salem.<p>As a national leader in bioscience and innovation, North Carolina is now the country's third largest employer in biotechnology. And when Caterpillar recently decided to build a plant in this community, they told President Green one of the main reasons was they were convinced that Forsyth Tech had the capability of providing them with the technical workforce that they need.<p>That's something everybody in this room should be very proud of. And I know that business leaders from throughout the community have worked intensively with President Green and others to help make this happen. And I know that your congressional delegation, as well as your Governor, have worked hard to make this happen.<p>Now, none of this progress happened by itself. It happened thanks to the hard work of students here at Forsyth, the commitment of local leaders, foresight of local business leaders. Most importantly, it happened because there was a decision made to invest in the collective future of this community. It happened because there was a decision to invest in this college, and there were loans and scholarships that made it affordable to go here.<p>To invest in the basic research and development that helped jump-start North Carolina's biotech industry, to invest in new buildings and laboratories and research facilities that make your work possible, these are the kinds of investments we need to keep making in communities across America, investments that will grow our economy and help us to stay competitive in the 21st century. <p>Now, I want to emphasize I say this knowing full well we face a very difficult fiscal situation. I'm looking at the books back in Washington, and folks weren't doing a real good job with their math for the last decade. So now that the threat of a depression has passed and a recovery is beginning to take hold, reducing our long-term deficit has to be a priority. And in the long run, we won't be able to compete with countries like China if we keep borrowing from countries like China. We won't be able to do it.<p>So we've already started making some tough decisions. And they're unpopular and people get mad, but we've got to make some decisions. I've proposed a 3-year freeze in all spending that doesn't have to do with national security. And I proposed a 2-year freeze in the pay for Federal workers. That's why we're currently studying recommendations of the bipartisan deficit reduction panel that I commissioned. We're going to have to be bold and courageous in eliminating spending and programs that we don't need and we can't afford.<p>But here's where there's going to be a debate in Washington over the next year and over the next couple of years and maybe over the next 5 years, because I will argue and insist that we cannot cut back on those investments that have the biggest impact on our economic growth. Because I was talking with President Green, and he said much of the equipment here would not be here if it hadn't been for the assistance of the Recovery Act, the assistance of the Department of Labor. All this stuff that we've done over the last couple of years that people were questioning, you can see it translated in the classrooms right here. The work that we're doing on student loans and Pell grants, you can see it in the students who are able to finance their retraining right here.<p>So we can't stop making those investments. The best antidote to a growing deficit, by the way, is a growing economy. To borrow an analogy, cutting the deficit by cutting investments in areas like education, areas like innovation, that's like trying to reduce the weight of an overloaded aircraft by removing the engine. It's not a good idea. There may be some things you need to get rid of, but you got to keep the engine. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>That's why even as we scour the budget for cuts and savings in the months ahead, I will continue to fight for those investments that will help America win the race for the jobs and industries of the future, and that means investments in education and innovation and infrastructure. I will be fighting for that.<p>In an era where most new jobs will require some kind of higher education, we have to keep investing in the skills and education of our workers. And that's why we are going--we are well on our way to meeting the goal I set when I took office 2 years ago: By 2020, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. That's a commitment that we're making.<p>So to get there, we're making college more affordable for millions of students. We've made an unprecedented investment in community colleges just like this one. And just like Forsyth, we've launched a nationwide initiative to connect graduates that need a job with businesses that need their skills.<p>We're reforming K-12 education not from the top down, but from the bottom up. Instead of indiscriminately pouring money into a system that's not working, we're challenging schools and States to compete with each other to see who can come up with reforms that raise standards and recruit and retain good teachers, raise student achievement, especially in math and science. We call it Race to the Top, where you get more funding if you show more results, because part of the argument here is, is that if we're going to have a government that's smart and helping people compete in this new global economy, then we've got to spend our money wisely. And that means we want to invest in things that are working, not in things that aren't working just because that's how things have always been done.<p>Now, once our students graduate with the skills they need for the jobs of the future, we've also got to make sure those jobs end up right here in America. We've got to make sure that the United States is the best place to do business and the best place to innovate. So it's time, for example, that we have a Tax Code that encourages job creation here in America.<p>And to boost our recovery, I've already proposed that all American businesses should be allowed to write off all the investments they do in 2011. We want to jump-start, starting next year, plants and equipment investment right here in Winston-Salem and all across North Carolina and all across the United States of America.<p>To encourage homegrown American innovation we should make it easier to patent a new idea or a new invention. And if you want to know one reason why more companies are choosing to do their research and development in places like China and India, it's because the United States now ranks 24th out of 38 countries in the generosity of the tax incentives we provide for research and development. So that's why I've proposed a bigger, permanent tax credit for companies for all the research and innovation they do right here in America--all of it.<p>Now, what's also true is a lot of companies don't invest in basic research because it doesn't pay off right away. But that doesn't mean it's not essential to our economic future. Forty years ago, it probably didn't seem useful or profitable for scientists and engineers to figure out how to increase the capacity of integrated circuits. Forty years later, I'm still not sure what that means. [<i>Laughter</i>] What I do know is that discoveries in integrated circuits made back then led to the iPod and cell phones and GPS and CT scans, products that have led to new companies and countless new jobs in manufacturing and retail and other sectors. That's why I've set a goal of investing a full 3 percent--not 2 percent, not 2.5 percent--a full 3 percent of our gross domestic product into research and development. That has to be a priority.<p>If this is truly going to be our Sputnik moment, we need a commitment to innovation that we haven't seen since President Kennedy challenged us to go to the Moon. And we're directing a lot of that research into one of the most promising areas for economic growth and job creation, and that's clean energy technology. I don't want to see new solar panels or electric cars or advanced batteries manufactured in Europe or in Asia. I want to see them made right here in America, by American businesses and American workers.<p>I also want to make it easier for our businesses and workers to sell their products all over the world. The more we export abroad, the more jobs we support at home. We've got to change the formula. We've got to flip the script, because what's been happening is, is that we've been doing all the buying; somebody else has been doing all the selling. We've got to start selling and have them do some buying. And that's why we've set a goal of doubling U.S. exports in 5 years. And that's why I'm pleased that last week, we came closer to meeting that goal by finalizing a trade agreement with our ally, South Korea. This is a nation that offers one of the fastest growing markets for American goods.<p>Now, here in North Carolina and all across the country, there are a lot of people that say, trade, we're not sure that that helps us. It seems like maybe it's hurt us in areas like furniture. Look, right now the status quo: South Korea is selling a whole bunch of stuff here, and we're not selling it there. The current deal is not a good one for us.<p>Think about--there are a lot of Hyundais on the road. [<i>Laughter</i>] But there aren't a lot of Fords in Seoul, because the formula has been: Let's sign any trade agreement; let's cut any deal, without thinking ahead about how this is going to impact America. What this deal does is boost our annual exports to South Korea by $11 billion. That means it will support at least 70,000 American jobs--70,000 American jobs.<p>Now, the final area where greater investment will lead to more jobs and economic growth is in America's infrastructure: our roads, our railways, our runways, our information superhighways. Over the last 2 years, our investment in infrastructure projects--yes, through the Recovery Act--have led to thousands of good private sector jobs and improved infrastructure here in North Carolina and all across the country.<p>But we've got a long way to go. There is no reason that over 90 percent of the homes in South Korea have broadband Internet access and only 65 percent of American households do. Think about that. There's no reason why China should have nearly 10,000 miles of high-speed rail by 2020 and America has 400. Think about that number. They've got 10,000; we've got 400. They've got trains that operate at speeds of over 200 mph, and I don't know how fast our trains are going. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>We're the nation that built the transcontinental railroad. We're the nation that took the first airplane into flight. We constructed a massive Interstate Highway System. We introduced the world to the Internet. America has always been built to compete. And if we want to attract the best jobs and businesses to our shores, we've got to be that nation again.<p>And throughout history, the investments I've talked about--in education and innovation and infrastructure--have historically commanded the support from both Democrats and Republicans. It was Abraham Lincoln who launched the transcontinental railroad and opened the National Academy of Sciences. He did it in the middle of a war, by the way. But he knew this was so important we had to make these investments for future generations. Dwight Eisenhower helped build our highways. Republican Members of Congress worked with FDR to pass the GI bill.<p>More recently, infrastructure bills have found support on both sides of the congressional aisle. The permanent extension of research and development tax credits was proposed by both Bill Clinton and George W. Bush. Our education reforms have been praised by both Democratic and Republican Governors.<p>So the point is there should not be any inherent ideological differences that prevent Democrats and Republicans from making our economy more competitive with the rest of the world. If we're willing to put aside short-term politics, if our objective is not simply winning elections but winning the future, then we should be able to get our act together here, because we are all Americans and we are in this race together.<p>So those of us who work in Washington have a choice to make in the coming weeks and months. We can focus on what's necessary for each party to win the news cycle or the next election. We can do what we've been doing. Or we can do what this moment demands and focus on what's necessary for America to win the future.<p>For as difficult as the times may be, the good news is that we know what the future could look like for the United States. We can see it in the classrooms that are experimenting with groundbreaking reforms and giving children new math and science skills at an early age. We can see it in the wind farms and solar plants and advanced battery plants that are opening all across America. We can see it here at Forsyth, in your laboratories and your research facilities, and over at the biotechnology firms that are churning out jobs and businesses and lifesaving discoveries.<p>You see it in the faces of the young people who we just visited to--visited with, Dr. Green and myself--some not-so-young faces, but people who, despite layoffs, despite hardships, felt confident in their future.<p>Just the other month, I saw part of America's future during a science fair we held at the White House. It was the first science fair we've ever held. And we talked to some of these amazing young people. It was probably as much fun as I've had in several months. Now, that's a low bar, given--[<i>laughter</i>]. But there was a team from Tennessee that had designed a self-powered water filtration plant so that homes in Appalachia could have access to clean water. And then there were these young people--these are all high school, some younger than high school--there were young people who had designed a way to make an entire town more energy efficient.<p>And there were young people who had entered into rocket contests, and they were showing me all the rockets that they had been shooting up, and they had won an international contest, and explained to me the designs of these things--and robots that were running around in the State Dining Room and bumping into things. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And then the last person I spoke to was a young woman from Dallas, Texas, and her name was Amy Chyao. She's 16 years old. She's a child of immigrants. Her parents came to the United States from China, but Amy was born here. And when she was a freshman in high school, she got interested in cancer research. She had studied biology and she got interested in cancer research. So she decided--get this--she decided to teach herself chemistry over the summer. And then she designed a device that uses light to kill hard-to-reach cancer cells while leaving the healthy ones untouched. This is her summer science project--[<i>laughter</i>]--16 years old.<p>She goes on to win the international science competition. All these kids from all around the world--she wins the competition. So now she's being approached by laboratories all across the country who want to work with her on developing this potential breakthrough cancer drug that she's designed. Sixteen years old.<p>And I'm talking to Amy and pretending like I understand what she is explaining. [<i>Laughter</i>] And as I'm listening to her, I'm looking at the portrait of Abraham Lincoln that hangs over her head in the State Dining Room. And I remembered all that we've been through and all that we've overcome. And I thought to myself, you know what, the idea of America is alive and well. We are going to be just fine.<p>We are going to be just fine as long as there are people like Amy and her parents who still want to come to this country and add to our story; as long as there are people like the men and women here at Forsyth Technical, who are keeping us at the top of our game; as long as we are willing to look past the disagreements of the moment and focus on the future that we share. We will be fine.<p>If we can do that, I have no doubt that this will be remembered as another American century. We will meet that Sputnik moment, but we're going to all have to do it together.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you, and God bless America.\" "
"347" "\"For the past few weeks, there's been a lot of talk around Washington about taxes, and there's been a lot of political positioning between the two parties. But around kitchen tables, Americans are asking just one question: Are we going to allow their taxes to go up on January 1, or will we meet our responsibilities to resolve our differences and do what's necessary to speed up the recovery and get people back to work?<p>Now, there's no doubt that the differences between the parties are real and they are profound. Ever since I started running for this office I've said that we should only extend the tax cuts for the middle class. These are the Americans who've taken the biggest hit not only from this recession, but from nearly a decade of costs that have gone up while their paychecks have not. It would be a grave injustice to let taxes increase for these Americans right now, and it would deal a serious blow to our economic recovery.<p>Now, Republicans have a different view. They believe that we should also make permanent the tax cuts for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans. I completely disagree with this. A permanent extension of these tax cuts would cost us $700 billion at a time when we need to start focusing on bringing down our deficit. And economists from all across the political spectrum agree that giving tax cuts to millionaires and billionaires does very little to actually grow our economy.<p>This is where the debate has stood for the last couple of weeks. And what is abundantly clear to everyone in this town is that Republicans will block a permanent tax cut for the middle class unless they also get a permanent tax cut for the wealthiest Americans, regardless of the cost or impact on the deficit.<p>We saw that in two different votes in the Senate that were taken this weekend. And without a willingness to give on both sides, there's no reason to believe that this stalemate won't continue well into next year. This would be a chilling prospect for the American people whose taxes are currently scheduled to go up on January 1 because of arrangements that were made back in 2001 and 2003 under the Bush tax cuts.<p>I am not willing to let that happen. I know there's some people in my own party and in the other party who would rather prolong this battle, even if we can't reach a compromise. But I'm not willing to let working families across this country become collateral damage for political warfare here in Washington. And I'm not willing to let our economy slip backwards just as we're pulling ourselves out of this devastating recession.<p>I'm not willing to see 2 million Americans who's--stand to lose their unemployment insurance at the end of this month be put in a situation where they might lose their home or their car or suffer some additional economic catastrophe.<p>So, sympathetic as I am to those who prefer a fight over compromise, as much as the political wisdom may dictate fighting over solving problems, it would be the wrong thing to do. The American people didn't send us here to wage symbolic battles or win symbolic victories. They would much rather have the comfort of knowing that when they open their first paycheck on January of 2011, it won't be smaller than it was before, all because Washington decided they preferred to have a fight and failed to act.<p>Make no mistake: Allowing taxes to go up on all Americans would have raised taxes by $3,000 for a typical American family. And that could cost our economy well over a million jobs.<p>At the same time, I'm not about to add $700 billion to our deficit by allowing a permanent extension of the tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. And I won't allow any extension of these tax cuts for the wealthy, even a temporary one, without also extending unemployment insurance for Americans who've lost their jobs or additional tax cuts for working families and small businesses. Because if Republicans truly believe we shouldn't raise taxes on anyone while our economy is still recovering from the recession, then surely we shouldn't cut taxes for wealthy people while letting them rise on parents and students and small businesses.<p>As a result, we have arrived at a framework for a bipartisan agreement. For the next 2 years, every American family will keep their tax cuts, not just the Bush tax cuts, but those that have been put in place over the last couple of years that are helping parents and students and other folks manage their bills.<p>In exchange for a temporary extension of the tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, we will be able to protect key tax cuts for working families: the earned-income tax credit that helps families climb out of poverty, the child tax credit that makes sure families don't see their taxes jump up to $1,000 for every child, and the American opportunity tax credit that ensures over 8 million students and their families don't suddenly see the cost of college shooting up. These are the tax cuts for some of the folks who've been hit hardest by this recession, and it would be simply unacceptable if their taxes went up while everybody else's stayed the same.<p>Now, under this agreement, unemployment insurance will also be extended for another 13 months, which will be welcome relief for 2 million Americans who are facing the prospect of having this lifeline yanked away from them right in the middle of the holiday season.<p>This agreement would also mean a 2-percent employee payroll tax cut for workers next year, a tax cut that economists across the political spectrum agree is one of the most powerful things we can do to create jobs and boost economic growth.<p>And we will prevent--we will provide incentives for businesses to invest and create jobs by allowing them to completely write off their investments next year. This is something identified back in September as a way to help American businesses create jobs. And thanks to this compromise, it's finally going to get done.<p>In exchange, the Republicans have asked for more generous treatment of the estate tax than I think is wise or warranted. But we have insisted that that will be temporary.<p>I have no doubt that everyone will find something in this compromise that they don't like. In fact, there are things in here that I don't like, namely the extension of the tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans and the wealthiest estates. But these tax cuts will expire in 2 years. And I'm confident that as we make tough choices about bringing our deficit down, as I engage in a conversation with the American people about the hard choices we're going to have to make to secure our future and our children's future and our grandchildren's future, it will become apparent that we cannot afford to extend those tax cuts any longer.<p>As for now, I believe this bipartisan plan is the right thing to do. It's the right thing to do for jobs. It's the right thing to do for the middle class. It is the right thing to do for business. And it's the right thing to do for our economy. It offers us an opportunity that we need to seize.<p>It's not perfect, but this compromise is an essential step on the road to recovery. It will stop middle class taxes from going up. It will spur our private sector to create millions of new jobs and add momentum that our economy badly needs.<p>Building on that momentum is what I'm focused on. It's what Members of Congress should be focused on. And I'm looking forward to working with members of both parties in the coming days to see to it that we get this done before everyone leaves town for the holiday season. We cannot allow this moment to pass.<p>And let me just end with this. There's been a lot of debate in Washington about how this would ultimately get resolved. I just want everybody to remember over the course of the coming days, both Democrats and Republicans, that these are not abstract fights for the families that are impacted. Two million people will lose their unemployment insurance at the end of this month if we don't get this resolved. Millions more of Americans will see their taxes go up at a time when they can least afford it. And my singular focus over the next year is going to be on how do we continue the momentum of the recovery, how do we make sure that we grow this economy and we create more jobs.<p>We cannot play politics at a time when the American people are looking for us to solve problems. And so I look forward to engaging the House and the Senate, members of both parties, as well as the media in this debate. But I am confident that this needs to get done, and I'm confident ultimately Congress is going to do the right thing.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"348" "\"Welcome, everybody. We are thrilled to have you here. And I want to start by acknowledging a few people who have worked so hard to allow us to be here today on this wonderful occasion: our Attorney General, Eric Holder--you can give him a round of applause; two outstanding members of my Cabinet who couldn't have worked harder to make today happen, Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar and Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack; and four outstanding leaders who made it their business to see this thing through, Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, Representative Jim Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina, and Representative Tom Cole, Republican of Oklahoma. Please give them a big round of applause.<p>And one last person who doesn't get a lot of notice but put a huge amount of time and actually crossed the t's and dotted the i's to help this thing along, my good friend from law school, even though he now looks younger than me because I've gotten the gray hair and he hasn't--[<i>laughter</i>]--and what's the official title? Is it deputy or--it's associate--Associate Attorney General Tom Perrelli.<p>Obviously, despite the extraordinary leadership on the stage, this also would not have gotten done without the activists, the tribal leaders, and the outstanding Members of Congress, both Democrat and Republican, who have come together and done so much over the years to make this a reality.<p>Here in America, we believe that all of us are equal and that each of us deserves the chance to pursue our own version of happiness. It's what led us to become a nation. It's at the heart of who we are as a people. And our history is defined by the struggle to fulfill this ideal: to build a more perfect Union, to ensure that all of us, regardless of our race or religion, our color or our creed, are afforded the same rights as Americans and the fair and equal treatment under the law.<p>I think all of us understand that we haven't always lived up to those ideals. When we've fallen short, it's been up to ordinary citizens to stand up to inequality and unfairness wherever they find it. That's how we've made progress. That's how we've moved forward. And that's why we are here today: to sign a bill into law that closes a long and unfortunate chapter in our history.<p>First, for many years African American farmers claimed they were discriminated against when they applied for Federal farm loans, making it more difficult for them to stay in business and maintain their farms. In 1999, a process was established to settle these claims. But the settlement was implemented poorly and tens of thousands of African American families who filed paperwork after the deadline were denied their chance to make their case.<p>And that's why, as Senator, I introduced legislation to provide these farmers the right to have their claims heard. That's why I'm proud that Democrats and Republicans have come together to lay this case to rest. And that's why I'm proud that Secretary Vilsack and everybody at the Department of Agriculture are continuing to address claims of past discrimination by other farmers throughout our country.<p>The second case we're addressing today has to do with the responsibilities that the Government has to Native Americans. It began when Elouise Cobell, who is here today, charged the Interior Department with failing to account for tens of billions of dollars that they were supposed to collect on behalf of more than 300,000 of her fellow Native Americans.<p>Elouise's argument was simple: The Government, as a trustee of Indian funds, should be able to account for how it handles that money. And now, after 14 years of litigation, it's finally time to address the way that Native Americans were treated by their Government. It's finally time to make things right.<p>The bipartisan agreement finalized this month will result in payments to those affected by this case. It creates a scholarship fund to help make higher education a reality for more Native Americans. It helps put more land in the hands of tribes to manage for their members. And it also includes money to settle lawsuits over water rights, giving seven tribes in Arizona, Montana, and New Mexico permanent access to secure water supplies year round.<p>After years of delay, this bill will provide a small measure of justice to Native Americans whose funds were held in trust by a Government charged with looking out for them. And it represents a major step forward in my administration's efforts to fulfill our responsibilities and strengthen our government-to-government relationship with the tribal nations.<p>In the end, the work that is represented on this stage and among these Members of Congress, this isn't simply a matter of making amends. It's about reaffirming our values on which this Nation was founded, principles of fairness and equality and opportunity. It's about helping families who suffered through no fault of their own get back on their feet. It's about restoring a sense of trust between the American people and the Government that plays such an important role in their lives.<p>As long as I have the privilege of serving as your President, I will continue to do everything I can to restore that trust. And that's why I am so extraordinarily proud to sign this bill today.<p>I want to thank once again all those Members of Congress. We got a lot of members here--the Congressional Black Caucus, who I know worked the Pigford issue tirelessly. We've got, as I said, Democrats and Republicans who were supportive of this issue for so long. This is one of those issues where you don't always get political credit, but it's just the right thing to do. And I couldn't be prouder of you.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"349" "\"Everybody have a seat, have a seat. Well, good morning, everybody. And thank you for once again coming together to help us figure out how we're going to sell a lot of stuff all around the world.<p>I want to thank Secretary Locke and members of my Cabinet and administration. I want to thank the Members of Congress who are here. And I want to thank Jim and Ursula, the Chair and Vice Chairs of the President's Export Council, and all the other members here today for your extraordinary work.<p>Now, everyone in this room is committed to promoting a strong and growing economy, one that's creating jobs, fostering a thriving middle class, and extending opportunity for all who are willing to work for it.<p>And as we meet here, there is an important debate I think most of you are aware of on Capitol Hill that will determine, in part, whether our economy moves forward or backward. The bipartisan framework that we've forged on taxes will not only protect working Americans from seeing a major tax increase on January 1, it will provide businesses incentives to invest, grow, and hire. And every economist that I've talked to or that I've read over the last couple of days acknowledges that this agreement would boost economic growth in the coming years and has the potential to create millions of jobs. The average American family will start 2011 knowing that there will be more money to pay the bills each month, more money to pay for tuition, more money to raise their children.<p>But if this framework fails, the reverse is true. Americans would see it in smaller paychecks that would have the effect of fewer jobs. So as we meet here today to talk about one important facet of our economic strategy for the future, I urge Members of Congress to move forward on this essential priority.<p>Now, the top priority of my administration since I took office has been to get the American people back on their feet and back on the job in the aftermath of the most devastating recession in our lifetime. That's job one. But as I said in greater detail on Monday, we've also got to ask ourselves how do we position our economy to be strong, growing, and competitive in the long run.<p>One strategy that will help us do both--to create good jobs that pay well today and create new markets for jobs tomorrow--is to increase our exports to the rest of the world. That's why, in my State of the Union Address, I set a goal for America: We will double our exports for goods and services over 5 years. And I relaunched this Council because, as business leaders and labor leaders, as Members of Congress, and as members of my administration, I value your advice in terms of how we best achieve that goal.<p>What we all agree on is that we've got to rebuild our economy on a new and stronger foundation for growth. And part of that means getting back to doing what America has always been known for doing--what our workers and our businesses have always done best--and that's making great products and selling them around the world.<p>The world wants products made in America. We've got workers ready to make them. And the fact is, exporting is good for our economy. The more our companies export, the more they produce. The more they produce, the more workers they hire. Every $1 billion that we increase in exports supports more than 5,000 jobs, and companies that export often pay better wages.<p>So at a time when jobs are in short supply, growing our export markets is an imperative. And growing our exports today will create the jobs of tomorrow. Ninety-five percent of the world's customers and the fastest growing markets are beyond our borders. If we want to find new growth streams for our economy, we've got to compete aggressively for those customers, because other nations are competing aggressively. And as long as I'm President of the United States, we are going to fight for every job, every industry, every market, everywhere, and we intend to win.<p>That's why I set this goal. We're on track to meet it. Exports are up nearly 18 percent so far over last year. Today I'd like to offer an update on some of the steps we've taken to get there, and steps we're taking based on this Council's recommendations, to keep making progress.<p>Earlier this year, I launched the National Export Initiative, an effort to marshal the full resources of the Federal Government behind America's businesses, large and small, in order to best help them sell their goods, services, and ideas to the rest of the world.<p>One of the things I pledged to do as part of this initiative was to move forward on new trade agreements with some of our key partners. And I promised to do it in a way that secures a level playing field for our companies and a fair shake for our workers without compromising our most cherished values.<p>That's why I am so pleased that the United States and South Korea reached agreement on a landmark trade deal last week. We expect this deal's tariff reductions alone to boost annual exports of American goods by up to $11 billion. And all told, this agreement, including the opening of the Korean services market, will support more than 70,000 American jobs.<p>I hoped to finalize this agreement--I had hoped to finalize this agreement when I traveled to Korea last month, but I didn't agree to it at that time for one simple reason: It wasn't yet good enough for our workers or our economy. As much as I believe that looking out for American workers requires competing in the global marketplace, I also believe that as we compete in the global marketplace, we've got to look out for American workers. So I said let's take the time to get this right. And we did.<p>It is now a deal that is good for our workers, good for our businesses, good for our farmers, good for our ranchers, good for aerospace, good for electronics manufacturers. In particular, American car and truck manufacturers will have more access to Korea's markets. And here at home, we'll encourage the development of electric cars and green technologies and continue to ensure a level playing field for our automakers.<p>It's also good for our friend and ally South Korea. They will grow their economy, gain greater access to our markets, and will also get American products that'll be more affordable for Korean households and businesses. And that means more choices for them and more jobs for us.<p>And it's good for American leadership. As I've insisted all along, it--the deal that we've struck includes strong protections for workers' rights and environmental standards, and as a consequence, I believe it's a model for future trade agreements that I will pursue.<p>It's an agreement supported by Members of Congress on both side of the aisle and Americans on all sides of the political spectrum, from the UAW to the Chamber of Commerce. And I look forward to working with Congress and leaders in both parties to approve it, because if there's one thing we should all agree on, it's creating jobs and opportunity for the American people.<p>Another thing that we said we'd do is to go to bat as a stronger advocate for our businesses abroad. This is an effort that I pledged to lead personally. And that's why, on the same trip where we were working to get the Korea deal done, I visited India to highlight the role American business played there and took the opportunity to sell our exports to one of the fastest growing markets in the world. While I was there, we reached several landmark deals, from Boeing jets and GE engines to medical and mining equipment, deals that are worth nearly $10 billion in exports and will support more than 50,000 American jobs.<p>I also believe that strong economic partnerships can create prosperity at home and advance it around the world. And that's why we focused on deepening our economic cooperation with Russia on a range of fronts, from aerospace to agriculture, including restarting American poultry exports earlier this year, which was an important victory for many American farmers. I believe that Russia belongs in the WTO and that we should support all efforts to make that happen. I think President Medvedev is doing important work trying to reform and move Russia forward on a whole host of issues, and I told him that the United States would be a partner with him in that effort. Welcoming Russia to the WTO would be good for them; it would also be good for us and good for the global economy.<p>Finally, we've also been working to reform our export control system with high-tech companies like some of yours in mind, so that American firms that make products with national security implications can stay competitive even as we better protect our national security interests.<p>When this Council met in September, some of you asked that we make it easier for businesses to participate in these reform efforts. So today I am pleased to announce that we're publishing a first set of guidelines for what products should be controlled going forward and the licensing policies that will apply to them. As an example, we've applied those policies to one category of products. In that one category, about three-quarters of products previously subjected to stricter controls will be shifted to a more flexible list, and many are expected to fall off the list altogether. And we want input from businesses, from Congress, and from our allies as we complete this reform.<p>Today we're also unveiling a new export control reform web page as part of the revamped export.gov. This is something that Secretary Locke mentioned in our last meeting. Typically, all businesses that export have to go through a maze of different lists, different formats, from different departments, to make sure they're not selling their products somewhere or to someone that they shouldn't be. As important as that is, the process is repetitive; it's redundant and particularly onerous for small businesses without the means to navigate it all.<p>So we're changing that. Effective today, businesses can, for the very first time, go to export.gov and download one consolidated list of entities that have special export requirements.<p>So that's a lot of work that we've been doing to double our exports, to open up new markets and level the playing field for American workers and businesses, all with the overarching purpose of growing and strengthening the American economy.<p>I'm very much looking forward to the discussion we're going to be having as you guys continue your work. I'm grateful for all of you for being here, because while those around this table may not always agree on every issue, what does bind us together is that we want to see our businesses grow. We want to see our workers get hired. We want our people to succeed. We want America to compete. We want to stay on top in the 21st century. And I'm confident we can do that with your help.<p>So thank you very much, everybody. And I think you guys are going to strike this podium so I can sit down and listen a little bit. Thank you.\" "
"350" "\"<i>The President.</i> Merry Christmas, everybody!<p><i>Audience members.</i> Merry Christmas!<p><i>The President.</i> Happy holidays. We are just thrilled to have all of you here.<p>Thank you, Secretary Salazar, for the kind introduction and for all that you're doing to protect our national parks and our public lands for the future of generations. I also want to recognize Neil Mulholland and everyone at the National Park Foundation and at the National Park Service who helped put this event together.<p>I want to thank Pastor Darrell Morton for that wonderful invocation, and of course, thanks to Common and all of tonight's performers for joining us here as we light the National Christmas Tree for the 88th time.<p>This is a very proud holiday tradition. Snow or shine, in good times and in periods of hardship, folks like you have gathered with Presidents to light our national tree. Now, it hasn't always gone off without a hitch. On one occasion, two sheep left the safety of the nativity scene and wandered into rush-hour traffic. [<i>Laughter</i>] That caused some commotion. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Often, the ceremony itself has reflected the pain and sacrifice of the times. There were years during the Second World War when no lights were hung in order to save electricity. In the days following Pearl Harbor, Winston Churchill joined President Roosevelt to wish our Nation a happy Christmas even in such perilous days.<p>But without fail, each year, we have gathered here; each year, we've come together to celebrate a story that has endured for two millennia. It's a story that's dear to Michelle and me as Christians, but it's a message that's universal: A child was born far from home to spread a simple message of love and redemption to every human being around the world.<p>It's a message that says no matter who we are or where we are from, no matter the pain we endure or the wrongs we face, we are called to love one another as brothers and as sisters.<p>And so during a time in which we try our hardest to live with a spirit of charity and good will, we remember our brothers and sisters who have lost a job or are struggling to make ends meet. We pray for the men and women in uniform serving in Afghanistan and Iraq and in faraway places who can't be home this holiday season. And we thank their families, who will mark this Christmas with an empty seat at the dinner table.<p>On behalf of Malia, Sasha, Michelle, Marian--who's our grandmother-in-chief--[<i>laughter</i>]--and Bo--don't forget Bo--I wish all of you a merry Christmas and a blessed holiday season.<p>And now I'm going to invite the entire Obama crew up here to help me light this Christmas tree.<p>All right, everybody, we're going to count from five: five, four, three, two, one.\" "
"351" "\"Right now there's a big debate taking place in Washington that'll affect how much you pay in taxes next year. If Congress doesn't act, tax rates will automatically go up for just about everyone in our country. Typical middle class families would end up paying an extra $3,000. <p>That's unacceptable to me. Not when we know that it's the middle class that was hit the hardest by the recession. And not when we know that taking this money out of the pockets of working people is exactly the wrong thing to do to get our economy growing faster. Economists tell us that this tax hike on working families would actually cost us well over a million jobs.<p>That's why I've been fighting so hard to cut middle class taxes. And that's why I brought both Democrats and Republicans to the table, to put together a compromise and work through our differences so we could get this done.<p>Now, the Republicans in Congress strongly favored permanent tax breaks for the wealthiest taxpayers and the wealthiest estates, most of which would go to millionaires and even billionaires. I didn't believe that these tax cuts were worth the cost. They'd add to our deficits without really boosting the economy.<p>I believed instead that the best way to help the economy and working families was to keep middle class tax rates low and cut taxes for working parents, college students, and small businesses. And I believed that with millions of people looking for jobs, it would be a terrible mistake to end unemployment insurance, not only for people who are out of work, but for our entire economy.<p>So we hammered out a deal that reflects ideas from both sides. It wasn't easy, and it's by no means perfect. And as with any compromise, everybody had to live with elements they didn't like. But this is a good deal for the American people. The vast majority of the tax cuts in this plan will help the middle class, including a new tax cut in payroll taxes that will save the average family about a thousand dollars. And as this plan is debated in Congress, what I want to make clear is the real difference it will make in people's lives.<p>It's going to make a difference for a single mom with two kids in Ohio working as a cashier. With this plan, she'd get a new payroll tax cut and a bigger child tax credit together worth more than $2,300.<p>It's going to make a difference for a couple in Florida earning about $50,000 and trying to put one of their two kids through college. They'd save more than $4,000 because of the middle class tax cuts, including a $2,500 tax credit to go toward college tuition.<p>And it's going to make an enormous difference for people looking for work. For many of these families, emergency unemployment insurance is the last line of defense between hardship and catastrophe. And I'd point out, if these folks stop spending money, it will also hurt businesses, which will hurt hiring, which will damage our economy.<p>So this plan is going to help millions of families to make ends meet because of tax cuts and unemployment insurance for people who've lost their jobs by no fault of their own. And we included tax relief for businesses too, making it easier for them to invest and expand. All told, this will not only directly help families and businesses. By putting more money in people's pockets and helping companies grow, we're going to see people being able to spend a little more, we're going to spur hiring, we're going to strengthen our entire economy.<p>Now, I recognize that many of my friends in my own party are uncomfortable with some of what's in this agreement, in particular the temporary tax cuts for the wealthy. I share their concerns. I don't like those tax cuts either. It's clear that over the long run, if we're serious about balancing the budget, we cannot continue to afford these tax breaks for the wealthiest taxpayers, especially when we know that cutting the deficit is going to demand sacrifice from everyone. That's the reality.<p>But at the same time, we can't allow the middle class in this country to be caught in the political crossfire of Washington. People want us to find solutions, not score points. And I will not allow middle class families to be treated like pawns on a chessboard.<p>The opportunity for families to send their kids to college hinges on this debate. The ability of parents to put food on the table while looking for a job depends on this debate. And our recovery will be strengthened or weakened based on the choice that now rests with Congress.<p>So I strongly urge members of both parties to pass this plan. And I'm confident that they will do the right thing, strengthening the middle class and our economic recovery.<p>Thanks.\" "
"352" "\"Thank you, everybody. Please, please have a seat. Merry Christmas and happy holidays, everybody. I want to thank our wonderful host, Ellen DeGeneres, for being here tonight. And of course, a special thanks to all of tonight's extraordinary performers: Mariah Carey, Andrea Bocelli, Miranda Cosgrove, Annie Lennox, Maxwell, Matthew Morrison, the Washington Youth Choir, the American Family Choir, and the United States Army Band Herald Trumpets. Please give them a huge round of applause.<p>What a wonderful show here at the National Building Museum. And we're grateful that the Children's National Medical Center is the beneficiary of tonight's performance. Day in and day out, the folks there are saving lives and bringing healing and comfort to our children.<p>This season reminds us that more than 2,000 years ago, a child born in a stable brought our world a redeeming gift of peace and salvation. It's a story with a message that speaks to us to this day--that we are called to love each other as we love ourselves, that we are our brother's keeper and our sister's keeper and our destinies are linked.<p>It's a message that guides my Christian faith, and it focuses us as we think about all those whose holidays may be a bit tougher this year. We pray for our troops serving far away from the warmth of family and homespun traditions. We remember those who are out of work or struggling just to get by. We hold in our hearts all those who've fallen on hard times this holiday season.<p>Because, while Christmas is a time to celebrate, a time to sing chorals and exchange gifts, it's also something more. It's a time to rediscover the meaning of words like \\"charity\\" and \\"compassion\\" and \\"good will,\\" to do our part for our neighbors, to serve God through serving others. So from our family to yours, happy holidays, everybody. Merry Christmas, and God bless you all, and God bless the United States of America. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"353" "\"Hello, everybody. I am pleased to announce, at this hour the United States Senate is moving forward on a package of tax cuts that has strong bipartisan support. This proves that both parties can, in fact, work together to grow our economy and look out for the American people.<p>Once the Senate completes action on this bill, it will move over to the House of Representative for its consideration. I've been talking with several Members of that body. I recognize that folks on both sides of the political spectrum are unhappy with certain parts of the package, and I understand those concerns. I share some of them. But that's the nature of compromise: sacrificing something that each of us cares about to move forward on what matters to all of us. Right now that's growing the economy and creating jobs. And nearly every economist agrees that that is what this package will do.<p>Taken as a whole, the bill that the Senate will allow to proceed does some very good things for America's economy and the American people. <p>First and foremost, it is a substantial victory for middle class families across the country who would no longer have to worry about a massive tax hike come January 1. It would offer hope to millions of Americans who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own by making sure that they won't suddenly find themselves out in the cold without the unemployment insurance benefits that they were counting on. And it would offer real tax relief for Americans who are paying for college, parents raising their children, and business owners looking to invest in their businesses and propel our economy forward.<p>So I urge the House of Representatives to act quickly on this important matter. Because if there's one thing we can agree on, it's the urgent work of protecting middle class families, removing uncertainty for America's businesses, and giving our economy a boost as we head into the new year.<p>Thanks very much, everybody.\" "
"354" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you, everybody. Please, please have a seat. Good morning, everybody.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Good morning.<p><i>The President.</i> Well, I want to thank all the students and faculty and staff here at Tubman Elementary for hosting us today at your beautiful school. And we want to thank Principal Harry Hughes for doing outstanding work here. Thank you. Give them all a big round of applause.<p>We are thrilled to be here with all of you as I sign the healthy, hungry-free kids act, a bill that's vitally important to the health and welfare of our kids and to our country. But before I do this, I just want to acknowledge a few of the folks who are here, as well as a few who are not here but who played a hugely important role in getting this legislation passed.<p>On the stage, we have Madam Speaker, Nancy Pelosi; two outstanding Senators, Blanche Lincoln and Tom Harkin, who worked so hard to get this done; Members of the House of Representatives Miller, DeLauro, and Platts, who all worked so hard to make this happen--we're grateful to you; and three of my outstanding members of my Cabinet who worked tirelessly on this issue, Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack--it happens to be his birthday today, happy birthday--Secretary Arne Duncan, our great Secretary of Education, and Secretary Kathleen Sebelius of Health and Human Services.<p>Not--they couldn't be here today, but they played a huge role in making this happen: Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader in the Senate; Senator Mike [Mitch]* McConnell, the ranking Republican who helped facilitate the smooth passage of this bill; Senator Chambliss, who was the lead Republican; Representatives Hoyer, Clyburn, and McCarthy all played important roles, and so we're very grateful to them. Give them a big round of applause.<p>It is worth noting that this bill passed with bipartisan support in both Houses of Congress. That hasn't happened as often as we'd like over the last couple of years, but I think it says something about our politics. It reminds us that no matter what people may hear about how divided things are in Washington, we can still come together and agree on issues that matter for our children's future and for our future as a nation. And that's really what today is all about.<p>At a very basic level, this act is about doing what's right for our children. Right now, across the country, too many kids don't have access to school meals. And often, the food that's being offered isn't as healthy or as nutritious as it should be. That's part of the reason why one in three children in America today are either overweight or obese.<p>And we're seeing this problem in every part of the country in kids from all different backgrounds and all walks of life. As a result, doctors are now starting to see conditions like high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and type 2 diabetes in children. These are things that they only used to see in adults. And this bill is about reversing that trend and giving our kids the healthy futures that they deserve.<p>And this bill is also about doing what's right for our country, because we feel the strains that treating obesity-related health conditions puts on our economy. We've seen the connection between what our kids eat and how well they perform in school. And we know that the countries that succeed in the 21st century will be the ones that have the best prepared, best educated workforce around.<p>So we need to make sure our kids have the energy and the capacity to go toe to toe with any of their peers, anywhere in the world. And we need to make sure that they're all reaching their potential. That's precisely what this bill, the healthy, hungry-free kids act, will accomplish.<p>This legislation will help 115,000 children gain access to school meal programs. And wherever we can, we're doing away with bureaucracy and redtape so that families don't have to fill out mountains of paperwork to get their kids the nutrition they need.<p>We're improving the quality of those meals by reimbursing schools an additional 6 cents per lunch to help them provide with healthier options, the first real increase, by the way, in over 30 years. Because when our kids walk into the lunchroom, we want to be sure that they're getting balanced, nutritious meals that they need to succeed in the classroom.<p>We're empowering parents by making information more available about the quality of school meals, helping families understand what their kids are eating during the day. And to support our schools' efforts to serve fresh fruits and vegetables, we're connecting them with local farmers.<p>We're also improving food safety in schools and boosting the quality of commodities like cheese that schools get from the Department of Agriculture and use in their lunch and breakfast programs.<p>It's also important to note that while this bill is fully paid for, it won't add a dime to the deficit, some of the funding comes from rolling back a temporary increase in food stamp benefits--or SNAP as it's now called--starting in the fall of 2013. I know a number of Members of Congress have expressed concerns about this offset being included in the bill, and I'm committed to working with them to restore these funds in the future.<p>We know that every day across this country, parents are working as hard as they can to make healthy choices for their kids. Schools are doing everything possible to provide the nutritious food they need to thrive. Communities are coming together to help our young people lead healthier lives right from the beginning. And it's time that we made that work a little bit easier. So these folks are fulfilling their responsibilities to our kids. This legislation helps ensure that we fulfill our responsibilities as well.<p>Shortly after signing the first law establishing school lunches, Harry Truman said that \\"nothing is more important in our national life than the welfare of our children, and proper nourishment comes first in attaining this welfare.\\"<p>So today I'm very proud to sign this bill that continues that legacy. Not only am I very proud of the bill, but had I not been able to get this passed, I would be sleeping on the couch. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So now I am very proud to introduce somebody who's done so much to shine a light on these critical issues related to childhood nutrition and obesity and exercise: America's First Lady, my First Lady, Michelle Obama.<p>[<i>At this point, the First Lady made brief remarks.</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Let's go sign this bill.<p><i>The First Lady.</i> Let's go do it.\" "
"355" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody!<p><i>Audience members.</i> Hello!<p><i>The President.</i> Well, it is great to be here at THEARC with the Boys and Girls Club of Greater Washington.<p>Give it up for the world champion Los Angeles Lakers. I want to congratulate everybody on the team, everybody who works for the organization, and all the fans who cheer them on year after year.<p>We've also got, by the way, one of California's great Members of Congress in the house: Grace Napolitano is here. Hello, Grace.<p>Now, I have to say that there is a longstanding tradition of welcoming championship sports teams to the White House. But here's the thing: These guys have been there so often; they were just there last year because they won the title. And Kobe and Derek have been there so many times now, they could lead tours themselves. The same is true for Coach Jackson.<p>So I thought we'd change things up a little bit. We teamed up with NBA Cares to come here to THEARC and spend a little time with the unbelievable young people who are here, as well as the terrific staff. And I was just walking around watching these players work with students assembling care packages for our wounded warriors, putting together some toiletry kits for the homeless here in Washington, DC, and trying to keep up with the kids on the \\"Big Brain Academy\\" challenge, which I didn't even try because it was moving way too fast for me.<p>But that's the beauty of service, anybody can do it. The Lakers have a proud tradition of performing community service in the L.A. community, and I'm glad that they took the time to help us during the holiday season here in Washington, DC. We celebrate that spirit of service off the court, because it's very hard to do what these guys do on the court, but everybody can serve off the court.<p>Now, on the court, there aren't too many folks who can do what the Los Angeles Lakers do. This year, they won their 2d title in a row and their 16th championship overall. That's one behind the Boston Celtics for the most of all time. The Boston Celtics, of course, they beat in this year's finals.<p>I want to congratulate Coach Phil Jackson on earning his 11th N BA championship ring. It was his fifth championship with the Lakers, which I should point out, is still one behind the six he won with the Chicago Bulls.<p><i>Kobe Bryant.</i> Not for long.<p><i>The President.</i> Kobe said, not for long, though. [<i>Laughter</i>] We are still grateful for you, Coach, in Chicago. And it has been a long drought since Phil left Chicago, although I have to say they witnessed in person on Friday that my Bulls are showing some signs of life. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I want to congratulate Kobe Bryant, the NBA Finals MVP for the second year in a row. Kobe was there when we organized a little pickup game for my 49th birthday. Pau Gasol and some other NBA players participated; Derek was there. Kobe was sidelined because he had just gotten some treatment on his knee. I was not yet sidelined with my busted lip. But nobody was taking it easy on me because Pau was on my team, so I kept on just passing to him. And now I got to see how everybody else on the Lakers gets so many open looks, if you've got Pau Gasol in the middle.<p>So I just want to congratulate all the L.A. Lakers for being one of the outstanding sports franchises in our country and in our history. I wish all of you guys great luck for the rest of the season.<p>But especially, I just want to thank you for being so generous with your time with these kids. These young people here are working hard. They're doing well in school. They were really helping me out as I was going through that line packing those care boxes, making sure I didn't screw up. We are incredibly proud of them.<p>But every once in a while they need a little encouragement and they need to know that no dream is beyond their reach. And so when they see people like the Los Angeles Lakers who are willing to spend time with them, that sends a message to them that they're special. And you guys can't give a better gift than that during the holiday season.<p>So thank you very much. We're really proud of you. Congratulations.\" "
"356" "\"Thank you. I have to say, just first of all, looking out at the audience, I'm reminded of, Hillary, how hard we've been working because I recognize everybody. [<i>Laughter</i>] I've seen all of you here. I've seen you in your home countries. And we are grateful to you.<p>First of all, thanks not only to Hillary for her gracious introduction, but I think there's a consensus building that this may be one of the best Secretaries of State we've ever had in this country's history--[<i>inaudible</i>]. One of my better decisions. [<i>Laughter</i>] It is a bipartisan view, by the way. [<i>Laughter</i>]. That doesn't happen very often. <p>Before I say anything else, I want to echo what I know Hillary addressed earlier, just say a few words about our friend and partner, Richard Holbrooke. We're honored to be joined by Richard's wife Kati and their family, David, Anthony, Lizzie, Christopher. I just had a chance to take a few moments with them before we came out to talk about their husband, dad, friend. <p>Richard Holbrooke has been serving this Nation with distinction for nearly 50 years, from a young Foreign Service officer in Vietnam to the architect of the accords that ended the slaughter in the Balkans, to advancing our regional efforts as our Special Representative to Afghanistan and Pakistan, and countless crises and hot spots in between. He is simply one of the giants of American foreign policy.<p>And as anyone who has ever worked with him knows, or had the clear disadvantage of negotiating across the table from him, Richard is relentless. He never stops, he never quits, because he's always believed that if we stay focused, if we act on our mutual interests, that progress is possible. Wars can end; peace can be forged.<p>This is the conviction that animates his work in Afghanistan and Pakistan and that of his SRAP team, many of whom join us tonight. Where are they? There they are back there. Richard recruited them. He mentored them. And I want you to know that in our meetings he consistently gave you guys unbelievable credit. He was so proud--and is so proud--of the work that you do. And I thank you for all the progress that we're making in that region, which is so vital to our national security. <p>So tonight we're all praying for Richard's recovery. To Kati and the family, our thoughts are with you. And I know that everyone here joins me when I say that America is more secure and the world is a safer place because of the work of Ambassador Richard Holbrooke. So Michelle and I, to the entire family, just know we are thinking and praying for you and for Richard every single day. And he is a tough son of a gun, so we are confident that, as hard as this is, that he is going to be putting up a tremendous fight.<p>Now, part of the reason that Hillary Clinton wanted Richard as part of her team is because she too is relentless. She too is tough. She too does not quit. She recently pulled off what one journalist called \\"a Central Asian hat trick.\\" She went to Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Uzbekistan, and then she threw in, as a bonus, Bahrain. [<i>Laughter</i>] And because of the time differences, she was able to accomplish this all in one day. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Despite the jetlag, she has not lost her sense of humor. She recently cautioned foreign publics against watching too much American TV, because, she said, you'd think that we Americans spend all our time \\"wrestling and wearing bikinis.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So thank you, Secretary Clinton, for your leadership, for your sense of humor, for your incredible dedication to our national security, more broadly, your incredible dedication to a world that's more peaceful and secure and provides opportunity for all.<p>Now, I wanted to be here tonight, I'm grateful for the invitation, despite the fact that, as I said, I've met most of you. I've had a chance to work with many of you. We recently hosted a reception over at the White House, and we--I've had the opportunity to receive some of you, the newest Ambassadors to the United States, in the Oval Office. But I wanted to be here today for two reasons. <p>First, I want to thank our extraordinary State Department employees for the tireless work that you do. You are the backbone of American foreign policy, especially those of you who are serving far away from home on--during the holidays. <p>Day in, day out, you strengthen our alliances. You forge new partnerships. You prevent conflicts and the spread of deadly weapons. You promote global prosperity and global health. You stand up for human rights, and you stand up for universal values. In other words, you show the world the very best of America. And on behalf of the American people, I want to say thank you. You are doing an extraordinary job. <p>Now, the other reason I wanted to be here was to say how much the United States values the partnerships and friendships of the nations that are represented here. As you know, my administration has pursued a new era of engagement around the world, an engagement that's grounded in mutual interest and mutual respect. It depends on trust. It depends on candor. That's the essence of our diplomacy and the essence of our partnerships. <p>And our commitment to diplomacy, to building partnerships of mutual interest and mutual respect, is going to remain a fundamental cornerstone of our foreign policy. It will not change, because not only is it right for America, but it's right for the world.<p>And let me say that our engagement includes building partnerships between our peoples. That's what Michelle and I worked to do during our recent visit to India, for example, which occurred during Diwali. As many of you've seen, during a Diwali celebration with some of the schoolchildren, Michelle joined in the dancing. So did I. The difference was, she was good. [<i>Laughter</i>] The headlines were a little bruising to my ego. [<i>Laughter</i>] They said, \\"President Obama Visits India; Michelle Obama Rocks India.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It was just one small example, but it spoke to a larger truth, one that's at the heart of this holiday season. When we reach out to one another, when we see beyond the differences that supposedly divide us, when we come together--even if it's for some dance or some song or a shared story, a shared memory--we're reminded that fundamentally we are the same. There's a commonality between us. There is an essential human experience that we all share. <p>And it gets lost in politics and it gets lost in rivalries. And there are barriers of ethnicity and religion and language. And yet scratch the surface, take the time to get to know somebody else from a different culture, a different race, a different ethnicity, and it turns out that there are hopes and dreams that bind us together.<p>And our jobs, both as political leaders and as diplomats, is to make sure that those bonds are strengthened and broadened; that they penetrate into our respective nations; that each of us is able to stand in the other person's shoes and see through the other person's eyes; that people are no longer simply \\"the other,\\" or simply foreigners, but are in fact our brothers and sisters. <p>And if we're insistent enough about the capacity to understand each other, then that translates concretely into some war that doesn't happen, some village that isn't destroyed, some child that gets something to eat, some disaster that is averted. That's what all of you do. That's your essential task. And you do it very, very well. <p>And so to Secretary Clinton, to the State Department, thank you for doing so much extraordinary work over the past year, much of it to little notice and little acclaim. I know what you do, and I know how important you are. <p>And to the diplomats and dignitaries from our friends and partners around the world, let me say to you that we are absolutely confident that in the new year we will have more opportunities to work together and that if we stay focused on our task, then the world is going to be a better place for our children and our grandchildren.<p>So merry Christmas and happy holidays, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"357" "\"Good morning, everybody. Today the Senate is poised to pass tax cuts and unemployment insurance, putting the House of Representatives in the position to send me this critical economic package so I can sign it into law. <p>I am absolutely convinced that this tax cut plan, while not perfect, will help grow our economy and create jobs in the private sector. It'll help lift up middle class families, who will no longer need to worry about a New Year's Day tax hike. It will offer emergency relief to help tide folks over until they find another job. And it includes tax cuts to make college more affordable, help parents provide for their children, and help businesses--large and small--expand and hire. <p>I know there are different aspects of this plan to which Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle object. That's the nature of compromise. But we worked hard to negotiate an agreement that's a win for middle class families and a win for our economy, and we can't afford to let it fall victim to either delay or defeat. So I urge Members of Congress to pass these tax cuts as swiftly as possible. <p>Getting that done is an essential ingredient in spurring economic growth over the short run. And spurring economic growth is what I'll talk about later this morning when I meet with some of America's top business leaders. That includes Jim McNerney of Boeing, who also heads up my Export Council, and several members of my Economic Recovery Advisory Board. This is one of many discussions we'll be having in the months ahead to find new ways to spur hiring, put Americans back to work, and move our economy forward. <p>As I said when I was running for President and as I've said since, I believe that the primary engine of America's economic success is not government. It's the ingenuity of America's entrepreneurs. It's the dynamism of our markets. And for me, the most important question about an economic idea is not whether it's good short-term politics or meets somebody's litmus test, it's whether it will help spur businesses, jobs, and growth.<p>That's why I've set a goal of doubling U.S. exports in the next 5 years to create more jobs selling more products abroad. That's why I'm so pleased that earlier this month, after intensive negotiations, we finalized a trade agreement with our ally South Korea that will boost the annual exports of American goods by $11 billion, a deal that, all told, will support at least 70,000 American jobs. It's an agreement that won support from business and labor because it's good for the economy.<p>This morning I hope to elicit ideas from these business leaders that will help us not only climb out of recession, but seize the promise of this moment: ideas about tax reform, ideas about a balanced approach to regulation that will promote rather than undermine growth, ideas that will help encourage businesses to invest in America and American jobs at a time when they're holding nearly $2 trillion on their books. I want to discuss our shared mission of building a strong economy for the long run. <p>We know some of what we need to do to outcompete other countries in the 21st century. We need to offer our children the best education in the world. We need to spur innovation and new industries like clean energy that will create the jobs of tomorrow. We need to upgrade America's crumbling infrastructure, its roads and bridges, update high-speed rail and high-speed Internet to connect every community. And we need to redouble our commitment to fiscal discipline and address our long-term deficit challenges.<p>We know the path that will lead to economic success. The only question is whether we will take it, whether we have the political will to do the work. I'm committed to taking that path. I know America's business leaders are as well. And I look forward to talking to them this morning and working with them in the months and years to come to make sure that we're adopting the best ideas for growing our economy and making the 21st century another great American century. <p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"358" "\"Thank you very much. Everybody please be seated. Thank you. Thank you, Fawn, for that wonderful introduction. Thanks to all of you. It is wonderful to be with you here today.<p>I see a lot of friends, a lot of familiar faces in the house. I want to thank all the tribal leaders who have traveled here for this conference. And I also want to recognize all the wonderful Members of Congress who are here, as well as members of my Cabinet, including Secretary Salazar, who is doing terrific work here at Interior on behalf of the first Americans and on behalf of all Americans. So thank you very much, everybody.<p>Yesterday I had the chance to meet with several tribal leaders at the White House, continuing a conversation that began long before I was President. And while I'm glad to have the opportunity to speak with you this morning, I'm also very eager to see the results of today's meeting. I want to hear more from you about how we can strengthen the relationship between our governments, whether in education or health care or in fighting crime or in creating jobs.<p>And that's why we're here today. That's a promise I've made to you. I remember, more than 2 years ago, in Montana, I visited the Crow Nation, one of the many times I met with tribal leaders on the campaign trail. You may know that on that trip, I became an adopted Crow Indian. My Crow name is \\"One Who Helps People Throughout the Land.\\" And my wife, when I told her about this, she said, \\"You should be named 'One Who Isn't Picking Up His Shoes and His Socks.' \\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now--but I like the first name better. And I want you to know that I'm working very hard to live up to that name.<p>What I said then was that as President, I would make sure that you had a voice in the White House. I said that so long as I held this office, never again would Native Americans be forgotten or ignored. And over the past 2 years, my administration, working hand in hand with many of you, has strived to keep that promise. And you've had strong partners in Kim Teehee, my senior adviser for Native American issues, and Jodi Gillette, in our intergovernmental affairs office. You can give them a big round of applause. They do outstanding work.<p>Last year, we held the largest gathering of tribal leaders in our history. And at that conference--you remember, most of you were there--I ordered every Cabinet agency to promote more consultation with the tribal nations. Because I don't believe that the solutions to any of our problems can be dictated solely from Washington. Real change depends on all of us doing our part.<p>So over the past year my administration has worked hard to strengthen the relationship between our nations. And together, we have developed a comprehensive strategy to help meet the challenges facing Native American communities.<p>Our strategy begins with the number-one concern for all Americans right now, and that's improving the economy and creating jobs. We've heard time and again from tribal leaders that one of the keys to unlocking economic growth on reservations is investments in roads and high-speed rail and high-speed Internet and the infrastructure that will better connect your communities to the broader economy. That's essential for drawing capital and creating jobs on tribal lands. So to help spur the economy, we've boosted investment in roads throughout the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Indian Reservation Road Program, and we've offered new loans to reach reservations with broadband.<p>And as part of our plan to revive the economy, we've also put billions of dollars into pressing needs like renovating schools. We're devoting resources to job training, especially for young people in Indian Country, who too often have felt like they don't have a chance to succeed. And we're working with you to increase the size of tribal homelands in order to help you develop your economies.<p>I also want to note that I support legislation to make clear, in the wake of a recent Supreme Court decision, that the Secretary of Interior can take land into trust for all federally recognized tribes. That's something that I discussed yesterday with tribal leaders.<p>We're also breaking down bureaucratic barriers that have prevented tribal nations from developing clean energy like wind and solar power. It's essential not just to your prosperity, but to the prosperity of our whole country. And I've proposed increasing lending to tribal businesses by supporting community financial institutions so they can finance more loans. It is essential in order to help businesses expand and hire in areas where it can be hard to find credit.<p>Another important part of our strategy is health care. We know that Native Americans die of illnesses like diabetes, pneumonia, flu, even tuberculosis, at far higher rates than the rest of the population. Make no mistake: These disparities represent an ongoing tragedy. They're cutting lives short, causing untold pain and hardship for Native American families. And closing these gaps is not just a question of policy; it's a question of our values, it's a test of who we are as a nation.<p>Now, last year at this conference, tribal leaders talked about the need to improve the health care available to Native Americans and to make quality insurance affordable to all Americans. And just a few months later, I signed health reform legislation into law, which permanently authorizes the Indian Health Care Improvement Act--permanently. It's going to make it possible for Indian tribes and tribal organizations to purchase health care for their employees, while making affordable coverage available to everybody, including those who use the Indian Health Service--that's most American Indians and native--Alaska Natives. So it's going to make a huge difference.<p>Of course, there are few steps we can take that will make more of a difference for the future of your communities than improving education on tribal lands. We've got to improve the education we provide to our children. That's the cornerstone on which all of our progress will be built. We know that Native Americans are far more likely to drop out of high school and far less likely to go to college. That not only damages the prospects for tribal economies, it's a heartbreaking waste of human potential. We cannot afford to squander the promise of our young people. Your communities can't afford it, and our country can't afford it. And we are going to start doing something about it.<p>We're rebuilding schools on tribal lands, while helping to ensure that tribes play a bigger role in determining what their children learn. We're working to empower parents with more and better options for schools for their kids, as well as with support programs that actually work with Indian parents to give them a real voice in improving education in your communities.<p>We're also working to improve the programs available to students at tribal colleges. Students who study at tribal colleges are much less likely to leave college without a degree, and the vast majority end up in careers serving their tribal nation. And these schools are not only helping to educate Native Americans, they're also helping to preserve rich but often endangered languages and traditions. I'd also like to point out, last year I signed historic reforms that are increasing student aid and making college loans more affordable. That's especially important to Native Americans struggling to pay for a college degree.<p>Now, all these efforts--improving health care, education, the economy--ultimately, these efforts will not succeed unless all of our communities are safe places to grow up and attend school and open businesses, and where people are not living under the constant threat of violence and crime. And that threat remains real, as crime rates in Indian Country are anywhere from twice to 20 times the national average. That's a sobering statistic--represents a cloud over the future of your communities.<p>So the Justice Department, under the leadership of Eric Holder, is working with you to reform the way justice is done on Indian reservations. And I was proud to sign the Tribal Law and Order Act into law, which is going to help tribes combat drug and alcohol abuse, to have more access to criminal databases, and to gain greater authority to prosecute and punish criminals in Indian Country. That's important. <p>We've also resolved a number of longstanding disputes about the ways that our Government has treated, or in some cases mistreated, folks in Indian Country, even in recent years. We've settled cases where there were allegations of discrimination against Native American farmers and ranchers by the Department of Agriculture. And after a 14-year battle over the accounting of tribal resources in the Cobell case, we reached a bipartisan agreement, which was part of a law I signed just a week ago. We're very proud of that, and I want to thank all the legislators who helped make that happen.<p>This will put more land in the hands of tribes to manage or otherwise benefit their members. This law also includes money to settle lawsuits over water rights for seven tribes in Arizona, Montana, and New Mexico, and it creates a scholarship fund so more Native Americans can afford to go to college.<p>These cases serve as a reminder of the importance of not glossing over the past or ignoring the past, even as we work together to forge a brighter future. That's why, last year, I signed a resolution, passed by both parties in Congress, finally recognizing the sad and painful chapters in our shared history, a history too often marred by broken promises and grave injustices against the first Americans. It's a resolution I fully supported, recognizing that no statement can undo the damage that was done; what it can do is help reaffirm the principles that should guide our future. It's only by heeding the lessons of our history that we can move forward.<p>And as you know, in April, we announced that we were reviewing our position on the U. N. Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. And today I can announce that the United States is lending its support to this declaration.<p>The aspirations it affirms, including the respect for the institutions and rich cultures of Native peoples, are one we must always seek to fulfill. And we're releasing a more detailed statement about U.S. support for the declaration and our ongoing work in Indian Country. But I want to be clear: What matters far more than words, what matters far more than any resolution or declaration, are actions to match those words. And that's what this conference is about--[<i>applause</i>]--that's what this conference is about. That's the standard I expect my administration to be held to.<p>So we're making progress. We're moving forward. And what I hope is that we are seeing a turning point in the relationship between our nations. The truth is, for a long time, Native Americans were implicitly told that they had a choice to make. By virtue of the longstanding failure to tackle wrenching problems in Indian Country, it seemed as though you had to either abandon your heritage or accept a lesser lot in life; that there was no way to be a successful part of America and a proud Native American.<p>But we know this is a false choice. To accept it is to believe that we can't and won't do better. And I don't accept that. I know there is not a single person in this room who accepts that either. We know that ultimately this is not just a matter of legislation, not just a matter of policy. It's a matter of whether we're going to live up to our basic values. It's a matter of upholding an ideal that has always defined who we are as Americans: E pluribus unum--out of many, one.<p>That's why we're here. That's what we're called to do. And I'm confident that if we keep up our efforts, that if we continue to work together, that we will live up to this simple motto and we will achieve a brighter future for the first Americans and for all Americans.<p>So thank you very much. God bless you. Thank you.\" "
"359" "\"Good morning, everybody. When I announced our new strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan last December, I directed my national security team to regularly assess our efforts and to review our progress after 1 year. That's what we've done consistently over the course of the past 12 months, in weekly updates from the field, in monthly meetings with my national security team, and in my frequent consultations with our Afghan, Pakistani, and coalition partners. And that's what we've done as part of our annual review, which is now complete.<p>I want to thank Secretary Clinton and Secretary Gates for their leadership. Since Joint Chief of Staff Chairman Admiral Mullen is in Afghanistan, I'm pleased that we're joined by Vice Chairman General Cartwright.<p>Our efforts also reflect the dedication of Ambassador Richard Holbrooke, whose memory we honor and whose work we'll continue. Indeed, the tributes to Richard that have poured in from around the globe speak to both the enormous impact of his life and to the broad international commitment to our shared efforts in this critical region.<p>I have spoken with President Karzai of Afghanistan as well as President Zardari of Pakistan and discussed our findings and the way forward together. Today I want to update the American people on our review, our assessment of where we stand and areas where we need to do better. I want to be clear: This continues to be a very difficult endeavor. But I can report that thanks to the extraordinary service of our troops and civilians on the ground, we are on track to achieve our goals.<p>It's important to remember why we remain in Afghanistan. It was Afghanistan where Al Qaida plotted the 9/11 attacks that murdered 3,000 innocent people. It is the tribal regions along the Afghan-Pakistan border from which terrorists have launched more attacks against our homeland and our allies. And if an even wider insurgency were to engulf Afghanistan, that would give Al Qaida even more space to plan these attacks.<p>And that's why, from the start, I've been very clear about our core goal. It's not to defeat every last threat to the security of Afghanistan, because ultimately, it is Afghans who must secure their country. And it's not nation-building, because it is Afghans who must build their nation. Rather, we are focused on disrupting, dismantling, and defeating Al Qaida in Afghanistan and Pakistan and preventing its capacity to threaten America and our allies in the future.<p>In pursuit of our core goal, we are seeing significant progress. Today, Al Qaida's senior leadership in the border region of Afghanistan and Pakistan is under more pressure than at any point since they fled Afghanistan 9 years ago. Senior leaders have been killed. It's harder for them to recruit, it's harder for them to travel, it's harder for them to train, it's harder for them to plot and launch attacks. In short, Al Qaida is hunkered down. It will take time to ultimately defeat Al Qaida, and it remains a ruthless and resilient enemy bent on attacking our country. But make no mistake: We are going to remain relentless in disrupting and dismantling that terrorist organization.<p>In Afghanistan, we remain focused on the three areas of our strategy: our military effort to break the Taliban's momentum and train Afghan forces so they can take the lead, our civilian effort to promote effective governance and development, and regional cooperation, especially with Pakistan, because our strategy has to succeed on both sides of the border.<p>Indeed, for the first time in years, we've put in place the strategy and the resources that our efforts in Afghanistan demand. And because we've ended our combat mission in Iraq and brought home nearly 100,000 of our troops from Iraq, we're in a better position to give our forces in Afghanistan the support and equipment they need to achieve their missions. And our drawdown in Iraq also means that today there are tens of thousands fewer Americans deployed in harm's way than when I took office.<p>With those additional forces in Afghanistan, we are making considerable gains toward our military objectives. The additional military and civilian personnel that I ordered in Afghanistan are now in place, along with additional forces from our coalition, which has grown to 49 nations. Along with our Afghan partners, we've gone on the offensive, targeting the Taliban and its leaders and pushing them out of their strongholds.<p>As I said when I visited our troops in Afghanistan earlier this month, progress comes slowly and at a very high price in the lives of our men and women in uniform. In many places, the gains we've made are still fragile and reversible. But there is no question we are clearing more areas from Taliban control and more Afghans are reclaiming their communities.<p>To ensure Afghans can take responsibility, we continue to focus on training. Targets for the growth of Afghan security forces are being met. And because of the contributions of additional trainers from our coalition partners, I'm confident we will continue to meet our goals.<p>I would add that much of this progress--the speed with which our troops deployed this year, the increase in recruits--in recruiting and training of Afghan forces, and the additional troops and trainers from other nations--much of this is the result of us having sent a clear signal that we will begin the transition of responsibility to Afghans and start reducing American forces next July.<p>This sense of urgency also helped galvanize the coalition around the goals that we agreed to at the recent NATO summit in Lisbon that we are moving toward a new phase in Afghanistan, a transition to full Afghan lead for security that will begin early next year and will conclude in 2014, even as NATO maintains a long-term commitment to training and advising Afghan forces. Now, our review confirms, however, that for these security gains to be sustained over time, there is an urgent need for political and economic progress in Afghanistan.<p>Over the past year, we've dramatically increased our civilian presence, with more diplomats and development experts working alongside our troops, risking their lives and partnering with Afghans. Going forward, there must be a continued focus on the delivery of basic services, as well as transparency and accountability. We will also fully support an Afghan political process that includes reconciliation with those Taliban who break ties with Al Qaida, renounce violence and accept the Afghan Constitution. And we will forge a new strategic partnership with Afghanistan next year, so that we make it clear that the United States is committed to the long-term security and development of the Afghan people.<p>Finally, we will continue to focus on our relationship with Pakistan. Increasingly, the Pakistani Government recognizes that terrorist networks in its border regions are a threat to all our countries, especially Pakistan. We've welcomed major Pakistani offensives in the tribal regions. We will continue to help strengthen Pakistanis' capacity to root out terrorists. Nevertheless, progress has not come fast enough. So we will continue to insist to Pakistani leaders that terrorist safe havens within their borders must be dealt with.<p>At the same time, we need to support the economic and political development that is critical to Pakistan's future. As part of our strategic dialogue with Pakistan, we will work to deepen trust and cooperation. We'll speed up our investment in civilian institutions and projects that improve the lives of Pakistanis. We'll intensify our efforts to encourage closer cooperation between Pakistan and Afghanistan.<p>And next year, I look forward to an exchange of visits, including my visit to Pakistan, because the United States is committed to an enduring partnership that helps deliver improved security, development, and justice for the Pakistani people.<p>Again, none of these challenges that I've outlined will be easy. There are more difficult days ahead. But as a nation, we can draw strength from the service of our fellow Americans.<p>On my recent visit to Afghanistan, I visited a medical unit and pinned Purple Hearts on some of our wounded warriors. I met with a platoon that had just lost six of their teammates. Despite the tough fight, despite all their sacrifice, they continue to stand up for our security and for our values that we hold so dear.<p>We're going to have to continue to stand up. We'll continue to give our brave troops and civilians the strategy and resources they need to succeed. We will never waver from our goal of disrupting, dismantling, and ultimately defeating Al Qaida. We will forge enduring partnerships with people who are committed to progress and to peace. And we will continue to do everything in our power to ensure the security and the safety of the American people.<p>So with that, Vice President Biden and myself will depart, and I'm going to turn it over to Secretaries Clinton, Gates, as well as Vice Chairman Cartwright, and they will be able to answer your questions and give you a more detailed briefing.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"360" "\"Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. <p>Good afternoon, everybody. Before I get started, I just want to acknowledge some of the extraordinary people who did some extraordinary work in a very short period of time. And I'm going to start with somebody who has been a champion for the middle class, but has also been just an extraordinary partner on every important initiative in this administration, my friend Joe Biden, the Vice President. <p>I want to acknowledge and thank Senator Mitch McConnell and the rest of the Republican leadership in the Senate, Dave Camp, Republican over in the House, for their willingness, as Joe indicated, to do what was right for the country, even though it caused occasional political discomfort. I especially want to thank the folks who are here--Dick Durbin, Max Baucus, Danny Davis, Allyson Schwartz, Rob Andrews--part of a broader team that worked very diligently both in the House and the Senate on the Democratic side to make this happen. <p>And we've got a bunch of other Members of Congress who are here, as well as activists and economists and business leaders and people who generally recognize that at this critical juncture, we've got to think about what's best to grow the economy and what's best to put people back to work.<p>We are here with some good news for the American people this holiday season. By a wide bipartisan margin, both Houses of Congress have now passed a package of tax relief that will protect the middle class, that will grow our economy, and will create jobs for the American people. Not only do I want to thank all the leaders here today, but I want to thank mayors and Governors from across the country who couldn't be here today and all who worked together to get this done.<p>First and foremost, the legislation I'm about to sign is a substantial victory for middle class families across the country. They're the ones hit hardest by the recession we've endured. They're the ones who need relief right now. And that's what is at the heart of this bill.<p>This bipartisan effort was prompted by the fact that tax rates for every American were poised to automatically increase on January 1. If that had come to pass, the average middle class family would have had to pay an extra $3,000 in taxes next year. That wouldn't have just been a blow to them, it would have been a blow to our economy, just as we're climbing out of a devastating recession.<p>I refused to let that happen. And because we acted, it's not going to. In fact, not only will middle class Americans avoid a tax increase, but tens of millions of Americans will start the new year off right by opening their first paycheck to see that it's actually larger than the one they get right now. Over the course of 2011, 155 million workers will receive tax relief from the new payroll tax cut included in this bill, about $1,000 for the average family.<p>This is real money that's going to make a real difference in people's lives. And I would not have signed this bill if it didn't include other extensions of relief that were also set to expire, relief that's going to help families cover the bills, parents raise their children, students pay for college, and business owners to take the reins of the recovery and propel this economy forward.<p>As soon as I sign this legislation, 2 million Americans looking for work who lost their jobs through no fault of their own can know with certainty that they won't lose their emergency unemployment insurance at the end of this month. Over the past few weeks, 600,000 Americans have been cut off from that lifeline. But with my signature, States can move quickly to reinstate their benefits. And we expect that in almost all States, they'll get them in time for Christmas.<p>Eight million college students who otherwise would have faced a tuition hike as soon as next semester will instead continue to have access to a $2,500 tax credit to afford their studies. Twelve million families with 24 million children will benefit from extensions of the earned-income tax credit and the child tax credit. And when combined with the payroll tax cut, 2 million American families who otherwise would have lived in poverty next year will instead be lifted out of it. And millions of entrepreneurs who have been waiting to invest in their businesses will receive new tax incentives to help them expand, buy new equipment, or make upgrades, freeing up other money to hire new workers.<p>Putting more money in the pockets of families most likely to spend it, helping businesses invest and grow, that's how we're going to spark demand, spur hiring, and strengthen our economy in the new year.<p>Now, candidly speaking, there are some elements of this legislation that I don't like. There are some elements that members of my party don't like. There are some elements that Republicans here today don't like. That's the nature of compromise: yielding on something each of us cares about to move forward on what all of us care about. And right now what all of us care about is growing the American economy and creating jobs for the American people. Taken as a whole, that's what this package of tax relief is going to do. It's a good deal for the American people. This is progress, and that's what they sent us here to achieve.<p>There will be moments, I am certain, over the next couple of years in which the holiday spirit won't be as abundant as it is today. [<i>Laughter</i>] Moreover, we've got to make some difficult choices ahead when it comes to tackling the deficit. In some ways, this was easier than some of the tougher choices we're going to have to make next year. There will be times when we won't agree, and we'll have to work through those times together. But the fact is, I don't believe that either party has cornered the market on good ideas. And I want to draw on the best thinking from both sides.<p>So wherever we can, whenever we can, it makes sense for our country's success and our children's future to work with people in both parties who are willing to come to the table for the hard work of moving our economy and our country forward. What happened with this economic package was a good example of that. A bipartisan group made up of Senators Baucus and Kyl and Representatives Van Hollen and Camp sat down with Secretary Geithner, who is here today, and Director Jack Lew of the Office of Management and Budget to begin negotiations in good faith. Leaders like Nancy Pelosi, John Boehner, Harry Reid, and Mitch, other Members who are here together worked to bring this bill across the finish line.<p>And the final product proves when we can put aside the partisanship and the political games, when we can put aside what's good for some of us in favor of what's good for all of us, we can get a lot done. And if we can keep doing it, if we can keep that spirit, I'm hopeful that we won't just reinvigorate this economy and restore the American Dream for all who work for it. I'm also hopeful that we might refresh the American people's faith in the capability of their leaders to govern in challenging times, belief in the capacity of their institutions in this town to deliver in a rapidly changing world, and most of all, confidence that our best days as a nation are still ahead of us.<p>So to all of you who worked so diligently on this issue, thank you very much. To those on my staff who were working night and day and on the Senate and House staffs in both parties who were working so hard, we're very grateful to you. And with that, let me sign this bill to make sure that people are seeing a bigger paycheck come January.\" "
"361" "\"This week, Congress passed--and I signed into law--an essential economic package that will help grow our economy, spur businesses, and jump-start job creation. <p>Instead of a New Year's Day tax hike on the vast majority of Americans, 2 million Americans who've lost their jobs through no fault of their own will now know with certainty that they won't lose their emergency unemployment insurance at the end of the month. Eight million college students who'd otherwise face a tuition hike next semester will continue having access to the American opportunity tax credit. Twelve million families with 24 million children will benefit from extensions of the earned-income tax credit and child tax credit. And millions of entrepreneurs who've been waiting to invest in their businesses will receive new tax incentives to help them expand, buy new equipment, or make upgrades, freeing up money to hire new workers.<p>This package, which is so important for our economy at this pivotal time, was the product of hard negotiations. And like any negotiations, there was give and take on both sides. But I'm heartened by our ability to come together to do what's best for middle class families across this country and for our economy as a whole. <p>Before going away for the holiday break, I'm hopeful we can also come together on another urgent national priority, and that is the new START Treaty that will reduce the world's nuclear arsenals and make America more secure. Twenty-five years ago, the Soviet Union and United States each had about 25,000 nuclear weapons. In the decades since, that number has been reduced by over 70 percent, and we've had onsite inspections of Russian nuclear facilities. That progress would not have been possible without strategic arms control treaties. <p>During the past year, however, our old treaty with Russia expired, and without a new one, we won't be able to verify Russia's nuclear arsenal, which would undercut President Reagan's call to trust, but verify, when it comes to nuclear weapons. <p>Without a new treaty, we'll risk turning back the progress we've made in our relationship with Russia, which is essential to enforce strong sanctions against Iran, secure vulnerable nuclear materials from terrorists, and resupply our troops in Afghanistan. And we'll risk undermining American leadership not only on nuclear proliferation, but a host of other challenges around the world. <p>Ratifying a treaty like START isn't about winning a victory for an administration or a political party, it's about the safety and security of the United States of America. That's why this treaty is supported by both Presidents Bill Clinton and George H.W. Bush. That's why it's supported by every living Republican Secretary of State, by our NATO allies, and the leadership of the United States military. Indeed, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Hoss Cartwright, said this week that the military needs this treaty, and they need it badly. And that's why every President since Ronald Reagan has pursued a treaty like START, and every one that has been reviewed by the Senate has passed with strong bipartisan support. <p>We have taken the time to get this right. The START Treaty has now been under review by the Senate for over 7 months. It's gone through 18 hearings. Nearly 1,000 questions have been asked and answered. Several Republican Senators have come out in support of ratification. Meanwhile, further delay comes at a cost. Every minute we drag our feet is a minute that we have no inspectors on the ground at those Russian nuclear sites. <p>It's time to get this done. It's time to show the same spirit of common purpose on our security that we showed this week on our economy. It's time to remember the old saying that politics stops at the water's edge. That saying was coined by a Republican Senator, Arthur Vandenberg, who partnered with a Democratic President, Harry Truman, to pass landmark national security measures at the dawn of the cold war. Today, over 60 years later, when we're threatened not only by nuclear weapons, but an array of other dangers, that's a principle we must continue to uphold. <p>Thanks, and have a nice weekend.\" "
"362" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you, thank you, thank you. You know, I am just overwhelmed. This is a very good day. And I want to thank all of you, especially the people on this stage, but each and every one of you who have been working so hard on this, members of my staff who worked so hard on this. I couldn't be prouder.<p>Sixty-six years ago, in the dense, snow-covered forests of Western Europe, Allied Forces were beating back a massive assault in what would become known as the Battle of the Bulge. And in the final days of fighting, a regiment in the 80th Division of Patton's Third Army came under fire. The men were traveling along a narrow trail. They were exposed, and they were vulnerable. Hundreds of soldiers were cut down by the enemy.<p>And during the firefight, a private named Lloyd Corwin tumbled 40 feet down the deep side of a ravine. And dazed and trapped, he was as good as dead. But one soldier, a friend, turned back. And with shells landing around him, amid smoke and chaos and the screams of wounded men, this soldier, this friend, scaled down the icy slope, risking his own life to bring Private Corwin to safer ground.<p>For the rest of his years, Lloyd credited this soldier, this friend, named Andy Lee, with saving his life, knowing he would never have made it out alone. It was a full four decades after the war, when the two friends reunited in their golden years, that Lloyd learned that the man who saved his life, his friend Andy, was gay. He had no idea, and he didn't much care. Lloyd knew what mattered. He knew what had kept him alive, what made it possible for him to come home and start a family and live the rest of his life. It was his friend.<p>And Lloyd's son is with us today. And he knew that valor and sacrifice are no more limited by sexual orientation than they are by race or by gender or by religion or by creed; that what made it possible for him to survive the battlefields of Europe is the reason that we are here today. That's the reason we are here today.<p>So this morning I am proud to sign a law that will bring an end to \\"don't ask, don't tell.\\" It is a law--[<i>applause</i>]--this law I'm about to sign will strengthen our national security and uphold the ideals that our fighting men and women risk their lives to defend.<p>No longer will our country be denied the service of thousands of patriotic Americans who were forced to leave the military--regardless of their skills, no matter their bravery or their zeal, no matter their years of exemplary performance--because they happen to be gay. No longer will tens of thousands of Americans in uniform be asked to live a lie or look over their shoulder in order to serve the country that they love.<p>As Admiral Mike Mullen has said: \\" Our people sacrifice a lot for their country, including their lives. None of them should have to sacrifice their integrity as well.\\" That's why I believe this is the right thing to do for our military. That's why I believe it is the right thing to do, period.<p>Now, many fought long and hard to reach this day. I want to thank the Democrats and Republicans who put conviction ahead of politics to get this done together. I want to recognize Nancy Pelosi, Steny Hoyer, and Harry Reid.<p>Today we're marking an historic milestone, but also the culmination of two of the most productive years in the history of Congress, in no small part because of their leadership. And so we are very grateful to them.<p>I want to thank Joe Lieberman and Susan Collins. And I think Carl Levin's still working--[<i>laughter</i>]--but I want to add Carl Levin. They held their shoulders to the wheel in the Senate. I am so proud of Susan Davis, who's on the stage, and a guy you might know, Barney Frank. They kept up the fight in the House. And I've got to acknowledge Patrick Murphy, a veteran himself, who helped lead the way in Congress.<p>I also want to commend our military leadership. Ending \\"don't ask, don't tell\\" was a topic in my first meeting with Secretary Gates, Admiral Mullen, and the Joint Chiefs. We talked about how to end this policy. We talked about how success in both passing and implementing this change depended on working closely with the Pentagon. And that's what we did.<p>And 2 years later, I am confident that history will remember well the courage and the vision of Secretary Gates, of Admiral Mike Mullen, who spoke from the heart and said what he believed was right, of General James Cartwright, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs, and Deputy Secretary William Lynn, who is here. Also, the authors of the Pentagon's review, Jeh Johnson and General Carter Ham, who did outstanding and meticulous work; and all those who laid the groundwork for this transition.<p>And finally, I want to express my gratitude to the men and women in this room who have worn the uniform of the United States Armed Services. I want to thank all the patriots who are here today, all of them who were forced to hang up their uniforms as a result of \\"don't ask, don't tell,\\" but who never stopped fighting for this country, and who rallied and who marched and fought for change. I want to thank everyone here who stood with them in that fight.<p>Because of these efforts, in the coming days we will begin the process laid out by this law. Now, the old policy remains in effect until Secretary Gates, Admiral Mullen, and I certify the military's readiness to implement the repeal. And it's especially important for servicemembers to remember that. But I have spoken to every one of the service chiefs, and they are all committed to implementing this change swiftly and efficiently. We are not going to be dragging our feet to get this done.<p>Now, with any change, there's some apprehension. That's natural. But as Commander in Chief, I am certain that we can effect this transition in a way that only strengthens our military readiness; that people will look back on this moment and wonder why it was ever a source of controversy in the first place.<p>I have every confidence in the professionalism and patriotism of our servicemembers. Just as they have adapted and grown stronger with each of the other changes, I know they will do so again. I know that Secretary Gates, Admiral Mullen, as well as the vast majority of servicemembers themselves, share this view. And they share it based on their own experiences, including the experience of serving with dedicated, duty-bound servicemembers who were also gay.<p>As one special operations warfighter said during the Pentagon's review--this was one of my favorites--it echoes the experience of Lloyd Corwin decades earlier: \\"We have a gay guy in the unit. He's big, he's mean, he kills lots of bad guys.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"No one cared that he was gay.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And I think that sums up perfectly the situation.<p>Finally, I want to speak directly to the gay men and women currently serving in our military. For a long time your service has demanded a particular kind of sacrifice. You've been asked to carry the added burden of secrecy and isolation. And all the while, you've put your lives on the line for the freedoms and privileges of citizenship that are not fully granted to you.<p>You're not the first to have carried this burden, for while today marks the end of a particular struggle that has lasted almost two decades, this is a moment more than two centuries in the making.<p>There will never be a full accounting of the heroism demonstrated by gay Americans in service to this country; their service has been obscured in history. It's been lost to prejudices that have waned in our own lifetimes. But at every turn, at every crossroads in our past, we know gay Americans fought just as hard, gave just as much to protect this Nation and the ideals for which it stands.<p>There can be little doubt there were gay soldiers who fought for American independence, who consecrated the ground at Gettysburg, who manned the trenches along the western front, who stormed the beaches of Iwo Jima. Their names are etched into the walls of our memorials. Their headstones dot the grounds at Arlington.<p>And so, as the first generation to serve openly in our Armed Forces, you will stand for all those who came before you, and you will serve as role models to all who come after. And I know that you will fulfill this responsibility with integrity and honor, just as you have every other mission with which you've been charged.<p>And you need to look no further than the service men and women in this room: distinguished officers like former Navy Commander Zoe Dunning; marines like Eric Alva, one of the first Americans to be injured in Iraq; leaders like Captain Jonathan Hopkins, who led a platoon into northern Iraq during the initial invasion, quelling an ethnic riot, earning a Bronze Star with valor. He was discharged, only to receive e-mails and letters from his soldiers saying they had known he was gay all along--[<i>laughter</i>]--and thought that he was the best commander they ever had.<p>There are a lot of stories like these, stories that only underscore the importance of enlisting the service of all who are willing to fight for this country. That's why I hope those soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, and coastguardsmen who have been discharged under this discriminatory policy will seek to reenlist once the repeal is implemented.<p>That is why I say to all Americans, gay or straight, who want nothing more than to defend this country in uniform: Your country needs you, your country wants you, and we will be honored to welcome you into the ranks of the finest military the world has ever known.<p>Some of you remembered I visited Afghanistan just a few weeks ago. And while I was walking along the rope line--it was a big crowd, about 3,000--a young woman in uniform was shaking my hand and other people were grabbing and taking pictures. And she pulled me into a hug and she whispered in my ear, \\"Get 'don't ask, don't tell' done.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And I said to her, \\"I promise you I will.\\"<p>For we are not a nation that says, \\"Don't ask, don't tell.\\" We are a nation that says, \\"Out of many, we are one.\\" We are a nation that welcomes the service of every patriot. We are a nation that believes that all men and women are created equal. Those are the ideals that generations have fought for. Those are the ideals that we uphold today. And now it is my honor to sign this bill into law.<p>[<i>At this point, the President signed the bill.</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> This is done.\" "
"363" "\"<i>The President.</i> Merry Christmas, everybody. Michelle and I just wanted to take a moment today to send greetings from our family to yours.<p><i>The First Lady.</i> This is one of our favorite times of year. And we're so fortunate to be able to celebrate it together in this wonderful home.<p>This is the people's house. So Barack and I try to open it to as many people as we can, especially during the holiday season.<p>This month, more than 100,000 Americans have passed through these halls. And the idea behind this year's theme, \\"Simple Gifts,\\" is that the greatest blessings of all are the ones that don't cost a thing: the comfort of spending time with loved ones, the freedoms we enjoy as Americans, and the joy we feel upon giving something of ourselves.<p>So in this time of family and friends and good cheer, let's also be sure to look out for those who are less fortunate, who've hit a run of bad luck, or who are hungry and alone this holiday season.<p><i>The President.</i> Because this is the season when we celebrate the simplest yet most profound gift of all: the birth of a child who devoted his life to a message of peace, love, and redemption. A message that says no matter who we are, we are called to love one another; we are our brother's keeper, we are our sister's keeper, our separate stories in this big and busy world are really one.<p>Today we're also thinking of those who can't be home for the holidays, especially all our courageous countrymen serving overseas.<p>That's the message I delivered when I visited our troops in Afghanistan a few weeks ago, that while you may be serving far from home, every American supports you and your families. We are with you. And I have no greater honor than serving as your Commander in Chief.<p>Today's soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, and coastguardsmen make up the finest fighting force in the history of the world. Just like their predecessors, they do extraordinary things in service to their country. What makes that all the more remarkable is that today's military is an all-volunteer force, a force of mothers and fathers, sons and daughters, husbands and wives.<p><i>The First Lady.</i> That's right. And as First Lady, I've had the honor to meet members of our military and their families on bases and in communities all across the country. I've gotten to know husbands and wives doing the parenting of two while their spouse is on another deployment, children trying their best in school but always wondering when mom or dad is coming home, patriots putting their lives on hold to help with a loved one's recovery or carry on the memory of a fallen hero.<p>When our men and women in uniform answer the call to serve, their families serve too. And they're proud and glad to do it. But as long as that service keeps the rest of us safe, their sacrifice should also be our own. Even heroes can use a hand, especially during the holidays.<p><i>The President.</i> So we're encouraging Americans to ask what you can do to support our troops and their families in this holiday season. For some ideas on how to get started, just visit serve.gov.<p><i>The First Lady.</i> You'll see that you don't need to be an expert in military life to give back to those who give so much to us. There are countless ways to contribute by harnessing your unique talents.<p>If you live near a base, you can reach out through your local school or your church. If you don't, you can volunteer with organizations that support military families. And anybody can send a care package or prepaid calling card to the frontlines or give what's sometimes the most important gift of all: simply saying thank you.<p><i>The President.</i> America's brave service men and women represent a small fraction of our population. But they and the families who await their safe return carry far more than their fair share of the burden. They've done everything they've been asked to do. They've been everything we've asked them to be. And even as we speak, many are fighting halfway around the globe, in hopes that someday our children and grandchildren won't have to.<p>So let's all remind them this holiday season that we're thinking of them and that America will forever be here for them, just as they've been there for us.<p>And on behalf of Michelle, Malia, Sasha----<p><i>The First Lady.</i> ----and Bo.<p><i>The President.</i> ----and Bo, have a very merry Christmas.<p><i>The First Lady.</i> ----and an even happier New Year.\" "
