"x"
"1" "\"Hello, everybody.As we close the books on one year and begin another, I wanted to take a moment today to wish you a very happy New Year and to talk a little bit about the year that lies ahead.<p>At the start of 2011, we're still just emerging from a once-in-a-lifetime recession that's taken a terrible toll on millions of families. We all have friends and neighbors trying to get their lives back on track.<p>We are, however, riding a few months of economic news that suggests our recovery is gaining traction. And our most important task now is to keep that recovery going. As President, that's my commitment to you: to do everything I can to make sure our economy is growing, creating jobs, and strengthening our middle class. That's my resolution for the coming year.<p>Still, even as we work to boost our economy in the short term, it's time to make some serious decisions about how to keep our economy strong, growing, and competitive in the long run. We have to look ahead, not just to this year, but to the next 10 years and the next 20 years. Where will new innovations come from? How will we attract the companies of tomorrow to set up shop and create jobs in our communities? What will it take to get those jobs? What will it take to outcompete other countries around the world? What will it take to see the American Dream come true for our children and grandchildren?<p>Our parents and grandparents asked themselves those questions. And because they had the courage to answer them, we've had the good fortune to grow up in the greatest nation on Earth.<p>Now it's our turn to think about the future. In a few days, a new Congress will form, with one House controlled by Democrats and one House controlled by Republicans, who now have a shared responsibility to move this country forward. And here's what I want you to know: I'm willing to work with anyone of either party who's got a good idea and the commitment to see it through. And we should all expect you to hold us accountable for our progress or our failure to deliver.<p>As I've said since I first ran for this office, solving our challenges won't be quick or easy. We've come through a difficult decade, one of new threats and new trials we didn't expect when it began. But a new year and a new decade stretches out before us. And if we just remember what America is capable of and live up to that legacy, then I'm confident that we are poised for a period of progress, one in which our economy is growing, our standing in the world is rising, and we do what it takes to make sure America remains in the 21st century what it was in the 20th: the greatest country in the world.<p>Thanks for listening, and happy New Year.\" "
"2" "\"Please, everybody have a seat. It is wonderful to be with all of you today. I want to make just a couple of quick acknowledgments. First of all, we have one of the fine Senators from the great State of Maryland, Ben Cardin, in the house. Where's Ben? There he is right here. Prince George's County Executive Rushern Baker is here.<p>I want to thank Rick Wuest, the CEO and owner of Thompson Creek manufacturing, and all the employees here at Thompson. Thank you so much for your hospitality and the great work that you're doing. And I want to acknowledge the family and guests of those who are standing behind me today.<p>It is wonderful to be here at Thompson Creek, and I want to thank Rick for showing me how you manufacture more efficient windows at this factory. This is, as he explained to me, a family business. Rick was just 13 when his father Fred opened the company. And back then, his family lived above the store, and Rick started out sweeping the floors. Three decades later, Thompson Creek has expanded. It's already outgrown this new 80,000-square-foot facility that it moved into just 3 years ago. And I'll bet sometimes Rick still feels like he's living at the plant. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's what happens when you're in charge.<p>But building this business has been an extraordinary accomplishment for the Wuest family. And it speaks not only to him, it also speaks to all the employees here today, the hard-working men and women who make this company work. And it speaks to the promise of America. It's the idea that if you've got a dream and you're willing to work hard, then you can succeed.<p>That promise is at the heart of who we are as a people, and it's at the heart of our economic might. It's what helps give an entrepreneur the courage to start a business or a company the confidence to expand. It's what leads to new products and new ideas and technologies that have not only made us the world's largest economy, but also the most innovative economy in the world. Making it possible for businesses to succeed is how we ensure that our economy succeeds and all our people succeed. It's how we create jobs.<p>And that's what's guided my administration for the past 2 years. Government can't guarantee Thompson Creek or any business will be successful, but government can knock down barriers like a lack of affordable credit or high costs for investment or high costs for hiring. We can do something about that; government can remove obstacles in your path.<p>And that's why we cut taxes for small businesses over the last 2 years. For example, with a tax break for hiring unemployed workers, Thompson Creek was able to grow its workforce from 200 employees to nearly 300 employees in just one year. And it took advantage of the tax credits that we put into place. We also passed a tax credit for products like energy-saving windows, and that led to a 55-percent boost in the sales at this firm.<p>Rick was telling me that when that tax credit got into place, the marketing arm of Thompson Creek got busy. [<i>Laughter</i>] And that's the right--that's exactly what we intended. That's exactly what we wanted to see, is explaining to the American people you can save money on your energy bill, this is a smart thing to do, take advantage of it.<p>So incentives like these are helping companies across America. And the jobs numbers released this morning reflect that growth. The economy added more than 100,000 jobs last month, and the unemployment rate fell sharply.<p>Now, we know these numbers can bounce around from month to month. But the trend is clear. We saw 12 straight months of private sector job growth. That's the first time that's been true since 2006. The economy added 1.3 million jobs last year. And each quarter was stronger than the previous quarter, which means that the pace of hiring is beginning to pick up. We're also seeing more optimistic economic forecasts for the year ahead, in part due to the package of tax cuts I signed last month, including a payroll tax cut for workers and a series of tax cuts to encourage investment and innovation and hiring.<p>And I fought for that package because even though our economy is recovering, we've still got a lot to do. This was a brutal recession that we went through, the worst in our lifetimes. It left a lot of destruction in its wake; more than 8 million jobs were lost. So even though we've created 1.3 million jobs and we saved a whole lot of jobs, you've still got a whole bunch of folks who are out there looking, still struggling. We've got a big hole that we're digging ourselves out of.<p>And so our mission has to be to accelerate hiring and to accelerate growth. And that depends on making our economy more competitive so that we're fostering new jobs in new industries and training workers to fill them. It depends on keeping up the fight for every job and every business and every opportunity to spur growth. And so standing with me here today are men and women who will help America fulfill in this mission. Let me just introduce each of them.<p>We're joined, first of all, by Gene Sperling, who I have appointed Director of the National Economic Council. Give Gene a big round of applause. Now, Gene has been an extraordinary asset to me and this administration over the past 2 years. He's been working with me. He led our efforts to pass the small-business jobs bill to help companies all across America. He also helped negotiate the tax compromise that we passed at the end of this year. He's a public servant who has devoted his life to making this economy work, and making it work specifically for middle class families.<p>Now, one of the reasons I've selected Gene is he's done this before. This is his second tour of duty heading up the NEC, and in his tenure in the Clinton administration during the late nineties, he helped formulate the policies that contributed to turning deficits to surpluses and a time of prosperity and progress for American families in a sustained way. Few people bring the level of intelligence and sheer work ethic that Gene brings to every assignment he's ever taken. And few do so with such decency and integrity. So, Gene, we are lucky to have you back at the NEC. And I know you're going to do a terrific job.<p>Part of the reason I know that Gene will do a terrific job is because he's going to have Jason Furman working with him. I'm pleased to elevate Jason Furman to be Principal Deputy at the National Economic Council. Give Jason a big round of applause.<p>Over the past 2 years, I've relied on Jason's advice and expertise on a range of economic issues, from helping design the emergency steps we took to prevent our economy from sinking into a second depression to, most recently, working with Gene and the economic team to pass the tax cut compromise. And I'm confident that he will continue to do terrific work in this greater capacity.<p>We're also joined by somebody I've come to rely on as an adviser and a friend since my first days as a Presidential candidate. Heather Higginbottom is currently the Deputy Director of the Domestic Policy Council, where she's been the point person on education as we've pursued some of the most innovative and important reforms in decades. I'm proud to nominate Heather to now serve as Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget.<p>And she understands the relationship between numbers on a ledger and the lives of real people. As we make cuts that are necessary to rein in the deficit, I want to make sure I've got Heather there so that we're meeting our fundamental obligations to our people and to our economy as well. So give Heather a big round of applause. Thank you.<p>And finally, I'm nominating Katharine Abraham to the Council of Economic Advisers. Go ahead. [<i>Applause</i>] Katharine brings a wealth of experience as an economist, as a Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics during the Clinton administration. I am confident that she is going to provide the kind of unbiased, unvarnished advice that will help us craft the best policies to strengthen this economy in the years to come.<p>Now, part of our mission--part of this team's mission--in the months ahead will be to maximize the steps we've taken to spur the economy. And one of the most important is allowing businesses to immediately deduct the entire cost of certain investments like the new equipment that I was taking a look at. This is a policy I fought for over the past 2 years. We were able to pass it finally as part of the tax cut compromise. It is going to make a real difference for our economy.<p>So talking to Rick, I know Thompson Creek is planning to take full advantage of this tax break. And that's going to help Thompson Creek renovate, expand, and add another hundred new employees right here. And that's worth applauding. That's good. So you've got companies like this all over the country. And the Treasury Department estimates that overall, this will accelerate $150 billion in tax cuts for 2 million businesses over the next 2 years.<p>So I want to urge all businesses with capital needs to take advantage of this temporary expensing provision, because we expect it to lower the average cost of investment by more than 75 percent for companies like Thompson Creek. It is a powerful new incentive for businesses. It is a great opportunity for companies to grow and add jobs. Now is the time to act.<p>Companies who are listening out there: If you are planning or thinking about making investments sometime in the future, make those investments now and you're going to save money. And that will help us grow the economy. It will help you grow your business.<p>Overall, the decline in the unemployment rate is positive news, but it only underscores the importance of us not letting up on our efforts. So I'm looking forward to working with Heather and Gene and Katharine and Jason and everybody at the White House. We have one focus, and that is making sure that we are duplicating the success of places like Thompson Creek all across the country. We want businesses to grow, we want this economy to grow, and we want to put people back to work.<p>And I want to promise everybody at Thompson Creek and across the country: We will not rest until we have fully recovered from this recession and we have reached that brighter day.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"3" "\"Last month, our economy added more than 100,000 private sector jobs and the unemployment rate fell sharply. This follows encouraging economic news, from increased auto sales to continued expansion of our manufacturing sector.<p>Now, we know that these numbers can bounce around from month to month, but the trend is clear. We saw 12 straight months of private sector job growth, the first time that's been true since 2006. The economy added 1.3 million jobs last year. And each quarter was stronger than the last, which means the pace of hiring is picking up.<p>Now we're seeing more optimistic economic forecasts for the year ahead, in part due to the package of tax cuts I signed last month. I fought for that package because, while we are recovering, we plainly still have a lot of work to do. The recession rocked the foundations of our economy and left a lot of destruction and a lot of doubt in its wake.<p>So our fundamental mission must be to accelerate hiring and growth, while we do the things we know are necessary to insure America's leadership in an increasingly competitive world and build an economy that will provide opportunity to any American willing to work for it.<p>I'm absolutely confident we will get there. I am confident, first and foremost, because of you, because of the ingenuity of our entrepreneurs and business owners, the tenacity of our workers, and the determination of the American people. This is what has made our economy the envy of the world. But we have to do everything we can to help our businesses and workers win in this new economy.<p>Now, yesterday I visited the Thompson Creek Window Company, a small business in Maryland. Over the past year, sales there have grown by 55 percent, thanks in part to an energy tax credit we created. And this year, they're also planning to take advantage of a new tax incentive for businesses. For 1 year, any business large or small can write off the full cost of most of their capital investments. This will make it more affordable for businesses like Thompson Creek to expand and hire.<p>So, if you're a business owner, I'd encourage you to take advantage of this temporary provision. It will save you money today and help you grow your business tomorrow.<p>This incentive is part of the economic package I signed into law last month, a package that also includes a payroll tax cut that will mean $1,000 more this year for a typical family. In fact, 155 million workers will see larger paychecks this month as a result of this tax cut.<p>Twelve million families will benefit from a $1,000 child tax credit and an expanded earned-income tax credit. Eight million students and families will continue to benefit from a $2,500 tuition tax credit to make college more affordable.<p>And millions of entrepreneurs in big cities and small towns across the country will benefit not only from the business expensing plan I mentioned, but from additional tax cuts that will spur research and development.<p>Independent experts have concluded that taken together, this package of tax cuts will significantly accelerate the pace of our economic recovery, spurring additional jobs and additional growth.<p>And that's our mission. That should be the focus, day in and day out, of our work in Washington in the coming months, as we wrestle with a challenging budget and long-term deficits. And I'm determined to work with everyone, Republicans and Democrats, to achieve that goal. What we can't do is refight the battles of the past 2 years that distract us from the hard work of moving our economy forward. What we can't do is engage in the kinds of symbolic battles that so often consume Washington while the rest of America waits for us to solve problems.<p>The tax cuts and other progress we made in December were a much-needed departure from that pattern. Let's build on that admirable example and do our part, here in Washington, so that the doers, the builders, and the innovators in America can do their best in 2011 and beyond.<p>Thanks everybody, and have a nice weekend.\" "
"4" "\"As many of you are aware, earlier today a number of people were shot in Tucson, Arizona, including several who were meeting at a supermarket with their Congresswoman, Gabrielle Giffords. We are still assembling all the facts, but we know that Representative Giffords was one of the victims. She is currently at a hospital in the area, and she is battling for her life.<p>We also know that at least five people lost their lives in this tragedy. Among them were a Federal judge, John Roll, who has served America's legal system for almost 40 years, and a young girl who was barely 9 years old.<p>I've spoken to Arizona Governor Jan Brewer and offered the full resources of the Federal Government. A suspect is currently in custody, but we don't yet know what provoked this unspeakable act. A comprehensive investigation is currently underway, and at my direction, Director Bob Mueller is en route to Arizona to help coordinate these efforts. I've also spoken to the Democratic and Republican leaders in the House.<p>Gabby Giffords was a friend of mine. She is not only an extraordinary public servant, but she is also somebody who is warm and caring. She is well liked by her colleagues and well liked by her constituents. Her husband Mark Kelly is a Navy captain and one of America's valiant astronauts.<p>It's not surprising that today Gabby was doing what she always does: listening to the hopes and concerns of her neighbors. That is the essence of what our democracy is all about. That is why this is more than a tragedy for those involved. It is a tragedy for Arizona and a tragedy for our entire country.<p>What Americans do at times of tragedy is to come together and support each other. So at this time I ask all Americans to join me and Michelle in keeping all the victims and their families, including Gabby, in our thoughts and prayers. Those who have been injured, we are rooting for them. And I know Gabby is as tough as they come, and I am hopeful that she's going to pull through.<p>Obviously, our hearts go out to the family members of those who have been slain. We are going to get to the bottom of this, and we're going to get through this. But in the meantime, I think all of us need to make sure that we're offering our thoughts and prayers to those concerned.<p>Thank you.\" "
"5" "\"Thank you very much. Please, please be seated. To the families of those we've lost; to all who called them friends; to the students of this university, the public servants who are gathered here, the people of Tucson, and the people of Arizona: I have come here tonight as an American who, like all Americans, kneels to pray with you today and will stand by you tomorrow.<p>There is nothing I can say that will fill the sudden hole torn in your hearts. But know this: The hopes of a nation are here tonight. We mourn with you for the fallen. We join you in your grief. And we add our faith to yours that Representative Gabrielle Giffords and the other living victims of this tragedy will pull through.<p>Scripture tells us:<blockquote>There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God,<br>the holy place where the Most High dwells.<br>God is within her, she will not fall;<br>God will help her at break of day.</blockquote><p>On Saturday morning, Gabby, her staff, and many of her constituents gathered outside a supermarket to exercise their right to peaceful assembly and free speech. They were fulfilling a central tenet of the democracy envisioned by our Founders: representatives of the people answering questions to their constituents, so as to carry their concerns back to our Nation's Capital. Gabby called it \\"Congress on Your Corner,\\" just an updated version of government of and by and for the people.<p>And that quintessentially American scene, that was the scene that was shattered by a gunman's bullets. And the six people who lost their lives on Saturday, they too represented what is best in us, what is best in America.<p>Judge John Roll served our legal system for nearly 40 years. A graduate of this university and a graduate of this law school, Judge Roll was recommended for the Federal bench by John McCain 20 years ago, appointed by President George H.W. Bush, and rose to become Arizona's chief Federal judge.<p>His colleagues described him as the hardest working judge within the ninth circuit. He was on his way back from attending Mass, as he did every day, when he decided to stop by and say hi to his Representative. John is survived by his loving wife Maureen, his three sons, and his five beautiful grandchildren.<p>George and Dorothy Morris--Dot to her friends--were high school sweethearts who got married and had two daughters. They did everything together, traveling the open road in their RV, enjoying what their friends called a 50-year honeymoon. Saturday morning, they went by the Safeway to hear what their Congresswoman had to say. When gunfire rang out, George, a former marine, instinctively tried to shield his wife. Both were shot. Dot passed away.<p>A New Jersey native, Phyllis Schneck retired to Tucson to beat the snow. But in the summer, she would return east, where her world revolved around her three children, her seven grandchildren, and 2-year-old great-granddaughter. A gifted quilter, she'd often work under a favorite tree, or sometimes, she'd sew aprons with the logos of the Jets and the Giants--[<i>Laughter</i>]--to give out at the church where she volunteered. A Republican, she took a liking to Gabby and wanted to get to know her better.<p>Dorwan and Mavy Stoddard grew up in Tucson together about 70 years ago. They moved apart and started their own respective families. But after both were widowed, they found their way back here to, as one of Mavy's daughters put it, \\"be boyfriend and girlfriend again.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>When they weren't out on the road in their motor home, you could find them just up the road, helping folks in need at the Mountain Avenue Church of Christ. A retired construction worker, Dorwan spent his spare time fixing up the church along with his dog Tux. His final act of selflessness was to dive on top of his wife, sacrificing his life for hers.<p>Everything, everything Gabe Zimmerman did, he did with passion. But his true passion was helping people. As Gabby's outreach director, he made the cares of thousands of her constituents his own, seeing to it that seniors got the Medicare benefits that they had earned, that veterans got the medals and the care that they deserved, that Government was working for ordinary folks. He died doing what he loved, talking with people and seeing how he could help. And Gabe is survived by his parents Ross and Emily, his brother Ben, and his fiancée Kelly, who he planned to marry next year.<p>And then there is 9-year-old Christina-Taylor Green. Christina was an A student, she was a dancer, she was a gymnast, she was a swimmer. She decided that she wanted to be the first woman to play in the Major Leagues, and as the only girl on her Little League team, no one put it past her.<p>She showed an appreciation for life uncommon for a girl her age. She'd remind her mother: \\"We are so blessed. We have the best life.\\" And she'd pay those blessings back by participating in a charity that helped children who were less fortunate.<p>Our hearts are broken by their sudden passing. Our hearts are broken, and yet our hearts also have reason for fullness.<p>Our hearts are full of hope and thanks for the 13 Americans who survived the shooting, including the Congresswoman many of them went to see on Saturday.<p>I have just come from the University Medical Center, just a mile from here, where our friend Gabby courageously fights to recover even as we speak. And I want to tell you--her husband Mark is here, and he allows me to share this with you--right after we went to visit, a few minutes after we left her room and some of her colleagues in Congress were in the room, Gabby opened her eyes for the first time. [<i>Applause</i>] Gabby opened her eyes for the first time.<p>Gabby opened her eyes. Gabby opened her eyes, so I can tell you, she knows we are here, she knows we love her, and she knows that we are rooting for her through what is undoubtedly going to be a difficult journey. We are there for her.<p>Our hearts are full of thanks for that good news, and our hearts are full of gratitude for those who saved others. We are grateful to Daniel Hernandez, a volunteer in Gabby's office.<p>And, Daniel, I'm sorry, you may deny it, but we've decided you are a hero because you ran through the chaos to minister to your boss and tended to her wounds and helped keep her alive.<p>We are grateful to the men who tackled the gunman as he stopped to reload. They're right over there. We are grateful for petite Patricia Maisch, who wrestled away the killer's ammunition and undoubtedly saved some lives. And we are grateful for the doctors and nurses and first-responders who worked wonders to heal those who'd been hurt. We are grateful to them.<p>These men and women remind us that heroism is found not only on the fields of battle. They remind us that heroism does not require special training or physical strength. Heroism is here, in the hearts of so many of our fellow citizens, all around us, just waiting to be summoned, as it was on Saturday morning. Their actions, their selflessness poses a challenge to each of us. It raises a question of what, beyond prayers and expressions of concern, is required of us going forward. How can we honor the fallen? How can we be true to their memory?<p>You see, when a tragedy like this strikes, it is part of our nature to demand explanations, to try to impose some order on the chaos and make sense out of that which seems senseless. Already we've seen a national conversation commence, not only about the motivations behind these killings, but about everything from the merits of gun safety laws to the adequacy of our mental health system. And much of this process of debating what might be done to prevent such tragedies in the future is an essential ingredient in our exercise of self-government.<p>But at a time when our discourse has become so sharply polarized, at a time when we are far too eager to lay the blame for all that ails the world at the feet of those who happen to think differently than we do, it's important for us to pause for a moment and make sure that we're talking with each other in a way that heals, not in a way that wounds.<p>Scripture tells us that there is evil in the world and that terrible things happen for reasons that defy human understanding. In the words of Job, \\"When I looked for light, then came darkness.\\" Bad things happen, and we have to guard against simple explanations in the aftermath.<p>For the truth is, none of us can know exactly what triggered this vicious attack. None of us can know with any certainty what might have stopped these shots from being fired or what thoughts lurked in the inner recesses of a violent man's mind. Yes, we have to examine all the facts behind this tragedy. We cannot and will not be passive in the face of such violence. We should be willing to challenge old assumptions in order to lessen the prospects of such violence in the future. But what we cannot do is use this tragedy as one more occasion to turn on each other. That we cannot do. [<i>Applause</i>] That we cannot do.<p>As we discuss these issues, let each of us do so with a good dose of humility. Rather than pointing fingers or assigning blame, let's use this occasion to expand our moral imaginations, to listen to each other more carefully, to sharpen our instincts for empathy and remind ourselves of all the ways that our hopes and dreams are bound together.<p>After all, that's what most of us do when we lose somebody in our family, especially if the loss is unexpected. We're shaken out of our routines. We're forced to look inward. We reflect on the past: Did we spend enough time with an aging parent, we wonder. Did we express our gratitude for all the sacrifices that they made for us? Did we tell a spouse just how desperately we loved them, not just once in a while, but every single day?<p>So sudden loss causes us to look backward, but it also forces us to look forward, to reflect on the present and the future, on the manner in which we live our lives and nurture our relationships with those who are still with us.<p>We may ask ourselves if we've shown enough kindness and generosity and compassion to the people in our lives. Perhaps we question whether we're doing right by our children or our community, whether our priorities are in order.<p>We recognize our own mortality, and we are reminded that in the fleeting time we have on this Earth, what matters is not wealth or status or power or fame, but rather, how well we have loved and what small part we have played in making the lives of other people better.<p>And that process--that process of reflection, of making sure we align our values with our actions--that, I believe, is what a tragedy like this requires.<p>For those who were harmed, those who were killed, they are part of our family, an American family 300 million strong. We may not have known them personally, but surely we see ourselves in them. In George and Dot, in Dorwan and Mavy, we sense the abiding love we have for our own husbands, our own wives, our own life partners. Phyllis, she's our mom or our grandma; Gabe, our brother or son. In Judge Roll, we recognize not only a man who prized his family and doing his job well, but also a man who embodied America's fidelity to the law.<p>And in Gabby, in Gabby, we see a reflection of our public-spiritedness, that desire to participate in that sometimes frustrating, sometimes contentious, but always necessary and never-ending process to form a more perfect Union.<p>And in Christina, in Christina, we see all of our children, so curious, so trusting, so energetic, so full of magic, so deserving of our love, and so deserving of our good example.<p>If this tragedy prompts reflection and debate--as it should--let's make sure it's worthy of those we have lost. Let's make sure it's not on the usual plane of politics and point-scoring and pettiness that drifts away in the next news cycle.<p>The loss of these wonderful people should make every one of us strive to be better: to be better in our private lives, to be better friends and neighbors, coworkers and parents. And if, as has been discussed in recent days, their death helps usher in more civility in our public discourse, let us remember it is not because a simple lack of civility caused this tragedy--it did not--but rather because only a more civil and honest public discourse can help us face up to the challenges of our Nation in a way that would make them proud.<p>We should be civil because we want to live up to the example of public servants like John Roll and Gabby Giffords, who knew first and foremost that we are all Americans, and that we can question each other's ideas without questioning each other's love of country, and that our task, working together, is to constantly widen the circle of our concern so that we bequeath the American Dream to future generations.<p>They believed and I believe that we can be better. Those who died here, those who saved lives here, they help me believe. We may not be able to stop all evil in the world, but I know that how we treat one another, that's entirely up to us.<p>And I believe that for all our imperfections, we are full of decency and goodness and that the forces that divide us are not as strong as those that unite us.<p>That's what I believe, in part because that's what a child like Christina-Taylor Green believed.<p>Imagine, imagine for a moment, here was a young girl who was just becoming aware of our democracy, just beginning to understand the obligations of citizenship, just starting to glimpse the fact that someday, she too might play a part in shaping her Nation's future. She had been elected to her student council. She saw public service as something exciting and hopeful. She was off to meet her Congresswoman, someone she was sure was good and important and might be a role model. She saw all this through the eyes of a child, undimmed by the cynicism or vitriol that we adults all too often just take for granted.<p>I want to live up to her expectations. I want our democracy to be as good as Christina imagined it. I want America to be as good as she imagined it. All of us, we should do everything we can do to make sure this country lives up to our children's expectations.<p>As has already been mentioned, Christina was given to us on September 11, 2001, one of 50 babies born that day to be pictured in a book called \\"Faces of Hope.\\" On either side of her photo in that book were simple wishes for a child's life. \\"I hope you help those in need,\\" read one. \\"I hope you know all the words to the national anthem and sing it with your hand over your heart.\\" \\"I hope you jump in rain puddles.\\"<p>If there are rain puddles in Heaven, Christina is jumping in them today. And here on this Earth--here on this Earth, we place our hands over our hearts, and we commit ourselves as Americans to forging a country that is forever worthy of her gentle, happy spirit.<p>May God bless and keep those we've lost in restful and eternal peace, may He love and watch over the survivors, and may He bless the United States of America.\" "
"6" "\"To Kati, Anthony, David, and Elizabeth, to all the friends and admirers of Richard, we come together to celebrate an extraordinary life.<p>In 1999, at the height of the crisis in Kosovo, Richard gave an interview in which he addressed the question of why the United States was engaged in bringing peace to that war-torn corner of the world. Why bother? His answer was simple: \\"Because we could make a difference.\\" Because we could make a difference.<p>That is the story of American leadership in the world. And that is also the story of Richard Holbrooke. He made a difference. <p>In 1962, when he was just 22 years old, he set out for Vietnam as a Foreign Service officer. He could not have known the twists and turns that lay ahead of him and his country in that war or the road that he would travel over nearly five decades of service to his country. But it's no coincidence that his life story so closely paralleled the major events of his times. <p>The list of places he served and the things he did reads as a chronicle of American foreign policy: speaking truth to power from the Mekong Delta to the Paris peace talks, paving the way to our normalization of relations with China, serving as Ambassador in a newly unified Germany, bringing peace to the Balkans, strengthening our relationship with the United Nations, and working to advance peace and progress in Afghanistan and Pakistan. <p>Richard came of an age looking up to the men who had helped shape the postwar world: Dean Acheson, Averell Harriman, Clark Clifford, Dean Rusk. And in many ways, he was the leading light of a generation of American diplomats who came of age in Vietnam. <p>It was a generation that came to know both the tragic limits and awesome possibilities of American power: born at a time of triumph in World War II, steeped in the painful lessons of Southeast Asia, participants in the twilight struggle that led ultimately to freedom's triumph during the cold war.<p>After the shadow of communism lifted along with the Iron Curtain, Richard understood that America could not retreat from the world. He recognized that our prosperity is tied to that of others, that our security is endangered by instability abroad, and most importantly, that our moral leadership is at stake when innocent men, women, and children are slaughtered through senseless violence, whether it's in Srebrenica or Islamabad. <p>Richard possessed a hardheaded, clear-eyed realism about how the world works. He was not naive, but he also believed that America has a unique responsibility in the course of human events. He understood American power, in all its complexity, and believed that when it is applied with purpose and principle, it can tip the scales of history. And that coupling of realism and idealism, which has always represented what is best in American foreign policy, that was at the heart of his work in Bosnia, where he negotiated and cajoled and threatened all at once, until peace was the only outcome possible. <p>And by the time I came to know Richard, his place in history was assured. His options in the private sector, where so many of his peers had settled, were too numerous to mention. But from my first conversation with him in Chicago, in my transition office, a conversation in which he teared up when he began to talk about the importance of restoring America's place in the world, it was clear that Richard was not comfortable on the sidelines. He belonged in the arena. <p>To Kati and to his wonderful family, I am personally grateful. I know that every hour he spent with me in the Situation Room or spent traveling to Southeast Asia, South Asia, was time spent away from you. You shared in his sacrifice, and that sacrifice is made greater because he loved you so. He served his country until his final moments. <p>Those who take the measure of his last mission will see his foresight. He understood that the futures of Afghanistan and Pakistan are tied together. In Afghanistan, he cultivated areas like agriculture and governance to seed stability. With Pakistan, he created new habits of cooperation to overcome decades of mistrust. And globally, he helped align the approaches of 49 nations. <p>Were he here with us, I know Richard would credit the extraordinary team that he assembled. And today I'd like to make a personal appeal to the SRAP team, particularly the young people: Stay in public service, serve your country, seek the peace that your mentor so ardently sought. I also know that Richard would want us to lift up the next generation of public servants, particularly our diplomats, who so rarely receive credit. And so I'm proud to announce the creation of an annual Richard C. Holbrooke Award to honor excellence in American diplomacy. <p>As we look to the next generation, it is fitting, as David mentioned, that this memorial take place at the Kennedy Center, named for the President who called Richard's generation to serve. It's also fitting that this memorial takes place at a time when our Nation has recently received a tragic reminder that we must never take our public servants for granted and must always honor their work. <p>America is not defined by ethnicity. It's not defined by geography. We are a nation born of an idea, a commitment to human freedom. <p>And over the last five decades, there have been countless times when people made the mistake of counting on America's decline or disengagement. Time and again, those voices have been proven wrong, but only because of the service and sacrifice of exceptional men and women, those who answered the call of history and made America's cause their own. <p>Like the country he served, Richard contained complexities. So full of life, he was a man both confident in himself and curious about others, alive to the world around him with a character that is captured in the words of a Mathew Arnold poem that he admired:<blockquote>But often, in the din of strife,<br>there rises an unspeakable desire<br>after the knowledge of the buried life;<br>[the] thirst to spend our fire and restless force<br>in tracking our true, original course; <br>a longing to inquire <br>into the mystery of this heart which beats<br>so wild, so deep in us--to know<br>whence our lives come and where they go.</blockquote><p>Richard is gone now, but we carry with us his thirst to know, to grasp, and to heal the world around him. His legacy is seen in the children of Bosnia who lived to raise families of their own, in a Europe that is peaceful and united and free, in young boys and girls from the tribal regions of Pakistan to whom he pledged our country's friendship, and in the role that America continues to play as a light to all who aspire to live in freedom and in dignity. <p>Five decades after a young President called him to serve, we can confidently say that Richard bore the burden to assure the survival and success of liberty. He made a difference. Let us now carry that work forward in our time. <p>May God bless the memory of Richard Holbrooke, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"7" "\"It's been 1 week since tragedy visited Tucson, Arizona. We properly spent much of the week mourning the victims and remembering their lives. We also discovered stories that serve to lift us up, stories of heroism and bravery, of courage and community, stories that remind us that we are one American family, 300 million strong.<p>One of the places we saw that sense of community on display was on the floor of the House of Representatives, where Gabby Giffords, who inspires us with her recovery, is deeply missed by her colleagues. One by one, Representatives from all parts of the country and all points of view rose in common cause to honor Gabby and the other victims and to reflect on our shared hopes for this country.<p>As shrill and discordant as our politics can be at times, it was a moment that reminded us of who we really are and how much we depend on one another. While we can't escape our grief for those we've lost, we carry on now, mindful of those truths.<p>We carry on because we have to. After all, this is still a time of great challenges for us to solve. We've got to grow jobs faster and forge a stronger, more competitive economy. We've got to shore up our budget and bring down our deficits. We've got to keep our people safe and see to it that the American Dream remains vibrant and alive for our children and our grandchildren.<p>These are challenges I believe we can meet. And I believe we can do it in a way worthy of those who sent us here to serve. So as business resumes, I look forward to working together in that same spirit of common cause with Members of Congress from both parties, because before we are Democrats or Republicans, we are Americans.<p>And as we perform the work of this Nation, my prayer is that we stay true to our words and turn to those examples of heroism and courage and perseverance to bring out the better in all of us.<p>Thanks for listening, and have a wonderful weekend.\" "
"8" "\"This is just a outstanding program and an example of what Martin Luther King's birthday should be all about. I want to thank all the mentees and mentors who are participating.<p>Dr. King obviously had a dream of justice and equality in our society, but he also had a dream of service, that you could be a drum major for service; you could lead by giving back to our communities. And that's what this program is all about, and that's what these participants are all about.<p>Michelle and I and the girls are extraordinarily proud that each year on Martin Luther King's birthday, this is how we celebrate--is making sure that we're giving a little something back to the community. And I hope that all the projects that are taking place all across the country on this day are getting similar attention, because this is part of what America is all about. And after a painful week where so many of us were focused on tragedy, it's good for us to remind ourselves of what this country is all about. This kind of service project is what's best in us, and we're thrilled with everybody who is participating.\" "
"9" "\"<i>President Obama.</i> Good morning, everyone. President Hu, members of the Chinese delegation, on behalf of Michelle and myself, welcome to the White House, and on behalf of the American people, welcome to the United States.<p>Three decades ago, on a January day like this, another American President stood here and welcomed another Chinese leader for the historic normalization of relations between the United States and the People's Republic of China. On that day, Deng Xiaoping spoke of the great possibilities of cooperation between our two nations.<p>Looking back on that winter day in 1979, it is now clear: The previous 30 years had been a time of estrangement for our two countries; the 30 years since have been a time of growing exchanges and understanding. And with this visit, we can lay the foundation for the next 30 years.<p>At a time when some doubt the benefits of cooperation between the United States and China, this visit is also a chance to demonstrate a simple truth: We have an enormous stake in each other's success. In an interconnected world, in a global economy, nations--including our own--will be more prosperous and more secure when we work together.<p>The United States welcomes China's rise as a strong, prosperous, and successful member of the community of nations. Indeed, China's success has brought with it economic benefits for our people as well as yours, and our cooperation on a range of issues has helped advance stability in the Asia-Pacific and in the world.<p>We also know this: History shows that societies are more harmonious, nations are more successful, and the world is more just when the rights and responsibilities of all nations and all people are upheld, including the universal rights of every human being.<p>Mr. President, we can learn from our people: Chinese and American students and educators, businesspeople, tourists, researchers, and scientists, including Chinese Americans who are here today. They work together and make progress together every single day. They know that even as our nations compete in some areas, we can cooperate in so many others, in a spirit of mutual respect, for our mutual benefit.<p>What Deng Xiaoping said long ago remains true today. There are still great possibilities for cooperation between our countries. President Hu, members of the Chinese delegation, let us seize these possibilities together. Welcome to the United States of America. <i>Huanying</i>.<p><i>President Hu.</i> Mr. President, Mrs. Obama, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, it gives me great pleasure to come to Washington and pay a state visit to the United States at the beginning of the new year, at the invitation of President Obama. At this point in time, let me extend, on behalf of the 1.3 billion Chinese people, sincere greetings and best wishes to the people of the United States.<p>I have come to the United States to increase mutual trust, enhance friendship, deepen cooperation, and push forward the positive, cooperative, and comprehensive China-U.S. relationship for the 21st century.<p>Over the past 32 years, since the establishment of diplomatic ties, the China-U.S. relationship has grown into one with strategic significance and global influence. Since President Obama took office, with concerted efforts of the two sides, our cooperation in various fields has produced fruitful results and our relations have achieved new progress. This has brought real benefits to our two peoples and contributed greatly to world peace and development.<p>As we enter the second decade of the 21st century, the people of both China and the United States want to see further progress in our relations, and people around the globe want to see greater prosperity in the world. Under the new circumstances and in the face of new challenges, China and United States share broad common interests and important common responsibilities. We should adopt a long-term perspective, seek common ground while resolving differences, and work together to achieve sustained, sound, and steady development of our relations. I hope that through this visit, our two countries will advance the positive, cooperative, and comprehensive relationship and open a new chapter in our cooperation as partners.<p>Our cooperation as partners should be based on mutual respect. We live in an increasingly diverse and colorful world. China and the United States should respect each other's choice of development path and each other's core interests. We should deepen mutual understanding through communication, increase mutual trust through dialogue, and expand common ground through exchanges.<p>Our cooperation as partners should be based on mutual benefit. China's future and destiny are increasingly tied to those of the world, and China-U.S. relations have become closer. Our two countries should seek to learn from each other through exchanges and achieve win-win progress through cooperation. This is the right approach for us to develop our relations.<p>Our cooperation as partners should be based on joint efforts to meet challenges. China and United States should step up communication and coordination in international affairs, work together to counter the global challenges, and make a greater contribution to world peace and development.<p>Our cooperation as partners should be based on the extensive involvement of the people. The Chinese and American people cherish deep friendship towards each other, and they fought side by side at defining moments in history when the future and the destiny of mankind were at the stake. The two peoples should expand exchanges and enhance friendship. This will offer a inexhaustible driving force for the growth of our relations.<p>Ladies and gentlemen, our world today is undergoing major development, major changes, and major adjustments. To pursue peace, development, and cooperation is the irresistible trend of our time. Let us seize the opportunity to forge ahead, hand in hand, and work together to enhance cooperation as partners, and let us work with all other countries to build a harmonious world of lasting peace and common prosperity.<p>Thank you once again, Mr. President, for your warm welcome.<p><i>President Obama.</i> Thank you very much. Thank you.\" "
"10" "\"<i>President Obama.</i> Good evening, everybody. Please have a seat. On behalf of Michelle and myself, welcome to the White House. And thank you for joining us as we host President Hu and the Chinese delegation and as we pay tribute to the bonds between two great nations and two proud peoples. <p>There are too many distinguished guests to mention all of you tonight. But I do want to acknowledge a few who have championed relations between our nations: First of all, President Jimmy Carter and his wonderful wife Rosalynn Carter are here, as well as President Bill Clinton and my outstanding Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton. <p>President Hu, we have met today in a spirit of mutual respect: the United States, the oldest democracy in the world, and China, one of the oldest civilizations in the world. And while it's easy to focus on our differences of culture and perspective, let us never forget the values that our people share: a reverence for family; the belief that, with education and hard work and with sacrifice, the future is what we make it; and most of all, the desire to give our children a better life. <p>Let's also never forget that throughout our history, our people have worked together for mutual progress. We've traded together for more than 200 years. We stood together in the Second World War. Chinese immigrants and Chinese Americans have helped to build America, including many who join us here tonight. <p>The Chinese and American people work together and create new opportunities together every single day. Mr. President, and today we've shown that our governments can work together as well, for our mutual benefit. And that includes this bit of news: Under a new agreement, our National Zoo will continue to dazzle children and visitors with the beloved giant pandas.<p>I'm told that there is a Chinese proverb that says: \\"If you want 1 year of prosperity, then grow grain. If you want 10 years of prosperity, then grow trees. But if you want 100 years of prosperity, then you grow people.\\" <p>And so I propose a toast. <p>To our people, the citizens of the People's Republic of China and the United States of America: May they grow together in friendship, may they prosper together in peace, and may they realize their dream of the future for themselves, for their children, and for their grandchildren. <p><i>[At this point, President Obama offered a toast.]</i><p><i>President Obama.</i> Cheers. <i>Ganbei</i>.<p><i>President Hu.</i> President Obama and Mrs. Obama, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends: Good evening. I am delighted to once again come to the United States and pay a state visit at the invitation of President Obama.<p>Since setting foot on this beautiful land, we have received the gracious hospitality of the U.S. Government and people. This evening President Obama is hosting this welcoming dinner for us and has just made warm remarks. On behalf of my colleagues and in my own name, I want to express heartfelt thanks to President and Mrs. Obama and other American friends present today.<p>I also wish to convey through you the best wishes of the Chinese people to the friendly American people and extend cordial greetings to people from various sectors of the United States who have given care and support to the growth of China-U.S. relations.<p>The purpose of my visit is to increase mutual trust, enhance friendship, deepen cooperation, and advance the positive, cooperative, and comprehensive China-U.S. relationship for the 21st century. <p>In recent years, particularly over the past 2 years since President Obama took office, China-U.S. relations have made strong headway, thanks to the joint efforts of both sides. <p>We have increased exchanges in cooperation in a wide range of areas, maintained close communication and coordination on major international and regional issues, and played a positive role in promoting peace, stability, and prosperity in the Asia-Pacific region and the whole world. <p>Under the current circumstances, our two countries share broader common interests, shoulder bigger common responsibilities, and face more severe common challenges than at any time in history. As a result, it is more important than never for us to maintain the long-term, sound, and steady growth of our bilateral relations. This is the reality we face, and it should be recognized by both sides. <p>This morning President Obama and I had an in-depth exchange of views on China-U.S. relations and international and regional issues of common interest. And we reached important agreement. We agreed that our two countries should increase contacts at the top and other levels, strengthen strategic mutual trust through dialogue and communication, intensify exchanges and cooperation in all fields, and step up communication and coordination on international and regional issues.<p>We agreed that the two countries should respect each other's sovereignty, territorial integrity and the development interests, properly handle differences and frictions, and work together to build a China-U.S. cooperative partnership based on mutual respect and mutual benefit.<p>China-U.S. relations have traveled a extraordinary journey in the past 32 years since the establishment of diplomatic ties. A review of the history of our relations shows that we have far more common interests than differences, and cooperation for mutual benefit has always being the mainstream of our relations. This has reinforced our confidence in further pushing forward our relationship.<p>Today, both China and the United States are confronted with the arduous task of sustaining steady economic growth and achieving economic transformation. And we both need to tackle the various challenges brought by economic globalization. This has added to our need and desire to enhance cooperation.<p>We should pursue our relations with a stronger conviction, a broader vision, and more proactive approach. We need to take solid steps and make pioneering efforts to fully tap the potential of cooperation and strive for new progress in China-U.S. relations.<p>I am confident that with joint efforts, China-U.S. cooperative partnership will yield bountiful fruits for the greater benefit of our people and make new and bigger contribution to the noble cause of world peace and development.<p><i>[President Hu offered a toast.]</i><p><i>President Hu. </i>To the health of President and Mrs. Obama, to the health of all friends present here, to the stronger friendship between the people of China and the United States, and to the steady growth of China-U.S. relations.<p>Cheers.\" "
"11" "\"To Caroline and the Kennedy family, to all the Members of Congress and distinguished guests here tonight, it is an extraordinary pleasure to join you to mark the 50th anniversary of John F. Kennedy's Inauguration. And I can't think of a better place to do it than here, in a living memorial that reflects not only his love of the arts, but also his recognition of how the arts can help sustain our national strength.<p>Now, we mark this anniversary with a measure of sadness, as we remember the extraordinary life of Sargent Shriver, a man who embodied the spirit of the New Frontier as well as anybody. When a person passes away, there's often an urge to define their legacy and find a way in which it will endure. In the case of Sarge, that is not hard to do. His legacy is written in the villages around the world that have clean water or a new school through the Peace Corps. It's written into the lives of all the children in our own country whose fortunes have been lifted through Head Start. And it will endure in the work of his children, who are living out his legacy of service, and our thoughts and prayers are with them tonight.<p>Now, one of the remarkable aspects in commemorating the JFK Inauguration, in remembering those who were part of his team, like Sargent Shriver, who would help bring Kennedy's soaring vision to life, is that none of it feels dated. Even now, one half century later, there's something about that day--January 20, 1961--that feels immediate, feels new and urgent and exciting, despite the graininess of the 16-millimeter news reels that recorded it for posterity.<p>There he is, the handsome Bostonian, summoning a generation to service and a nation to greatness in a speech that would become part of the American canon. And there's the crowd, bundled up for the cold, making their way through streets white with snow, full of expectation; a nation feeling young again, its mood brightened by the promise of a new decade.<p>Now, I confess, I don't have my own memories of that day. [<i>Laughter</i>] I wasn't born until later that year. [<i>Laughter</i>] What I know of that day and the 1,000 days that followed, what I know of President Kennedy, came from a mother and grandparents who adored him, from books I read and classes I took, from growing up in a country still mourning its beloved leader, whose name was spoken with reverence. And I know him through the legacy of his children and his brother Teddy, who became extraordinarily dear friends of mine.<p>But I know him, John F. Kennedy, less as a man than as an icon, as a larger-than-life figure who graced this Earth for one brief and shining moment. But part of this--the function of this event, on this day, we must remember him as he was: as a father who loved his children, as a friend who lived life fully, as a noble public servant who wanted to make a difference.<p>A quick wit with a light touch, he was dealt, in many ways, a fortunate hand at birth. Attending one event, early in his career, where every speaker before him pompously claimed humble roots--things haven't changed that much--[<i>Laughter</i>]--John Kennedy confessed, when he took the podium, that he was, and I quote, \\"the only fellow here who didn't come up the hard way.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And yet it cannot be said that John F. Kennedy lived an easy life. He lost an older brother in the war, a sister shortly thereafter. He nearly lost his own life too when a Japanese gunship cut his PT boat in half, casting him into the water, from which he swam a crewmate to safety. Another sister struggled with a severe mental handicap. His own health was so poor that priests pronounced his last rites on several different occasions. And he endured the personal prejudice and political poison of anti-Catholic fervor.<p>And there is surely a possibility, under such circumstances, that a person will retreat from the world; that a person, particularly one born to wealth, will seek a life of luxury and ease; that a person, confronted by the coldness of chance, will become bitter or cynical or small. It has happened to others.<p>But that is not the life that John F. Kennedy chose. As he famously said at a press conference, \\"Life is unfair.\\" We can't choose the lots we are given in life, but we can choose how to live that life. John F. Kennedy chose a life in the arena, full of confidence that our country could surmount any obstacle, as he'd seen it do himself. He chose a life of leadership, fired not by naive optimism, but committed realism: \\"idealism,\\" as his wife Jackie put it, \\"without illusions.\\" That is the idealism--soaring, but sober--that inspired the country and the world one half century ago.<p>I can only imagine how he must have felt, entering the Oval Office in turbulent times. [<i>Laughter</i>] The Soviet Premier, Khrushchev, had threatened to \\"bury\\" America just a few years before. Wars of liberation, as they were called, were being waged around the globe, from Laos and Vietnam to Congo and Cuba, just 90 miles from our shore. At home, a young preacher's cause was gaining traction across a segregated land.<p>In this volatile America, this tinderbox of a world, President Kennedy led with a steadying hand: defusing the most perilous crisis of the cold war without firing a single shot, enforcing the rights of young Black men and women to attend the university of their choice, launching a corps of volunteers as ambassadors for peace in distant centers of the globe, setting America's sights on the Moon, unwilling to lose the space race in the wake of Sputnik.<p>We know the moonshot story. It's a familiar one, often invoked to make the case for an ambitious idea. But it's easy to lose sight of just how improbable it seemed in May of 1961. When President Kennedy proposed going to the Moon, America had just 15 minutes of manned flight experience in space. NASA had neither a plan nor a shuttle for making a lunar voyage. [<i>Laughter</i>] Its own engineers had taken out the slide rules, and they were deeply skeptical of the mission. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>The science just wasn't there. President Kennedy understood that. But he also knew something else. He knew that we, as a people, can do big things. We can reach great heights. We can rise to any challenge, so long as we're willing to ask what we can do for our country, so long as we're willing to take America's destiny into our own hands. What President Kennedy understood was the character of the people he led: our resilience, our fearlessness, our distinctly American ability, revealed time and again throughout history, to defy the odds, to fashion our future, to make the world anew.<p>The world is very different now than it was in 1961. We face new trials and new uncertainties, from our economy to our security. We have a politics that can often seem too small for the hardships at hand. So meeting these tests won't be easy. But we cannot forget: We are the heirs of this President, who showed us what is possible. Because of his vision, more people prospered, more people served, our Union was made more perfect. Because of that vision, I can stand here tonight as President of the United States.<p>So John F. Kennedy captured that American spirit that not only put a man on the Moon, but saved a continent from tyranny and overcame a Great Depression, that forged, from 13 Colonies, the last, best hope on Earth. And if we can hold onto that spirit today, I know that our generation will answer its call as ably as earlier ones did before us.<p>In December 1962, President Kennedy was asked by the Saturday Evening Post to submit his favorite quotation. A student not only of history, but also of literature, he chose a passage written by the poet Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr., father of the Supreme Court Justice. Mr. Holmes wrote: \\"I find the great things in this world--is not so much where we stand, as in what direction we are moving: to reach the port of heaven, we must sail sometimes with the wind and sometimes against it--but we must sail, and not drift, nor lie at anchor.\\"<p>That, I think, captures well the daring, graceful spirit of the unfinished life we celebrate today, a life that inspires us and lights our way as we sail on to the new frontiers of our own time. Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless this country that we love.\" "
"12" "\"Hello, hello! Hello, Schenectady! It is good to be in New York. Now, let me just begin--if I'm not mistaken, Governor Cuomo, who is going to be an outstanding Governor, he tried to give me a Jets hat. [<i>Laughter</i>] I had to refuse it. I had Secret Service confiscate it. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I will say both the Jets and the Bears, I think, are slight underdogs, so we're going to be rooting for the underdogs on Sunday.<p>In addition to Governor Cuomo, I just want to acknowledge Lieutenant Governor Bob Duffy is here. Two great friends of mine and great champions for New York in the United States Senate, Chuck Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand are here. Members of the congressional delegation from up this way, Paul Tonko, Chris Gibson, and Richard Hanna are all here.<p>Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is here. The outstanding mayor of Schenectady, who flew up with me because we had an event down at the White House for mayors, and he was on Marine One and Air Force One, and he was--he looked like he was having a pretty good time--[<i>Laughter</i>]--Brian Stratton is here. And from Albany, Mayor Jerry Jennings is here. Thank you.<p>Now, Jeff, thank you for the outstanding introduction, and thank you GE. It is great to be here. I just had a chance to see some of the high-tech steam turbines and all kinds of fancy stuff that's being made here, being manufactured here at this plant. And it is unbelievably impressive, and it's part of a proud tradition, because GE has been producing turbines and generators here in Schenectady for more than a century.<p>Now, a lot has changed since those early days. We've seen technologies transform the ways we work and the ways we communicate with one another. We've seen our economy transformed by rising competition from around the globe. And over the years, in the wake of these shifts, upstate New York and places like it have seen more than their fair share of hard times.<p>But what has never changed--we see it right here at this plant, we see it right here at GE--is that America is still home to the most creative and most innovative businesses in the world. We've got the most productive workers in the world. America is home to inventors and dreamers and builders and creators. All of you represent people who each and every day are pioneering the technologies and discoveries that not only improve our lives, but they drive our economy.<p>Across the country, there are entrepreneurs opening businesses. There are researchers testing new medical treatments. There are engineers pushing the limits of design and the programmers poring over lines of code. And there are workers like you on assembly lines all across the country, eager to create some of the best products the world has ever seen. There are students training to take new jobs by their side.<p>In this community, GE is building one of the world's most sophisticated manufacturing facilities to produce state-of-the-art batteries. Last year, you opened the headquarters of your renewable energy operations, and you created 650 jobs on this campus.<p>So our challenge, especially as we continue to fight our way back from the worst recession in our lifetimes, is to harness this spirit, to harness this potential, the potential that all of you represent.<p>Our challenge is to do everything we can to make it easier for folks to bring products to market and to start and expand new businesses and to grow and hire new workers. I want plants like this all across America. You guys are a model of what's possible.<p>And that's why, as part of the tax cut compromise that I signed at the end of the year, we provided incentives for businesses to make new capital investments. And in fact, GE is investing $13 million in advanced manufacturing at this plant, taking advantage of some of these tax breaks.<p>We also extended a program that GE says its customers have used to invest $6 billion in clean energy production across this country, driving demand for the company's wind turbines. And I saw one of those big turbines on the way in. So we know we can compete not just in the industries of the past, but also in the industries of the future.<p>But in an ever-shrinking world, our success in these efforts will be determined not only by what we build in Schenectady, but also what we can sell in Shanghai. For America to compete around the world, we need to export more goods around the world. That's where the customers are. It's that simple.<p>And as I was walking through the plant, you guys had put up some handy signs so I knew what I was looking at. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I noticed on all of them they said, this is going to Kuwait, this is going to India, this is going to Saudi Arabia. That's where the customers are, and we want to sell them products made here in America. That's why I met with Chinese leaders this week, and Jeff joined me at the state dinner.<p>During those meetings, we struck a deal to open Chinese markets to our products. They're selling here, and that's fine. But we want to sell there. We want to open up their markets so that we got two-way trade, not just one-way trade.<p>So the deals we struck are going to mean more than $45 billion in new business for American companies--$45 billion. That translates into 235,000 new jobs for American workers.<p>And that's also why I fought hard to negotiate a new trade deal with South Korea that will support more than 70,000 American jobs. That's why I traveled to India a few months ago--and Jeff was there with us--where our businesses were able to reach agreement to export $10 billion in goods and services to India. And that's going to lead to another 50,000 jobs here in the United States.<p>Part of the reason I wanted to come to this plant is because this plant is what that trip was all about. As part of the deal we struck in India, GE is going sell advanced turbines--the ones you guys make--to generate power at a plant in Samalkot, India--Samalkot, India. Most of you hadn't heard of Samalkot--[<i>laughter</i>]--but now you need to know about it, because you're going to be selling to Samalkot, India. And that new business halfway around the world is going to help support more than 1,200 manufacturing jobs and more than 400 engineering jobs right here in this community, because of that sale.<p>So it's a perfect example of why promoting exports is so important. That's why I've set a goal of doubling American exports within 5 years. And we're on track to do it. We're already up 18 percent, and we're just going to keep on going, because we're going to sell more and more stuff all around the world.<p>When a company sells products overseas, it leads to hiring on our shores. The deal in Samalkot means jobs in Schenectady. That's how we accelerate growth. That's how we create opportunities for our people. This is how we go from an economy that was powered by what we borrow and what we consume; that's what happened over the last 10 years. What was driving our economy was we were spending a lot on credit cards. Everybody was borrowing a lot. The Chinese were selling a lot to us. Folks were selling a lot to us from all over the world. We've got to reverse that. We want an economy that's fueled by what we invent and what we build. We're going back to Thomas Edison's principles. We're going to build stuff and invent stuff.<p>Now, nobody understands this better than Jeff Immelt. He understands what it takes for America to compete in the global economy. As he mentioned, I've appreciated his wisdom during these past 2 years. We had a difficult, difficult crisis on our hands. It was a few days after I took office that I assembled a group of business leaders, including Jeff, to form a new advisory board, because at that time the economy was in a freefall, and we were facing the prospects of another Great Depression, with ripple effects all around the world. It wasn't just the United States. The entire world economy was contracting. And such--at such a dangerous moment, it was essential that we heard voices and ideas from business leaders and from experts who weren't part of the usual Washington crowd.<p>And I tasked Jeff and the other advisers with one mission: help to steer our Nation from deep recession into recovery, help take the economy from one that's shrinking to one that's growing. And over the past 2 years, I've been very grateful for their advice.<p>And I especially want to commend the man who chaired the panel, one of the Nation's preeminent economists, the former head of the Federal Reserve, Paul Volcker, because he offered unvarnished advice, and he wasn't afraid to counter the conventional wisdom. He did a great service to this country.<p>In fact, it was 6 months ago today that I signed into law a set of financial reforms to protect consumers and prevent future financial crises and put an end to taxpayer-funded bailouts, and that's an achievement in which Paul Volcker was instrumental. So we're very proud of him for that work.<p>Now, 2 years later, though, we're in a different place. In part because of the economic plan that my recovery board helped shape, the economy is now growing again. Over the last year, businesses have added more than a million jobs. The pace of hiring and growth is picking up, and that's encouraging news. But at the same time, while businesses are adding jobs, millions of people are still out there looking for work. And even here in Schenectady, as well as GE is doing, I know everybody here knows a neighbor or friend or relative who's still out of work. So it's not--it's a great thing that the economy is growing, but it's not growing fast enough yet to make up for the damage that was done by the recession.<p>The past 2 years were about pulling our economy back from the brink. The next 2 years, our job now, is putting our economy into overdrive. Our job is to do everything we can to ensure that businesses can take root and folks can find good jobs and America is leading the global competition that will determine our success in the 21st century.<p>And so now, to help fulfill this new mission, I'm assembling a new group of business leaders and outside advisers. And I am so proud and pleased that Jeff has agreed to chair this panel--my Council on Jobs and Competitiveness--because we think GE has something to teach businesses all across America.<p>Now, I hope you don't mind, I'm going to brag about your boss for a second here. Jeff is somebody who brings a wealth of experience to the table. He is one of the Nation's most respected and admired business leaders, and that's a reputation he earned over 10 years at the helm of this company. In the coming days, we'll be announcing the business leaders, the labor leaders, the economists, and others who will join with Jeff to help guide us into that overdrive mode.<p>I know this Council will be an important asset as we seek to do everything we can to spur hiring and ensure our Nation can compete with anybody on the planet. That means spurring innovation in growing industries like clean energy manufacturing, the kind of stuff that's being done right here at this plant, ensuring our economy isn't held back by crumbling roads and broken-down infrastructure.<p>It means educating and training our people. I just had a chance to meet one of the guys here at the plant who had been trained at Hudson Valley, which I had an opportunity to visit a while back. And that's an example of the kind of partnerships that we've got to duplicate all across the country.<p>Schenectady offers that kind of example. Hudson Valley Community College created a program so students could earn a paycheck and have their tuition covered while training for jobs at this plant. That's helping folks find good work, it's helping GE fill high-skill positions, it's making this whole region more competitive.<p>So ultimately, winning this global competition comes down to living up to the promise of places like this. Here in Schenectady, you're heirs to a great tradition of innovation and enterprise, the pioneering work of Edison that made the entire modern age possible: the tungsten filaments that still light our homes, the X-rays that diagnose disease, now the advanced batteries and renewable energy sources that hold so much promise for the future.<p>In these pioneering efforts, we see what America is all about. We see what has in our past allowed us to not only weather rough storms, but reach brighter days. And it's got to remind us that we've got those same strengths. This is America. We still have that spirit of invention and that sense of optimism, that belief that if we work hard and we give it our all, that anything is possible in this country.<p>The future belongs to us. And you at this plant, you are showing us the way forward. So thank you so much, everybody. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"13" "\"Here's the truth about today's economy: If we're serious about fighting for American jobs and American businesses, one of the most important things we can do is open up more markets to American goods around the world. <p>That's why I met with China's President Hu Jintao at the White House this past week. We're now exporting more than $100 billion a year to China in goods and services. And as a result of deals we completed this week, we'll be increasing U.S. exports to China by more than $45 billion and China's investment in America by several billion dollars. Most important, these deals will support some 235,000 American jobs, and that includes a lot of manufacturing jobs. <p>That goal is why I fought so hard to negotiate a new and better trade deal with South Korea, a deal with unprecedented support from business and labor that will support more than 70,000 American jobs. And that's why I traveled to India last fall to help pave the way for $10 billion in new deals for American businesses and more than 50,000 new American jobs. <p>Now, these may just sound like statistics. But yesterday I saw what that means firsthand when I traveled to a GE plant in Schenectady, New York. This plant is manufacturing steam turbines and generators for a big project in India that resulted from a deal we announced around that trip, a project that is helping support more than 1,200 manufacturing jobs and more than 400 engineering jobs in Schenectady, good jobs at good wages, producing American products for the world.<p>At the same time, GE has also been investing in innovation, building a clean energy center, an advanced battery manufacturing plant, and other state-of-the-art facilities in Schenectady that are resulting in hundreds of new American jobs and contributing to America's global economic leadership.<p>Leading the world in innovation, opening new markets to American products, that's how we'll create jobs today. That's how we'll make America more competitive tomorrow. And that's how we're going to win the future. <p>Now, while I was in Schenectady, I announced that Jeff Immelt, GE's CEO and one of the most imaginative and visionary business leaders in America, has agreed to head up our new Council on Jobs and Competitiveness. The purpose of this Council is to help us find ways to grow our economy by investing in our businesses here at home. And under Jeff's leadership, I'm confident that they'll generate good ideas about how we can spur hiring, educate our workers to compete in the 21st century, and attract the best jobs and businesses to America rather than seeing them spring up overseas. <p>We're living in a new and challenging time, in which technology has made competition easier and fiercer than ever before. Countries around the world are upping their game and giving their workers and companies every advantage possible. That shouldn't discourage us, because I know we can win that competition. I know we can outcompete any other nation on Earth. We just have to make sure we're doing everything we can to unlock the productivity of American workers, unleash the ingenuity of American businesses, and harness the dynamism of America's economy.<p>Thanks everybody, and have a great weekend.\" "
"14" "\"Thank you, everybody. Everyone, please have a seat. Thank you so much.<p>Well, good morning, everyone. I want to thank Michelle and Jill--although I have to say, I hate following both of them. [<i>Laughter</i>] As I think all of you sense, when they speak, the Government listens. You should know--and I know Joe Biden would agree with this--when they speak, the President and Vice President listen. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So, Michelle and Jill, on behalf of all of us, thank you for being such extraordinary champions for our military families and making sure that their priorities are America's priorities.<p>To all the Members of Congress who are here, the members of my Cabinet, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, leaders from across the administration, and most of all, our troops, their families, their advocates: Thanks for joining us as we make an unprecedented commitment to America's military families.<p>Now, last month I was in Afghanistan to visit our troops and to thank them for their service, especially during the holidays. And I think as some of you are aware, we fly in, in the dark of night for security reasons, unannounced. Folks, I'm sure, have to scramble on the other end to make sure that our visit works. And we had a wonderful crowd, a great rally. And then afterwards, I took the time not only to meet with General Petraeus and some of the other commanding officers, but I also met with a group of our special ops forces. Now, anybody who's met with SEALs and Deltas, you know these are some of the toughest, most battlehardened troops in our military. They are involved in some of the most dangerous fighting that there is.<p>These are tough guys. Looking at them, you can tell they're tough. Some folks end up being tough, but these--you can just tell these guys are tough. [<i>Laughter</i>] And they embody the courage and character that makes our military the finest in the world. And just to give you some sense, these guys are going out on helicopter raids at night with very little support and carrying out extremely dangerous assignments each and every day.<p>So I asked them, I said: \\"What do you need from me? What can I do to support you better?\\" And without missing a beat, they looked me in the eye and they gave me their answer. It wasn't about more equipment. It wasn't about more resources on the battlefield. In fact, it wasn't about them. They said--to a man--\\"Sir, take care of our families. Take care of our families. If we know our families are all right back home, then we can do our jobs.\\"<p>So we are here today because nearly a decade of war has been taking place, and our Armed Forces--you and your families--have done everything you've been asked to do. You've been everything we could ask you to be. You have done your duty. And as a grateful nation, we must do ours. We have to make sure that America is serving you as well as you have served us.<p>This isn't just a military or--this is not just a moral obligation. This is a matter of national security. With millions of military spouses, parents, and children sacrificing as well, the readiness of our Armed Forces depends on the readiness of our military families.<p>As Michelle mentioned, she and I see this in the spouses we meet. During vacation, while we were in Hawaii, we had a chance to see a whole bunch of military families out on Kaneohe Marine base. And what was true then in the conversations we had is what we find wherever we go around the country: truly heroic wives and husbands who become single parents on the homefront and somehow keep it all together--the house, the kids, maybe even a job of their own.<p>We see it in the resilience of so many military kids, boys and girls who, like all the other kids, are just trying to grow up, trying to find their way, but who, unlike other kids, are also having to worry about whether their mom or dad is going to come home safe.<p>We see it in the devotion of caregivers who tend to their loved ones, our wounded warriors, around the clock, day in, day out. And we see it in the quiet pride of our veterans, who only ask that we live up to those words from President Lincoln, that as a nation, we truly care for all those who have \\"borne the battle.\\" We see it in the unending love of the families of the fallen, our Gold Star families, who've given their Nation the people they loved most in the world.<p>As Commander in Chief, I am determined to do everything in my power to make sure that we are fulfilling that request from our troops, that we are taking care of their families. And that's why over the past 2 years, we've made major investments: more military housing, more childcare, new schools for our military kids; more counseling and career support for spouses; more help for those tireless caregivers; dramatic increases in veterans health care; and helping hundreds of thousands of veterans and family members pursue their education through the post-9/11 GI bill.<p>And that's why I ordered this Governmentwide effort, a Presidential Study Directive, to bring together the resources of the Federal Government for this mission. Now, for those of you who aren't familiar with these Presidential directives, these are reserved for some of the most important and complex national security challenges. I think Mike Mullen will share with you, since becoming President, I've only ordered about a dozen, including this one, which we believe is the first one ever on behalf of military families.<p>Today I'm proud to announce that for the first time ever, supporting the well-being of our military families will be a priority not just for the Departments of Defense and the Departments of Veterans Affairs, but all across the Federal Government. That's why all these Cabinet folks are here today. Sixteen members of my Cabinet have committed their departments and agencies to making military families one of their highest priorities.<p>We're focusing on four areas, the things you said matter most to you, whether you're Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine, or Coast Guard; Active, Guard, or Reserve; a veteran or a member of a family of the fallen. We didn't wait for today to launch these efforts. Many of these efforts have already been underway. And that includes innovative new partnerships so that, in tough fiscal times, our Government is more efficient and serves you better.<p>So let me just list our primary areas of focus. First, we are putting new emphasis on the quality of life for our military families. The Departments of Defense and Health and Human Services, for example, have joined forces to improve community mental health services and prevent suicides. A new office in the Treasury Department is working to protect military families from abusive practices like predatory lending. It turns out that military families are more subject to some of these financial scams than just about any other group.<p>The Agricultural Department is expanding its support for families in rural areas. A disproportionate number of our military families come from rural areas or are stationed in rural communities.<p>The Interior Department--we use our national parks to help our wounded warriors recover. And we are going to remain relentless--not just at VA, but at HUD and HHS and across the Government--in our fight to end homelessness among our veterans. We have to have zero tolerance for homelessness among our veterans.<p>Second, we're putting a new focus on the education and development of our military children, most of whom go to public schools. So for the first time ever, the Department of Education will make military families a priority for some of its grant programs. And that's going to give States and communities new incentives to address the unique needs of military children.<p>The Interior Department, which is already one of the largest Federal employers of young people, will create more opportunities, like summer jobs, for young people from military families. And today we are renewing our call for every State to adopt the Interstate Compact, which makes it easier for military children to transfer between schools and succeed in the classroom.<p>Third, we're redoubling our efforts to help military spouses pursue their educations and careers. As Michelle said, we've brought in the Departments of Labor and Commerce and the Small Business Administration. We're going to help spouses to get that degree, find that job, or start that new business. We want every company in America to know our military spouses and veterans have the skills and the dedication, and our Nation is more competitive when we tap their incredible talents.<p>And finally, we're going to keep increasing childcare for our military moms and dads with young children. This is not just a job for the Department of Defense. As Michelle said, the Departments of Education, Health and Human Services, and Agriculture are now helping too. And working together, we believe we can find new childcare options for tens of thousands of military children.<p>So these are just some of the nearly 50 specific commitments that my administration is making today. In other words, we're not simply reaffirming our responsibility to our military families, we are upping our game. In fact, these 16 members of my Cabinet have signed their name to this report, pledging personally to see this through. So, gang, you are all on the hook. [<i>Laughter</i>] We know where to find you--and not only to fulfill these commitments, but to make sure that as we go forward, our military families are being heard across the Government. That's what we're looking for here.<p>Michelle and Jill said they're going to keep pushing, and I promise you, they are not kidding. [<i>Laughter</i>] And as President, I'm going to make sure that we get this done.<p>We also recognize that this can't be a mission for government alone. Government has its responsibilities. But 1 percent of Americans may be fighting our wars; 100 percent of Americans need to be supporting our troops and their families--100 percent.<p>So to help launch this effort, Michelle will be on \\"Oprah\\" this week to urge every American to join a new national campaign to support our military families. That's a pretty good plug.<p>You see, this is one of those challenges and one of those moments when we have to remember what unites us as Americans, what we can achieve together, and what we owe to each other, especially to those who serve and sacrifice so we can live free and be safe.<p>I want every servicemember who's deployed to know that when you're over there taking care of the country that you love, your country is back here taking care of the families that you love. I want every military wife and husband to know that we're going to help you keep your family strong and secure. I want every military kid to know that we're going to be there for you too, to help you grow and to live your dreams.<p>I want our Gold Star families to know that this Nation will never forget and will always honor the supreme sacrifice that your family has made to our Nation.<p>And I want every single American to remember that as the beneficiaries of their service, each of us has an obligation, a sacred duty, to care for those who have \\"borne the battle.\\"<p>These are my commitments, these are Michelle and Jill's commitments, these are my administration's commitments, and they must be America's commitments. And as long as I am President, we're going to keep working to fulfill those commitments for all who serve.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"15" "\"Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of Congress, distinguished guests, and fellow Americans: Tonight I want to begin by congratulating the men and women of the 112th Congress, as well as your new Speaker, John Boehner. And as we mark this occasion, we're also mindful of the empty chair in this Chamber, and we pray for the health of our colleague and our friend Gabby Giffords.<p>It's no secret that those of us here tonight have had our differences over the last 2 years. The debates have been contentious; we have fought fiercely for our beliefs. And that's a good thing. That's what a robust democracy demands. That's what helps set us apart as a nation.<p>But there's a reason the tragedy in Tucson gave us pause. Amid all the noise and passion and rancor of our public debate, Tucson reminded us that no matter who we are or where we come from, each of us is a part of something greater, something more consequential than party or political preference.<p>We are part of the American family. We believe that in a country where every race and faith and point of view can be found, we are still bound together as one people, that we share common hopes and a common creed, that the dreams of a little girl in Tucson are not so different than those of our own children, that they all deserve the chance to be fulfilled. That too is what sets us apart as a nation.<p>Now, by itself, this simple recognition won't usher in a new era of cooperation. What comes of this moment is up to us. What comes of this moment will be determined not by whether we can sit together tonight, but whether we can work together tomorrow.<p>I believe we can, and I believe we must. That's what the people who sent us here expect of us. With their votes, they've determined that governing will now be a shared responsibility between parties. New laws will only pass with support from Democrats and Republicans. We will move forward together or not at all, for the challenges we face are bigger than party and bigger than politics.<p>At stake right now is not who wins the next election. After all, we just had an election. At stake is whether new jobs and industries take root in this country or somewhere else. It's whether the hard work and industry of our people is rewarded. It's whether we sustain the leadership that has made America not just a place on a map, but the light to the world.<p>We are poised for progress. Two years after the worst recession most of us have ever known, the stock market has come roaring back, corporate profits are up, the economy is growing again.<p>But we have never measured progress by these yardsticks alone. We measure progress by the success of our people, by the jobs they can find and the quality of life those jobs offer, by the prospects of a small-business owner who dreams of turning a good idea into a thriving enterprise, by the opportunities for a better life that we pass on to our children.<p>That's the project the American people want us to work on--together.<p>Now, we did that in December. Thanks to the tax cuts we passed, Americans' paychecks are a little bigger today. Every business can write off the full cost of new investments that they make this year. And these steps, taken by Democrats and Republicans, will grow the economy and add to the more than 1 million private sector jobs created last year.<p>But we have to do more. These steps we've taken over the last 2 years may have broken the back of this recession, but to win the future, we'll need to take on challenges that have been decades in the making.<p>Many people watching tonight can probably remember a time when finding a good job meant showing up at a nearby factory or a business downtown. You didn't always need a degree, and your competition was pretty much limited to your neighbors. If you worked hard, chances are you'd have a job for life, with a decent paycheck and good benefits and the occasional promotion. Maybe you'd even have the pride of seeing your kids work at the same company.<p>That world has changed. And for many, the change has been painful. I've seen it in the shuttered windows of once booming factories and the vacant storefronts on once busy Main Streets. I've heard it in the frustrations of Americans who've seen their paychecks dwindle or their jobs disappear, proud men and women who feel like the rules have been changed in the middle of the game.<p>They're right. The rules have changed. In a single generation, revolutions in technology have transformed the way we live, work, and do business. Steel mills that once needed 1,000 workers can now do the same work with 100. Today, just about any company can set up shop, hire workers, and sell their products wherever there's an Internet connection.<p>Meanwhile, nations like China and India realized that with some changes of their own, they could compete in this new world. And so they started educating their children earlier and longer, with greater emphasis on math and science. They're investing in research and new technologies. Just recently, China became the home to the world's largest private solar research facility and the world's fastest computer.<p>So yes, the world is changed. The competition for jobs is real. But this shouldn't discourage us. It should challenge us. Remember, for all the hits we've taken these last few years, for all the naysayers predicting our decline, America still has the largest, most prosperous economy in the world. No workers are more productive than ours. No country has more successful companies or grants more patents to inventors and entrepreneurs. We're the home to the world's best colleges and universities, where more students come to study than any place on Earth.<p>What's more, we are the first nation to be founded for the sake of an idea: the idea that each of us deserves the chance to shape our own destiny. That's why centuries of pioneers and immigrants have risked everything to come here. It's why our students don't just memorize equations, but answer questions like: \\"What do you think of that idea? What would you change about the world? What do you want to be when you grow up?\\"<p>The future is ours to win. But to get there, we can't just stand still. As Robert Kennedy told us: \\"The future is not a gift. It is an achievement.\\" Sustaining the American Dream has never been about standing pat. It has required each generation to sacrifice and struggle and meet the demands of a new age.<p>And now it's our turn. We know what it takes to compete for the jobs and industries of our time. We need to outinnovate, outeducate, and outbuild the rest of the world. We have to make America the best place on Earth to do business. We need to take responsibility for our deficit and reform our Government. That's how our people will prosper. That's how we'll win the future. And tonight I'd like to talk about how we get there.<p>The first step in winning the future is encouraging American innovation. None of us can predict with certainty what the next big industry will be or where the new jobs will come from. Thirty years ago, we couldn't know that something called the Internet would lead to an economic revolution. What we can do--what America does better than anyone else--is spark the creativity and imagination of our people. We're the nation that put cars in driveways and computers in offices; the nation of Edison and the Wright brothers, of Google and Facebook. In America, innovation doesn't just change our lives. It is how we make our living.<p>Our free enterprise system is what drives innovation. But because it's not always profitable for companies to invest in basic research, throughout our history, our Government has provided cutting-edge scientists and inventors with the support that they need. That's what planted the seeds for the Internet. That's what helped make possible things like computer chips and GPS. Just think of all the good jobs--from manufacturing to retail--that have come from these breakthroughs.<p>Half a century ago, when the Soviets beat us into space with the launch of a satellite called Sputnik, we had no idea how we would beat them to the Moon. The science wasn't even there yet. NASA didn't exist. But after investing in better research and education, we didn't just surpass the Soviets, we unleashed a wave of innovation that created new industries and millions of new jobs.<p>This is our generation's Sputnik moment. Two years ago, I said that we needed to reach a level of research and development we haven't seen since the height of the space race. And in a few weeks, I will be sending a budget to Congress that helps us meet that goal. We'll invest in biomedical research, information technology, and especially clean energy technology, an investment that will strengthen our security, protect our planet, and create countless new jobs for our people.<p>Already, we're seeing the promise of renewable energy. Robert and Gary Allen are brothers who run a small Michigan roofing company. After September 11, they volunteered their best roofers to help repair the Pentagon. But half of their factory went unused, and the recession hit them hard. Today, with the help of a Government loan, that empty space is being used to manufacture solar shingles that are being sold all across the country. In Robert's words, \\"We reinvented ourselves.\\"<p>That's what Americans have done for over 200 years: reinvented ourselves. And to spur on more success stories like the Allen Brothers, we've begun to reinvent our energy policy. We're not just handing out money. We're issuing a challenge. We're telling America's scientists and engineers that if they assemble teams of the best minds in their fields and focus on the hardest problems in clean energy, we'll fund the Apollo projects of our time.<p>At the California Institute of Technology, they're developing a way to turn sunlight and water into fuel for our cars. At Oak Ridge National Laboratory, they're using supercomputers to get a lot more power out of our nuclear facilities. With more research and incentives, we can break our dependence on oil with biofuels and become the first country to have a million electric vehicles on the road by 2015.<p>We need to get behind this innovation. And to help pay for it, I'm asking Congress to eliminate the billions in taxpayer dollars we currently give to oil companies. I don't know if you've noticed, but they're doing just fine on their own. [<i>Laughter</i>] So instead of subsidizing yesterday's energy, let's invest in tomorrow's.<p>Now, clean energy breakthroughs will only translate into clean energy jobs if businesses know there will be a market for what they're selling. So tonight I challenge you to join me in setting a new goal: By 2035, 80 percent of America's electricity will come from clean energy sources.<p>Some folks want wind and solar. Others want nuclear, clean coal, and natural gas. To meet this goal, we will need them all, and I urge Democrats and Republicans to work together to make it happen.<p>Maintaining our leadership in research and technology is crucial to America's success. But if we want to win the future, if we want innovation to produce jobs in America and not overseas, then we also have to win the race to educate our kids.<p>Think about it. Over the next 10 years, nearly half of all new jobs will require education that goes beyond a high school education. And yet as many as a quarter of our students aren't even finishing high school. The quality of our math and science education lags behind many other nations. America has fallen to ninth in the proportion of young people with a college degree. And so the question is whether all of us, as citizens and as parents, are willing to do what's necessary to give every child a chance to succeed.<p>That responsibility begins not in our classrooms, but in our homes and communities. It's family that first instills the love of learning in a child. Only parents can make sure the TV is turned off and homework gets done. We need to teach our kids that it's not just the winner of the Super Bowl who deserves to be celebrated, but the winner of the science fair. We need to teach them that success is not a function of fame or PR, but of hard work and discipline.<p>Our schools share this responsibility. When a child walks into a classroom, it should be a place of high expectations and high performance. But too many schools don't meet this test. That's why instead of just pouring money into a system that's not working, we launched a competition called Race to the Top. To all 50 States, we said, \\"If you show us the most innovative plans to improve teacher quality and student achievement, we'll show you the money.\\"<p>Race to the Top is the most meaningful reform of our public schools in a generation. For less than 1 percent of what we spend on education each year, it has led over 40 States to raise their standards for teaching and learning. And these standards were developed, by the way, not by Washington, but by Republican and Democratic Governors throughout the country. And Race to the Top should be the approach we follow this year as we replace No Child Left Behind with a law that's more flexible and focused on what's best for our kids.<p>You see, we know what's possible from our children when reform isn't just a top-down mandate, but the work of local teachers and principals, school boards and communities. Take a school like Bruce Randolph in Denver. Three years ago, it was rated one of the worst schools in Colorado, located on turf between two rival gangs. But last May, 97 percent of the seniors received their diploma. Most will be the first in their families to go to college. And after the first year of the school's transformation, the principal who made it possible wiped away tears when a student said, \\"Thank you, Ms. Waters, for showing that we are smart and we can make it.\\" That's what good schools can do, and we want good schools all across the country.<p>Let's also remember that after parents, the biggest impact on a child's success comes from the man or woman at the front of the classroom. In South Korea, teachers are known as nation builders. Here in America, it's time we treated the people who educate our children with the same level of respect. We want to reward good teachers and stop making excuses for bad ones. And over the next 10 years, with so many baby boomers retiring from our classrooms, we want to prepare 100,000 new teachers in the fields of science and technology and engineering and math.<p>In fact, to every young person listening tonight who's contemplating their career choice: If you want to make a difference in the life of our Nation, if you want to make a difference in the life of a child, become a teacher. Your country needs you.<p>Of course, the education race doesn't end with a high school diploma. To compete, higher education must be within the reach of every American. That's why we've ended the unwarranted taxpayer subsidies that went to banks and used the savings to make college affordable for millions of students. And this year, I ask Congress to go further and make permanent our tuition tax credit, worth $10,000 for 4 years of college. It's the right thing to do.<p>Because people need to be able to train for new jobs and careers in today's fast-changing economy, we're also revitalizing America's community colleges. Last month, I saw the promise of these schools at Forsyth Tech in North Carolina. Many of the students there used to work in the surrounding factories that have since left town. One mother of two, a woman named Kathy Proctor, had worked in the furniture industry since she was 18 years old. And she told me she's earning her degree in biotechnology now, at 55 years old, not just because the furniture jobs are gone, but because she wants to inspire her children to pursue their dreams too. As Kathy said, \\"I hope it tells them to never give up.\\"<p>If we take these steps, if we raise expectations for every child and give them the best possible chance at an education, from the day they are born until the last job they take, we will reach the goal that I set 2 years ago: By the end of the decade, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world.<p>One last point about education: Today, there are hundreds of thousands of students excelling in our schools who are not American citizens. Some are the children of undocumented workers, who had nothing to do with the actions of their parents. They grew up as Americans and pledge allegiance to our flag, and yet they live every day with the threat of deportation. Others come here from abroad to study in our colleges and universities. But as soon as they obtain advanced degrees, we send them back home to compete against us. It makes no sense.<p>Now, I strongly believe that we should take on, once and for all, the issue of illegal immigration. And I am prepared to work with Republicans and Democrats to protect our borders, enforce our laws, and address the millions of undocumented workers who are now living in the shadows. I know that debate will be difficult. I know it will take time. But tonight, let's agree to make that effort. And let's stop expelling talented, responsible young people who could be staffing our research labs or starting a new business, who could be further enriching this Nation.<p>The third step in winning the future is rebuilding America. To attract new businesses to our shores, we need the fastest, most reliable ways to move people, goods, and information, from high-speed rail to high-speed Internet.<p>Our infrastructure used to be the best, but our lead has slipped. South Korean homes now have greater Internet access than we do. Countries in Europe and Russia invest more in their roads and railways than we do. China is building faster trains and newer airports. Meanwhile, when our own engineers graded our Nation's infrastructure, they gave us a D.<p>We have to do better. America is the nation that built the transcontinental railroad, brought electricity to rural communities, constructed the Interstate Highway System. The jobs created by these projects didn't just come from laying down track or pavement. They came from businesses that opened near a town's new train station or the new off-ramp.<p>So over the last 2 years, we've begun rebuilding for the 21st century, a project that has meant thousands of good jobs for the hard-hit construction industry. And tonight I'm proposing that we redouble those efforts.<p>We'll put more Americans to work repairing crumbling roads and bridges. We'll make sure this is fully paid for, attract private investment, and pick projects based [on]* what's best for the economy, not politicians. <p>Within 25 years, our goal is to give 80 percent of Americans access to high-speed rail. This could allow you to go places in half the time it takes to travel by car. For some trips, it will be faster than flying, without the pat-down. [<i>Laughter</i>] As we speak, routes in California and the Midwest are already underway.<p>Within the next 5 years, we'll make it possible for businesses to deploy the next generation of high-speed wireless coverage to 98 percent of all Americans. This isn't just about--this isn't about faster Internet or fewer dropped calls. It's about connecting every part of America to the digital age. It's about a rural community in Iowa or Alabama where farmers and small-business owners will be able to sell their products all over the world. It's about a firefighter who can download the design of a burning building onto a handheld device, a student who can take classes with a digital textbook, or a patient who can have face-to-face video chats with her doctor.<p>All these investments--in innovation, education, and infrastructure--will make America a better place to do business and create jobs. But to help our companies compete, we also have to knock down barriers that stand in the way of their success.<p>For example, over the years, a parade of lobbyists has rigged the Tax Code to benefit particular companies and industries. Those with accountants or lawyers to work the system can end up paying no taxes at all. But all the rest are hit with one of the highest corporate tax rates in the world. It makes no sense, and it has to change.<p>So tonight I'm asking Democrats and Republicans to simplify the system, get rid of the loopholes, level the playing field, and use the savings to lower the corporate tax rate for the first time in 25 years without adding to our deficit. It can be done.<p>To help businesses sell more products abroad, we set a goal of doubling our exports by 2014. Because the more we export, the more jobs we create here at home. Already, our exports are up. Recently, we signed agreements with India and China that will support more than 250,000 jobs here in the United States. And last month, we finalized a trade agreement with South Korea that will support at least 70,000 American jobs. This agreement has unprecedented support from business and labor, Democrats and Republicans, and I ask this Congress to pass it as soon as possible.<p>Now, before I took office, I made it clear that we would enforce our trade agreements and that I would only sign deals that keep faith with American workers and promote American jobs. That's what we did with Korea, and that's what I intend to do as we pursue agreements with Panama and Colombia and continue our Asia-Pacific and global trade talks.<p>To reduce barriers to growth and investment, I've ordered a review of Government regulations. When we find rules that put an unnecessary burden on businesses, we will fix them. But I will not hesitate to create or enforce commonsense safeguards to protect the American people. That's what we've done in this country for more than a century. It's why our food is safe to eat, our water is safe to drink, and our air is safe to breathe. It's why we have speed limits and child labor laws. It's why last year, we put in place consumer protections against hidden fees and penalties by credit card companies and new rules to prevent another financial crisis. And it's why we passed reform that finally prevents the health insurance industry from exploiting patients.<p>Now, I have heard rumors that a few of you still have concerns about our new health care law. [<i>Laughter</i>] So let me be the first to say that anything can be improved. If you have ideas about how to improve this law by making care better or more affordable, I am eager to work with you. We can start right now by correcting a flaw in the legislation that has placed an unnecessary bookkeeping burden on small businesses.<p>What I'm not willing to do--what I'm not willing to do--is go back to the days when insurance companies could deny someone coverage because of a preexisting condition.<p>I'm not willing to tell James Howard, a brain cancer patient from Texas, that his treatment might not be covered. I'm not willing to tell Jim Houser, a small-businessman from Oregon, that he has to go back to paying $5,000 more to cover his employees. As we speak, this law is making prescription drugs cheaper for seniors and giving uninsured students a chance to stay on their patients'--parents' coverage.<p>So I say to this Chamber tonight: Instead of refighting the battles of the last 2 years, let's fix what needs fixing, and let's move forward.<p>Now, the final critical step in winning the future is to make sure we aren't buried under a mountain of debt.<p>We are living with a legacy of deficit spending that began almost a decade ago. And in the wake of the financial crisis, some of that was necessary to keep credit flowing, save jobs, and put money in people's pockets.<p>But now that the worst of the recession is over, we have to confront the fact that our Government spends more than it takes in. That is not sustainable. Every day, families sacrifice to live within their means. They deserve a Government that does the same.<p>So tonight I am proposing that starting this year, we freeze annual domestic spending for the next 5 years. Now, this would reduce the deficit by more than $400 billion over the next decade and will bring discretionary spending to the lowest share of our economy since Dwight Eisenhower was President.<p>This freeze will require painful cuts. Already, we've frozen the salaries of hard-working Federal employees for the next 2 years. I've proposed cuts to things I care deeply about, like community action programs. The Secretary of Defense has also agreed to cut tens of billions of dollars in spending that he and his generals believe our military can do without.<p>Now, I recognize that some in this Chamber have already proposed deeper cuts, and I'm willing to eliminate whatever we can honestly afford to do without. But let's make sure that we're not doing it on the backs of our most vulnerable citizens. And let's make sure that what we're cutting is really excess weight. Cutting the deficit by gutting our investments in innovation and education is like lightening an overloaded airplane by removing its engine. It may make you feel like you're flying high at first, but it won't take long before you feel the impact. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now, most of the cuts and savings I've proposed only address annual domestic spending, which represents a little more than 12 percent of our budget. To make further progress, we have to stop pretending that cutting this kind of spending alone will be enough. It won't.<p>The bipartisan fiscal commission I created last year made this crystal clear. I don't agree with all their proposals, but they made important progress. And their conclusion is that the only way to tackle our deficit is to cut excessive spending wherever we find it, in domestic spending, defense spending, health care spending, and spending through tax breaks and loopholes.<p>This means further reducing health care costs, including programs like Medicare and Medicaid, which are the single biggest contributor to our long-term deficit. The health insurance law we passed last year will slow these rising costs, which is part of the reason that nonpartisan economists have said that repealing the health care law would add a quarter of a trillion dollars to our deficit. Still, I'm willing to look at other ideas to bring down costs, including one that Republicans suggested last year: medical malpractice reform to rein in frivolous lawsuits.<p>To put us on solid ground, we should also find a bipartisan solution to strengthen Social Security for future generations. We must do it without putting at risk current retirees, the most vulnerable, or people with disabilities, without slashing benefits for future generations, and without subjecting Americans' guaranteed retirement income to the whims of the stock market.<p>And if we truly care about our deficit, we simply can't afford a permanent extension of the tax cuts for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans. Before we take money away from our schools or scholarships away from our students, we should ask millionaires to give up their tax break. It's not a matter of punishing their success, it's about promoting America's success.<p>In fact, the best thing we could do on taxes for all Americans is to simplify the individual Tax Code. This will be a tough job, but members of both parties have expressed an interest in doing this, and I am prepared to join them.<p>So now is the time to act. Now is the time for both sides and both Houses of Congress, Democrats and Republicans, to forge a principled compromise that gets the job done. If we make the hard choices now to rein in our deficits, we can make the investments we need to win the future.<p>Let me take this one step further. We shouldn't just give our people a Government that's more affordable, we should give them a Government that's more competent and more efficient. We can't win the future with a Government of the past.<p>We live and do business in the Information Age, but the last major reorganization of the Government happened in the age of black-and-white TV. There are 12 different agencies that deal with exports. There are at least five different agencies that deal with housing policy. Then there's my favorite example: The Interior Department is in charge of salmon while they're in fresh water, but the Commerce Department handles them when they're in saltwater. [<i>Laughter</i>] I hear it gets even more complicated once they're smoked. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now, we've made great strides over the last 2 years in using technology and getting rid of waste. Veterans can now download their electronic medical records with a click of the mouse. We're selling acres of Federal office space that hasn't been used in years, and we'll cut through redtape to get rid of more. But we need to think bigger. In the coming months, my administration will develop a proposal to merge, consolidate, and reorganize the Federal Government in a way that best serves the goal of a more competitive America. I will submit that proposal to Congress for a vote, and we will push to get it passed.<p>In the coming year, we'll also work to rebuild people's faith in the institution of Government. Because you deserve to know exactly how and where your tax dollars are being spent, you'll be able to go to a web site and get that information for the very first time in history. Because you deserve to know when your elected officials are meeting with lobbyists, I ask Congress to do what the White House has already done: put that information online. And because the American people deserve to know that special interests aren't larding up legislation with pet projects, both parties in Congress should know this: If a bill comes to my desk with earmarks inside, I will veto it. I will veto it.<p>The 21st-century Government that's open and competent, a government that lives within its means, an economy that's driven by new skills and new ideas--our success in this new and changing world will require reform, responsibility, and innovation. It will also require us to approach that world with a new level of engagement in our foreign affairs.<p>Just as jobs and businesses can now race across borders, so can new threats and new challenges. No single wall separates East and West. No one rival superpower is aligned against us.<p>And so we must defeat determined enemies, wherever they are, and build coalitions that cut across lines of region and race and religion. And America's moral example must always shine for all who yearn for freedom and justice and dignity. And because we've begun this work, tonight we can say that American leadership has been renewed and America's standing has been restored.<p>Look to Iraq, where nearly 100,000 of our brave men and women have left with their heads held high. American combat patrols have ended, violence is down, and a new Government has been formed. This year, our civilians will forge a lasting partnership with the Iraqi people, while we finish the job of bringing our troops out of Iraq. America's commitment has been kept. The Iraq war is coming to an end.<p>Of course, as we speak, Al Qaida and their affiliates continue to plan attacks against us. Thanks to our intelligence and law enforcement professionals, we're disrupting plots and securing our cities and skies. And as extremists try to inspire acts of violence within our borders, we are responding with the strength of our communities, with respect for the rule of law, and with the conviction that American Muslims are a part of our American family.<p>We've also taken the fight to Al Qaida and their allies abroad. In Afghanistan, our troops have taken Taliban strongholds and trained Afghan security forces. Our purpose is clear: By preventing the Taliban from reestablishing a stranglehold over the Afghan people, we will deny Al Qaida the safe haven that served as a launching pad for 9/11.<p>Thanks to our heroic troops and civilians, fewer Afghans are under the control of the insurgency. There will be tough fighting ahead, and the Afghan Government will need to deliver better governance. But we are strengthening the capacity of the Afghan people and building an enduring partnership with them. This year, we will work with nearly 50 countries to begin a transition to an Afghan lead, and this July, we will begin to bring our troops home.<p>In Pakistan, Al Qaida's leadership is under more pressure than at any point since 2001. Their leaders and operatives are being removed from the battlefield. Their safe havens are shrinking. And we've sent a message from the Afghan border to the Arabian Peninsula to all parts of the globe: We will not relent, we will not waver, and we will defeat you.<p>American leadership can also be seen in the effort to secure the worst weapons of war. Because Republicans and Democrats approved the new START Treaty, far fewer nuclear weapons and launchers will be deployed. Because we rallied the world, nuclear materials are being locked down on every continent so they never fall into the hands of terrorists.<p>Because of a diplomatic effort to insist that Iran meet its obligations, the Iranian Government now faces tougher sanctions, tighter sanctions than ever before. And on the Korean Peninsula, we stand with our ally South Korea and insist that North Korea keeps its commitment to abandon nuclear weapons.<p>This is just a part of how we're shaping a world that favors peace and prosperity. With our European allies, we revitalized NATO and increased our cooperation on everything from counterterrorism to missile defense. We've reset our relationship with Russia, strengthened Asian alliances, built new partnerships with nations like India.<p>This March, I will travel to Brazil, Chile, and El Salvador to forge new alliances across the Americas. Around the globe, we're standing with those who take responsibility, helping farmers grow more food, supporting doctors who care for the sick, and combating the corruption that can rot a society and rob people of opportunity.<p>Recent events have shown us that what sets us apart must not just be our power; it must also be the purpose behind it. In south Sudan--with our assistance--the people were finally able to vote for independence after years of war. Thousands lined up before dawn. People danced in the streets. One man who lost four of his brothers at war summed up the scene around him. \\"This was a battlefield for most of my life,\\" he said. \\"Now we want to be free.\\"<p>And we saw that same desire to be free in Tunisia, where the will of the people proved more powerful than the writ of a dictator. And tonight let us be clear: The United States of America stands with the people of Tunisia and supports the democratic aspirations of all people.<p>We must never forget that the things we've struggled for and fought for live in the hearts of people everywhere. And we must always remember that the Americans who have borne the greatest burden in this struggle are the men and women who serve our country.<p>Tonight let us speak with one voice in reaffirming that our Nation is united in support of our troops and their families. Let us serve them as well as they've served us, by giving them the equipment they need, by providing them with the care and benefits that they have earned, and by enlisting our veterans in the great task of building our own Nation.<p>Our troops come from every corner of this country. They're Black, White, Latino, Asian, Native American. They are Christian and Hindu, Jewish and Muslim. And yes, we know that some of them are gay. Starting this year, no American will be forbidden from serving the country they love because of who they love. And with that change, I call on all our college campuses to open their doors to our military recruiters and ROTC. It is time to leave behind the divisive battles of the past. It is time to move forward as one Nation.<p>We should have no illusions about the work ahead of us. Reforming our schools, changing the way we use energy, reducing our deficit, none of this will be easy. All of it will take time. And it will be harder because we will argue about everything: the costs, the details, the letter of every law.<p>Of course, some countries don't have this problem. If the central government wants a railroad, they build a railroad, no matter how many homes get bulldozed. If they don't want a bad story in the newspaper, it doesn't get written.<p>And yet, as contentious and frustrating and messy as our democracy can sometimes be, I know there isn't a person here who would trade places with any other nation on Earth.<p>We may have differences in policy, but we all believe in the rights enshrined in our Constitution. We may have different opinions, but we believe in the same promise that says this is a place where you can make it if you try. We may have different backgrounds, but we believe in the same dream that says this is a country where anything is possible, no matter who you are, no matter where you come from.<p>That dream is why I can stand here before you tonight. That dream is why a working class kid from Scranton can sit behind me. [<i>Laughter</i>] That dream is why someone who began by sweeping the floors of his father's Cincinnati bar can preside as Speaker of the House in the greatest nation on Earth.<p>That dream--that American Dream--is what drove the Allen Brothers to reinvent their roofing company for a new era. It's what drove those students at Forsyth Tech to learn a new skill and work towards the future. And that dream is the story of a small-business owner named Brandon Fisher.<p>Brandon started a company in Berlin, Pennsylvania, that specializes in a new kind of drilling technology. And one day last summer, he saw the news that halfway across the world, 33 men were trapped in a Chilean mine, and no one knew how to save them.<p>But Brandon thought his company could help. And so he designed a rescue that would come to be known as Plan B. His employees worked around the clock to manufacture the necessary drilling equipment, and Brandon left for Chile.<p>Along with others, he began drilling a 2,000-foot hole into the ground, working 3 or 4 hour--3 or 4 days at a time without any sleep. Thirty-seven days later, Plan B succeeded and the miners were rescued. But because he didn't want all of the attention, Brandon wasn't there when the miners emerged. He'd already gone back home, back to work on his next project.<p>And later, one of his employees said of the rescue, \\"We proved that Center Rock is a little company, but we do big things.\\"<p>We do big things.<p>From the earliest days of our founding, America has been the story of ordinary people who dare to dream. That's how we win the future.<p>We're a nation that says, \\"I might not have a lot of money, but I have this great idea for a new company.\\" \\"I might not come from a family of college graduates, but I will be the first to get my degree.\\" \\"I might not know those people in trouble, but I think I can help them, and I need to try.\\" \\"I'm not sure how we'll reach that better place beyond the horizon, but I know we'll get there. I know we will.\\"<p>We do big things.<p>The idea of America endures. Our destiny remains our choice. And tonight, more than two centuries later, it's because of our people that our future is hopeful, our journey goes forward, and the state of our Union is strong.<p>Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"16" "\"Thank you very much, everybody. Everybody have a seat, have a seat. It is wonderful to be here. Sort of reminds me of home, all that snow out there. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Let me begin by acknowledging some of the special guests who are here. Governor Scott Walker--where is he? There he is. He says he's the mayor of Manitowoc--[<i>Laughter</i>]--now, I'm looking at the guy--I don't think it's true, but I'm going to introduce him anyway--Justin Nickels is here. I look at a kid like that--[<i>Laughter</i>]--my life's way--I'm way behind. The mayor of Green Bay, Jim Schmitt, is here. And Gus Frank is here, Chairman--Mr. Chairman, thank you so much.<p>Now, let me start by clearing something up. I am not here because I lost a bet. [<i>Laughter</i>] I just wanted to be clear about that. I have already gotten three Green Bay jerseys. I mean, I've only been on the ground for an hour. [<i>Laughter</i>] I've got three jerseys. One of them is from Woodson, and he just said, \\"See you in the White House.\\"<p>So let me just get it out of the way: Sunday was a tough day for Bears fans. [<i>Laughter</i>] I see one guy with a Bears hat here. He's got a lot of guts. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But even if it didn't go the way that I wanted, I am glad to see that one of the greatest rivalries in sports is still there. And we will get you next year. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm just letting you know. Congratulations. In the spirit of sportsmanship, I wish you good luck in the Super Bowl.<p>Now, last night, I gave this little speech that I have to do once in a while. [<i>Laughter</i>] And what I said was, in this new and challenging time, when America is facing tougher competition from countries around the world than ever before, we've got to up our game. We're going to need to go all in. We're going to need to get serious about winning the future.<p>Now, the words of the man that the Super Bowl trophy is named after has something to say about winning. He said, \\"There is no room for second place. There is only one place in my game, and that's first place.\\"<p>That's the kind of determination to win that America needs to show right now. That's what we need to show. We need to win the future.<p>And that means making sure that all of our kids are getting the best education possible, not only because we need to give every child a chance to fulfill her God-given potential, but because we need to make sure American workers can go to head-to-head with workers in any country on Earth. We've got to be more productive, more capable, more skilled than any workers on Earth.<p>It means making sure our infrastructure can meet the demands of the 21st century, rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges, connecting America and the American people with high-speed rail and Internet.<p>It means doing what we try to do in our own lives: by taking responsibility for our deficits, by cutting wasteful, excessive spending wherever we find it. And it means reforming the way our Government does business so it's efficient and responsive to the needs of Americans instead of being responsive to the needs of lobbyists.<p>Now, as important as these urgent priorities are, we've also got to make sure that the breakthroughs, the technological breakthroughs that come to define the 21st century, that they take root right here in America. We've got to lead the world in innovation. I spent a lot of time talking about this last night. That's how we'll create the jobs of the future. That's how we're going to build the industries of the future, because we make smarter products using better technology than anybody else. That's how we'll win the future in the 21st century.<p>So I came here to Manitowoc to glimpse that future. It was right here, almost 50 years ago--I couldn't have made this up. It wasn't until I was on my way here that I found out that a chunk of metal came crashing down to the Earth right here. I promise you, we did not plan this originally. Press won't believe me. It turns out that it was part of a satellite called Sputnik that landed right here, and that set the space race into motion. So I want to say to you today that it is here, more than 50 years later, that the race for the 21st century will be won. <p>This is a place that's been doing what America has always done throughout its history, you've reinvented yourself. Back in 2003, one of the largest employers around, Mirro, moved their operations abroad. And that must have been a really tough time for this town and this community. Jobs were lost. Families were hurting. Community was shaken up. And I know from Illinois, my home State, when a town loses its major employer it is hard to bounce back. A lot of the young people started moving away, looking for opportunities someplace else.<p>But you fast-forward to 2011, and new manufacturing plants and new hope are now taking root, part of the reason the unemployment rate here is 4points lower than it was at the beginning of last year. That's good news.<p>So you have plants like Tower Tech, one of the largest wind tower manufacturers in North America, a company that's grown by several hundred workers in recent years; plants like Skana Aluminum that's hired more than 70 workers since it took over another part of the old Mirro plant and has plans to reach 100 workers by the end of this year. I'm looking forward to visiting those folks--paying a visit to them later today.<p>But first I wanted to come to Orion. That's where I wanted to come. That's right. I wanted to come to Orion. Orion is a leader in solar power and energy-efficient technology. Plus the plant is just very cool. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So I just took a tour with Neal and got a feel for what you're doing. I saw where the metal is cut, where the paint is applied, where the products are assembled. I met some of the outstanding workers like so many of you who've made this company the success that it's become.<p>Now, in 2004, when Orion moved its manufacturing operations here, I'm told that you just had one employee to oversee the development of the manufacturing floor--one employee. Today, you've got more than 250, and I understand you're hoping to have more than 300 by the end of this year. That's good news right here at Orion.<p>And these aren't just good jobs that can help you pay the bills and support your families. These jobs are good for all of us because they make everybody's energy bills cheaper; they make the planet safer. What you do is sharpening America's competitive edge all around the world.<p>The jobs you're creating here, the growth you've achieved have come, I know, through hard work and ingenuity and a single-minded focus on being the best at what you do. But I think it's important because this is part of what I talked about last night when I said that all of us as a country, that America, that our Government has to invest in innovation. It's important to remember that this plant, this company has also been supported over the years not just by the Department of Agriculture and the Small Business Administration, but by tax credits and awards we created to give a leg up to renewable energy companies.<p>So it's one thing to have a good idea, but as Neal and I were talking, a lot of times Wall Street doesn't necessarily want to take a chance on a good idea until they've seen it proven. Sometimes the research that's required, nobody wants to pay for it. And that's where we have to step in.<p>America needs to get behind entrepreneurs like Neal. We need to get behind clean energy companies like Orion. We need to get behind innovation. That's how we'll meet the goal I set last night and make sure 80 percent of America's electricity comes from clean energy sources by 2035. That is a goal that we can meet. That is a goal we must meet. That's how we'll make America the first country to have 1 million electric vehicles on the road by 2015. In 5 years, a million electric cars on the road. That's how America will lead the world in clean energy. And as I've said before, the nation that leads the world in clean energy will lead the global economy in the 21st century.<p>This is something--this is not something that I'm making up just to fill up time in a speech. China is making these investments. They have already captured a big chunk of the solar market partly because we fell down on the job. We weren't moving as fast as we should have. Those are jobs that could be created right here that are getting shipped overseas.<p>But Orion tells a different story. This is the model for the future. I'm told the story of Orion begins a few decades ago. Neal was switching jobs. He decided to try his hand at clean energy. Clean energy seemed pretty farfetched to a lot of people back then, but Neal figured there might be something to it. So he bought a couple of solar panel distributors. Both of them went under. But Neal didn't give up. He kept at it. He started Orion, a company that would not only distribute, but also manufacture its own lights.<p>And then, about 10 years ago, Neal had an idea. He calls it his epiphany. Probably, since you guys work here you've all heard this story, but I'm going to tell it for everybody else. [<i>Laughter</i>] It was around 2:30 in the morning, but Neal hopped in his car and drove to the factory in Plymouth. It was one of those moments when the future couldn't wait until the morning. And he grabbed whatever tools he could find: a couple 2-by-4s and broom handles. Is this really true, Neal, the broom handles part? [<i>Laughter</i>] Is it? He says it's true. So he started tinkering around until an engineer showed up.<p>And what Neal had come up with was one of Orion's signature innovations: a new lighting fixture that produced twice the light with half the energy. And it was only then that the real work began, because Neal then had to work to apply for loans, find investors, find customers who would believe his improbable pitch.<p>And doing all of that took time and patience, and most of all, it took persistence. It took determination to succeed. And fortunately, that's not something that Neal has a shortage of: determination. As he said himself, the difference between Orion and other companies is--and I'm quoting Neal now--\\"the difference between playing to win and playing not to lose.\\" And he says, \\"At Orion, we play to win.\\" We play to win.<p>So that's what sets Neal apart. That's what sets Orion apart. But that's also what sets America apart. That's what sets America apart. Here in America, we play to win. We don't play not to lose. And part of what I wanted to communicate last night is, having gone through a tough time, having gone through a recession, having seen so many jobs lost, having seen the financial markets take a swoon, you get a sense that a lot of folks have been feeling like, well, we've just got to play not to lose.<p>We can't take that attitude. If we're on defense, if we're playing not to lose, somebody else is going to lap us, because there are a lot of hungry folks out there, a lot of countries that are gunning for us. So we've got to play to win. We've got to play to win the future.<p>And if entrepreneurs like Neal keep sticking with it, and small businesses like Orion keep breaking new ground, and if we, as a country, continue to invest in you, the American people, then I'm absolutely confident America will win the future in this century as we did in the last. So keep it up, Orion. Keep it up, Neal. We're proud of you.<p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"17" "\"Good evening, everybody. My administration has been closely monitoring the situation in Egypt, and I know that we will be learning more tomorrow when day breaks. As the situation continues to unfold, our first concern is preventing injury or loss of life. So I want to be very clear in calling upon the Egyptian authorities to refrain from any violence against peaceful protestors.<p>The people of Egypt have rights that are universal. That includes the right to peaceful assembly and association, the right to free speech, and the ability to determine their own destiny. These are human rights, and the United States will stand up for them everywhere.<p>I also call upon the Egyptian Government to reverse the actions that they've taken to interfere with access to the Internet, to cell phone service, and to social networks that do so much to connect people in the 21st century.<p>At the same time, those protesting in the streets have a responsibility to express themselves peacefully. Violence and destruction will not lead to the reforms that they seek.<p>Now, going forward, this moment of volatility has to be turned into a moment of promise. The United States has a close partnership with Egypt, and we've cooperated on many issues, including working together to advance a more peaceful region. But we've also been clear that there must be reform--political, social, and economic reforms that meet the aspirations of the Egyptian people.<p>In the absence of these reforms, grievances have built up over time. When President Mubarak addressed the Egyptian people tonight, he pledged a better democracy and greater economic opportunity. I just spoke to him after his speech, and I told him he has a responsibility to give meaning to those words, to take concrete steps and actions that deliver on that promise.<p>Violence will not address the grievances of the Egyptian people, and suppressing ideas never succeeds in making them go away. What's needed right now are concrete steps that advance the rights of the Egyptian people: a meaningful dialogue between the Government and its citizens and a path of political change that leads to a future of greater freedom and greater opportunity and justice for the Egyptian people.<p>Now, ultimately, the future of Egypt will be determined by the Egyptian people. And I believe that the Egyptian people want the same things that we all want: a better life for ourselves and our children and a government that is fair and just and responsive. Put simply, the Egyptian people want a future that befits the heirs to a great and ancient civilization.<p>The United States always will be a partner in pursuit of that future. And we are committed to working with the Egyptian Government and the Egyptian people--all quarters--to achieve it.<p>Around the world, governments have an obligation to respond to their citizens. That's true here in the United States, that's true in Asia, it is true in Europe, it is true in Africa, and it's certainly true in the Arab world, where a new generation of citizens has the right to be heard.<p>When I was in Cairo, shortly after I was elected President, I said that all governments must maintain power through consent, not coercion. That is the single standard by which the people of Egypt will achieve the future they deserve.<p>Surely there will be difficult days to come. But the United States will continue to stand up for the rights of the Egyptian people and work with their Government in pursuit of a future that is more just, more free, and more hopeful.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"18" "\"Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat. Thank you. Thank you, Ron, for not only the generous introduction, but for the wonderful leadership and for sharing some of your applause with me. [<i>Laughter</i>] To Phil and Kate Villers, for founding Families USA, we thank them. Thank you. To all of you, organizers and advocates and activists, all of you who believe that change does not come from the top down, it comes from the bottom up, and you guys activated the country--thank you so much for your great work.<p>On Tuesday, I gave this little speech here in town--[<i>Laughter</i>]--the State of the Union. I outlined my vision for an America that's more determined, more competitive, better positioned for the future. An America where we outinnovate, we outeducate, we outbuild the rest of the world, where we take responsibility for our deficits, where we reform our Government to meet the demands of a new age.<p>That's what will be required for the new jobs and new businesses of the 21st century to set up shop here in the United States. That's how our people will prosper within our communities. That's how America will remain a place where each of us is free to choose our own destiny and make of our lives what we will.<p>Now, for most families, that freedom requires a job that pays the bills, covers your mortgage, helps you look after your children. It means a chance to send those children to college, save enough for retirement. And it means access to quality, affordable health care. That is part of the American Dream.<p>That security is part of the American Dream. And that's what brought me here, to this conference, 4 years ago this week. I looked younger then. [<i>Laughter</i>] I didn't have as much gray hair. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Even before the pangs of this historic recession that we've just gone through--so 4 years ago, that was still on the horizon--our friends and neighbors were already dealing with the anxiety and the cruelty of a health care system that just did not work for too many American citizens.<p>We believed we could change that. We believed that we could finally guarantee quality, affordable care for every American. And even though I hadn't announced my candidacy for this office, I joined you that day in a promise, that we would make health reform a reality by the end of the next President's first term. That was our commitment.<p>That was our commitment, and together, that is what we did. That is what you did. So thank you for all those years of work to help make it happen. I couldn't be prouder of you.<p>Now, since I signed the Affordable Care Act into law 10 months ago, Americans already have more power, greater freedom, stronger control of their health care. This law will lower premiums. It is limiting costs. It is reining in the worst abuses of the insurance industry with some of the toughest consumer protections this country has ever known. This is making a real difference for families across this country as we speak.<p>Now, it's no secret that not everyone in Congress agrees with this law. [<i>Laughter</i>] And as I said on Tuesday, I believe that anything can be improved. As we work to implement it, there are going to be times where we say, you know what, this needs a tweak, this isn't working exactly as intended, exactly the way we want. Here's a way of doing it smarter, better. We may be able to serve families to lower costs and improve care even more.<p>And so I'm willing to work with anyone, Republican or Democrat, to make care better or to make their health care more affordable. I've even suggested we begin by correcting what was a legitimate concern: a flaw in the legislation that placed unnecessary bookkeeping burdens on small businesses. I'm open to other ideas, including patient safety innovations and medical malpractice reform.<p>But here's what I'm not open to, and I said this on Tuesday. I am not willing to just refight the battles of the last 2 years. I'm not open to efforts that will take this law apart without considering the lives and the livelihoods that hang in the balance. Families USA, we are moving forward. We are moving forward.<p>Already, small-business owners are taking advantage of the new health care tax credit that can offset as much as 35 percent of the cost of covering their employees.<p>We've got small-business owners like Janine Vaughn of Spokane, Washington. Janine always tried to do the right thing and cover her workers. But she explained: \\"We're a small business. We care about everybody who works here.\\" But over the last 12 years, her premiums have tripled, so that was eating away at her profit margin.<p>But today, that new tax credit that was part of the Affordable Care Act is helping her cover her workers. And in 2014, she's going to be able to pool together with other small-business owners to shop for a better deal for her staff and for herself, just like large companies can do.<p>As we speak, Americans are enrolling in new programs that provide affordable coverage for folks who had been shut out of the insurance market because of preexisting conditions. People like Gail O'Brien of Keene, New Hampshire, who was diagnosed with an aggressive form of lymphoma while working full time as a preschool teacher at a school that couldn't afford to offer insurance to its employees.<p>Because she was sick, no insurer would cover her. As she put it, she was scared to death, not of cancer, but how she'd pay her bills with each round of chemo that cost $16,000. And she thought that she and her husband Matt would have to spend everything they saved to pay for their two sons' college education in order to afford treatment.<p>Gail was the first person in New Hampshire to sign up for the program available under the Affordable Care Act, and today she is doing great. And by 2014, no insurer will be able to discriminate against her or any one of the up to 129 million other Americans with a preexisting condition. They'll have more affordable private insurance options through State exchanges that promote competition and transparency and better deals for consumers.<p>Parents of children who suffer from a preexisting condition can finally breathe a sigh of relief too. Parents like Dawn Josephson of Jacksonville, Florida. Dawn is self-employed, so she buys insurance on the individual market. And her son Wesley, who I had a chance to meet--he's adorable--he has an eye condition that demands frequent surgeries.<p>So in the past, insurers have excluded important benefits from Dawn's plan. As her premiums soared, she called around last summer, after the Affordable Act--Affordable Care Act had taken effect, to find any plan that would cover Wesley. So she finds a company, it's offering her a reasonable rate, but out of habit, Dawn is ready for the runaround. She says, \\"What's not covered?\\" And the insurer says: \\"No, you're covered. Everything's covered.\\" And Dawn says: \\"I'm not being very clear here. What about my son?\\" And after going back and forth a few times, the insurer made it clear. He said: \\"No. Your son is covered. We can no longer exclude preexisting conditions for children. Wesley is covered.\\"<p>Imagine what that felt like. Imagine the relief that comes with knowing that treatment for your sick child no longer has to threaten the dreams you've worked a lifetime to build for him. You're not going to have to make these heartbreaking choices.<p>That's happening now. Millions of young Americans can stay on their parents' plans until they turn 26. Millions of older Americans are receiving better access to preventive services and more affordable prescription drugs. We've torn down the barriers that stood between the American people and their doctors so that inside your network, you can see the primary care physician, the pediatrician, the ob-gyn of your choice, and you can use an emergency room outside your network without your insurer sticking you with extra charges.<p>As of last fall, every American who buys a new plan can access preventive care like mammograms, immunizations, and prenatal care to get and stay healthy for free. And all of this information about the new choices and new rights available to you is available in one simple place: healthcare.gov. You can even log on, plug in your ZIP Code, and compare prices for different insurance--private insurance plans. Right now you can do that.<p>And this is all before we set up the exchanges that will allow 30 million Americans to get access to care and will allow small companies to finally get the same deal that big companies get, and people being part of a big pool that gives them a better deal across the board.<p>Now, as important as what is happening right now is what isn't happening right now. You may have heard once or twice that this is a job-crushing, granny-threatening, budget-busting monstrosity. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's about how it's been portrayed by opponents. And that just doesn't match up to the reality. I mean, this thing has been in place now for 10 months, all right?<p>So let's look at what's happened over the last 10 months. Not only has the economy grown and added jobs since the Affordable Care Act became law, but small businesses across the country have already chosen to offer health care to hundreds of thousands of their employees, many for the first time. That's something that, regardless of politics, we should all celebrate.<p>Estimates from the Business Roundtable--now, this isn't some left-wing organization; the Business Roundtable, the organization of all the country's largest corporations--and other experts indicate that health insurance reform could save large employers anywhere from $2,000 to $3,000 per family, per year, that they cover in health care costs by 2019. And that's money that businesses can use to grow and invest and to hire. That's money that workers won't have to see vanish from their paychecks or bonuses in the form of higher deductibles or bigger copayments. That's good for all of us.<p>And I can report that granny is safe. [<i>Laughter</i>] In fact, grandma's Medicare is stronger than ever. And if she was one of the millions of seniors who fell into the doughnut hole last year, she received a $250 check, or soon will, to help her afford her medications, and a new 50-percent discount on brand-name drugs, as part of the Affordable Care Act.<p>Finally, because it is absolutely true that we've got to get a handle on our deficits, that the debt we are carrying right now is unsustainable if we don't start taking action, it is important for us to be clear about the truth when it comes to health care reform.<p>Health reform is part of deficit reform. We know that health care costs, including programs like Medicare and Medicaid, are the biggest contributors to our long-term deficit. Nobody disputes this. And this law will slow these costs. That's part of the reason why nonpartisan economists, why the Congressional Budget Office, have said that repealing this law would add a quarter of a trillion dollars to our deficit over the next decade and another trillion dollars to our deficit in the decade after that. They're not just making this up. And what's more, repeal would send middle class premiums up, would force large employers to pay that extra $2,000 to $3,000 per worker, and shift control of your health care right back to the insurance companies.<p>Now, I've repeatedly said I believe that our system of private insurance is strong and viable, and we need it to be. It saves lives. It employs large numbers of Americans. And by the way, it's still making pretty good profits. But just as we are a people who believe in the power of the individual, the promise of the free market, we are also a people who believe, from the time of our founding, that we aspire to protect one another from harm and exploitation.<p>Our task has always been to seek the right balance, between the dynamism of the marketplace, but also to make sure that it's serving people. And sometimes that means removing barriers to growth by lifting rules that place unnecessary burdens on business, but other times it means enacting commonsense safeguards like these--like the Affordable Care Act--to ensure our American belief that hard work and responsibility should be rewarded by a sense of security and fair play.<p>That's at the heart of this reform. That's why we fought so hard for this reform. That's why we have to keep on telling people across the country about the potential of this reform and what it means for them and their families. And that's why we're not going to fall back.<p>I don't want to tell students that we're booting them off their parents' coverage. I don't want to tell seniors that their medicine is out of reach again. I don't want to tell Janine her taxes are going back up, or Gail that she's got to choose between keeping her home and getting well. I don't want to tell Dawn or any other mother that their child can't get the care that he or she needs after all.<p>I don't want that for America. I don't want that for our families. That's not who we are, and that's not what we stand for. We don't believe that people should have to hope against hope that they'll stay healthy or hang all their fortunes on chance. We don't believe, in a country like ours, that 1 in 10, 1 in 8 of our citizens should be that vulnerable no matter how hard they're working. We believe in something better.<p>So the time for fighting the battles of the last 2 years has now passed. It's time to move forward. And these efforts--strengthening our families, getting our fiscal house in order, allowing small businesses to grow, allowing entrepreneurs to strike out on their own free from crushing costs--they're critical to our economic success. And by reforming our health care system so it doesn't dictate anybody's economic fate, America can decide its own.<p>Now, as vital as this reform is, as committed as we are to getting our implementation right, to win the future in this new and changing world is going to require more from us. And I believe we're up to the task. I think that we can create the jobs of the future by fortifying our lead in innovation, including investing in biotechnology that can deliver new cures for crippling diseases. We can fill those jobs by guaranteeing all our children have the best skills and education possible. We can convince the businesses and industries of the 21st century to take root right here by building and deploying a new network of infrastructure.<p>We can bring down our deficits by taking responsibility, just as we've done in our own lives, to cut wasteful and excessive spending wherever we can find it. And we can restore our people's belief in our capacity to meet this moment by reforming our Government so it's smarter and nimbler and equal to our times.<p>We can do all these things. All of you believe we can do all these things, because just think back to where we were standing 4 years ago. Think of all the hard work and all the heart you put into a cause that you believed in for years--for years. And think of the feeling you had the moment your efforts finally paid off, that feeling when your faith was rewarded.<p>All of you are a reminder, you are proof of the fact that we are a people that can change our country for the better. And if all of us summon that spirit now, through all the hardships and the ups and downs and twists and turns, then I am absolutely convinced that our best days still lie ahead.<p>So I could not be prouder of you, Families USA. Thank you for your extraordinary work. Thank you, Ron. Let's keep on going. God bless you.\" "
"19" "\"I'm speaking to you today from Manitowoc, Wisconsin, where I'm at an innovative company called Orion Energy Systems.<p>Just a few years ago, this was an empty warehouse. A major employer had shut down this factory, moved its operations abroad, and took a lot of jobs away from this town.<p>Today, this is a thriving enterprise once more. You're looking at part of a factory where 250 workers are building advanced clean energy systems, state-of-the-art technologies that use solar power and energy efficiency to save farms and businesses thousands of dollars on their utility bills.<p>I'm here because this business and others like it are showing us the way forward. And in the coming days, I'll be shining a spotlight on innovators across America who are relying on new technologies to create new jobs and opportunities in new industries.<p>That's what companies like Orion are doing, and that's how America will win the future: by outinnovating, outeducating, and outbuilding our competitors. We'll win the future by being the best place on Earth to do business. That's what we're called to do at this moment. And in my State of the Union, I talked about how we get there.<p>It starts by making sure that every single child can get a good education and every American can afford college or career training, because that's what will help light the spark in the minds of innovators and ensure that our people have the skills to work for innovative companies.<p>We also need to make sure that America can move goods and information as fast as any of our competitors, whether on the road or online, because good infrastructure helps our businesses sell their products and services faster and cheaper.<p>We have to reform our Government and cut wasteful spending so that we eliminate what we don't need to pay for the investments we need to grow, like education and medical research.<p>As we can see here in Manitowoc, we need to ensure that we're promoting innovation, especially in promising areas like clean energy. This is going to be key to growing our economy and helping businesses create jobs. Orion, for example, was able to open with the help of small-business loans and incentives that are creating demand for clean energy technologies like wind power and solar panels.<p>That's why I've proposed a bigger tax credit for the research that companies do. And to give these companies the certainty of knowing there will be a market for what they sell, I set this goal for America: By 2035, 80 percent of electricity should come from clean energy.<p>This is going to help spark innovation at businesses across America. This is going to spur new products and technologies. This is going to lead to good, new jobs. And that's how we win the future, by unleashing the talent and ingenuity of American businesses and American workers in every corner of this country.<p>So to those who say that America's best days are behind them, let them come here, to Manitowoc. Let them come to this once-shuttered factory that is now bustling with workers building new technologies for the world. Let them come here to see the incredible promise of our country. This is the future, and it is bright.<p>Thanks.\" "
"20" "\"Good evening, everybody. Over the past few days, the American people have watched the situation unfolding in Egypt. We've seen enormous demonstrations by the Egyptian people. We've borne witness to the beginning of a new chapter in the history of a great country and a long-time partner of the United States.<p>And my administration has been in close contact with our Egyptian counterparts and a broad range of the Egyptian people, as well as others across the region and across the globe. And throughout this period, we've stood for a set of core principles.<p>First, we oppose violence. And I want to commend the Egyptian military for the professionalism and patriotism that it has shown thus far in allowing peaceful protests while protecting the Egyptian people. We've seen tanks covered with banners and soldiers and protesters embracing in the streets. And going forward, I urge the military to continue its efforts to help ensure that this time of change is peaceful.<p>Second, we stand for universal values, including the rights of the Egyptian people to freedom of assembly, freedom of speech, and the freedom to access information. Once more, we've seen the incredible potential for technology to empower citizens and the dignity of those who stand up for a better future. And going forward, the United States will continue to stand up for democracy and the universal rights that all human beings deserve, in Egypt and around the world.<p>Third, we have spoken out on behalf of the need for change. After his speech tonight, I spoke directly to President Mubarak. He recognizes that the status quo is not sustainable and that a change must take place. Indeed, all of us who are privileged to serve in positions of political power do so at the will of our people. Through thousands of years, Egypt has known many moments of transformation. The voices of the Egyptian people tell us that this is one of those moments, this is one of those times.<p>Now, it is not the role of any other country to determine Egypt's leaders. Only the Egyptian people can do that. What is clear--and what I indicated tonight to President Mubarak--is my belief that an orderly transition must be meaningful, it must be peaceful, and it must begin now.<p>Furthermore, the process must include a broad spectrum of Egyptian voices and opposition parties. It should lead to elections that are free and fair. And it should result in a government that's not only grounded in democratic principles, but is also responsive to the aspirations of the Egyptian people.<p>Throughout this process, the United States will continue to extend the hand of partnership and friendship to Egypt. And we stand ready to provide any assistance that is necessary to help the Egyptian people as they manage the aftermath of these protests.<p>Over the last few days, the passion and the dignity that has been demonstrated by the people of Egypt has been an inspiration to people around the world, including here in the United States, and to all those who believe in the inevitability of human freedom.<p>To the people of Egypt, particularly the young people of Egypt, I want to be clear: We hear your voices. I have an unyielding belief that you will determine your own destiny and seize the promise of a better future for your children and your grandchildren. And I say that as someone who is committed to a partnership between the United States and Egypt.<p>There will be difficult days ahead. Many questions about Egypt's future remain unanswered. But I am confident that the people of Egypt will find those answers. That truth can be seen in the sense of community in the streets. It can be seen in the mothers and fathers embracing soldiers. And it can be seen in the Egyptians who linked arms to protect the national museum: a new generation protecting the treasures of antiquity, a human chain connecting a great and ancient civilization to the promise of a new day.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"21" "\"<i>The President</i>. Thank you, Nittany Lions! Thank you. Thank you so much. Please have a seat. Have a seat.<p><i>Audience member</i>. We love you!<p><i>The President</i>. Oh, I love you back. Thank you. It's great to be here. It is good to be back in Happy Valley. It's good to be back at Penn State. I want to say, first of all, thank you to Graham Spanier, your president; Elizabeth Goreham, the mayor of State College. Congressman Glenn Thompson is here.<p>I met this guy--I hadn't heard of him before, but apparently, he coaches your football team--Joe Paterno is in the house.<p>And one last introduction I want to make. Some of you know I have these military aides. They go with me everywhere. They're from each branch of our Armed Services. They're the ones who carry the football. You've heard of that? So they're really important guys. Well, it just so happens that the military aide with me today is Mr. Sam Price, lieutenant colonel in the Air Force, happens to be Penn State class of '95. So I want to--[<i>Applause</i>]--Lieutenant Price, right here. So we've got some Lions who are taking care of business on Air Force One as well as here on campus.<p>Now, last week, I visited a small town in Wisconsin that was right next to Green Bay. So in the spirit of fairness, I've come to Pennsylvania, not too far from the center of Steeler Nation, to wish Steelers fans good luck in the Super Bowl too.<p>Two years ago, I stole one of the team's owners, Dan Rooney, to be our Ambassador to Ireland. So I've got some love for the Steelers. I also am aware, though, that this State splits up a little bit, so I suspect there may be a few Eagles fans. You're with us Bears fans--[<i>laughter</i>]--sitting at home, watching. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But that small town in Wisconsin and the Borough of State College have something else in common besides championship football teams. These are places where the future will be won. These are the places where the new jobs and the world's best businesses will take root, right here in State College, right here in Pennsylvania.<p>And in the short term, obviously, we've got to focus on the devastation that occurred because of this recession over the last 2 years. And the best thing we can do to speed up economic growth is to make sure that people and businesses have more money to spend. And that's exactly what the tax cut that we passed in December is doing. Because Democrats and Republicans came together, Americans' paychecks will be a little bit bigger this year and businesses will be able to write off their investments and companies will grow and jobs will be created. That's all good in the short term.<p>But the reason I wanted to come here to Penn State is to talk about the long term. The reason I wanted to talk to young people is to talk about the future and how we're going to win it.<p>If we want to make up for the millions of jobs that were lost in this recession, but more importantly, if we want to make sure that America is still a place where you can make it if you try, where you can go as far as hard work and big dreams will take you, then we're going to have to make some serious decisions about our long-term economic health at a time when we're facing stiff competition from other nations for jobs and industries of our time.<p>And I know every young person here feels that pressure. You understand that it's not going to be a cakewalk, this competition for the future, which means all of us are going to have to up our game. We are going to have to win the future by being smarter and working harder and working together. If we want those jobs and businesses to thrive in the United States of America, we're going to have to outinnovate and outeducate and outbuild the rest of the world. That's what we're going to have to do.<p>That means investing in cutting-edge research and technology. It means investing in the skills and training of our people. It means investing in transportation and communication networks that can move goods and information as fast as possible. And to make room for these investments, it means cutting whatever spending we just can't afford.<p>So I've proposed that we freeze annual domestic spending for the next 5 years, which will reduce the deficit by more than $400 billion over the next decade and will bring annual domestic spending to the lowest share of our economy since Eisenhower was President, meaning since way before most of you were born. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Audience member.</i> [<i>inaudible</i>]<p>The President. He said, \\"Not me.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now, just like Americans do every day, Government has a responsibility to live within its means. But we also have a responsibility to invest in those areas that are going to have the biggest impact. And in this century, those areas are education and infrastructure and innovation. And that last area, innovation, is why I've come to Penn State today.<p>Innovation is what this country is all about. Sparking the imagination and creativity of our people, unleashing new discoveries, that's what America does better than any other country on Earth. That's what we do. And this innovation has always been driven by individual scientists and entrepreneurs. I was up in Schenectady, New York, the other day at the GE plant that was Thomas Edison's original plant. And anywhere you go in the country, you will find inventors and businesses that created products that are now sent all around the world. But innovation has also flourished because we as a nation have invested in the success of these individual entrepreneurs, these inventors, these scientists.<p>In this country, from the moment you have a new idea, you can explore it in the world's best labs and universities, you can develop it with a research grant, you can protect it with a patent, you can market it with a loan to start a new business. You've got a chain that takes a great idea all the way through, and that's something that we as a nation have always invested in. It's how we as a people have advanced ideas from the earliest stages of research to the point where you can hand it off and let the private sector run with the ball. It's how investments in basic research led to things like the computer chip and GPS and millions of good jobs.<p>So in America, innovation isn't just how we change our lives, it's how we make a living. And to support American innovation, what my administration is trying to do is not just hand out money. What we're doing is we're issuing a challenge. Because right now some of the most promising innovation is happening in the area of clean energy technology, technology that is creating jobs, reducing our dependence on foreign oil, and--something that every young person here cares about--making sure our planet is a healthier place to live that we can pass on to future generations.<p>So we're telling scientists, and we're telling engineers all across the country, that if they assemble teams of the best minds in their fields and focus on tackling the biggest obstacles to clean, abundant, and affordable energy, then we're going to get behind their work. We as a country will invest in them. We'll get them all in one place, and we'll support their research. And we call these places energy innovation hubs.<p>At Caltech, they're developing a way to turn sunlight and water into fuel for cars. [<i>Applause</i>] You like that. At Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee, they're using supercomputers to find ways of getting much more power out of nuclear facilities.<p>And right here, right here at Penn State, a university whose motto is \\"Making life better,\\" you've answered the call. So today, you are preparing to lead the way on a hub that will make America home to the most energy-efficient buildings in the world.<p>Now, that may not sound too sexy until--[<i>Laughter</i>]--energy-efficient buildings. [<i>Laughter</i>] But listen, our homes and our businesses consume 40 percent of the energy we use. Think about that. Everybody focuses on cars and gas prices, and that's understandable. But our homes and our businesses use 40 percent of the energy. They contribute to 40 percent of the carbon pollution that we produce and that is contributing to climate change. It costs us billions of dollars in energy bills. They waste huge amounts of energy.<p>So the good news is, we can change all that. Making our buildings more energy efficient is one of the fastest, easiest, and cheapest ways to save money, combat pollution, and create jobs right here in the United States of America. And that's what we're going to do.<p>So that's what this energy innovation hub based in Philadelphia is going to be all about. You will help make America a world leader in innovative designs for cost-effective, energy-efficient buildings, from lighting to windows, from heating to cooling--all of it.<p>This is where we need you to push the envelope and ask just how efficient can our buildings be. Can they be self-sufficient, producing just as much energy as they consume? What new discoveries can we make? And soon you'll have a new place to answer these questions, a clean energy campus in the Philadelphia Navy Yard.<p>Now, this campus will be the product of a true collaboration. What, Penn State, you have done is develop an innovative model for how to do research. Government pulled resources from across different agencies to support your effort, from programs that train new workers and new skills to loans for small businesses that will grow from your breakthroughs.<p>Private sectors are already pitching in to help. So IBM is providing supercomputers. Bayer MaterialScience is providing materials for insulation and facades that save energy. PPG Industries is providing walls that reflect sunlight and windows that reflect infrared. Building this campus will support jobs in all of these businesses, and the discoveries made on this campus will lead to even more jobs: jobs in engineering, jobs in manufacturing, jobs in construction, jobs in installation, jobs in retail.<p>And they'll be more than jobs that help support families, they'll be jobs with a national purpose: jobs that make our economy smarter, jobs that make our planet safer, jobs that maintain America's competitive edge in the 21st century.<p>Now, as any scientist will tell you, it's often a challenge to commercialize research. So you come up with a great idea, but moving that new discovery from theory to practice or from the lab to the marketplace, that's a challenge. So that's why today, here at Penn State, I'm announcing what we're calling the Better Buildings Initiative, and it's a plan to dramatically improve the energy efficiency of America's businesses over the next decade.<p>So by reaching this goal, we could save America's businesses nearly $40 billion a year in their utility bills. Think about that: $40 billion. That's money that could be spent growing those businesses and hiring new workers.<p>And I'll just take one extreme example: the Empire State Building. Right now its owners are investing in renovations that will reduce their energy consumption, and this investment will soon pay for itself and save them $4.4 million a year in energy costs--that one building.<p>Now, granted, it's a big building--[<i>Laughter</i>]--so most buildings aren't as big. They're not going to use as much energy as the Empire State Building. But what we're saying to people is, if you're willing to make your buildings more energy efficient, we'll provide new tax credits and financing opportunities for you to do so.<p>And this plan would build on the Home Star program we proposed last year, which would have provided rebates of up to $3,000 for homeowners to make their own homes more energy efficient. And these are upgrades that could save families hundreds of dollars each year in energy costs.<p>See, the problem for both homeowners and businesses is, they'll recover the money that they make by lowering their utility bills, but they may not have the cash up front. And if we can provide you--if we can provide the American people--an incentive, you'll recover that money. You'll get it back. And in the meantime, we're making our entire economy more efficient. So steps like these also can boost manufacturing and private sector jobs.<p>So over the last 2 years, we've offered similar incentives for cities and companies and clean energy manufacturers that wanted to help America become more energy efficient. I'll give you a couple examples. In Maryland, our program helped an energy-saving window manufacturer boost business by 55 percent. In North Carolina, there's a company that makes energy-efficient lighting, hired hundreds of new workers. A company that manufacturers LEDs just down the road from here in Altoona saw their business increase by a million bucks.<p>We're also going to support State and local governments who come up with the best ideas to make energy-efficient buildings the norm. So you show us the best ideas to change your game on the ground, we'll show you the money. We will show you the money, States and local government.<p>To get the private sector to lead by example, I'm also issuing a challenge to CEOs, to labor, to building owners, to hospitals, universities, and others to join us.<p>Now, tax credits mean lost revenue for Treasury. It costs money. And since we've got big deficits, we've got to pay for it. So to pay for it, I've asked Congress to eliminate the billions in taxpayer dollars that we currently give to oil companies. They are doing just fine on their own. [<i>Laughter</i>] So it's time to stop subsidizing yesterday's energy; it's time to invest in tomorrow's. It's time to win the future. That's what our project is.<p>Now, Penn State is a place that knows a little bit about playing to win. Last I counted, Coach Paterno has got more than 400 wins under his belt. But your Nation needs to win too. We need you to be as proud of what you do in the lab as you are of what your football team does on the field. We need you to seek breakthroughs and new technologies that we can't even imagine yet. And especially the young people who are here, we need you to act with a sense of urgency, to study and work and create as if the fate of the country depends on you, because it does. It depends on you.<p>And if we're harnessing all the energy in this room, all the young people in this audience, then I'm confident we'll do it. We can do this because what this university is going to lead will be more than a pioneering research center or an economic engine for Pennsylvania and America for years to come. What you're going to do is lead a modern-day incubator for what sets us apart, the greatest force that the world has ever known, and that is the American idea.<p>If you remember that and keep breaking new ground, if we as a country keep investing in you, I'm absolutely confident that America will win the future in this century, just like we did in the last.<p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"22" "\"This week, we received a report on jobs and unemployment that told us we're continuing to move in the right direction. But we need to get there faster. In the short term, the bipartisan tax cut we passed in December will give an added boost to job creation and economic growth. This is a tax cut that is already making Americans' paychecks a little bigger and giving businesses more incentive to invest and to hire.<p>But ultimately, our true measure of progress has to be whether every American who wants a job can find one, whether the jobs available pay well and offer good benefits, whether people in this country can still achieve the American Dream for themselves and for their children. That's the progress we're after.<p>To get there, we have to realize that in today's global, competitive economy, the best jobs and newest industries will take root in the countries with the most skilled workers, the strongest commitment to research and technology, and the fastest ways to move people, goods, and information. To win the future, America needs to outeducate, outinnovate, and outbuild the rest of the world.<p>On Thursday, I went to Penn State University, whose students and researchers are poised to lead the way on innovation and job creation. They're taking up the challenge we've issued to scientists and engineers all across the country: If you assemble teams of the best minds in your field and focus on tackling the biggest obstacles to providing America with clean, affordable energy, we'll get behind your work. Your Government will support your research.<p>The folks in Pennsylvania have decided to focus on designing buildings that save more energy, everything from more efficient lighting and windows to heating and cooling. This won't just cut down on energy pollution; it can save us billions of dollars on our energy bills.<p>Most of all, discovering new ways to make buildings more energy efficient will lead to new jobs and new businesses. Over the last 2 years, we've seen a window manufacturer in Maryland boost business by 55 percent. A lighting company in North Carolina hired hundreds of workers. A manufacturer in Pennsylvania saw business increase by $1 million.<p>All we did for these companies was provide some tax credits and financing opportunities. And that's what we want to do going forward, so that it's profitable for American businesses to sell the discoveries made by the scientists at Penn State and other hubs of innovation. If businesses sell these discoveries--if they start making windows and insulation and buildings that save more energy--they will hire more workers. And that's how Americans will prosper. That's how we will win the future.<p>Our Government has an obligation to make sure that America is the best place on Earth to do business, that we have the best schools, the best incentives to innovate, and the best infrastructure. Next week, I'll see that kind of infrastructure when I visit Marquette, Michigan, a place where high-speed broadband is connecting a small town to the larger world.<p>Supporting businesses with this kind of 21st-century infrastructure and cutting-edge innovation is our responsibility. But businesses have a responsibility too. If we make America the best place to do business, businesses should make their mark here in America. They should set up shop here and hire our workers and pay decent wages and invest in the future of this Nation. That's their obligation. And that's the message I'll be bringing to American business leaders at the Chamber of Commerce on Monday, that government and businesses have mutual responsibilities, and that if we fulfill these obligations together, it benefits us all. Our workers will succeed, our Nation will prosper, and America will win the future in this century just like we did in the last.\" "
"23" "\"Thank you very much. Please, have a seat. Thank you very much, Tom, for the gracious introduction. I want to make a few other acknowledgments. To Tom Bell, the chamber board president, thank you for helping to organize this. There are some members of my administration I want to make sure are introduced. My Chief of Staff, Bill Daley, is here. Senior Adviser Valerie Jarrett, who is interfacing with many of you and has gotten terrific advice from many of you, is here as well. Secretary Ray LaHood, our Transportation Secretary; Ambassador Ron Kirk, who is working hard to get trade deals around the world; our Small Business Administration Administrator, Karen Mills; my Director of the National Economic Council, Gene Sperling, is here. And I also want to make mention, Fred Hochberg, our Export-Import Bank Chairman; Elizabeth Littlefield, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation President. And I also want to acknowledge a good friend, Paul Volcker, the outgoing Chair of the President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board. Thank you all for being here.<p>Now, Tom, it is good to be here today at the Chamber of Commerce. I'm here in the interest of being more neighborly. [<i>Laughter</i>] I strolled over from across the street, and look, maybe if we had brought over a fruitcake when I first moved in, we would have gotten off to a better start. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I'm going to make up for it.<p>The truth is, this isn't the first time I've been to the chamber or the first time that we've exchanged ideas. Over the last 2 years, I've sought advice from many of you as we were grappling with the worst recession most of us have ever known. It's a recession that led to some very difficult decisions. For many of you, that meant restructuring and branch closings and layoffs that I know were very painful to make. For my administration, it meant a series of emergency measures that I would not have undertaken under normal circumstances, but that were necessary to stop our economy from falling off a cliff.<p>Now, on some issues, like the Recovery Act, we've found common cause. On other issues, we've had some pretty strong disagreements. But I'm here today because I am convinced, as Tom mentioned in his introduction, that we can and we must work together. Whatever differences we may have, I know that all of us share a deep, abiding belief in this country, a belief in our people, a belief in the principles that have made America's economy the envy of the world.<p>America's success didn't happen overnight, and it didn't happen by accident. It happened because the freedom that has allowed good ideas to flourish, that has allowed capitalism to thrive; it happened because of the conviction that in this country, hard work should be rewarded and that opportunity should be there for anybody who's willing to reach for it. And because it happened at every juncture in our history--not just once, not just twice, but over and over again, we came together to remake ourselves, we came together as one Nation and did what was necessary to win the future--that is why I am so confident that we will win the future again.<p>That's the challenge that we face today. We still have, by far, the world's largest and most vibrant economy. We have the most productive workers, the finest universities, and the freest markets. The men and women in this room are living testimony that American industry is still the source of the most dynamic companies and the most ingenious entrepreneurs.<p>But we also know that with the march of technology over the last few decades, the competition for jobs and businesses has grown fierce. The globalization of our economy means that businesses can now open up a shop, employ workers, and produce their goods wherever an Internet connection exists. Tasks that were once done by a thousand workers can now be done by a hundred or in some cases even 10. And the truth is, as countries like China and India and Brazil grow and develop larger middle classes, it's profitable for global companies to aggressively pursue these markets and, at times, to set up facilities in these countries.<p>These forces are as unstoppable as they are powerful. But combined with a brutal and devastating recession, these forces have also shaken the faith of the American people in the institutions of business and government. They see a widening chasm of wealth and opportunity in this country, and they wonder if the American Dream is slipping away.<p>They wonder if the middle class, rather than expanding as it has through our lifetimes, is in the midst of an inexorable contraction. And we can't ignore these concerns. We have to renew people's faith in the promise of this country, that this is a place where you can make it if you try. And we have to do this together: business and Government, workers and CEOs, Democrats and Republicans.<p>We know what it will take for America to win the future. We need to outinnovate, we need to outeducate, we need to outbuild our competitors. We need an economy that's based not on what we consume and borrow from other nations, but what we make and what we sell around the world. We need to make America the best place on Earth to do business.<p>And this is a job for all of us. As a government, we will help lay the foundation for you to grow and innovate and succeed. We will upgrade our transportation and communication networks so you can move goods and information more quickly and more cheaply. We'll invest in education so that you can hire the most skilled, talented workers in the world. And we'll work to knock down barriers that make it harder for you to compete, from the Tax Code to the regulatory system.<p>But I want to be clear: Even as we make America the best place on Earth to do business, businesses also have a responsibility to America.<p>I understand the challenges you face. I understand you are under incredible pressure to cut costs and keep your margins up. I understand the significance of your obligations to your shareholders and the pressures that are created by quarterly reports. I get it.<p>But as we work with you to make America a better place to do business, I'm hoping that all of you are thinking what you can do for America. Ask yourselves what you can do to hire more American workers, what you can do to support the American economy and invest in this Nation. That's what I want to talk about today: the responsibilities we all have--the mutual responsibilities we have--to secure the future that we all share.<p>Now, as a country, we have a responsibility to encourage American innovation. I talked about this quite a bit at my State of the Union.<p>Companies like yours have always driven the discovery of new products and new ideas. You do it better than anybody. But what you also know is that it's not always profitable to--in the short term, at least--for you to invest in basic research. It's very expensive, and the payoffs are not always clear, and they're not always localized. And that's why Government has traditionally helped invest in this kind of science, planting the seeds that ultimately grew into technologies from the computer chips to the Internet.<p>That's why we're making investments today in the next generation of big ideas: in biotechnology, in information technology, and in clean energy technology. We're reforming our patent system so innovations can move more quickly to market. Steve Case is heading up a new partnership called Startup America to help entrepreneurs turn new ideas into new businesses and new jobs. And I've also proposed a bigger, permanent tax credit for all the research and development your companies do in this country. I believe that is a priority.<p>We also have a responsibility as a nation to provide our people with--and our businesses--with the fastest, most reliable way to move goods and information. The cost to business from outdated and inadequate infrastructure is enormous, and that's what we have right now: outdated, inadequate infrastructure.<p>And any of you that have been traveling to other countries, you know it, you see it, and it affects your bottom lines. That's why I want to put more people to work rebuilding crumbling roads, rebuilding our bridges. That's why I've proposed connecting 80 percent of the country with high-speed--to high-speed rail and making it possible for companies to put high-speed Internet coverage in the reach of virtually all Americans.<p>You understand the importance of this. The fact is, the Chamber of Commerce and the AFL-CIO don't agree on a whole lot. Tom Donohue and Richard Trumka are not Facebook friends. [<i>Laughter</i>] Well, maybe--I don't think you are, anyway. [<i>Laughter</i>] I didn't check on this, but--[<i>Laughter</i>]. But they agree on the need to build a 21st-century infrastructure. And I want to thank the chamber for pushing Congress to make more infrastructure investments and to do so in the most cost-effective way possible: with tax dollars that leverage private capital and with projects that are determined not by politics, but by what's best for our economy.<p>Third responsibility that we have as a nation is to invest in the skills and education of our young people. If we expect companies to do business and hire in America, America needs a pool of trained, talented workers that can outcompete anybody in the world. And that's why we're reforming K-through-12 education. That's why we're training a hundred thousand new math and science teachers. That's why we're making college more affordable and revitalizing our community college system.<p>Recently, I visited GE in Schenectady, which has partnered with a local community college. And while students train for jobs available at the nearby GE plant, they earn a paycheck, and they've got their tuition covered. And as a result, young people can find work, GE can fill high-skill positions, and the entire region has become more attractive to businesses. It's a win-win for everybody, and it's something we're trying to duplicate across the country.<p>Now, to make room for these investments in education, in innovation, in infrastructure, Government also has a responsibility to cut spending that we just can't afford. That's why I've promised to veto any bill that's larded up with earmarks. That's why I've proposed that we freeze annual domestic spending for the next 5 years. Understand what this means. This would reduce the deficit by more than $400 billion over the next decade and bring this spending--domestic discretionary spending--down to the lowest share of our economy since Eisenhower was President. That was a long time ago.<p>Now, it's not going to be enough. We're going to have to do more. Because the driving force on our deficits are entitlements spending, and that's going to require both parties to work together, because those are some tough problems that we're going to have to solve. And I am eager to work with both parties and with the chamber to take additional steps across the budget to put our Nation on a sounder fiscal footing.<p>By stopping spending on things we don't need, we can make investments in the things that we do need, the same way families do. If they've got a fiscal problem, if they've got to tighten their belt, they don't stop paying for Johnny to go to college. They cut out things they don't need, but they still make investments in the things that are going to make sure we win the future. And that's what we have to do as a country: make some smart choices--tough choices, but smart ones.<p>Now, in addition to making Government more affordable, we're also making it more effective and more consumer friendly. We're trying to run the Government a little bit more like you run your business, with better technology and faster services. So in the coming months, my administration will develop a proposal to merge, consolidate, and reorganize the Federal Government in a way that best serves the goal of a more competitive America. And we want to start with the 12 different agencies that deal with America's exports. If we hope to help our businesses sell more goods around the world, we should ensure we're all pulling in the same direction. And frankly, with 12 different agencies in charge, nobody's in charge. So we're going to fix that as an example of how we can make a government that's more responsive to the American people and to American businesses.<p>Which brings me to the final responsibility of Government: breaking down some of the barriers that stand in the way of your success. As far as exports are concerned, that means seeking new opportunities and opening new markets for your goods. And I will tell you, I will go anywhere anytime to be a booster for American businesses, American workers, and American products. We recently signed--[applause]--and I don't charge a commission. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>We recently signed export deals with India and China that will support more than 250,000 jobs here in the United States. We finalized a trade agreement with South Korea that will support at least 70,000 American jobs. And by the way, it's a deal that has unprecedented support from business and labor, Democrats and Republicans. And that's the kind of deal that I will be looking for as we pursue trade agreements with Panama and Colombia, as we work to bring Russia into the international trading system. Those are going to be our top priorities, because we believe Americans have the best products and the best businesses, and if we're out there selling and we're out there hustling, there's no reason why we can't do a lot better than we're doing right now when it comes to our exports.<p>Now, another barrier Government can remove--and I hear a lot about this from many of you--is a burdensome corporate Tax Code with one of the highest rates in the world. You know how it goes: Because of various loopholes and carve-outs that have built up over the years, some industries pay an average rate that is four or five times higher than others. Companies are taxed heavily for making investments with equity, yet the Tax Code actually pays companies to invest using leverage. As a result, you've got too many companies ending up making decisions based on what their tax director says instead of what their engineer designs or what their factories produce. And that puts our entire economy at a disadvantage. We need something smarter, something simpler, something fairer. That's why I want to lower the corporate rate and eliminate these loopholes to pay for it, so that it doesn't add a dime to our deficit. And I'm asking for your help in this fight. I think it can be done.<p>Which brings me to the last barriers we're trying to remove, and those are outdated and unnecessary regulations. I've ordered a Governmentwide review, and if there are rules on the books that are needlessly stifling job creation and economic growth, we will fix them.<p>Already we're dramatically cutting down on the paperwork that saddles businesses with huge administrative costs. We're improving the way FDA evaluates things like medical devices, to get innovative and lifesaving treatments to market faster. And the EPA, based on the need for further scientific analysis, delayed the greenhouse gas permitting rules for biomass.<p>I've also ordered agencies to find ways to make regulations more flexible for small businesses. And we've turned a tangle of fuel economy regulations and pending lawsuits into a single standard that will reduce our dependence on foreign oil, save consumers money at the pump, and give car companies the certainty that they need, all negotiated by the various stakeholders without the need for congressional legislation.<p>But ultimately, winning the future is not just about what the Government can do for you to succeed. It's also about what you can do to help America succeed.<p>So we were just talking about regulations. Even as we eliminate burdensome regulations, America's businesses have a responsibility as well to recognize that there are some basic safeguards, some basic standards that are necessary to protect the American people from harm or exploitation. Not every regulation is bad. Not every regulation is burdensome on business. A lot of the regulations that are out there are things that all of us welcome in our lives.<p>Few of us would want to live in a society without rules that keep our air and water clean, that give consumers the confidence to do everything from investing in financial markets to buying groceries. And the fact is, when standards like these have been proposed in the past, opponents have often warned that they would be an assault on business and free enterprise. We can look at the history in this country. Early drug companies argued the bill creating the FDA would \\"practically destroy the sale of . . . remedies in the United States.\\" That didn't happen. Auto executives predicted that having to install seatbelts would bring the downfall of their industry. It didn't happen. The president of the American Bar Association denounced child labor laws as \\"a communistic effort to nationalize children.\\" That's a quote.<p>None of these things came to pass. In fact, companies adapt and standards often spark competition and innovation. I was traveling when I went up to Penn State to look at some clean energy hubs that have been set up. I was with Steve Chu, my Secretary of Energy. And he won a Nobel Prize in physics, so when you're in conversations with him, you catch about one out of every four things he says. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But he started talking about energy efficiency and about refrigerators, and he pointed out that the Government set modest targets a couple decades ago to start increasing efficiency over time. They were well thought through; they weren't radical. Companies competed to hit these markers. And they hit them every time, and then exceeded them. And as a result, a typical fridge now costs half as much and uses a quarter of the energy that it once did, and you don't have to defrost, chipping at that stuff--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and then putting the warm water inside the freezer and all that stuff. It saves families and businesses billions of dollars.<p>So regulations didn't destroy the industry; it enhanced it, and it made our lives better--if they're smart, if they're well designed. And that's our goal, is to work with you to think through how do we design necessary regulations in a smart way and get rid of regulations that have outlived their usefulness or don't work.<p>I also have to point out, the perils of too much regulation are also matched by the dangers of too little. And we saw that in the financial crisis, where the absence of sound rules of the road, that wasn't good for business. Even if you weren't in the financial sector, it wasn't good for business. And that's why, with the help of Paul Volcker, who is here today, we passed a set of commonsense reforms.<p>The same can be said of health insurance reform. We simply could not continue to accept a status quo that's made our entire economy less competitive, as we've paid more per person for health care than any other nation on Earth. Nobody is even close. And we couldn't accept a broken system where insurance companies could drop people because they got sick or families went into bankruptcy because of medical bills.<p>I know that folks here have concerns about this law. And I understand it. If you're running a business right now and you're seeing these escalating health care costs, your instinct is, if I've got even more laws on top of me, that's going to increase my costs even more. I understand that suspicion, that skepticism.<p>But the nonpartisan congressional watchdogs at the CBO estimate that health care tax credits will be worth nearly $40 billion for small businesses over the next decade--$40 billion, directly to small businesses who are doing the right thing by their employees.<p>And experts--not just from the Government, but also those commissioned by the Business Roundtable--suggest that health insurance reform could ultimately save large employers anywhere from $2,000 to $3,000 per family--your employees and your bottom line.<p>I've said in the State of the Union and I'll repeat here today: I am willing and happy to look at other ideas to improve the law, including incentives to improve patient safety and medical malpractice reforms. And I want to correct a flaw that's already placed an unnecessary bookkeeping burden on too many small businesses, and I appreciate the chamber's help in doing that.<p>But we have to recognize that some commonsense regulations often will make sense for your businesses, as well as your families, as well as your neighbors, as well as your coworkers. Of course, your responsibility goes beyond recognizing the need for certain standards and safeguards. If we're fighting to reform the Tax Code and increase exports to help you compete, the benefits can't just translate into greater profits and bonuses for those at the top. They have to be shared by American workers, who need to know that expanding trade and opening markets will lift their standards of living as well as your bottom line.<p>We can't go back to the kind of economy and culture that we saw in the years leading up to the recession, where growth and gains in productivity just didn't translate into rising incomes and opportunity for the middle class. That's not something, necessarily, we can legislate, but it's something that all of us have to take responsibility for thinking about. How do we make sure that everybody's got a stake in trade, everybody's got a stake in increasing exports, everybody's got a stake in rising productivity because ordinary folks end up seeing their standards of living rise as well. That's always been the American promise. That's what JFK meant when he said, \\"A rising tide lifts all boats.\\" Too many boats have been left behind, stuck in the mud.<p>And if we as a nation are going to invest in innovation, that innovation should lead to new jobs and manufacturing on our shores. The end result of tax breaks and investments can't simply be that new breakthroughs and technologies are discovered here in America, but then the manufacturing takes place overseas. That, too, breaks the social compact. It makes people feel as if the game is fixed and they're not benefiting from the extraordinary discoveries that take place here.<p>So the key to our success has never been just developing new ideas; it's also been making new products. So Intel pioneers the microchip, and then puts thousands to work building them in Silicon Valley. Henry Ford perfects the assembly line, and then puts a generation to work in the factories of Detroit. That's how we built the largest middle class in the world. Those folks working in those plants, they go out and they buy a Ford, they buy a personal computer, and the economy grows for everyone. And that's how we'll create the base of knowledge and skills that propel the next inventions and the next ideas.<p>Right now businesses across this country are proving that America can compete. Caterpillar is opening a new plant to build excavators in Texas that used to be shipped from Japan. In Tennessee, Whirlpool is opening their first new U.S. factory in more than a decade. Dow is building a new plant in Michigan to manufacture batteries for electric vehicles. A company called Geomagic, a software maker, decided to close down its overseas centers in China and Europe and move their R&amp;D here to the United States. These companies are bringing jobs back to our shores. And that's good for everybody.<p>So if I've got one message, my message is, now is the time to invest in America. Now's the time to invest in America. Today, American companies have nearly $2 trillion sitting on their balance sheets. And I know that many of you have told me that you're waiting for demand to rise before you get off the sidelines and expand, and that with millions of Americans out of work, demand's risen more slowly than any of us would like.<p>We're in this together. But many of your own economists and salespeople are now forecasting a healthy increase in demand. So I just want to encourage you to get in the game. As part of the bipartisan tax deal we negotiated, with the support of the chamber, businesses can immediately expense a hundred percent of their capital investments. And as all of you know, it's investments made now that will pay off as the economy rebounds. And as you hire, you know that more Americans working will mean more sales for your companies. It will mean more demand for your products and services. It will mean higher profits for your companies. We can create a virtuous circle.<p>And if there's a reason you don't share my confidence, if there's a reason that you don't believe that this is the time to get off the sidelines, to hire and to invest, I want to know about it. I want to fix it. That's why I've asked Jeff Immelt of GE to lead a new council of business leaders and outside experts so that we're getting the best advice on what you're facing out there. And we'll be holding our first meeting 2 weeks from now, on the 24th, so you can get your e-mails in early with your ideas, with your thoughts about how we keep moving forward to create this virtuous cycle.<p>Together, I am confident we can win the competition for new jobs and industries. And I know you share my enthusiasm. Here's one thing I know: For all the disagreements, Tom, that we may have sometimes on issues, I know you love this country. I know you want America to succeed just as badly as I do.<p>So yes, we'll have some disagreements, and yes, we'll see things differently at times. But we're all Americans. And that spirit of patriotism and that sense of mutual regard and common obligation, that has carried us through far harder times than the ones we've just been through.<p>And I'm reminded, toward the end of the 1930s, amidst the Depression, the looming prospect of war, FDR--President Roosevelt--realized he would need to form a new partnership with business if we were going to become what he would later call the \\"arsenal of democracy.\\" And as you can imagine, the relationship between the President and business leaders during the course of the Depression had been rocky at times. They'd grown somewhat fractured by the New Deal.<p>So Roosevelt reached out to businesses, and business leaders answered the call to serve their country. After years of working at cross purposes, the result was one of the most productive collaborations between the public and private sectors in American history.<p>Some, like the head of GM, hadn't previously known the President and, if anything, had seen him as an adversary. But he gathered his family, and he explained that he was going to head up what would become the War Production Board. And he said to his family, \\"This country has been good to me, and I want to pay it back.\\" I want to pay it back.<p>And in the years that followed, automobile factories converted to making planes and tanks. And corset factories made grenade belts. A toy company made compasses. A pinball machine maker turned out shells. Nineteen forty-one would see the greatest expansion of manufacturing in the history of America. And not only did this help us win the war, it led to millions of new jobs and helped produce the great American middle class.<p>So we have faced hard times before. We have faced moments of tumult and moments of change. And we know what to do. We know how to succeed. We are Americans, and as we have done throughout our history, I have every confidence that once again we will rise to this occasion, that we can come together, we can adapt, and we can thrive in this changing economy. And we need to look no further than the innovative companies in this room. If we can harness your potential and the potential of your people across this country, I think there's no stopping us.<p>So thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"24" "\"Have a seat, have a seat. It is wonderful to be here in the Upper Peninsula with so many Yoopers. How many of you are Green Bay fans too? Yes, I've been seeing too many Green Bay fans lately. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>It is great to be here. It is great to be at Northern Michigan University. We've got some wonderful guests here that I just want to mention. First of all, somebody who is as good a public servant, not just good at what he does, but good at heart and works tirelessly on behalf of the entire State, your senior Senator, Carl Levin, is here. Now, his partner in the Senate could not be here because she's actually leading a Democratic Caucus retreat, but she's been fighting for manufacturing, for broadband, for a lot of things that we're talking about here today. So I just want to acknowledge Debbie Stabenow, who deeply cares about the work that you do up here. <p>I want to thank the great hospitality of Mayor John Kivela, who has been showing me around town. Thank you so much, Mayor Kivela. The president of Northern Michigan University, Dr. Les Wong, is here. And all of you are here. [<i>Laughter</i>] And you guys are pretty special. Absolutely. <p>Before I begin, I just want to say that we are following today's events in Egypt very closely. And we'll have more to say as this plays out. But what is absolutely clear is that we are witnessing history unfold. It's a moment of transformation that's taking place because the people of Egypt are calling for change. And they've turned out in extraordinary numbers representing all ages and all walks of life, but it's young people who've been at the forefront--a new generation, your generation--who want their voices to be heard. And so going forward, we want those young people and we want all Egyptians to know America will continue to do everything that we can to support an orderly and genuine transition to democracy in Egypt.<p>Now, as we watch what's taking place, we're also reminded that we live in an interconnected world. What happens across the globe has an impact on each and every one of us. And that's why I've come to Marquette today, not only because it's beautiful and the people are really nice--which is true--but I've come here because in the 21st century, it's not just the big cities where change is happening, it's also in towns like this where the jobs and businesses of tomorrow will take root and where young and talented Americans can lead. It's towns like this where our economic future will be won. <p>Now, in the short term, the best thing we can do to speed up economic growth is to make sure families and businesses have more money to spend, and that's exactly what--[<i>Applause</i>]. Got a little applause there. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's exactly why we passed those tax cuts in December. That's what it's doing. Because Democrats and Republicans came together, Americans' paychecks will be a little bigger this year and businesses will be able to write off their investments and companies will grow and they'll add workers. But we've got more to do. <p>Our measure of success has to be whether every American who wants a job can find a job; whether this country is still the place where you can make it if you try. In a world that's more connected and more competitive, other nations look at this moment as their moment, their turn to win the jobs and industries of our time. I see things differently. I see this as America's moment to win the future, so that the 21st century is the American century just like the 20th century was. Yes, we can. <p>But to do this, we're going to have to up our game, Marquette. We've got to up our game. To attract the best jobs, the newest industries, we're going to have to outinnovate, outeducate, outbuild. We're going to have to outhustle the rest of the world. That means investing in cutting-edge research and technology, like the new advanced battery manufacturing industry that's taking root right here in the State of Michigan. It means investing in the skills and training of our people, just like it's taking place at this university. It means investing in transportation and communications networks that move goods and information as fast as possible.<p>And to make room for these investments, we're going to have to cut whatever spending we can do without. We've got a real issue with debts and deficit, and so we've got to live within our means. And that means that we've got to cut out things that aren't adding to growth and opportunity in order to invest in those things that are.<p>And that's why I've proposed that we freeze annual domestic spending for the next 5 years. That will reduce the deficit by more than $400 billion over the next decade. It will bring spending to the lowest share of our economy since Eisenhower was President. That's a long time ago. Even I wasn't born then. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So Government has to do what American families do every day: live within our means. But even as we do so, we can't sacrifice our future. I'll just give you guys an analogy. If you're trying to cut back in your family, you might decide, we're not going to go out to dinner so often; maybe we'll skip the vacation; we're not going to remodel the kitchen. But you wouldn't stop saving for your child's college education. You wouldn't stop saving for your own retirement. If your boiler was broken or your roof had a leak, you'd still go ahead and make those investments. <p>Well, the same is true with our country. We've got to cut out the equivalents of eating out and vacations. I know there may be some restaurant owners here--go eat at their restaurants--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but I'm just making a general point. Even as we cut out the things we can afford to do without, we got a responsibility to invest in those areas that will have the biggest impact on our future, and those things are innovation, education, and infrastructure. <p>And that last area--infrastructure--is why I've come here today. Connecting a country of our size has never been easy. Just imagine what Americans experienced when they fanned out from 13 Colonies to settle a continent. If you wanted to get from one coast to the other, it would take you months; it would cost you a small fortune. If you settled in the heartland, you were an island, with no real market to sell your goods or buy what you needed. You might have to wait until the traders came by before you stocked up.<p>So we decided to build a railroad to span a continent, one that would blast through mountains of granite and use thousands of miles of steel and put to work an army of citizens and immigrants to work. It was an endeavor that would also require support of our Government. It didn't just happen on its own. As General William T. Sherman said, \\"Uncle Sam is the only giant I know who can grapple the subject.\\"<p>So even as President Lincoln tried to hold the North and South together, he was determined to see this railroad unite East and West. And private companies joined the charge, racing one another to meet in the middle. And eventually, a telephone operator--a telegraph operator sent out a simple message to the cheers of a waiting nation. The telegraph just said: \\"Done.\\" Done. Now, if he knew that we were still talking about it today, he might have come up with something more inspiring. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But overnight, the transcontinental railroad laid the way for a nationwide economy, not a bunch of local economies, but a nationwide economy. Suddenly, a cross-country trip was cut from months to days. The cost to move goods and mail plummeted. Cowboys drove cattle to railcars that whisked them back east. Entrepreneurs could sell anything, anywhere. <p>After the railroad was completed, a newspaper proclaimed: \\"We are the youngest of peoples. But we are teaching the world to march forward.\\" Teaching the world to march forward. <p>That's who we are. We are a nation that has always been built to compete. And that's why, decades later, FDR set up the Rural Electrification Administration to help bring power to vast swaths of America that were still in darkness. Companies said that building lines to rural areas would be too costly. I mean, big cities already had electricity. But they said: \\"It's too costly to go out into remote areas. It's too costly to come up into the Upper Peninsula.\\"<p>So Americans in these towns went without refrigeration or running water. If you wanted a glimpse of the larger world, your town might run a movie off a small diesel engine. It might not even last the full film. <p>Once power lines were laid down, electricity flowed to farms across the country, transforming millions of lives. There's a well-known story of a Texas family returning home the first night their farmhouse was hooked up, and a woman thought it was on fire. And her daughter said, \\"No, Mama, the lights are on.\\" Think about that. That wasn't that long ago. And Government was there to help make sure that everybody--everybody, not just some, but everybody, not just those who folks could make an immediate profit off of, but everybody--had access to electricity.<p>So years later, as our Nation grew by leaps and bounds, we realized that a patchwork system of back roads and dirt paths couldn't handle the biggest economy in the world. So President Eisenhower helped make it possible to build an Interstate Highway System, and that, too, transformed the Nation as much as the railways had.<p>And finally, we could ship goods and services to places that the railroads didn't reach. It meant that we could live apart from where we worked. We could travel. We could see America.<p>Each of these achievements, none of them just happened. We chose to do them. We chose to do big things. And every American benefited--not just from new conveniences, not just from the jobs created by laying down new lines or tracks or pavement. We benefited enormously from new economic growth, from the scores of businesses that opened near each town's new train station or new power line or new off-ramp.<p>So this is a new century, and we can't expect tomorrow's economy to take root using yesterday's infrastructure. We got to think about what's the next thing, what's the next big thing, and make sure that we're at the forefront, just like we were in the last century. <p>Today, new companies are going to seek out the fastest, most reliable ways to move people, goods, and information, whether they are in Shanghai or in Chicago. So if we want new jobs and businesses here in America, we've got to have the best transportation system and the best communication network in the world. It's like that movie, \\"Field of Dreams\\"--if we build it, they will come. [<i>Laughter</i>] But we've got to build it. We've got to build it.<p>Over the last 2 years, we've begun rebuilding for the 21st century. This is a national project that has meant thousands of jobs for the hard-hit construction industry. And I've now proposed redoubling these efforts. We want to put more Americans to work repairing crumbling bridges and roads. Within 25 years, our goal is to have 80 percent of Americans with access to high-speed rail, which could allow you to go to places in half the time it takes by car. Within 5 years, we want to make it possible for businesses to put high-speed wireless services in reach of virtually every American. <p>And that last part, high-speed wireless, is why I chose to come to Northern Michigan University today. <p>Now let me give you some context. Today, more than 90 percent of homes in South Korea subscribe to high-speed broadband. They just have better networks than we do. In America, the Nation that created the Internet--by the way, because of Government investment; it didn't just happen by itself magically--because of Government R&amp;D, we created the Internet, but yet only 65 percent of households here in America can say the same. When it comes to high-speed Internet, the lights are still off in one-third of our households. One out of every three households in America don't have that same access. For millions of Americans, the railway hasn't showed up yet. <p>For our families and our businesses, high-speed wireless service, that's the next train station; it's the next off-ramp. It's how we'll spark new innovation, new investment, new jobs. <p>And you know this here in Northern Michigan. That's why I showed up, in addition to it being pretty and people being nice. [<i>Laughter</i>] For decades now, this university has given a new laptop to every incoming student. Wi-Fi stretched across campus. But if you lived off-campus, like most students and teachers here, you were largely out of luck. Broadband was often too expensive to afford. And if you lived a bit further out of town, you were completely out of luck, because broadband providers, they often won't build networks where it's not profitable, just like they wouldn't build electrical lines where it wasn't profitable.<p>So this university tried something new. You partnered with various companies to build a high-speed, next-generation wireless network. And you managed to install it with six people in only 4 days without raising tuition. Good job. Good job, Mr. President. By the way, if you give me the name of these six people--[<i>Laughter</i>]--there's a whole bunch of stuff in Washington I'd like to see done in 4 days with six people. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So today, this is one of America's most connected universities, and enrollment is near the highest it's been in 30 years.<p>And what's more--and this is what makes this special--you told nearby towns that if they allowed you to retrofit their towers with new equipment to expand your network, then their schools, their first-responders, their city governments could use it too. And as a result, police officers can access crime databases in their cars and firefighters can download blueprints on the way to a burning building and public works officials can save money by monitoring pumps and equipment remotely. <p>And you've created new online learning opportunities for K-12 students as far as 30 miles away, some of whom can't always make it to school in a place that averages 200 inches of snow a year. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, some of these students don't appreciate the end of school [snow]* days. I know Malia and Sasha get really excited about school [snow]* days. Of course, in Washington, things shut down when there's an inch of snow. [<i>Laughter</i>] But this technology is giving them more opportunity. It's good for their education, it's good for our economy. In fact, I just came from a demonstration of online learning in action. We were with Professor Lubig, and he had plugged in Negaunee High School and Powell Township School in Big Bay. So I felt like the guy in Star Trek. I was being beamed around--[<i>Laughter</i>]--across the Upper Peninsula here. But it was remarkable to see the possibilities for these young people who are able to, let's say, do a chemistry experiment, and they can compare the results with kids in Boston.<p>Or if there's some learning tool or material they don't have immediately accessible in their school, they can connect here to the university, and they're able to tap into it. <p>It's opening up an entire world to them. And one of the young people who I was talking to, he talked about foreign policy and what we were seeing in places like Egypt. And he said, \\"What's amazing, especially for us, is that now we have a window to the entire world, and we can start understanding other cultures and other places in ways that we could never do without this technology.\\"<p>For local businesses, broadband access is helping them grow and prosper and compete in a global economy. In fact, Marquette has been rated one of the top five \\"eCities\\" in Michigan for entrepreneurship. [Applause] That's right.<p>So here's a great example, Getz's Clothiers. The Getzes are here. Where are the Getzes? They're around here somewhere. There they are right there. <p>This is a third-generation, family-owned Marquette institution. They've occupied the same downtown store for more than a century, but with the help of broadband, they were recently listed as one of America's 5,000 fastest growing companies. Now how did they pull that off? <p>Obviously, they've got great products, great service. But what's also true is online sales now make up more than two-thirds of their annual revenue. Think about that. You got a downtown department store; now two-thirds of its sales are online. It can process more than 1,000 orders a day, and its workforce has more than doubled. So you've got a local business with a global footprint because of technology.<p>Now, if you can do this in snowy U.P.--[<i>Laughter</i>]--we can do it all across America. In fact, many places already are. So in Wagner, South Dakota, patients can receive high-quality, lifesaving medical care from a Sioux Falls specialist who can monitor their EKG and listen to their breathing from 100 miles away. In Ten Sleep, Wyoming--I love the name of that town, Ten Sleep; it's a town in Wyoming of 300 people--a fiber optic network allowed a company to employ several hundred teachers who teach English to students in Asia over the Internet, 24 hours a day. You've all heard about outsourcing. Well, this is \\"insourcing,\\" where overseas work is done right here in the United States of America. <p>So we want to multiply these stories--we want to multiply your story--all over the country. We want to invest in the next generation of high-speed wireless coverage for 98 percent of Americans.<p>This isn't just about faster Internet or being able to find a friend on Facebook, it's about connecting every corner of America to the digital age. It's about a rural community in Iowa or Alabama where farmers can monitor weather across the State and market across the globe. It's about an entrepreneur on Main Street with a great idea she hopes to sell to the big city. It's about every young person who no longer has to leave his hometown to seek new opportunity, because opportunity is right there at his or her fingertips. <p>So to make this happen, we're going to invest in research and development of emerging technologies and applications. We're going to accelerate breakthroughs in health and education and transportation, and deploy a new nationwide, interoperable wireless network for first-responders, making sure they've got the funding and the frequencies that they were promised and that they need to keep us safe. It's important. By selling private companies the rights to these airwaves, we won't just encourage private investment and expand wireless access, we're actually going to bring in revenues that lower our deficits.<p>Now, access to high-speed Internet by itself won't make a business more successful or a student smarter or a citizen more informed. That takes hard work. It takes those late nights. It takes hustle. It takes that quintessentially American drive to be the best. That's what's the most important ingredient for our success. <p>But we've always believed that we have a responsibility to guarantee all our people every tool necessary for them to meet their full potential. So if they're willing to work hard, they can succeed. And in a 21st-century economy, that has never been more important. Every American deserves access to the world's information. Every American deserves access to the global economy. We have promised this for 15 years. It's time we delivered on that promise. It's time we delivered on that promise. <p>So connecting our people, competing with the rest of the world, living within our means without sacrificing what's required to win the future, we can do all this because we've done it before.<p>In 1960, at the height of his Presidential campaign, JFK came to Michigan. And it was a moment similar to this one. Other nations were doing their best to try to take our place at the top. And here in Michigan, he made it clear that if we wanted to keep from being knocked off our perch, there could only be one goal for the United States. It could be summed up in one word: \\"first.\\" First. <p>\\"I do not mean first, but,\\" he said. \\"I don't mean first, when. I don't mean first, if. I mean first, period.\\" \\"And the real question now,\\" he continued--[<i>Applause</i>]--\\"the real question,\\" he continued, \\"is whether we're up to the task, whether each and every one of us is willing to face the facts, to bear the burdens, to provide the risks, and to meet our dangers.\\" <p>That was 50 years ago. But things haven't changed in terms of what's required to succeed. <p>And we were up to the task then. I believe we're up to the task today. Time and again, whether westward or skyward, with each rail and road that we've laid, in every community, we've connected with our own science and our imagination, and we forged anew our faith that we can do anything. We do big things. That's who we are. And that's who we're going to have to be again: a young nation that teaches the world to march forward.<p>That's what you're doing up here in U.P. That's what you're doing here at Northern Michigan University. That's what we're all going to do together in the months and years to come. <p>Thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"25" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. There are very few moments in our lives where we have the privilege to witness history taking place. This is one of those moments. This is one of those times. The people of Egypt have spoken, their voices have been heard, and Egypt will never be the same.<p>By stepping down, President Mubarak responded to the Egyptian people's hunger for change. But this is not the end of Egypt's transition, it's a beginning. I'm sure there will be difficult days ahead, and many questions remain unanswered. But I am confident that the people of Egypt can find the answers and do so peacefully, constructively, and in the spirit of unity that has defined these last few weeks. For Egyptians have made it clear that nothing less than genuine democracy will carry the day.<p>The military has served patriotically and responsibly as a caretaker to the state and will now have to ensure a transition that is credible in the eyes of the Egyptian people. That means protecting the rights of Egypt's citizens, lifting the emergency law, revising the Constitution and other laws to make this change irreversible, and laying out a clear path to elections that are fair and free. Above all, this transition must bring all of Egypt's voices to the table. For the spirit of peaceful protest and perseverance that the Egyptian people have shown can serve as a powerful wind at the back of this change.<p>The United States will continue to be a friend and partner to Egypt. We stand ready to provide whatever assistance is necessary--and asked for--to pursue a credible transition to a democracy. I'm also confident that the same ingenuity and entrepreneurial spirit that the young people of Egypt have shown in recent days can be harnessed to create new opportunity: jobs and businesses that allow the extraordinary potential of this generation to take flight. And I know that a democratic Egypt can advance its role of responsible leadership not only in the region, but around the world.<p>Egypt has played a pivotal role in human history for over 6,000 years. But over the last few weeks, the wheel of history turned at a blinding pace as the Egyptian people demanded their universal rights.<p>We saw mothers and fathers carrying their children on their shoulders to show them what true freedom might look like. We saw a young Egyptian say: \\"For the first time in my life, I really count. My voice is heard. Even though I'm only one person, this is the way real democracy works.\\" We saw protesters chant, \\"Salmiya! Salmiya!\\"--\\"We are peaceful!\\"--again and again. We saw a military that would not fire bullets at the people they were sworn to protect. We saw doctors and nurses rushing into the streets to care for those who were wounded, volunteers checking protesters to ensure that they were unarmed.<p>We saw people of faith praying together and chanting, \\"Muslims, Christians, we are one!\\" And though we know that the strains between faiths still divide too many in this world and no single event will close that chasm immediately, these scenes remind us that we need not be defined by our differences, we can be defined by the common humanity that we share.<p>And above all, we saw a new generation emerge, a generation that uses their own creativity and talent and technology to call for a government that represented their hopes and not their fears, a government that is responsive to their boundless aspirations. One Egyptian put it simply: \\"Most people have discovered in the last few days . . . that they are worth something, and this cannot be taken away from them anymore, ever.\\"<p>This is the power of human dignity, and it can never be denied. Egyptians have inspired us, and they've done so by putting the lie to the idea that justice is best gained through violence. For in Egypt, it was the moral force of nonviolence--not terrorism, not mindless killing, but nonviolence, moral force--that bent the arc of history toward justice once more.<p>And while the sights and sounds that we heard were entirely Egyptian, we can't help but hear the echoes of history, echoes from Germans tearing down a wall, Indonesian students taking to the streets, Gandhi leading his people down the path of justice.<p>As Martin Luther King said in celebrating the birth of a new nation in Ghana while trying to perfect his own, \\"There's something in the soul that cries out for freedom.\\" Those were the cries that came from Tahrir Square, and the entire world has taken note.<p>Today belongs to the people of Egypt, and the American people are moved by these scenes in Cairo and across Egypt because of who we are as a people and the kind of world that we want our children to grow up in.<p>The word <i>tahrir</i> means \\"liberation.\\" It is a word that speaks to that something in our souls that cries out for freedom. And forevermore, it will remind us of the Egyptian people, of what they did, of the things that they stood for, and how they changed their country and, in doing so, changed the world.<p>Thank you.\" "
"26" "\"A few months ago, I received a letter from a woman named Brenda Breece. I want to share her story because it speaks to what a lot of families are going through, and it offers a good example of the kind of responsibility that's needed in Washington right now.<p>Brenda's a mom and a special-ed teacher from Missouri. Her husband David was employed at the local Chrysler plant for nearly four decades. They've worked hard their whole lives. But like a lot of folks, they've taken some hits over the past few years. When the Chrysler plant closed, David had to take early retirement. His pension helps, but it's half of what he earned before. Meanwhile, because of budget cuts, Brenda has had to buy school supplies for her students out of her own pocket, because it's her job and she cares about those kids.<p>Money has been tight, but they are doing the best they can. And like so many families, they are sacrificing what they don't need so they can afford what really matters. This is what Brenda told me. \\"I feel my family is frugal,\\" she said. \\"We go to the movies once a month, but usually, we just wait for them to come out on TV. I watch the food budget. We combine trips into town, and use coupons, and we trim each other's hair when we need a haircut.\\"<p>So Brenda and her husband know what they can do without. But they also know what investments are too important to sacrifice. Their daughter Rachel is a sophomore in college with a 4.0 grade point average. The tuition's a big expense. But it's worth it, because it will give her the chance to achieve her dreams. In fact, Brenda is looking for a second job to ensure, as she put it, \\"the money is there to help Rachel with her future.\\"<p>Families across this country understand what it takes to manage a budget. They understand what it takes to make ends meet without forgoing important investments like education. Well, it's time Washington acted as responsibly as our families do. And on Monday, I'm proposing a new budget that will help us live within our means while investing in our future.<p>My budget freezes annual domestic spending for the next 5 years--even on programs I care deeply about--which will reduce the deficit by more than $400 billion over the next decade. This freeze will bring this type of spending to its lowest level as a share of the economy since Dwight Eisenhower was President. We've stripped down the budget by getting rid of waste. For example, we're getting rid of thousands of Government-owned buildings that sit empty because they aren't needed. I've also proposed freezing salaries for hard-working Government employees, because everyone has to do their part. And I'm going to make sure politics doesn't add to our deficit by vetoing any bill that contains earmarks.<p>And yet just as the Breece family is making difficult sacrifices while still investing in the future--by helping, for instance, their daughter pay her tuition--my budget does the same. I'm proposing that we invest in what will do the most to grow the economy in the years to come. This means job-creating investments in roads, high-speed rail, and broadband. This means cutting-edge research that holds the promise of creating countless jobs and whole new industries, like clean energy and biotechnology. And it means improving our schools and making college more affordable to give every young person the chance to fulfill his or her potential and receive the job training they need to succeed, because it would be a mistake to balance the budget by sacrificing our children's education.<p>So after a decade of rising deficits, this budget asks Washington to live within its means, while at the same time investing in our future. It cuts what we can't afford to pay for what we cannot do without. That's what families do in hard times. And that's what our country has to do as well. <p>Thanks so much.\" "
"27" "\"Well, good morning, everybody. I am here at Parkville Middle School and Center of Technology outside of Baltimore with Secretary Arne Duncan and Budget Director Jack Lew. And I just came to Parkville on a day where we are unveiling our budget, and I'm doing so for a reason. But before I do that, I just want to thank Principal Buddy Parker, who is showing us around, as well as Susan Yoder, the eighth grade science teacher who we just visited with in her classroom.<p>Over the last few weeks, I've traveled the country talking about what we need to do to win the future. I've talked about the need to invest in innovation so that the next big idea is discovered here in the United States of America. I've talked about the need to invest in high-speed rail and high-speed Internet so that companies can move goods and information faster than ever. And this week, I'll be talking about the need to invest in education--in places like Parkville--so that every American is equipped to compete with any worker, anywhere in the world. <p>Now, these investments are an essential part of the budget my administration is sending to Congress, because I'm convinced that if we outbuild and outinnovate and outeducate as well as outhustle the rest of the world, the jobs and industries of our time will take root here in the United States. Our people will prosper, and our country will succeed. <p>But I'm also convinced that the only way we can make these investments in our future is if our Government starts living within its means, if we start taking responsibility for our deficits. And that's why when I was sworn in as President, I pledged to cut the deficit in half by the end of my first term. The budget I'm proposing today meets that pledge and puts us on a path to pay for what we spend by the middle of the decade. We do this in part by eliminating waste and cutting whatever spending we can do without. <p>As I start--as a start, I've called for a freeze on annual domestic spending over the next 5 years. This freeze would cut the deficit by more than $400 billion over the next decade, bringing this kind of spending--domestic discretionary spending--to its lowest share of our economy since Dwight Eisenhower was President. Let me repeat that: Because of our budget, this share of spending will be at its lowest level since Dwight Eisenhower was President. That level of spending is lower than it was under the last three administrations, and it will be lower than it was under Ronald Reagan. <p>Now, some of the savings will come through less waste and more efficiency. To take just one example, by getting rid of 14,000 office buildings, lots, and Government-owned properties we no longer need, we can save taxpayers billions of dollars. And when it comes to programs we do need, we're making them work better by demanding accountability. Instead of spending first and asking questions later, we're rewarding folks inside and outside Government who deliver results. And to make sure that special interests aren't larding up legislation with pet projects, I've pledged to veto any bill that contains earmarks. <p>Still, even as we cut waste and inefficiency, this budget freeze will require some tough choices. It will mean cutting things that I care deeply about, for example, community action programs in low-income neighborhoods and towns and community development block grants that so many of our cities and States rely on. But if we're going to walk the walk when it comes to fiscal discipline, these kinds of cuts will be necessary. <p>I'm also looking forward to working with members of both parties to take steps beyond this budget freeze, because cutting annual domestic spending won't be enough to meet our long-term fiscal challenges. As the bipartisan fiscal commission concluded, the only way to truly tackle our deficit is to cut excessive spending wherever we find it: in domestic spending, defense spending, health care spending, and spending through tax breaks and loopholes. So what we've done here is make a downpayment, but there's going to be more work that needs to be done, and it's going to require Democrats and Republicans coming together to make it happen.<p>We've begun to do some of this with $78 billion in cuts in the Defense Department's budget plan, by ending tax breaks for oil and gas companies, and through billions of dollars in savings from wasteful health spending, savings we'll use to make sure doctors don't see their reimbursements slashed and that they stay in the system seeing patients. <p>But here's the thing. While it's absolutely essential to live within our means, while we are absolutely committed to working with Democrats and Republicans to find further savings and to look at the whole range of budget issues, we can't sacrifice our future in the process. Even as we cut out things that we can afford to do without, we have a responsibility to invest in those areas that will have the biggest impact in our future. And that's especially true when it comes to education. <p>Right now this school, Parkville, is preparing our kids for the jobs and careers of the 21st century. It's a school that nurtures what students are passionate about and prepares them for success. Students in the magnet program here start out by taking courses in each of four subjects, from applied engineering to environmental science, gradually focusing their studies on one subject over the next couple of years. <p>I'm told the most popular subject at this school is engineering. And that's important because today the most common educational background for America's top business leaders isn't economics. It's not finance. It's not even business. It's engineering. <p>Engineering and math, critical thinking, problem-solving, these are the kinds of subjects and skills that our kids need to achieve success in the 21st century. That's why we're spearheading a drive to prepare more than 10,000 new math and science teachers over the next 5 years and train a hundred thousand more current teachers in those fields. That's why we're pushing forward on a Race to the Top in our schools that has led over 40 States to raise their standards for teaching and learning for less than 1 percent of what we spend on education each year. That's why we're protecting the more than $800 increase that we added to the most widely used Federal scholarships and making the tough choices to put them on a firm footing for years to come. And that's why we're on track to meet the goal that I set when I took office: By 2020, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. <p>I know the American people understand why this is so important. And I think that those of us who are working in Washington need to understand why these investments in the future are so important as well. <p>I mentioned in my weekly radio address a letter that I recently got from a woman named Brenda Breece. Brenda's a mom. She's a special-ed teacher in Missouri, and her husband David lost his job when the local Chrysler plant shut down. So money has been tight for the family, and they've had to sacrifice the little things that they can do without. The one thing that Brenda knows she can't afford to sacrifice is her daughter Rachel's education. And that's why she's looking, as we speak, for a second job to help put Rachel through college and ensure, as she told me, that \\"the money is there to help Rachel with her future.\\"<p>What's true for Brenda's family is true for the larger American family: Education is an investment that we need to win the future, just like innovation is an investment that we need to win the future, just like infrastructure is an investment that we need to win the future. And to make sure that we can afford these investments, we're going to have to get serious about cutting back on those things that would be nice to have, but we can do without. <p>That's what families across the country do every day: They live within their means, and they invest in their families' futures. And it's time we did the same thing as a country. That's how we're going to get our fiscal house in order, that's how we'll grow our economy and attract new jobs to our shores, and that's how we will win the future in the 21st century. <p>So thanks very much, everybody.\" "
"28" "\"Thank you so much. Everyone, please be seated, and welcome to the White House. Some of you have been here before. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>This is one of the things that I most look forward to every year. It's a chance to meet with, and more importantly, honor, some of the most extraordinary people in America and around the world.<p>President Kennedy once said, during a tribute to the poet Robert Frost, that a nation reveals itself not only by the men and women it produces, but by the men and women that it honors, the people that it remembers. I heartily agree. When you look at the men and women who are here today, it says something about who we are as a people.<p>When we award this medal to a Congressman John Lewis, it says that we aspire to be a more just, more equal, more perfect Union. When we award it to a Jasper Johns, it says we value the original and the imaginative. When we award it to a Warren Buffett, it says we'd all like to be so humble and wise and maybe make a little money along the way. [<i>Laughter</i>] And when we award it to former President George H.W. Bush, it says we celebrate an extraordinary life of service and of sacrifice.<p>This year's Medal of Freedom recipients reveal the best of who we are and who we aspire to be. In 1970, John Adams and a handful of unpaid attorneys and law students salvaged some old desks and set up an environmental law firm in New York City. For 36 years, John sat at the same desk. But the group he cofounded, the Natural Resources Defense Council, grew well beyond it. \\"Our first obligation is to the environment,\\" John once said. \\"If people want to protect the environment, we'll support their efforts. If not, we'll play hardball.\\"<p>With more than 1 million members, NRDC has won landmark cases and helped pass landmark laws to clean up our air and water, protect our forests and wildlife, and keep our climate safe. So Rolling Stone put it best: \\"If the planet has a lawyer, it's John Adams.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>As a girl, Marguerite Ann Johnson endured trauma and abuse that actually led her to stop speaking. But as a performer, and ultimately a writer, a poet, Maya Angelou found her voice. It's a voice that's spoken to millions, including my mother, which is why my sister is named Maya. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>By holding on, even amid cruelty and loss, and then expanding to a sense of compassion, an ability to love, by holding on to her humanity, she has inspired countless others who have known injustice and misfortune in their own lives. I won't try to say it better than Maya Angelou herself, who wrote that:<blockquote>History, despite its wrenching pain,<br>Cannot be unlived, and if faced with courage,<br>Need not be lived again.<br>Lift up your eyes upon<br>The day breaking for you.<br>Give birth again<br>To the dream.</blockquote><p>In 1942, an 11-year-old boy from Omaha, Nebraska, invested his entire fortune in six shares of City Services Preferred at $38 per share. The stock soon dropped sharply, devastating his holdings. [<i>Laughter</i>] But true to form, the boy did not panic. He held those shares until the stock rebounded, earning himself a small profit. Things got a little bit better after that. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Today, we know Warren Buffett not only as one of the world's richest men, but also one of the most admired and respected. Unmoved by financial fads, he has doggedly sought out value, put his weight behind companies with promise, and demonstrated that integrity isn't just a good trait, it is good for business. And yet for all the money he's earned, you don't see Warren Buffett wearing fancy suits or driving fancy cars. Instead, you see him devoting the vast majority of his wealth to those around the world who are suffering or sick or in need of help. And he uses his stature as a leader to press others of great means to do the same. A philanthropist is a lover of humanity, and there's no word that fits Warren better. I should point out he's so thrifty I had to give him a White House tie--[<i>Laughter</i>]--the last time he came here to visit. His was looking a little shredded. [<i>Laughter</i>] So then when Bill Gates came, he wanted one too. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>It has been noted that Jasper Johns's work, playing off familiar images, have transfixed people around the world. Historians will tell you that he helped usher in the artistic movements that would define the latter half of the 20th century. Many would say he is one of the greatest artists of our time. And yet of his own efforts he has simply said, \\"I'm just trying to find a way to make pictures.\\" Just trying to find a way to make pictures.<p>Like great artists before him, Jasper Johns pushed the boundaries of what art could be and challenged others to test their own assumptions. He didn't do it for fame, he didn't do it for success, although he earned both. As he said, \\"I assumed that everything would lead to complete failure, but I decided that it didn't matter--that would be my life.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] We are richer as a society because it was. And Jasper, you've turned out fine. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>When you are among the youngest of nine children, you develop a strong sense of empathy. When those children are the Kennedys, you also develop a strong set of diplomatic skills just to be heard. Both traits helped Jean Kennedy Smith follow her siblings into public service. When her brother, President Kennedy, visited Ireland in 1963, he promised he'd be back in the springtime. Thirty years later, it was left to Jean to return for him. As President Clinton's Ambassador to Ireland, Jean was as vital as she was unconventional, helping brave men and women find the courage to see past the scars of violence and mistrust and come together to forge a lasting peace.<p>Touched by experiences in her own life, Jean also founded the VSA program, helping people with disabilities discover the joys of learning through the arts, changing the lives of those it has served. And today, her mission has spread to more than 50 countries and touched millions of lives, ensuring that the family business remains alive and well.<p>By the time she was 21, Gerda Klein had spent 6 years living under Nazi rule, three of them in concentration camps. Her parents and brother had been taken away. Her best friend had died in her arms during a 350-mile death march. And she weighed only 68 pounds when she was found by American forces in an abandoned bicycle factory. But Gerda survived. She married the soldier who rescued her. And ever since--as an author, a historian, and a crusader for tolerance--she has taught the world that it is often in our most hopeless moments that we discover the extent of our strength and the depth of our love.<p>\\"I pray you never stand at any crossroads in your own lives,\\" she says, \\"but if you do, if the darkness seems so total, if you think there is no way out, remember, never ever give up.\\"<p>That's a quote that would be familiar to our next honoree. There's a quote inscribed over a doorway in Nashville, where students first refused to leave lunch counters 51 years ago this February. And the quote said: \\"If not us, then who? If not now, then when?\\" It's a question John Lewis has been asking his entire life. It's what led him back to the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma after he had already been beaten within an inch of his life days before. It's why, time and again, he faced down death so that all of us could share equally in the joys of life. It's why all these years later, he is known as the conscience of the United States Congress, still speaking his mind on issues of justice and equality. And generations from now, when parents teach their children what is meant by courage, the story of John Lewis will come to mind, an American who knew that change could not wait for some other person or some other time; whose life is a lesson in the fierce urgency of now.<p>An optometrist from New York, Tom Little could have pursued a lucrative career. Instead, he guided--he was guided by his faith, and he set out to heal the poorest of the poor in Afghanistan. For 30 years, amid invasion and civil war, the terror of the Taliban, the spread of insurgency, he and his wife Libby helped bring Afghans, literally, the miracle of sight. Last summer, Tom and his team of doctors and nurses were ambushed and senselessly murdered. Today we remember and honor Dr. Tom Little, a humanitarian in the truest sense of the word; a man who not only dedicated his life to others, but who lived that lesson of Scripture: \\"Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.\\"<p>Yo-Yo Ma has been a concert cellist since the age of 5. Despite being a late bloomer--[<i>Laughter</i>]--he went on to record over 75 albums and win 16 Grammys--which means I'm only 14 behind him. [<i>Laughter</i>] While Yo-Yo could have just settled for being the world's greatest cellist, he's said that even greater than his passion for music is his passion for people. And I can testify to this. There are few people you'll meet with just the exuberance and joy that Yo-Yo possesses. And so he's spent much of his life traveling the world, training and mentoring thousands of students, from Lebanon and Korea to the Iraqi National Symphony Orchestra. A member of my Committee on the Arts and the Humanities, he has been named a Messenger of Peace by the United Nations, and we understand why. In his words, \\"When we enlarge our view of the world, we deepen our understanding of our own lives.\\"<p>For Sylvia Mendez, a lifelong quest for equality began when she was just 8 years old. Outraged that their daughter had to attend a segregated school, Sylvia's parents linked arms with other Latino families to fight injustice in a California Federal court, a case that would pave the way for <i>Brown</i> v. <i>Board of Education</i>. The next year, when a classmate taunted Sylvia saying that Mexicans didn't belong there, she went home in tears, begging to leave the school. Her mother wouldn't have it. She told Sylvia: \\"Don't you realize that's why we went to court? You are just as good as he is.\\" And Sylvia took those words to heart. And ever since, she has made it her mission to spread a message of tolerance and opportunity to children of all backgrounds and all walks of life.<p>Growing up in communist East Germany, Angela Merkel dreamed of freedom. And when the Wall finally crumbled and Germany was reunited, she broke barriers of her own, becoming the first East German, and the first woman, to become Chancellor of Germany.<p>To America, Chancellor Merkel and the country she leads are among our closest allies. To me, she is a trusted global partner and a friend. To people around the world, the story of Angela Merkel is an inspiration. \\"Everything is possible,\\" she's said, something the world has seen again in recent weeks. \\"Freedom does not come about of itself. It must be struggled for, and then defended anew, every day of our lives.\\"<p>Chancellor Merkel isn't here today. She'll be visiting me for a visit--an official visit soon, and so I look forward to presenting her the award when she comes.<p>Stan Musial. His brilliance could come in blinding bursts: hitting five home runs in a single day's doubleheader; leading the league in singles, doubles, triples, and RBIs over a single season; three World Series; first-ballot Hall of Famer; worthy of one of the greatest nicknames in sports, Stan the Man. [<i>Laughter</i>] My grandfather was Stan, by the way, so I used to call him \\"the Man\\" too, Stan. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Stan Musial made that brilliance burn for two decades. Stan matched his hustle with humility. He retired with 17 records, even as he missed a season in his prime to serve his country in the Navy. He was the first player to make--get this--$100,000. [<i>Laughter</i>] Even more shocking, he asked for a pay cut when he didn't perform up to his own expectations. You can imagine that happening today. [<i>Laughter</i>] Stan remains, to this day, an icon, untarnished; a beloved pillar of the community; a gentleman you'd want your kids to emulate. \\"I hope I've given [baseball] nearly as much as I've gotten from it,\\" Stan wrote in his memoirs, knocking it out of the park one more time.<p>When Bill Russell was in junior high, he was cut from his basketball team. [<i>Laughter</i>] He got better after that. [<i>Laughter</i>] He led the University of San Francisco to two championships. In 13 seasons with the Boston Celtics, he won 11 championships, a record unmatched in any sport. Won two while also serving as the team's coach, and so happens, he also was the first African American ever to hold such a position as a coach in a major league sports team of any sort. More than any athlete of his era, Bill Russell came to define the word \\"winner.\\"<p>And yet whenever someone looks up at all 6´9´´ of Bill Russell--I just did--[<i>laughter</i>]--I always feel small next to him--and asks, \\"Are you a basketball player?\\"--surprisingly, he gets this more than you think, this question--[<i>laughter</i>]--he says, \\"No.\\" He says: \\"That's what I do, that's not what I am. I'm not a basketball player. I am a man who plays basketball.\\"<p>Bill Russell, the man, is someone who stood up for the rights and dignity of all men. He marched with King; he stood by Ali. When a restaurant refused to serve the Black Celtics, he refused to play in the scheduled game. He endured insults and vandalism, but he kept on focusing on making the teammates who he loved better players, and made possible the success of so many who would follow. And I hope that one day, in the streets of Boston, children will look up at a statue built not only to Bill Russell the player, but Bill Russell the man.<p>The Bronx-born son of Irish immigrants, John Sweeney was shaped by three things. His family--his mother was a maid, his father was a bus driver--instilled in him that fundamentally American idea that through hard work, we can make of our lives what we will. The church taught him our obligations to ourselves and one another. And as a child, he saw that by banding together in a union, we can accomplish great things that we can't accomplish alone. John devoted his career to the labor movement, adding working folks to its ranks and fighting for fair working conditions and fair wages. As the head of the AFL-CIO, he was responsible for dozens of unions with millions of working families. Family, faith, fidelity to the common good, these are the values that make John Sweeney who he is, values at the heart of a labor movement that has helped build the world's greatest middle class.<p>And finally, we recognize our last recipient, not simply for the years he spent as our 41st President. We honor George Herbert Walker Bush for service to America that spanned nearly 70 years. From a decorated Navy pilot who nearly gave his life in World War II to U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, from CIA Director to U.S. Envoy to China to the Vice Presidency, his life is a testament that public service is a noble calling.<p>As President, he expanded America's promise to new immigrants and people with disabilities. He reduced nuclear weapons. He built a broad international coalition to expel a dictator from Kuwait. When democratic revolutions swept across Eastern Europe, it was the steady diplomatic hand of President Bush that made possible an achievement once thought impossible, ending the cold war without firing a shot.<p>I would add that, like the remarkable Barbara Bush, his humility and his decency reflects the very best of the American spirit. Those of you who know him, this is a gentleman, inspiring citizens to become points of light in service to others, teaming up with a one-time political opponent to champion relief for the victims of the Asian tsunami, the Hurricane Katrina, and then, just to cap it off, well into eighties, he decides to jump out of airplanes--[<i>Laughter</i>]--because, as he explains, \\"It feels good.\\"<p>These are the recipients of the 2010 Medal of Freedom. So now it is my great pleasure and my great honor to present them with their medals. <p><i>[At this point, Lt. Cmdr. John F. McCarthy, USCG, Coast Guard Aide to the President, read the citations, and the President presented the medals.]</i><p>I know that people try to observe decorum when they're here in the White House--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but I'd welcome everybody to stand and acknowledge these extraordinary men and women of the 2011 [2010]* Medal of Freedom. <p>All right, everybody. Now you can see why I love this day, and I hope everyone has a wonderful time during the reception. Thank you so much for your attendance. And again, to our honorees, thanks for setting such an extraordinary example for all of us. Thank you very much.\" "
"29" "\"Thank you very much. Everybody, please have a seat. Well, welcome to the White House, everybody. It is great to have you here. What better place to hold our Great Outdoors event than right here inside the East Room. [<i>Laughter</i>] We thought it might be a little chilly for some of you. Not the folks from Montana. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, while an indoor celebration of the great outdoors may seem strange, it is worth noting that the White House is actually inside a 82-acre national park, including an area once found to have the \\"densest squirrel population known to science.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] This is true. So we've got that going for us. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I want to thank Sally for the terrific introduction. I asked her if she brought me any gear. She said that Secret Service wouldn't let her, otherwise she would have. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I also want to make a couple of acknowledgements, people who have worked so hard on this initiative, and I want to make sure that they get all the credit in the world: my great Secretary of the Interior, Ken Salazar, is here; my outstanding Secretary of Agriculture, Tom Vilsack. Tom's still recovering from the Super Bowl--big Steelers fan. [<i>Laughter</i>] Went down to the game, all that stuff. Had the towel. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Administrator of the EPA, Lisa Jackson; Chair of the White House Council on Environmental Quality, Nancy Sutley; Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, Jo-Ellen Darcy; and somebody I am just thrilled to have here because this is my model for public service and just--not only a great former Senator, but also just a class act and a wonderful gentleman, who I have not seen in a while, John Warner of the great Commonwealth of Virginia. Nice to see you, John. Thank you.<p>We also have--in addition to Sally, I want to make sure that everybody knows who's standing behind me here--Dusty Crary, who's a rancher from Rocky Mountain Front Advisory Committee--Dusty; Sam Solomon, the president and CEO of the Coleman Company; John Tomke, president, Sporting Conservation Council, Ducks Unlimited; Troy Uentillie, Navajo Nation member and the Sherman BIE School; and Rebecca Wodder, president of American Rivers. All these folks have just done a lot of work to make this day possible.<p>Now, in 1786, Thomas Jefferson described the view from Monticello. \\"How sublime to look down into the workhouse of nature,\\" he wrote. \\"To see her clouds, hail, snow, rain, thunder, all fabricated at our feet.\\" To most Americans at the time, Jefferson's experience was a familiar one. The vast majority of the continent was wilderness. No matter where you lived, you didn't have to travel far to find acres of open fields and unspoiled forests. <p>But in the years that followed, Americans began to push westward. Cities sprang up along riverbanks and railroad tracks. The Nation grew so fast that by 1890, the Census Director announced that he could no longer identify an American frontier. And yet, in the midst of so much expansion, so much growth, so much progress, there were a few individuals who had the foresight to protect our most precious national treasures, even in our most trying times. <p>So at the height of the Civil War, Abraham Lincoln agreed to set aside more than 60 square miles of land in the Yosemite Valley--land he had never seen--on the condition that it be preserved for public use. Teddy Roosevelt, of course, our greatest conservation President, wrote that \\"there is nothing more practical in the end than the preservation of beauty.\\" Even FDR, in the midst of the Great Depression, enabled the National Park Service to protect America's most iconic landmarks, from Mount Rushmore to the Statue of Liberty. So conservation became not only important to America, but it became one of our greatest exports, as America's beauty shone as a beacon to the world and other countries started adopting conservation measures because of the example that we had set. <p>Protecting this legacy has been the responsibility of all who serve this country. But behind that action, the action that's been taken here in Washington, there's also the story of ordinary Americans who devoted their lives to protecting the land that they loved.<p>That's what Horace Kephart and George Masa did. This is a wonderful story. Two men, they met in the Great Smoky Mountains of North Carolina, each had moved there to start a new life. Horrified that their beloved wilderness was being clearcut at a rate of 60 acres a day, Horace and George worked with other members of the community to get the land set aside. The only catch was that they had to raise $10 million to foot the bill.<p>But far from being discouraged, they helped rally one of the poorest areas in the country to the cause. A local high school donated the proceeds from a junior class play. Preachers held \\"Smokey Mountain Sunday\\" services and encouraged their congregations to donate. Local businesses chipped in. And students from every grade in the city of Asheville--which was still segregated at the time--made a contribution.<p>So stories like these remind us what citizenship is all about. And by the way, last year, Michelle and I, we were able to walk some of the trails near Asheville and benefit from the foresight of people that had come before us. Our daughters, our sons were able to enjoy what not only Teddy Roosevelt did, but what ordinary folks did all across the country. It embodies that uniquely American idea that each of us has an equal share in the land around us and an equal responsibility to protect it.<p>And it's not just the iconic mountains and parks that we protect. It's the forests where generations of families have hiked and picnicked and connected with nature. It's the park down the street where kids play after school. It's the farmland that's been in the family longer than anybody can remember. It's the rivers where we fish; it's the forests where we hunt.<p>These days, our lives are only getting more complicated, more busy. And we're glued to our phones and our computers for hours on end. I have to--Michelle and I, we're constantly having to monitor our kids. \\"Get outside. Turn off the TV. Put away the Skype.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Cars and buses shuttle us from one place to another. We see our kids spending more and more time on the couch. For a lot of folks, it's easy to go days without stepping on a single blade of grass. <p>At times like these, we have to ask ourselves: What can we do to break free from the routine and reconnect with the world around us? What can we do to get our kids off the couch and out the door? And by the way, because I'm a smart husband, I here want to point out all the great things that Michelle is doing with the \\"Let's Move!\\" initiative to help kids stay active and healthy. <p>Today, our open spaces are more precious than ever, and it's more important than ever that we come together to protect them for the next generation. <p>So in my first months of office, I signed a public lands bill that many of you worked on that designated 2 million acres of wilderness, over 1,000 miles of wild and scenic rivers, and three national parks. I'm very proud of that. And some of the Members of Congress who worked with us on that are here today, and we're very proud of them. <p>But at a time when America's open spaces are controlled by a patchwork of groups, from government to land trusts to private citizens, it's clear that conservation in the 21st century is going to take more than just what we can do here in Washington. Just like the story of the Great Smoky Mountains, meeting the new test of environmental stewardship means finding the best ideas at the grassroots level. It means helping States, communities, and nonprofits protect their own resources. And it means figuring out how the Federal Government can be a better partner in those efforts.<p>And that's why last year, we launched the America's Great Outdoors Initiative. Over the last 10 months, members of my administration have held more than 50 listening sessions with over 10,000 people, from hunters and fishermen to tribal leaders and young people. And together, we've laid the foundation for a smarter, more community-driven environmental strategy.<p>To make it easier for families to spend time outside no matter where they live, we're going to work with cities and States to build and improve urban parks and waterways and make it easier to access public lands. <p>To encourage young people to put down the remote or the video games and get outside, we're going to establish a new Conservation Service Corps, so they can build a lifelong relationship with their natural heritage. And this is something I know Ken cares deeply about. <p>To help set aside land for conservation and to promote recreation, we're proposing to fully fund the Land and Water Conservation Fund for only the third time in our history. And we're intending to pay for it with existing oil and gas revenues, because our attitude is, if you take something out of the Earth, you have a responsibility to give a little bit back to the Earth. <p>So these are the right steps to take for our environment. But they're also the right steps to take for our country. They help spur the economy. They create jobs by putting more Americans back to work in tourism and recreation. They help inspire a new generation of scientists to learn how the world works. They help Americans stay healthier by making it easier to spend time outside. And they'll help carry forth our legacy as a people who don't just make decisions based on short-term gains of any one group, but on what's best for the entire Nation in the long run. <p>So working together to protect the environment we share, lifting up the best ideas wherever we find them, preserving the great outdoors for our children and for their children, that's our responsibility.<p>The great Rachel Carson once wrote that \\"The real wealth of the Nation lies in the resources of the Earth: soil, water, forests, minerals, wildlife. . . . Their administration is not properly, and cannot be, a matter of politics.\\" Something more than politics, that was the call echoed by Jefferson and Lincoln and Roosevelt. It's the call that has driven generations of Americans to do their part to protect a small slice of the planet. And it's the call that we answer today. <p>So I'm grateful to all of you for the great work that you've already done. Keep it up. Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"30" "\"Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat. Thank you so much. I am thrilled to be here. I want to first of all thank Paul for that introduction, and I want to thank Paul for agreeing to be part of our administration's new Council on Jobs and Competitiveness. I look forward to our continuing conversations when we meet next week.<p>I also want to acknowledge a wonderful Governor, Governor Kitzhaber, who's here. Thank you so much for all the work that you're doing. And the mayor of Hillsboro, Jerry Willey, thank you for the great work that you do.<p>And I want to thank everybody here at Intel for hosting us here today. We just had a amazing tour. One of my staff, he said, \\"It's like magic.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] He did. That's what he said. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I had a chance to see everything from an electron microscope to the inside of your microprocessor facility, the clean room. And I have to say, for all the gadgets you've got here, what actually most impressed me were the students and the science projects that I just had a chance to see. It gave them a chance to talk about things like quantum ternary algorithms--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and it gave me a chance to nod my head and pretend that I understood what they were talking about. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So that was the high school guys. Then we went over to--[<i>Laughter</i>]--seriously. Then we went over to meet some seventh graders, six girls, and it was wonderful that--all girls--who had started a science program after school that--it involved Legos. So I'm thinking, now this is more my speed. [<i>Laughter</i>] All right? I used to build some pretty mean Lego towers when I was a kid. [<i>Laughter</i>] I thought I could participate. Only these students used their Legos to build models--to build robots that were programmable to model brains that could repair broken bones. So I guess that's different than towers. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's not as good--[<i>laughter</i>]--the towers. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So I couldn't be prouder of these students and all the work that they've done. And in my State of the Union Address, I said that it's not just the winner of the Super Bowl who deserves to be celebrated, but also the winner of science fairs. And since the Packers beat my Bears--[<i>Laughter</i>]--I'm reserving all my celebrating for the winners of the service fairs this year--the science fairs. They deserve applause. They deserve our applause and our praise, and they make me optimistic about America's future, just as visiting this facility makes me optimistic about America's future.<p>I'm also--I'm so proud of everybody here at Intel, not only because of what you do for these students or this community, because--but because of what you do for the country. A few weeks ago, I went to the Chamber of Commerce, and I talked about the responsibility that American businesses have to create jobs and invest in this country. And there are few major companies that take this responsibility as seriously as Intel.<p>In 1968, Intel started as one of Silicon Valley's first startups. And as you grew in leaps and bounds in the eighties and the nineties, you experienced the competitive pressures of globalization, the changes in technology that made it cheaper for many computer companies to start hiring and manufacturing overseas. And over the years, you've done some of this yourself. And yet, by and large, Intel has placed its bets on America.<p>As Paul just mentioned, three-fourths of your manufacturing still happens right here in the United States. This year, you'll hire another 4,000 American workers. You'll create good construction jobs upgrading your facilities and building new plants in Arizona and right here in Oregon.<p>And this kind of commitment has always been part of Intel's philosophy. The founder of this company, the legendary Andy Grove, has said that he's always felt two obligations. One obligation is to your shareholders. But the other obligation is to America, because a lot of what Intel has achieved has been made possible, in Andy's words, \\"by a climate of democracy, an economic climate and investment climate provided by our domicile, the United States.\\"<p>Intel's possible because of the incredible capacity of America to reinvent itself and to allow people to live out their dreams. And so the question we have to ask ourselves now is, how do we maintain this climate that Andy Grove was talking about? How do we make sure that more companies like Intel invest here, manufacture here, hire here?<p>In a world that is more competitive than ever before, it's our job to make sure that America is the best place on Earth to do business. Now, part of that requires knocking down barriers that stand in the way of a company's growth, which is why I've proposed lowering the corporate tax rate and eliminating unnecessary regulations. It also requires getting our fiscal house in order, which is why I've proposed a 5-year spending freeze that will reduce the deficit by $400 billion. That's a freeze that will bring our annual domestic spending to its lowest share of the economy since Eisenhower was President.<p>Now, to really get our deficit under control, we're going to have to do more. And I want to work with both parties to find additional savings and get rid of excessive spending wherever it exists, whether it's defense spending or health care spending or spending in the Tax Code in the form of loopholes.<p>But even as we have to live within our means, we can't sacrifice investments in our future. If we want the next technological breakthrough that leads to the next Intel to happen here in the United States--not in China or not in Germany, but here in the United States--then we have to invest in America's research and technology, in the work of our scientists and our engineers.<p>If we want companies like yours to be able to move goods and information quickly and cheaply, we've got to invest in communication and transportation networks, like new roads and bridges, high-speed rail, high-speed Internet.<p>If we want to make sure Intel doesn't have to look overseas for skilled, trained workers, then we've got to invest in our people, in our schools, in our colleges, in our children.<p>Basically, if we want to win the future, America has to outbuild and outinnovate and outeducate and outhustle the rest of the world. That's what we've got to do.<p>So today I want to focus on one component of that, and that is education. That's what I want to talk about today.<p>Over the next 10 years, nearly half of all new jobs will require education that goes beyond a high school degree. Times have changed. It used to be if you were willing to work hard, you could go to a factory, and you might be able to get a job that lasts 20 years, provide good benefits, provide decent salary. These days, those jobs are far and few between. Many of the jobs that are going to exist in the future, that exist now--like the ones here at Intel--require proficiency in math and science.<p>And yet today, as many as a quarter of our students aren't even finishing high school. The quality of our math and science education lags behind many other nations. As we just heard Paul say, companies like Intel struggle to hire American workers who have the skills that fit their needs.<p>So we can't win the future if we lose the race to educate our children. Can't do it. In today's economy, the quality of a nation's education is one of the biggest predictors of a nation's success. It is what will determine whether the American Dream survives. And so it's the responsibility of all of us to get this right: parents, teachers, students, workers, business, and government. We're all going to have to focus on this like a laser.<p>And over the past 2 years, my administration's guiding philosophy has been that when it comes to reforming our schools, Washington shouldn't try to dictate all the answers. What we should be doing is rewarding and replicating the success of schools that have figured out a way to raise their standards and improve student performance.<p>And so here's what we did. Instead of pouring Federal money into a system that wasn't working, we launched a competition. We called it Race to the Top. To all 50 States we said, if you show us reforms that will lead to real results, we'll show you the money.<p>Race to the Top has turned out to be the most meaningful reform of our public schools in a generation. For less than 1 percent of what we spend on education each year, it has led over 40 States--40--to raise their standards for teaching and for learning. And these standards weren't developed in Washington, they were developed by Republican and Democratic Governors throughout the country.<p>Because we know that, other than parents, perhaps the biggest impact on a child's success comes from the man or woman who's sitting--or who is standing in front of the classroom, we've also focused a lot on teaching, on teachers. We want to make teaching an honored profession in our society. We want to reward good teachers. We want to stop making excuses for bad teachers. And over the next 10 years, with so many baby boomers retiring from our classrooms, we want to prepare 100,000 new teachers in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math, fields that will give the students the skills they need for the jobs that exist in places like Intel.<p>To ensure that higher education is within the reach of every American, we've extended--we put an end to unwarranted taxpayer subsidies that used to go to banks, and we put the savings towards making college more affordable for millions of students. And this year, we want to make permanent our tuition tax credit, which is worth $10,000 for 4 years of college.<p>And finally, to make sure anyone can get trained and prepared for whatever career they pursue, we want to revitalize America's community colleges. Not everybody needs to go to a 4-year college. And so we've launched a nationwide initiative to connect graduates that need a job with businesses that need their skills.<p>And we've drawn lessons from Intel's experience. For years, Intel has recognized the value of these kinds of partnerships between schools and businesses. This company understands that your success depends on a pipeline of skilled workers who are ready to fill high-tech jobs.<p>And so over the last decade, you've invested $50 million to support education in the State of Oregon. You've started programs--[<i>Applause</i>]. That's worth applause. You've started programs that get kids interested in engineering and technology as early as elementary school, like those six girls that I met. You've sponsored mentoring and engineering competitions for poor and underserved high school students. Your employer--your employees volunteer--some of you probably here have volunteered--as tutors in nearby schools and universities. You've helped train 7,000 Oregon teachers over the last 10 years.<p>Your science fairs, your talent searches are some of the largest and most prestigious in the world, producing multiple Nobel Prize winners. And I expect some of the students I met will qualify soon. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And we were so grateful that Intel was one of the four companies that initially joined our administration's nationwide campaign to boost math and science education here in America, as part of a new organization called Change the Equation.<p>So you guys have been pretty busy here at Intel. [<i>Laughter</i>] You've given countless students the chance to succeed, and for that you should be very proud. But you're not just a good corporate role model. You're a corporation who understands that investing in education is also a good business model. It's good for the bottom line.<p>A lot of your employees were engineering undergraduates at Oregon State or Portland State, right? How many Beavers here, by the way? You know my brother-in-law's the coach there. [<i>Laughter</i>] Just wanted to point that out. They're a young team, but they're on the move. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But here's what we know: If you can spark a student's interest in math or science, who would have otherwise dropped out, you might not just change a child's life, you may nurture the talent that one day discovers the breakthrough that changes this industry forever.<p>In fact, before I came here, I read a story about a young University of Oregon graduate. His name is Nabil Mistkawi, and he joined Intel as an engineer in 1993. After working with so many other employees who had doctorate degrees, Nabil decided to go back to school and get his Ph.D. in chemistry at Portland State University. And thanks to Intel, he was able to pay for his degree and keep his full-time job.<p>Now, during that time, Intel was trying to find a faster, more efficient way to process their microchips, but nobody could figure it out. And they asked at least eight other companies and research labs for help. Some said it couldn't be done. Others worked on it for nearly a year with no success. And so they asked Nabil if he wanted to give it a shot.<p>Within 3 days--3 days--he came up with a solution that is now saving this company millions of dollars a year. And I will not embarrass myself by trying to explain what his answer was--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and most of you probably know how it works anyway. [<i>Laughter</i>] The point is, an investment in education paid off in a big way: for Nabil, for Intel, for the millions of workers and consumers who benefited from that discovery.<p>So for all the daunting statistics about our educational failings as a nation, for all the naysayers predicting America's decline--you've been hearing them lately--stories like this give me hope. Stories like these give me confidence that America will win the future. We know what works. We know how to succeed. We know how to do big things. And all across this Nation, in places just like this one, we have students and teachers, local leaders and companies, who are working together to make it happen.<p>When it comes to competing with other nations for the jobs and industries of the future, we are all on the same team: the American team. And if we start rowing in the same direction, I promise you, there is nothing that we cannot achieve. That's what you're proving here at Intel. That's what you're proving in the schools and colleges of this State. That's what America will prove in the months and years ahead.<p>Thank you, guys. God bless you.\" "
"31" "\"I'm speaking to you from just outside Portland, Oregon, where I'm visiting Intel, a company that helped pioneer the digital age. I just came from a tour of an assembly line where highly skilled technicians are building microprocessors that run everything from desktop computers to smartphones.<p>But these workers aren't just manufacturing high-tech computer chips, they're showing us how America will win the future. For decades, Intel has led the world in developing new technologies. But even as global competition has intensified, this company has invested, built, and hired right here in America. Three-quarters of Intel's products are made by American workers. And as the company expands operations in Oregon and builds a new plant in Arizona, it plans to hire another 4,000 people this year.<p>Companies like Intel are proving that we can compete, that instead of just being a nation that buys what's made overseas, we can make things in America and sell them around the globe. Winning this competition depends on the ingenuity and creativity of our private sector, which was on display in my visit today. But it's also going to depend on what we do as a nation to make America the best place on Earth to do business.<p>Over the next 10 years, nearly half of all new jobs will require education beyond high school, many requiring proficiency in math and science. And yet today, we've fallen behind in math and in science and in graduation rates. As a result, companies like Intel struggle to hire American workers with the skills that fit their needs.<p>If we want to win the global competition for new jobs and industries, we've got to win the global competition to educate our people. We've got to have the best trained, best skilled workforce in the world. That's how we'll ensure that the next Intel, the next Google, or the next Microsoft is created in America and hires American workers.<p>This is why, over the past 2 years, my administration has made education a top priority. We've launched a competition called Race to the Top, a reform that's lifting academic standards and getting results, not because Washington dictated the answers, but because States and local schools pursued innovative solutions. We're also making college more affordable for millions of students and revitalizing our community colleges so that folks can get the training they need for the careers they want. And as part of this effort, we've launched a nationwide initiative to connect graduates that need jobs with businesses that need their skills.<p>Intel understands how important these partnerships can be, recognizing that their company's success depends on a pipeline of skilled people ready to fill high-wage, high-tech jobs. Intel often pays for workers to continue their education at nearby Portland State University. As a result, 1 out of every 15 of Intel's Oregon employees has a degree from Portland State.<p>In fact, Intel's commitment to education begins at an even younger age. The company is providing training to help a hundred thousand math and science teachers improve their skills in the classroom. And today I'm also meeting a few students from Oregon who impressed the judges in the high school science and engineering competitions that Intel sponsors across America.<p>One young woman, Laurie Rumker, conducted a chemistry experiment to investigate ways to protect our water from pollution. Another student, named Yushi Wang, applied the principles of quantum physics to design a faster computer chip. We're talking about high school students.<p>So these have been a tough few years for our country, and in tough times, it's natural to question what the future holds. But when you meet young people like Laurie and Yushi, it's hard not to be inspired. And it's impossible not to be confident about America.<p>We're poised to lead in this new century, and not just because of the good work that large companies like Intel are doing. Across America, there are innovators and entrepreneurs who are trying to start the next Intel or just get a small business of their own off the ground. I'll be meeting with some of these men and women next week in Cleveland to get ideas about what we can do to help their companies grow and create jobs.<p>The truth is, we have everything we need to compete: bold entrepreneurs, bright new ideas, and world-class colleges and universities. Most of all, we have young people just brimming with promise and ready to help us succeed. All we have to do is tap that potential. That's the lesson on display here at Intel, and that's how America will win the future.<p>Thanks so much.\" "
"32" "\"Thank you very much. Please, everybody have a seat. It is wonderful to be here, and I just want to say thank you for our hosts at KSU for--or CSU, rather, excuse me, the--for their hospitality. This is the second time I've had a chance to be here and always enjoy interacting both with the team here as well as the surrounding community.<p>I want to make some quick introductions because we've got some special guests. Our SBA Administrator, Karen Mills, is here--there she is. Members of my Cabinet: Secretary of the Treasury Tim Geithner, Secretary of Commerce Gary Locke, Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis, Secretary of Energy Steve Chu. We have Mr. Austan Goolsbee, who's our Chairman of the Economic Council. And my Director of the National Economic Council, Gene Sperling, is here as well.<p>And I want to say a special thank you to Steve Case, who is not only an extraordinary entrepreneur and business leader, but is also--has agreed to chair the Startup America Partnership, which is a public-private partnership to help move the entrepreneurship agenda forward. So thank you so much, Steve, for your presence here today.<p>It is wonderful to be back in Ohio, and we're going to do something a little different today. I did not come to Cleveland to talk. Instead, I came here to listen. I've spent the last month since the State of the Union sharing my vision for an America that remains the best place on Earth to do business, an America that competes aggressively for every job and every industry that's out there, an America that wins the future.<p>Part of that means making sure that government lives within its means, just like you do. And that's why I've designed a budget that freezes spending for 5 years and will help reduce the deficit by $400 billion over the next decade to the lowest level since Dwight Eisenhower was President. Because by cutting back on what we don't need, we can invest in the future. We can invest in the things that are critical to our long-term success: in innovation, so that America stays on the cutting edge; in education, so businesses have access to the skilled workers that they need; in upgrading our transportation and information networks, so companies can move goods and services quickly and cheaply.<p>So winning the future involves outeducating, outinnovating, outbuilding, outhustling everybody else. And it's entrepreneurs like you who will help America do just that.<p>Obviously, the big companies generally get most of the attention in our economy, and the success of large companies is critical to the success of medium and small businesses as well. But it's small businesses like yours that help drive America's economic growth and create two out of every three new jobs.<p>You're the anchors of our Main Streets, small businesses built by folks who live and work in the community and look out for one another that end up determining success or failure of cities and towns. They're the cornerstones of America's promise, the idea that if you've got a dream and you've got the work ethic to see it through, you can succeed. And when our small businesses do well, then America does well.<p>That's why we convened this Winning the Future Forum for Small Business. Along with Cleveland State and local organizations like JumpStart and NorTech, we looked for entrepreneurs, here in northeast Ohio, who live to outhustle, to outinnovate everybody else in manufacturing and construction, in clean energy and biotech, in retail, in restaurants, including the owners of Bubba's BBQ, who I imagine will be one of the more popular participants today.<p>We're here to hear from you directly. We want your stories: your successes, your failures, what barriers you're seeing out there to expand, what you've learned along the way. What would make it easier for you to grow? What would make it easier for you to create new jobs? How can America help you succeed so that you can help America succeed?<p>So we've pulled together five panels for discussion that will be moderated by various members of my administration: panels on inspiring entrepreneurship, on accessing capital, on training workers with the new skills they need for the job, on accelerating a clean energy economy, and on growing our exports so that the rest of the world buys the products that we make here in the United States of America. And we'll have a special sixth session, where I'll join Austan Goolsbee, the Chairman of my Council of Economic Advisers, as he takes questions and suggestions from Americans live on whitehouse.gov and on Facebook.<p>So I'm going to be sitting in on some of the other panels to make sure that my staff is doing their work. And then we're going to come back here, and I'll try to sum up what I've heard.<p>So again, I am very grateful for all of you being here. This is a working session, not a photo op, so I expect all of you will express your opinions clearly. You won't hold anything back. And I'm looking forward to hearing from you and then trying to make sure that we're a good partner in helping you implement the great ideas that you have.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"33" "\"Thank you. Please, everybody have a seat. Well, we just completed a wonderful session with many of you, and let me thank you again for your participation.<p>I want to acknowledge a couple of people I didn't have a chance to mention at the front end. First of all, the mayor of Cleveland, Frank Johnson--Frank Jackson is here. Please give him a big round of applause. And a wonderful Member of Congress, Marcia Fudge is in the house. Where's Marcia? She was here, as well as a great Member of Congress Steve LaTourette. Where's Steve? Is Steve here? All right.<p>Now, as I may have mentioned, I've been here before. This is the third time I've visited Cleveland State University. And every time I come back here, I get more and more excited about what's happening. Each time I come here, you've done more to retool and reinvent yourself. And that's something that the entire city is doing right now. It's reinventing itself.<p>During one of the sessions, somebody asked, why come to Cleveland? And I said, not only are big things happening here, but they're emblematic of what's happening all across the Midwest and all across the country. This is a city that was founded on manufacturing, like a lot of cities in the Midwest. And as the economy changed, a lot of people wrote off Cleveland as a shell of its former self. But you, all of you in the audience, you knew differently. You've been working to reinvent the Rust Belt as the Tech Belt. So you've got fiber optics cables that now run beneath Cleveland's streets, like the railroads and highways of the 21st century, drawing new businesses to open their doors downtown. Your universities, your hospitals, entrepreneurs, businesses have all teamed up to get biotechnology and clean energy from imagination to reality, and as a consequence, you've made Cleveland an emerging global leader in both fields.<p>You're positioning yourselves to attract the jobs, the businesses, and the industries of tomorrow. And that's what I've been spending the past few months talking about, how America is going to win the future. How are we going to reinvent ourselves?<p>We're still an outstanding manufacturer. One of the things that I think there's a misconception about--and I mentioned this during one of the sessions--is that somehow our manufacturing days are past. That's not true. We're still one of the dominant manufacturers in the world. The challenge, the difference is, is that what used to take a thousand people to manufacture might now take 100 or 10 because of increases in productivity.<p>And so it's not good enough just to rely on the old industries. We've also got to invent new ones, and that's what you're doing here. Over the last several months, I've visited with organizations like the Chamber of Commerce. I've traveled to large companies. Just recently, I went to Intel because it's doubling down on America, it's investing in new plants and equipment and amazing facilities. And those large companies, those large institutions are important to our success. But the truth is, when it comes to our economy, it's our small businesses that pack the biggest punch, especially when it comes to employment, which is obviously one of the biggest challenges that we faced coming out of this great recession that we had.<p>Entrepreneurs like each of the ones who are here today create two out of every three new jobs in this country, so you're the cornerstones of the community. You're the sources of pride for working families. When the bet concerns America, you've always gone all in. You've taken risks on behalf of America.<p>And that's why we convened this Winning the Future Forum on Small Businesses, to hear from you, to gain your counsel, to talk about how America can help you succeed so that you can keep helping America succeed.<p>Now, for those who just joined us, we've spent the day in breakout sessions talking about five areas of obstacle and opportunity for America's small businesses: entrepreneurship, how you convert your ideas into companies; capital and how we can increase it so that you have access to capital, to develop those ideas; workforce development, so we can make sure America has the best trained workers in the world and that that's done locally and tailored for the businesses of tomorrow; exports and the obstacles you face to selling your goods and services around the world; and finally, clean energy and what opportunities you see in a 21st-century clean energy economy.<p>We had a terrific discussion. The groups that I participated in were remarkable and had great ideas. I know the members of the Cabinet had fun, which is why we're going to do it again. And over the next several months, what we're going to be doing is teaming up with mayors and Governors and small-business owners to host a series of these jobs forums across the country.<p>And as Steve Case, a successful entrepreneur several times over, came and participated in our discussion on fostering entrepreneurship, I'm pleased to announce that he's agreed to join my jobs council as we work to create jobs and grow the economy and keep America moving forward.<p>I should mention just a couple of things that we heard during some of these breakout sessions. Obviously, there was a lot of emphasis on capital. And we talked about the SBA programs, the Treasury programs that are in place some people may not be aware of that are making a huge difference in providing financing to a lot of startups and a lot of small businesses across the country.<p>But we also heard from you about some important ideas. For example, right now we're already giving a tax break, zero percent on capital gains for investors who invest in small businesses. But a few of you said that that works well. What we could also really use is some tax credits for angel investors, because that early financing oftentimes may be what makes or breaks a company.<p>We talked about the fact that people were encouraged by the investments we're making in clean energy. But one of the most important things we heard could be done--and this is something that Steve is going to be taking up with his Startup America--is creating networking opportunities in particular fields and in particular clusters, because oftentimes it's the contacts that you make in that networking process that may open up job opportunities. And you know what? That doesn't cost the U.S. Treasury anything to set up but may make all the difference in terms of success.<p>When it comes to workforce development, one of the most important things that we've all learned is how important it is to get businesses in early with the universities and the community colleges--a hugely underutilized resource--to develop the actual training program so that young people have confidence if they go through this training program, they've got a job; businesses have confidence that if they hire these young people who went through the training program, they are trained for those jobs.<p>And one of the things that we really enjoyed hearing about was the local efforts of organizations like JumpStart and NorTech, as well as institutions like Cleveland State, in helping to pull all these various elements together. And that's part of the reason we were able to identify some of the most innovative business men and women in northeast Ohio.<p>For those of you who aren't aware, JumpStart has worked to help more than 3,000 local businesses lift off and pull together the resources required to keep them aloft in what they call an entrepreneurial ecosystem.<p>NorTech is building regional innovation clusters, small-business incubators made up of universities and suppliers and manufacturers and more, basically a self-contained supply chain that covers everything from attracting that initial capital to shipping that final product. And these--this cluster concept is so important. We're all familiar with clusters like Silicon Valley. When you get a group of people together and industries together and institutions like universities together around particular industries, then the synergies that develop from all those different facets coming together can make the whole the greater than the sum of its parts.<p>Right here at Cleveland State, you've got a dedicated office that works to help move your research and discoveries from your local labs to your local businesses, and that's making you a local economic development engine that taps into one of America's greatest assets, and that's our entrepreneurial spirit.<p>And recently, we started a new series on the White House web site in which my advisers ask for advice from the public, and we gave it a catchy name called Advise the Advisers. And last week, we asked business owners like you to advise us on what drives you, what helps you, but also what holds you back. What are the barriers you're experiencing that we might be able to help knock down?<p>So we want to hear about your successes and your failures and what you learned along the way. So business men and women from across the country weighed in. And I know that my staff read every single submission because I told them to read every single submission. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And one woman in Columbus summed up the entrepreneurial spirit pretty well. She said: \\"As young as 8 years old, I can remember having business ideas, and I was one of those go-getters out there with a lemonade stand and babysitter clubs and worked as a tutor. I am truly an entrepreneur at heart. It's not easy to give up a good job for the unknown, but I realize that's what must be done in order to realize my dreams.\\"<p>And so many of you have had that same feeling. You're willing to take the risk to realize your dreams, and through that you realize America's dreams.<p>That's not easy, to jump into the unknown. But each of the business owners here today has done it, whether they're in advanced biotechnology or just making really good barbecue. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Just a couple examples of folks who are here: Dr. Albert Green, the CEO of Kent Displays. Is Albert here? Where is he? There he is--Doc. His company is a product of one of NorTech's clusters, the FlexMatters cluster, and that cluster is working to make Cleveland the global epicenter for the development and manufacturing of flexible electronics: the printing of electronic devices on materials that can bend and flex, like clothing and tablets and medical implants. And we gave them a boost with a contract from the Small Business Administration so they can counsel the small businesses that spring from this cluster on things like patents and exporting, and getting these revolutionary products to market faster.<p>Kent State University is an integral part of the FlexMatters cluster. And one of the first spinoffs from their Liquid Crystal Institute was Albert's company. Kent Displays researches, develops, and manufactures flexible liquid crystal displays from a state-of-the-art production line in Kent, and it's the first of its kind in the world. So Dr. Green says, \\"We're turning the tables, manufacturing a high-tech product right here in Ohio and selling it in the United States and selling it abroad.\\" So he almost doubled his staff last year and wants to keep his manufacturing base right here in Ohio. But to keep up with global competition, he's got to be able to invest in new technology, and he's got to draw on a highly skilled local workforce, and he's got to sell his products around the world easily. So he participated today in the exports session today with Gary Locke, our Secretary of Commerce, and he also joined a trade mission to India. And everywhere they went people were asking: Are your products made in America? The world wants American goods. And my administration is going to go to bat for America's businesses around the world. You should know that.<p>And we've also got--Norma Byron is here. Where's Norma? There you are, Norma. Good to see you. Norma is CEO of Ashlawn Energy up in Painesville, and it's a company that provides multimegawatt energy storage solutions using--and I have no idea what this is--vanadium redox fuel cells. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's one of the coolest things I've ever said out loud. [<i>Laughter</i>] So with the help of an award from the Department of Energy's Smart Grid Program, Ashlawn is poised to manufacture a next-generation energy storage system in Painesville that will improve efficiency. It will help families and businesses cut down on energy waste, save money, and reduce dangerous carbon pollution. And they're also retraining local workers with the skills necessary to manufacture new components.<p>Now, not everything has to be high-tech. So in 1923, the Miceli family began making fine Italian cheeses right here in Cleveland. And Joe Miceli, where are you? There he is back there, the CEO of Miceli Dairy Products. Last month, Joe received a $5.5 million loan from the SBA's 504 program, which helps small businesses expand and upgrade their equipment. And it's allowing Joe to break ground this summer on an expansion of their operation off Buckeye Road. Is that right, Joe? So that expansion won't just add 60 workers, it's going to double the output of ricotta cheese--[<i>Laughter</i>]--making this one of the tastiest investments the Government has ever made. [<i>Laughter</i>] And the second phase of expansion will include a new mozzarella and provolone factory. So I want samples. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So you guys are leading the way, and we know there are some things Government can do to help clear the way for your success. We can make sure America remains the best place on Earth to do business by knocking down barriers that stand in the way of your growth. That's why we passed 17 different tax cuts for small businesses, why I proposed lowering the corporate tax rate and eliminating unnecessary regulations to help larger businesses create jobs.<p>We actually talked about this in one of the sessions. We've also got to get our fiscal house in order, and that's why I've put forth a budget that includes a 5-year spending freeze that will help reduce the deficit by $400 billion and will get annual domestic spending down to the lowest levels since Dwight Eisenhower. I want to work with Democrats and Republicans to make even bigger dents in our deficits, find new savings, cut excessive spending wherever it exists.<p>At the same time, we can't sacrifice investments in our future. I was just with a group of young people, and one young man who is in the sciences pointed out that he's concerned that his professors are having more and more trouble getting grants because our R&amp;D budgets in this country had been declining as a relative share to GDP. We've decided we've got to increase that back up. And that's part of our budget, investing in innovation.<p>To facilitate your success, we've got to invest in cutting-edge research and technology. We've also got to invest in the skills and training of our workers. And we've got to invest in the next transportation and communications networks that move goods and information as fast as possible, because if we don't, tomorrow's businesses won't take root here and you'll have a harder time competing with the rest of the world.<p>So if we want to win the future, we're going to have to outinnovate, outeducate, outbuild, and yes, we are going to have to outhustle the rest of the world. And it's stories like yours and it's places like Cleveland that make me absolutely confident that we're going to be able to do that.<p>As I said, it's not always easy to project into the future. Sometimes, the unknown is scary. But that hasn't stopped any of you. And it hasn't stopped America. We've never taken the easy route. We've always done what's hard. We've been willing to take risks to do big things. And we also get each other's backs, just like you're doing here in Cleveland, because we know that when it comes to America's success, there's no room for division between business and labor, and Democrats and Republicans. When it comes to competing for jobs and industries, we are on one team, and that is the American team. We will rise and fall together. I absolutely believe that. And if we keep that in mind, there's nothing we can't do.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"34" "\"Well, I'm not going to make any long remarks in the opening, just to say that since Tim and I moved to Washington, I think our biggest priorities have always been to make sure that we stabilized the capital markets and made sure that they're working for businesses large and small.<p>I think Tim did extraordinary work in our first 2 years to make sure that the capital markets sort of regained some sense of normalcy. But what we're well aware of is that if you're a big company, it's very easy to borrow right now and you can borrow very cheaply. If you're a medium-sized company, you may be doing okay. If you're a small business, capital is still tough, partly, as I understand it, because one of the key ways that small businesses were able to get loans was because it had some sort of assets that they could offer up as collateral. And if those asset values have declined, that makes it that much more difficult. And small community banks that were the source of a lot of lending for small businesses are still working their way through some problems. Many of them were involved in the real estate market one way or another, and that creates difficulties as well.<p>So we know we still have some challenges. I assume that Tim has already described to you what we're doing both on the SBA side and at Treasury to try to loosen up capital for entrepreneurs and businesspeople like yourselves. But with that, we're interested in finding out in more detail where you think we can be most helpful.<p>With that, Tim?\" "
"35" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. Secretary Clinton and I just concluded a meeting that focused on the ongoing situation in Libya. Over the last few days, my national security team has been working around the clock to monitor the situation there and to coordinate with our international partners about a way forward.<p>First, we are doing everything we can to protect American citizens. That is my highest priority. In Libya, we've urged our people to leave the country and the State Department is assisting those in need of support. Meanwhile, I think all Americans should give thanks to the heroic work that's being done by our Foreign Service officers and the men and women serving in our Embassies and consulates around the world. They represent the very best of our country and its values.<p>Now, throughout this period of unrest and upheaval across the region, the United States has maintained a set of core principles which guide our approach. These principles apply to the situation in Libya. As I said last week, we strongly condemn the use of violence in Libya. <p>The American people extend our deepest condolences to the families and loved ones of all who've been killed and injured. The suffering and bloodshed is outrageous, and it is unacceptable. So are threats and orders to shoot peaceful protesters and further punish the people of Libya. These actions violate international norms and every standard of common decency. This violence must stop.<p>The United States also strongly supports the universal rights of the Libyan people. That includes the rights of peaceful assembly, free speech, and the ability of the Libyan people to determine their own destiny. These are human rights. They are not negotiable. They must be respected in every country. And they cannot be denied through violence or suppression.<p>In a volatile situation like this one, it is imperative that the nations and peoples of the world speak with one voice, and that has been our focus. Yesterday a unanimous U.N. Security Council sent a clear message that it condemns the violence in Libya, supports accountability for the perpetrators, and stands with the Libyan people. <p>This same message, by the way, has been delivered by the European Union, the Arab League, the African Union, the Organization of the Islamic Conference, and many individual nations. North and south, east and west, voices are being raised together to oppose suppression and support the rights of the Libyan people.<p>I've also asked my administration to prepare the full range of options that we have to respond to this crisis. This includes those actions we may take and those we will coordinate with our allies and partners, or those that we'll carry out through multilateral institutions.<p>Like all governments, the Libyan Government has a responsibility to refrain from violence, to allow humanitarian assistance to reach those in need, and to respect the rights of its people. It must be held accountable for its failure to meet those responsibilities and face the cost of continued violations of human rights. <p>This is not simply a concern of the United States. The entire world is watching, and we will coordinate our assistance and accountability measures with the international community. To that end, Secretary Clinton and I have asked Bill Burns, our Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, to make several stops in Europe and the region to intensify our consultations with allies and partners about the situation in Libya. <p>I've also asked Secretary Clinton to travel to Geneva on Monday, where a number of foreign ministers will convene for a session of the Human Rights Council. There she'll hold consultations with her counterparts on events throughout the region and continue to ensure that we join with the international community to speak with one voice to the Government and the people of Libya. <p>And even as we are focused on the urgent situation in Libya, let me just say that our efforts continue to address the events taking place elsewhere, including how the international community can most effectively support the peaceful transition to democracy in both Tunisia and in Egypt.<p>So let me be clear: The change that is taking place across the region is being driven by the people of the region. This change doesn't represent the work of the United States or any foreign power. It represents the aspirations of people who are seeking a better life. <p>As one Libyan said, \\"We just want to be able to live like human beings.\\" We just want to be able to live like human beings--it is the most basic of aspirations that is driving this change. And throughout this time of transition, the United States will continue to stand up for freedom, stand up for justice, and stand up for the dignity of all people.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"36" "\"Well, I don't want to waste too much time with a big windup. And I know that everybody here has already been busy today doing some terrific work. I just want to, first of all, thank Jeff. And I want to thank all of you for your willingness to participate in our jobs council.<p>Just in terms of genesis, I think many of you are aware of the fact that 2 years ago we set up a business advisory group to help guide us through a crisis that we hadn't--of the sort that we hadn't seen since the Great Depression--mostly focused on the financial sector, figuring out how we stabilize that, and how we make sure that the credit markets are working, and how we averted a Great Depression.<p>We have done that. The economy is now growing. In many sectors we're seeing recovery. But the biggest challenge that we're seeing right now is the fact that unemployment is still way too high all across the country. And so what we wanted to do was retool.<p>It's critical for us to have input from folks who are actually hiring, putting people to work, making payroll, making the products and services that make our economy so powerful. But we want to make sure that we narrowed the focus to think about how do we ensure, A, that we're putting people to work right now, but also how do we lay the foundation for us to win the future over the long term.<p>This is obviously a theme that I talked about during the State of the Union. It is my belief that we have all the pieces in place for us to make sure that the 21st century is the American century just like the 20th was. But we're going to have to up our game in this newly competitive world. And that means that we've got to outeducate every other country in the world. We're going to have to outinnovate every country in the world. We've got to make sure that we've got the best infrastructure to move people and goods and services throughout the economy.<p>I want us to be an economy that is not simply buying from other people and borrowing to do it. I want us to be selling to other people and having some other folks owe us some money. And so it is going to be absolutely critical for us during a period of significant fiscal constraint that we create the kind of public-private partnership that makes that happen. And it's going to be very important for us to get ideas from people who've actually--are actually on the ground right now, trying to build your businesses and operate in a extraordinarily competitive world.<p>So my main purpose here today at this first meeting, I think, is to listen, to get a sense of where all of you think the economy is right now, what kinds of steps we need to be taking. As I talked about during the State of the Union, we want to remove any barriers and any impediments that are preventing you from success and from growth. At the same time, we want to put a challenge to America's businesses that even as we're working with you to streamline regulations, to reform our tax system, to take other steps that have been sitting on the shelf for quite some time--under both Democratic and Republican Presidents--we want to make sure that we're also putting a little pressure on you guys to figure out how do we make sure that the economy is working for everybody; how do we make sure that every child out there who's willing to work hard is going to be able to succeed; how do we make certain that working families across the country are sharing in growing productivity and that we're not simply creating an economy in which one segment of it is doing very well, but the rest of the folks are out there treading water.<p>So, Jeff, again, I want to thank you for your extraordinary work. I want to thank all of you for agreeing to participate.<p>Last point I'll make is that I'm not interested in photo ops, and I'm not interested in more meetings. I've got enough photo ops and enough meetings; I have a surplus of that. So I expect this to be a working group in which we are coming up with some concrete deliverables. I don't think that we have to be trying to hit home runs every time. I think if we hit some singles and doubles, if we find some very specific things that this group can help us on and we can work on together, then we can build on that success, and in the aggregate, over time, this will have really made a difference at a critical juncture in our economy.<p>So thank you very much. And with that, I'm going to turn it over to you, Jeff.\" "
"37" "\"Good evening, everybody. Please have a seat. Tonight we continue one of my favorite traditions here at the White House by celebrating the music that's at the heart of the American story. And as we come to the end of Black History Month, I can't think of a better way to do it than by honoring the legendary sound of Motown.<p>I want to start by thanking our performers here tonight: Natasha Bedingfield, Sheryl Crow, Jamie Foxx, Gloriana, Nick Jonas, Ledisi, John Legend, Amber Riley, Mark Salling, Seal, Jordin Sparks, Smokey Robinson, and because we weren't sure that was enough, we thought we might throw Stevie Wonder in there. And obviously, we are grateful for all the other Motown legends who are gracing us with their presence. Thank you for being here.<p>Over the years, this room has hosted some of the most talented musicians in the world, from classical to country. But Motown is different. No one knows exactly when jazz began. Nobody knows who the first person was to sing a freedom song. But we know where Motown came from. We know it was born in the basement of a house on West Grand Boulevard in the Motor City, Detroit. And we know it started with a man named Berry Gordy, who is here with us tonight. Stand up, Berry.<p>Now, apparently Berry tried a lot of things before following his heart into music. A high school dropout, he failed as a record store owner, competed as an amateur boxer, finally took a job earning $85 a week on the assembly line at the local Lincoln-Mercury plant. And it was there, watching the bare metal frames transformed into gleaming automobiles, that Berry wondered why he couldn't do the same thing with musicians and help turn new talent into stars.<p>And before long, he quit his job at the plant, borrowed $800, and set up shop in a little house with a banner across the front that read \\"Hitsville, U.S.A.\\" His family thought he was delusional. [<i>Laughter</i>] But as Berry said, \\"People thought the Wright Brothers had a stupid idea, so I say, 'Bring on the stupid ideas.' \\"<p>As it turned out, Berry could recognize talent and potential better than anybody else in the business. It began with Smokey Robinson, who stopped by the Motown house with a group of friends calling themselves the Miracles, then came one of Smokey's neighbors, a high school senior named Diana Ross, who started out working as a secretary. One of the Miracles brought along his little brother, who invited a 10-year-old blind kid named Stephen Hardaway Judkins to tag along. [<i>Laughter</i>] And then there was a group called the Jackson Five, fresh from amateur night at the Apollo, that Gladys Knight told Berry he just had to see.<p>Pretty soon, the basement studio was turning out hits faster than Detroit was turning out cars. From 1961 to 1971, Motown produced 110 Top 10 hits from artists like Marvin Gaye, the Temptations, the Four Tops, and the Supremes. In the process, Motown's blend of tight lyrics, catchy melodies, and deep soul began to blur the line between music that was considered either Black or White. As Smokey Robinson said: \\"I recognized the bridges that were crossed, the racial problems and the barriers that we broke down with music. I recognized that because I lived it.\\"<p>Along the way, songs like \\"Dancing in the Streets\\" and \\"What's Going On\\" became the soundtrack of the civil rights era. Black artists began soaring to the top of the pop charts for the first time. And at concerts in the South, Motown groups literally brought people together, insisting that the ropes traditionally used to separate Black and White audience members be taken down.<p>So today, more than 50 years later, that's the Motown legacy. Born at a time of so much struggle, so much strife, it taught us that what unites us will always be stronger than what divides us. And in the decades since, those catchy beats and simple chords have influenced generations of musicians, from Sheryl Crow to the Jonas Brothers.<p>So to everybody watching, both here and at home, let's take a trip back to that little studio in Detroit and enjoy the unmistakable sound of Motown. Thank you very much.\" "
"38" "\"Over the last month, I've been traveling the country, talking to Americans about how we can outeducate, outinnovate, and outbuild the rest of the world. Doing that will require a Government that lives within its means and cuts whatever spending we can afford to do without. But it will also require investing in our Nation's future: training and educating our workers; increasing our commitment to research and technology; building new roads and bridges, high-speed rail and high-speed Internet. <p>In cities and towns throughout America, I've seen the benefits of these investments. The schools and colleges of Oregon are providing Intel, the State's largest private employer, with a steady stream of highly educated workers and engineers. At Parkville Middle School outside of Baltimore, engineering is the most popular subject, thanks to the outstanding teachers who are inspiring students to focus on their math and science skills. <p>In Wisconsin, a company called Orion is putting hundreds of people to work manufacturing energy-efficient lights in a once-shuttered plant. And in the small community of Marquette, in Michigan's Upper Peninsula, widely accessible high-speed internet has allowed students and entrepreneurs to connect to the global economy. In fact, one small business, a third-generation, family-owned clothing shop called Getz's, is now selling their products online, which has helped them to double their workforce and make them one of America's 5,000 fastest growing companies in a recent listing. <p>Each of these places reminds us that investments in education, innovation, and infrastructure are an essential downpayment on our future. But they also remind us that the only way we can afford these investments is by getting our fiscal house in order. Just like any family, we have to live within our means to make room for the things we absolutely need. <p>That's why I've called for a freeze on annual domestic spending over the next 5 years, a freeze that would cut the deficit by more than $400 billion over the next decade, bringing this kind of spending to its lowest share of our economy since Dwight Eisenhower was President. Just to be clear, that's lower than it was under the past three administrations and lower than it was under Ronald Reagan. <p>Now, putting this budget freeze in place will require tough choices. That's why I've frozen salaries for hard-working civil servants for 3 years and proposed cutting programs I care deeply about, like community action programs in low-income neighborhoods. I'm not taking these steps lightly, but I'm taking them because our economic future demands it.<p>Still, a freeze in annual domestic spending is just a start. If we're serious about tackling our long-run fiscal challenges, we also need to cut excessive spending wherever we find it, in defense spending, spending in Medicare and Medicaid, and spending through tax breaks and loopholes. <p>I am willing to consider any serious ideas to help us reduce the deficit, no matter what party is proposing them. But instead of cutting the investments in education and innovation we need to outcompete the rest of the world, we need a balanced approach to deficit reduction. We all need to be willing to sacrifice, but we can't sacrifice our future. <p>Next week, Congress will focus on a short-term budget. For the sake of our people and our economy, we cannot allow gridlock to prevail. Both Democratic and Republican leaders in the House and Senate have said they believe it's important to keep the Government running while we work together on a plan to reduce our long-term deficit. <p>Given that, I urge and expect them to find common ground so we can accelerate, not impede, economic growth. It won't be easy. There will be plenty of debates and disagreements, and neither party will get everything it wants. Both sides will have to compromise. <p>That's what it will take to do what's right for our country. And I look forward to working with members of both parties to produce a responsible budget that cuts what we can't afford, sharpens America's competitive edge in the world, and helps us win the future.<p>Thanks, everybody, and have a great weekend.\" "
"39" "\"Well, good evening, everybody. Welcome to the White House. I want to start by acknowledging your outstanding chair, Christine Gregoire, for her wonderful work, and your vice chair, Dave Heineman, for his wonderful work. Thank you very much.<p>I want to welcome some of you back, and I want to welcome those who are here for the first time. I know some of you may be confused and think this is the Oscars. [<i>Laughter</i>] There are some similarities. First of all, everybody looks spectacular. And the second thing is, if I speak too long, the music will start playing. [<i>Laughter</i>] So I'm going to be very brief.<p>I know that the last couple of years have not been easy in a lot of your States. People have been struggling. Folks have lost jobs. Businesses have shuttered. We went through the toughest recession since the Great Depression. And nobody has felt it more than folks back home, and you see it each and every day. You have to respond in ways that go beyond just ideology or rhetoric. <p>The thing about Governors is you're in charge and people know where to find you and they expect you to help them during tough times. And many of you over the last 2 years have done extraordinary work. Many of you are expected for the next 2 years, next 4 years, or however long it may be, to do extraordinary work.<p>The main message I want to deliver tonight, in addition to asking you to have some fun this evening, is to know that you've got a partner here in the White House. If you look around the room, we come from a lot of different parts of the country, and people may have different perspectives, but one thing that we all absolutely share is the belief in the American Dream and the confidence that when our people get opportunities, they've got the ingenuity and the stick-to-it-ness and the drive to succeed.<p>And our job is to make sure that we are doing everything possible to ensure that each child gets a good education; that somebody who has a great idea is able to start a business and run with it; that we're looking after our people, including those who are most vulnerable; and that we're going to be bequeathing to the next generation the kind of America that will make us proud and assuring that the 21st century will be the American century just like the 20th century was.<p>We can't do that by ourselves. There's extraordinary diversity among our States, and that's a great strength. That's why our Federal system is the laboratory for democracy, because in each of your States, you guys are trying all kinds of things. And oftentimes, your best ideas end up percolating up and becoming models and templates for the country.<p>But we're also one Nation, and our goal has to be to find ways to find common ground and to work together, and I'm confident that we can do that moving forward.<p>So I want to propose a toast, not only to all the Governors who are here, but also to all their spouses, who put up with life in politics. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's not always easy, but I hope your families, given all the sacrifices you're making, feel that it's worth it, because I certainly believe that the work that you're doing each and every day is making an extraordinary contribution to our country.<p>Thank you very much. Cheers.<p><i>[At this point, the President offered a toast.]</i><p>And with that, I'd like Christine to come up and offer a few words as well.<p><i>[Governor Christine O. Gregoire of Washington made brief remarks, followed by a toast to the President.]</i><p><i>The President</i>. All right. Let's start dinner, and everybody have fun.\" "
"40" "\"Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. Thank you so much. Well, thank you, Joe. Thank you to the members of my Cabinet and my administration who are here. Thank you, Governor Gregoire and Governor Heineman, for your outstanding leadership. And I also want to acknowledge Ray Scheppach--where's Ray? There he is--who's been NGA's executive director for 28 years, and this is his final meeting. So, Ray, thank you for your extraordinary service. Thank you.<p>So I hope everybody had fun last night. I know that you had a wonderful time listening to Michelle and Jill. Joe's main function is to provide a buffer between me and them so that I don't have to follow them immediately--[<i>Laughter</i>]--because they are really good and care deeply about what's happening with military families. <p>I hope today all of you feel free to make yourselves at home. For those of you with a particular interest in the next election, I don't mean that literally. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We meet at a moment when all of us--Democrats and Republicans, leaders at the national and the State levels--face some very big challenges. Our country has come through a long and wrenching recession. And as we recover, the question we're going to have to answer is: Where will the new jobs come from, what will the new sources of economic growth be, and how can we make sure that the American Dream remains a reality into the 21st century?<p>Now, in the short term, we came together here in Washington at the end of last year and enacted tax cuts that are already making Americans' paychecks bigger and are allowing businesses to write off major investments. These are tax cuts and changes in the tax credit system that are going to spur job creation and economic growth. And I'm proud that Democrats andRepublicans worked with each other to get it done. <p>In the long term, however, we need to address a set of economic challenges that, frankly, the housing bubble largely papered over for almost a decade. We now live in a world that's more connected and more competitive than ever before. When each of you tries to bring new jobs and industries to your State, you're not just competing with each other, but you're competing with China, you're competing with India, you're competing with Brazil, you're competing with countries all around the world.<p>And that means that we as a nation need to make sure that we are the best place on Earth to do business. We need a skilled and educated workforce, a commitment to cutting-edge research and technology, and a fast and reliable transportation and communications network. That's how we're going to bring new jobs to America, and that's how we're going to win the future. <p>Making these necessary investments would be hard at any time, but it's that much harder at a time when resources are scarce. After living through a decade of deficits and a historic recession that made them worse, we can't afford to kick the can down the road any longer. So the budget debate that we're having is going to be critical here in Washington. And so far, most of it's been focused almost entirely on how much of annual domestic spending--what in the parlance we call domestic discretionary spending--that we should cut. There's no doubt that cuts in discretionary spending have to be a part of the answer for deficit reduction.<p>And that's why, as a start, I've proposed a 5-year spending freeze that will reduce our deficits by $400 billion. The budget that I sent to Congress cuts or eliminates more than 200 Federal programs. And it reforms dozens of others, from health care to homeland security to education, so that rather than throwing money at programs with no accountability or measured results, we're committed to funding only those things that work.<p>All told, the budget cuts I've proposed will bring annual domestic spending to its lowest share of the economy since Dwight Eisenhower. Let me repeat that: Under my budget, if it were to be adopted, domestic discretionary spending would be lower as a percentage of GDP than it was under the nine previous administrations, including under Ronald Reagan's. <p>But we know that this kind of spending, domestic discretionary spending, which has been the focus of complaints about out-of-control Federal spending, makes up only about 12 percent of the entire budget. If we truly want to get our deficit under control, then we're going to have to cut excessive spending wherever it exists: in defense spending, and I have to say that Bob Gates has been as good a steward of taxpayer dollars when it comes to the Pentagon as just about anybody out there, but we're going to have to do more; in health care spending, on programs like Medicare and Medicaid; and in spending through tax breaks and loopholes. That's going to be a tough conversation to have, but it's one we need to have, and it's one I expect to have with congressional leaders in the weeks to come. <p>Those of you who are in this room obviously are on the frontlines of this budget debate. As the Recovery Act's funds that saw through many States over the last 2 years are phasing out--and it is undeniable that the Recovery Act helped every single State represented in this room manage your budgets, whether you admit it or not--you face some very tough choices at this point on everything from schools to prisons to pensions. <p>I also know that many of you are making decisions regarding your public workforces, and I know how difficult that can be. I recently froze the salaries of Federal employees for 2 years. It wasn't something that I wanted to do, but I did it because of the very tough fiscal situation that we're in. <p>So I believe that everybody should be prepared to give up something in order to solve our budget challenges, and I think most public servants agree with that. Democrats and Republicans agree with that. In fact, many public employees in your respective States have already agreed to cuts.<p>But let me also say this: I don't think it does anybody any good when public employees are denigrated or vilified or their rights are infringed upon. We need to attract the best and the brightest to public service. These times demand it. We're not going to attract the best teachers for our kids, for example, if they only make a fraction of what other professionals make. We're not going to convince the bravest Americans to put their lives on the line as police officers or firefighters if we don't properly reward that bravery. <p>So yes, we need a conversation about pensions and Medicare and Medicaid and other promises that we've made as a nation. And those will be tough conversations, but necessary conservations. As we make these decisions about our budget going forward, though, I believe that everyone should be at the table and that the concept of shared sacrifice should prevail. If all the pain is borne by only one group--whether it's workers or seniors or the poor--while the wealthiest among us get to keep or get more tax breaks, we're not doing the right thing. I think that's something that Democrats and Republicans should be able to agree on. <p>Now, as we begin to get our budgets under control, the other thing we can't do is sacrifice our future. Even as we cut back on those things that don't add to growth or opportunity for our people, we have to keep investing in those things that are absolutely necessary to America's success: education, innovation, infrastructure.<p>On education, our approach has been to partner with you to offer more flexibility in exchange for better standards, to lift the cap on charter schools, to spur reform not by imposing it from Washington, but by asking you to come up with some of the best ways for your States to succeed. That was the idea behind Race to the Top: You show us the best plans for reform, we'll show you the money. <p>We're also working with you and with Congress to fix No Child Left Behind, with a focus on reform, responsibility, and most importantly, results. And we're trying to give States and schools more flexibility to reward good teachers and stop making excuses for bad teachers, because we know that the single most important factor in a child's success other than their parents is the man or woman at the front of the classroom. <p>And I had a chance to see this recently. I went over to Parkville Middle School in Maryland, where engineering is now the most popular subject, mainly thanks to some outstanding teachers who have inspired students to focus on their math and their science skills. So we know teachers can make a difference, and we want to help you have the very best teachers in the classroom.<p>We also have to invest in innovation, in American research and technology, in the work of our scientists and engineers, and in sparking the creativity and imagination of our people.<p>Now, a lot of this obviously is done in the private sector. But as much as the private sector is the principal driver of innovation, it's often hesitant to invest in the unknown, especially when it comes to basic research. Historically, that's been a Federal responsibility. It's how we ended up with things like the computer chip and the GPS. It's how we ended up with the Internet. It's also how a lot of your States are already attracting jobs and industries of the future.<p>I went to Wisconsin, for example, a few weeks ago, and I visited a small-town company called Orion that's putting hundreds of people to work manufacturing energy-efficient lights in a once-darkened plant. They benefited from Federal research.<p>In Ohio and Pennsylvania, thanks in part to Federal grants, I saw universities and businesses joining together to make America a world leader in biotechnology and in clean energy. And if you have any doubt about the importance of this Federal investment in research and development, I would suggest that you talk to the cutting-edge businesses in your own State. They will tell you that if we want the next big breakthrough, the next big industry to be an American breakthrough, an American industry, then we can't sacrifice these investments in research and technology. <p>The third way that we need to invest is in our infrastructure, everything from new roads and bridges to high-speed rail and high-speedInternet, projects that create hundreds of thousands of private sector jobs. And I know that in some of your States, infrastructure projects have garnered controversy. Sometimes they've gotten caught up in partisan politics. <p>This hasn't traditionally been a partisan issue. Lincoln laid the rails during the course of a civil war. Eisenhower built the Interstate Highway System. Both parties have always believed that America should have the best of everything. We don't have third-rate airports and third-rate bridges and third-rate highways. That's not who we are. We shouldn't start going down that path.<p>New companies are going to seek out the fastest, most reliable ways to move people, goods, and information, whether they're in Chicago or they're in Shanghai. And I want them to be here, in the United States. So to those who say that we can't afford to make investments in infrastructure, I say we can't afford not to make investments in infrastructure. We always have had the best infrastructure. The notion that somehow we'd give up that leadership at this critical juncture in our history makes no sense.<p>Just ask the folks that I met up in Marquette, Michigan--I was talking to Rick Snyder about this--up in the Upper Peninsula. This is a town of 20,000 people, far away from the hustle and bustle of places like Detroit or Grand Rapids. But because of the wireless infrastructure that they have set up, they've now got--the local department store, third-generation, family-owned department store, has been able to hook up with the university and have access to wireless, and they are now selling two-thirds of their goods online. They're one of the 5,000 fastest-growing companies in America--up in the Upper Peninsula--because the infrastructure was in place to allow them to succeed.<p>And you've got kids in schoolhouses in even more remote areas who are able to plug in to lectures and science fairs anywhere in America because of the infrastructure that was set up. That's a smart investment for every State to make. And the Federal Government wants to be your partner in making those investments.<p>These are the kinds of investments that pay huge economic dividends in terms of jobs and growth. They are the fundamentals that allow some States to weather economic storms better than others. They're the fundamentals that will make some States better positioned to win the future than others. These investments are not just critical for your State's success, they're critical for America's success. And I want to be a partner in helping you make that happen.<p>Which brings me to the final topic that's going to help determine our ability to win the future, and that's getting control of our health care costs. Now, I am aware that I have not convinced everybody here to be a member of the Affordable Care Act fan club. But surely we can agree that for decades, our governments, our families, our businesses watched as health care costs ate up more and more of their bottom line. There's no disputing that. That didn't just happen last year. It didn't just happen 2 years ago. It's been going on for years now. <p>We also know that the biggest driver of the Federal debt is Medicare costs. Nothing else comes close. We could implement every cut that the House of Representatives right now has proposed, and it would not make a dent in our long-term budget, wouldn't make a dent in our long-term deficits, because of health care costs.<p>We know it's one of the biggest strains in your State budgets: Medicaid. <p>And for years, politicians of both parties promised one thing: real reform. Everybody talked about it. Well, we've decided to finally do something about it, to create a structure that would preserve our system of private health insurance; would protect our consumers from the worst abuses of insurance companies; would create competition and lower costs by putting in place new exchanges, run by the States, where Americans could pool together to increase their purchasing power and select from various plans to choose what's best for them, the same way that Members of Congress do, the same way that those who are lucky enough to work for big employers do. <p>And the fact is that the Affordable Care Act has done more to rein in rising costs, make sure everyone can buy insurance, and attack the Federal deficit than we've seen in years. And that's not just my opinion; that's the opinion of the Congressional Budget Office--nonpartisan--the same one that puts out numbers that, when it's handy to go after me, people trot out and say, \\"Boy, these are--look at these numbers.\\" So they're saying we're saving a trillion bucks because of this act on our health care costs. Otherwise, we'd be a trillion dollars more in the red. That's something that we should build on, not break down.<p>Now, that doesn't mean that the job of health care reform is complete. We still have to implement the law, and we have to implement it in a smart and nonbureaucratic way. I know that many of you have asked for flexibility for your States under this law. In fact, I agree with Mitt Romney, who recently said he's proud of what he accomplished on health care in Massachusetts and supports giving States the power to determine their own health care solutions. He's right. Alabama is not going to have exactly the same needs as Massachusetts or California or North Dakota. We believe in that flexibility. <p>So right now under the law, under the Affordable Care Act, Massachusetts and Utah already operate exchanges of their own that are very different--operate them in their own way. And we made sure that the law allowed that. The same applies for other requests, like choosing benefit rules that meet the needs of your citizens or allowing for consumer-driven plans and health savings accounts. <p>And this recognition that States need flexibility to tailor their approach to their unique needs is why part of the law says that beginning in 2017, if you can come up with a better system for your State to provide coverage of the same quality and affordability as the Affordable Care Act, you can take that route instead. That portion of the law has not been remarked on much. It says by 2017, if you have a better way of doing it, help yourself, go ahead, take that route. <p>Now, some folks have said, \\"Well, that's not soon enough.\\" So a few weeks ago, Oregon Senator Ron Wyden, a Democrat, and Massachusetts Senator Scott Brown, a Republican, and Louisiana Senator Mary Landrieu, they proposed legislation that would accelerate that provision. So it would allow States to apply for such a waiver by 2014 instead of 2017.<p>I think that's a reasonable proposal. I support it. It will give you flexibility more quickly, while still guaranteeing the American people reform. If your State can create a plan that covers as many people as affordably and comprehensively as the Affordable Care Act does, without increasing the deficit, you can implement that plan. And we'll work with you to do it. I've said before, I don't believe that any single party has a monopoly on good ideas. And I will go to bat for whatever works, no matter who or where it comes from. <p>I also share your concern about Medicaid costs. I know this has been a topic of significant conversation over the last couple of days. We know that over half of all Medicaid costs come from just 5 percent of enrollees, many of whom are what's called dual eligibles, seniors in Medicare as well as in Medicaid. The Affordable Care Act helps address this by changing the incentives for providers so that they start adopting best practices that will work to reduce costs while improving quality. <p>But we understand the pressure you're under. We understand that we've got to do more. So today--and I mentioned this to Christine last night--I'm asking you to name a bipartisan group of Governors to work with Secretary Sebelius on ways to lower costs and improve the quality of care for these Americans. And if you can come up with more ways to reduce Medicaid costs, while still providing quality care to those who need it, I will support those proposals as well.<p>So here's the bottom line. Once fully implemented, I'm convinced the Affordable Care Act will do what it was designed it to do: cut costs, cover everybody, end the worst abuses in the insurance industry, and bring down our long-term deficits. I am not open to refighting the battles of the last 2 years or undoing the progress that we've made. But I am willing to work with anyone--anybody in this room, Democrat or Republican, Governors or Member of Congress--to make this law even better, to make care even better, to make it more affordable and fix what needs fixing. <p>You see, part of the genius of our Founders was the establishment of a Federal system in which each of our States serves as a laboratory for our democracy. Through this process, some of the best State ideas became some of America's best ideas. So whether it's through Race to the Top or improving the Affordable Care Act or reforming the way that we approach social programs by ensuring that spending is tied to success, our approach has been to give you the flexibility that you need to find your own innovative ways forward. In fact, this week I'm issuing a Presidential memorandum that instructs all Government agencies to follow this flexible approach wherever the law allows.<p>But even as we preserve the freedom and diversity that is at the heart of federalism, let's remember that we are one Nation. We are one people. Our economy is national. Our fates are intertwined. Today, we're not competing with each other, we're competing with other countries that are hungry to win new jobs, hungry to win new industries.<p>I'm confident we will win this competition as long as we're fighting it together. And I know that whatever our differences, you share that goal. So you've got a partner in the White House to make this happen. And I hope that this becomes the start of a productive and serious conversation going forward, one that I want to start by answering some of your questions.<p>So thank you very much. Thank you.\" "
"41" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you very much, everyone. Please, have a seat. Thank you. Well, hello, everybody. It is wonderful to have all of you here.<p>I want to make mention of some folks in particular that have helped us to celebrate the arts and the humanities for many years. First of all, if I'm not mistaken, our Democratic leader in the House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi, a great champion of the arts, is here. There she is. Thank you, Nancy.<p>The Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts, Rocco Landesman, is here. Where's Rocco? There he is. The Chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities, Jim Leach, is here. The two most powerful people in the White House, Jill Biden and Michelle Obama, are here. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And two recipients who were unable to be here, but who we love, I want to make sure to acknowledge: Meryl Streep and Harper Lee could not be here today, but they will be receiving their awards as well. So please give them a round of applause.<p>I was just told by my wife that I went off program because originally we were supposed to get everybody seated and I was supposed to then come in and make my formal remarks. And I bulled my way through to go ahead and see the honorees before they came out here to sit down, because these are extraordinary people. One of the great joys of being President is getting a chance to pay tribute to the artists and authors, the poets and performers, who have touched our hearts and opened our minds, or, in the case of Quincy Jones and James Taylor, set the mood. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>One of the people that we honor today, Joyce Carol Oates, has said, \\"Ours is the nation, so rare in human history, of self-determination; a theoretical experiment in newness, exploration, discovery.\\" That's what we do.<p>And for more than two centuries, this experiment has been conducted by revolutionaries and pioneers, by immigrants who braved hardship and inventors who tested new ideas, soldiers who fought for our freedom and ordinary citizens who marched for their rights.<p>But we are here today because these men and women were not alone in these struggles. With them were the stories that sparked their imaginations, the poetry and the music that inspired their causes, the works of art and literature that spoke to their condition and affirmed their desire for something more.<p>And I speak personally here because there are people here whose books or poetry or works of history shaped me. I've got these thumb-worn editions of these works of art and these old records where they were still vinyl, Sonny--[<i>laughter</i>]--before they went digital, that helped inspire me or get me through a tough day or take risks that I might not otherwise have taken. And I think what's true for me is true for everyone here and true for our country.<p>The fact is that works of art, literature, works of history, they speak to our condition and they affirm our desire for something more and something better.<p>It was the writings of Thomas Paine that General Washington ordered his men to read before crossing the Delaware. It was spirituals sung by slaves around a campfire that helped to keep hope alive. We can think of the protest songs that tell the story of the civil rights movement, the photographs from the Great Depression that showed how folks were suffering, but also how they were striving.<p>Time and again, the tools of change and of progress, of revolution, of ferment, they're not just pickaxes and hammers and screens and software, but they've also been brushes and pens and cameras and guitars.<p>And the arts and the humanities help us through the hard times and they remind us of what make the good times worthwhile. After all, the goal doesn't always have to be so lofty. Sometimes, we just need a break, a chance to laugh or escape from the moment.<p>So all of the individuals that we honor today are part of this tradition. We can point to their performances, on stage or on film, that we carry with us forever because we've been so moved. We can think of the novels that have chronicled the American experience, from the streets of Newark to the courts of Alabama. How many young people have come to see the senseless cruelty of racism, and the importance of standing up for what's right, through the eyes of a girl named Scout? How many young people have learned to think by reading the exploits of Portnoy and his complaints? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>We also remember the art that challenged our assumptions, the scholarship that brought us closer to the events of our history, the poetry that we loved, or at least the poetry that we might recite to a girlfriend to seem deep. [<i>Laughter</i>] Of course, we still hum the great songs by the musicians in this room; songs that in many cases have been the soundtrack of our lives over decades.<p>And that's why I'm so proud to have this opportunity to celebrate the contributions that all of you have made to our country. It's why we have to remember that our strength as a people runs deeper than our military might, it runs deeper than our GDP; it's also about our values and our ideals that each generation is called to uphold and that each artist helps us better understand.<p>And it's also about the capacity of the arts and the humanities to connect us to one another. In a nation as big as ours, as diverse as ours, as full as debate and consternation as it sometimes is, what the people we honor here today remind us of is that kernel of ourselves that connects to everyone else and allows us to get out of ourselves, to see through somebody else's eyes, to step in their shoes. And what more vital ingredient is there for our democracy than that?<p>In 1962, in the last months of his life, the poet Robert Frost was dispatched by President Kennedy to visit the Soviet Union. And it was a gesture of good will. Frost traveled and gave readings, filling venues all across Russia. What he really wanted to do, though, was have a chance to talk to Khrushchev. Frost was a poet, but he was also a pretty tough guy.<p>It wasn't until the end of his trip that the meeting was arranged. And when they met, even though Frost was frail and sick, he decided he had to speak his mind to the Soviet leader. And Frost stood up and he said, \\"A great nation makes great poetry.\\" And then he told Khrushchev that he should reunite East and West Berlin.<p>A great nation should make great poetry. Like so many artists and musicians and writers and poets before him, and so many that came after him, Robert Frost wasn't afraid to say his piece or speak truth to power. He wasn't afraid to tell what was on his mind. He wasn't held back by convention or what was considered normal or acceptable.<p>And that is an incredible power, an incredible resource. And we're seeing that power all across the world today. That's what challenges us. That's what pushes us to be better, to be more faithful to the sense of humanity that so often can be lost in the experiences of our daily lives.<p>Pissarro once said, \\"Blessed are they who see beautiful things in humble places.\\" That is the blessing of those that we honor here today, and we are blessed that they are able to share what they see and what they hear.<p>So now it is my privilege to present these medals to our recipients in both the arts and the humanities.<p><i>[At this point, Maj. Barrett M. Bernard, USA, Army Aide to the President, read the citations, and the President presented the medals.]</i><p><i>The President.</i> I think it is entirely appropriate for all of us to stand and give a warm congratulations to the recipients of these awards. Not the recipients, you don't have to stand.<p>Well, congratulations to all the recipients. We're going to take some quick pictures with them, and then usually we have a party around here. [<i>Laughter</i>] Our Marine Band is very good, and the food is pretty good around here too. So enjoy yourselves, and thanks again for helping us to celebrate these extraordinary men and women of letters and the arts. Thank you.\" "
"42" "\"Thank you so much, everybody. Look, I could not be prouder of you. I couldn't be prouder of your teacher and your principal. The reason we came down here is because this is a model of what's possible in so many schools across the country that were having trouble just a few years ago. Because of great leadership, we've been able to turn it around. And I can just tell that the way everybody is presenting themselves and the seriousness with which you take your work, you guys are all going to succeed, and you'll help our country succeed too.<p>So all right? Keep it up. Okay.\" "
"43" "\"What's up, Rockets? How are you? Well, thank you. It is great to see all of you. I am thrilled to be here at Miami Central. [Applause] That's all right, I'm excited too.<p>Listen, I just want to--[<i>Applause</i>]--thank you. I'm not going to give a long speech here because I'm going to give a long speech in the gymnasium. But since we couldn't seat everybody in there, I wanted to make sure that I came by and just said to all of you how very proud we are of the work that you guys have been doing.<p>You know, just a few years ago, this school was really in trouble. And a lot of young people, they were seeing their futures slip away because they were dropping out, they weren't focused. And the turnaround that's been accomplished here is the reason that I wanted to come here, because what you guys are doing is not only helping to shape your future and ensuring your long-term success, but what it's also doing is it's sending a message to kids all across the country that there's nothing we can't accomplish when we put our minds to it.<p>So my main message to all of you is going to be, I need you to keep on working hard. I need you to keep on taking pride in your school. I need you guys to keep on listening to your teachers and working hard. If you do, I'm confident you're going to be successful. And you will continue to be role models for young people who are coming up here in Miami-Dade, but also young people all across the country.<p>All right? So thank you, guys. I appreciate you. I love you. Thank you.\" "
"44" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, Rockets! Thank you! Thank you, everybody. Everybody, have a seat. It is good to be here today. I'm excited! I am thrilled to be here, Rockets. <i>Bonswa</i>. It is good to see all of you.<p>I want to first of all thank somebody who I think is going to end up being one of the best Education Secretaries that we've ever had, Arne Duncan, for being here. We also have--your Congresswoman, Frederica Wilson, is here. Give her a big round of applause.<p>Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz is here. Give her a big round of applause. Your outstanding school superintendent, Alberto Carvalho, give him a big round of applause. And a very, very impressive principal, Renina Turner, give it up for Ms. Turner.<p>I gather we also have some members of the football team here. I understand you guys were State champs, is that right? They look pretty big. [<i>Laughter</i>] And some of them aren't smiling, you know--[<i>Laughter</i>]--they've got their game face on.<p>We are also honored to be joined here today by another champion of education reform, somebody who championed reform when he was in office, somebody who is now championing reform as a private citizen, Jeb Bush. And we're grateful for him being here. Aside from being a former Governor of this great State, Jeb, of course, is best known as the brother of Marvin Bush. [<i>Laughter</i>] Apparently, the rest of the family also did some work back in Washington back in the day. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>The truth is I've gotten to know Jeb because his family exemplifies public service. And we are so grateful to him for the work that he's doing on behalf of education. So thank you, Jeb.<p>Now, I just had a chance to take a tour here at Miami Central--[<i>Applause</i>]--and met your outstanding principal, Ms. Turner. I talked to some of the great students who are here. We went through a lab. They had robots; they had computers and vectors and this and that. And I was a little confused, but I nodded, pretending like I understood what was going on. [<i>Laughter</i>] And it's inspiring to think about where you were just a few years ago and then where you are today, right? You came together to turn this school around.<p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes, we did.<p><i>The President</i>. And I think the rest of us can learn something from that, because that's what we're going to need to do all across the country right now.<p>We are at a pivotal turning point. We just came through a tough recession that's taken a big toll on families here in Florida and all across the country. And to accelerate our recovery in the short term, we took some essential steps to spur hiring and economic growth, including tax cuts that are making Americans' paychecks bigger and letting businesses write off their investments----<p><i>[At this point, the President coughed.]</i><p>----excuse me. And I'm proud that Republicans and Democrats came together to get that done.<p>And you're already seeing those steps make a difference. This morning we learned that the unemployment rate fell to its lowest level in nearly 2 years. Our economy added another 222,000 jobs in the private sector. That's the 12th straight month of private sector job growth. So our economy has now added 1.5 million private sector jobs over the last year. And that's progress.<p>But we need to keep building on that momentum. And in a world that's more competitive, more connected than ever before, that means answering some difficult questions: How do we attract new jobs? How do we attract new businesses? How do we attract new industries to our shores? How do we grow our economy and outcompete countries around the world? How do we make sure all of you--all of our students, whether they go to Miami Central or anyplace else--how do we make sure you have a chance at the American Dream?<p>And that's why I'm here today. That's what I want to talk to you about, because in today's economy, companies are making decisions about where to locate and who to hire based on a few key factors. They're looking for faster, more reliable transportation and communications networks, like high-speed railroads and high-speed Internet. They're looking for a commitment to innovation and investments in basic research so that companies can profit from new ideas and new discoveries. But most of all, the single most important thing companies are looking for are highly skilled, highly educated workers. That's what they're looking for. More than ever before, companies hire where the talent is.<p>Now, I want all the young people here to listen, because over the next 10 years, nearly half of all new jobs are going to require a level of education that goes beyond a high school degree. So first of all, you can't drop out. You can't even think about dropping out. [<i>Applause</i>] You can't even think about dropping out. But it's not going to be enough just to graduate from high school. You're going to need some additional education. And a good education equals a good job. If we want more good news on the jobs front, then we've got to make more investments in education. As a nation, making these investments--in education, in innovation, in infrastructure--all of them are essential.<p>Now, what makes it tough is that we're in a difficult fiscal situation as well. For too long, the Government has been spending more than it takes in. So in order to make sure we can keep doing our part to invest in Miami Central, to invest in your schools, to invest in Pell grants, to invest in your education, then we're also going to have to get serious about cutting whatever spending we don't need.<p>So what I've done is I've called for a 5-year freeze on annual domestic spending, and that freeze would cut the deficit by more than $400 billion over the next decade, and it will bring that kind of spending to a lower share of our economy than has been true for the last 50 years. To achieve those savings, we've proposed eliminating more than 200 Federal programs. We're freezing the salaries of hard-working civil servants for the next 2 years. We're finding ways to save billions of dollars--of tax dollars--by selling, for example, 14,000 Government properties that we don't need any more.<p>And that's just a start. If we're serious about tackling our long-run fiscal challenges, we're going to have to cut excessive spending wherever we find it: in defense spending, in spending on entitlements, spending through tax breaks and loopholes. And I'm going to be sitting down with Democrats and Republicans to figure out how we can reduce our deficits.<p>But I want everybody to understand, our job is not just to cut. Even as we find ways to cut spending, what we can't do is cut back on investments like education that will help us create jobs and grow our economy. We can't sacrifice your future.<p>Think about your family. Let's say something tough happens, you know, if somebody gets laid off in the family or you have a medical emergency. If you're a family that has to cut back, what do you do? First thing you do is you give up things you don't need. So you give up vacations. Maybe you eat out a little bit less. Maybe you don't buy as many new clothes. Maybe you don't buy that new car that you thought you needed. But the last thing you give up on is saving for your child's college education. The last thing you give up on is making sure that your children have the books they need and the computers they need because you know that's going to be the key to his or her success in life over the long term.<p>Well, the same is true for our country. When we sacrifice our commitment to education, we're sacrificing our future. And we can't let that happen. Our kids deserve better. Our country deserves better.<p>And over the course of March, what we're calling \\"Education Month\\" around the White House, I'm going to be traveling the country, and Arne is going to be traveling the country, and we're going to be talking to parents and students and educators about what we need to do to achieve reform, promote responsibility, and deliver results when it comes to education.<p>And I decided to come here to Miami Central to kick off Education Month because you're doing what I challenged States to do shortly after I took office, and that's turning America's lowest performing schools around. This is something that hasn't received as much attention as it should. But it could hardly be more important to our country.<p>Right now there are about 2,000 high schools in America--about 12 percent of the total number of high schools in America--that produce nearly half of the young people who drop out of school. You've got 2,000 schools; about half the dropouts come out of those 2,000 schools. And we know these schools are often found in rural areas or in big cities like Miami. Many of these schools have lots of Haitian Americans and African Americans, Latino and other minority students.<p>And Miami Central used to be one of these schools. Used to. But it's important for us to remember where we've been so we know where we need to go. I mean, this used to be a place where the problems on the streets followed kids into the classrooms--it was hard for young people to learn; where the dream of college was out of reach for too many; where there was a culture of failure that brought everybody down.<p>Now, turning around these schools isn't easy. A lot of people used to argue, \\"Well, all they need is more money.\\" But money is not alone going to do the job. We also have to reform how things are done. It isn't easy to turn around an expectation of failure and make that into an expectation of excellence. In fact, it's one of the hardest things you can do. And there is always plenty of naysayers out there who will say it's not even possible; who say that turning around a failing school means just throwing good money after bad; who say too many of these schools are beyond repair; who say we ought to give up on those schools and focus on places that have more breaks and have a little more going for them.<p>Here's what I say. I say I am not willing to give up on any child in America. I say I'm not willing to give up on any school in America. I do not accept failure here in America. I believe the status quo is unacceptable; it is time to change it. And it's time we came together--just like Jeb and I are doing today, coming from different parties, but we come together not as Democrats or Republicans, as Americans--to lift up all of our schools and to prepare students like you for a 21st-century economy, to give every child in America a chance to make the most of their God-given potential.<p>Now, the good news is we know what works. We can see it in schools and communities across the country every day. We see it in a place like Bruce Randolph School in Denver. This was rated one of the worst schools in Colorado 3 years ago, but last May graduated 97 percent of its seniors. All right? And by the way, most of them are the first in their family to go to college.<p>We can see it in Mastery Charter School in Philadelphia, where four times as many students are proficient in math, and violence is down 80 percent compared to just a few years ago.<p>And of course, we can see it right here at Miami Central. A little more than a decade ago, when the State exams started, Miami Central scored a D in each of its first 5 years. Then it scored an F in each of the 5 years after that. Halls were literally littered with garbage. One of the buildings here was called the Fish Bowl because it was always flooded. [<i>Laughter</i>] In one survey, only a third of all students said they felt safe at school. Think about that: only a third.<p>Today, Mrs. Turner, all the outstanding teachers here, all the students here, you've put those days behind you. [<i>Applause</i>] You've put those days behind you. Look, I mean, I know that--I know you still face challenges. I know you still face challenges; things aren't perfect. But over the past 5 years, you started to excel academically. Performance has skyrocketed by more than 60 percent in math, about 40 percent in writing. Graduation rates went from 36 percent, now they're at 63 percent, and I expect them to be at 100 percent--[a<i>pplause</i>]--a hundred.<p>You are proving the naysayers wrong. You are proving that progress is possible. It's possible because of your principal; it's possible because of all the great teachers that are going above and beyond for their students, including the Teach for America corps members who are here today. We're proud of them. To all of the teachers here, I hope you will stay with the Miami Central family as long as you can, because this community has already benefited so much from your teaching and your mentorship and your dedication.<p>You know, I was reading the other day an article--this is just a couple days ago in the New York Times--about how teachers were just feeling beat up, just not feeling as if folks understood how much work went into teaching and how dedicated they were to the success of their students. And so I want to be very clear here: We are proud of what you guys do each and every day. [<i>Applause</i>] We are proud of what you do each and every day. We need to honor teachers.<p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes!<p><i>The President</i>. You know, countries that are successful right now academically, typically teachers are considered one of the top professions.<p>Now, let's face it, I mean, we also have to make sure there's accountability for our schools. And turning things around here meant replacing a principal and replacing some teachers. And that's tough work. It shouldn't be undertaken lightly. But your school did it the right way, with a process that even had the support of teachers and their local unions, because you recognized that partnership among teachers and school administrators and the community, that's the path to reform. It isn't easy. But I want to thank the school board and the superintendent and the union for working together to do the right thing for your students. You guys deserve a lot of congratulations. We appreciate you.<p>Progress has also been possible thanks to math and science coaches and extra learning time in after-school and Saturday school and summer school. I didn't get as much applause about that. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it's good for you guys to get more learning and be in the classroom more. You still have time for the video games. [<i>Laughter</i>] You guys never catch a break; you don't even get snow days down here, do you? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And you've got a technology program here that's preparing kids for the manufacturing jobs of tomorrow. I saw some of the work that was doing--that they were doing in this lab. It was outstanding stuff. And it matched up with--when I go to factories all across America, you can't work on a factory floor today if you don't have training in computers and you have basic math skills and understand technology. Those are the jobs of tomorrow.<p>You've got an entrepreneurship program that's helping students start their own businesses. And you have mentors from the local business community. You've set up a Parent Academy to make sure parents are meaningfully engaged in their children's education because you can't expect the schools to do everything; parents have to step up too and set high expectations.<p>I say this wherever I go. When I hear people complaining about the schools, nothing we do at school will make a difference unless all of us parents step up at home and instill our kids with self-confidence, but also self-discipline and a work ethic that are--that's at the heart of success in school and in life. School is not supposed to be easy. Nothing worthwhile is easy. [<i>Applause</i>] Nothing worthwhile is easy.<p>I mean, the football players understand that. I know training to be State champs can't be easy. But why is it sometimes we think--we expect people to be working out hard on the football field, and then suddenly, everybody is surprised when you've got to work out hard in the math lab. Same principle applies. You've got to work hard to achieve your goals.<p>So outstanding teachers and principals, a common mission, a culture of high expectations, that's what it takes to turn a school around. That's what accounts for progress here at Miami Central. And that's why we are going to support you with what we call school improvement grants. You're one of nearly a thousand schools across America that we're helping turn around by spurring reform from the bottom up--[<i>Applause</i>]--the bottom up. And the approach that we're taking with school improvement grants and school turnarounds is the same approach that we're taking on all our education reform efforts. The idea is very simple. Instead of pouring money into a broken system, we launched a competition that we call Race to the Top. And it basically says to States: Prove that you are serious about reform.<p>We said to all 50 States, if you show the most innovative plans for improving teacher quality and student achievement, boosting low-performing schools, then we'll show you the money.<p>And for less than 1 percent of what we spend on education every year, Race to the Top has led 40 States to raise their standards for teaching and learning. And those standards weren't developed by bureaucrats in Washington; Republican and Democratic Governors across the country developed these reforms. That's the kind of bottom-up approach that we need to follow. We want to work with Congress this year to fix the current education law and make sure that it focuses on responsibility and reform and results.<p>And because we know the single most important factor in a student's success from the moment they step into school is the person standing in front of the classroom, we want to recruit and prepare a new generation of teachers, including 100,000 new math and science teachers over the next decade. We've got to get them in the classroom.<p>With all of these steps, I am confident that by 2020, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. That's our goal. [<i>Applause</i>] That's our goal. That's how we'll outeducate other countries. That's how we'll outcompete with other countries. That's how we'll win the future for the United States of America.<p>So I'm going to keep the pressure on everybody in Washington. I know Jeb and superintendent and everybody here, you're going to stay focused on students in the Sunshine State. And I know that Mrs. Turner, she's not going to let up until Miami Central goes from that F grade all the way up to an A grade. Mrs. Turner means business. <p>Mrs. Turner means business. You know, she has that nice pretty smile, and she's all quiet. [<i>Laughter</i>] But you can tell she's, like, \\"No, don't mess with me.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] That's right.<p>Of course, ultimately, Ms. Turner, she'd say for herself, she's not the only reason Miami Central has been making progress; she's not the only reason you're turning this school around. The most important reason is you, the students here at Miami Central. A few years ago, when it looked like the State might have to shut down Miami Central, the students took matters into their own hands. You took control of your own destiny. The--you said some things that are worth repeating. Here are some of the things that students said: \\"We're going to do more than pass the [State] test. We're going to kill it.\\" Quote: \\"I don't want my school to close. We can't let that happen.\\" \\"We really, really tried hard this year. We don't give up.\\" \\"If we were going to get through this successfully, we've got to come together as a student body.\\"<p>So that's what you guys did. You came together as a student body. You didn't give up. And that's why I'm going to be leaving here so full of hope. I'm full of hope about Miami Central's future; I'm full of hope about America's future, because I'm full of hope about your future.<p>And, Rockets, if you keep on reaching for success and show the same passion, the same determination, the same hard work, the same devotion to excellence, I'm confident we're not only going to lift up our schools, we will produce the best educated people in the world, our economy will grow, our country will prosper, and a new and better day will come for the American people.<p>Thank you, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"45" "\"<i>Audience member</i>. Fired up!<p><i>The President</i>. Fired up! Hello, Miami! <p><i>Audience member</i>. Yes, we can!<p><i>The President</i>. Yes, we can. I am so pleased to be here in the Sunshine State. First of all, part of the reason I'm happy to be here is because I've got a great friend, you've got a great friend, one of the finest Senators in the United States Senate, Bill Nelson is here. <p>And although she comes from far away, you should know that she is working for working people and veterans and teachers and students all across the country: We are so proud of Patty Murray of the great State of Washington. Give Patty Murray a big round of applause. <p>And in addition, one of the newest Members of Congress, Frederica Wilson is here. Where's that hat? Where's that hat? There she is. <p>It is nice to be back in sunny Florida. I wish I could stay for the weekend. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Stay! Stay! Stay!<p><i>The President</i>. You think? You think? <p><i>Audience member</i>. Yes, you can! [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President</i>. You know I want to stay, but if Michelle found out that I stayed in Miami--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and didn't bring her along, I'd be in trouble. So I've got to go home tonight. But I have the sneaking suspicion I'm going to be back down here one or two times over the next couple years. <p>Now, I realize this is a Democratic event. And there are going to be times when we're among family, we're among Democrats, where we want to talk about being Democrats. But today I want to talk to you a little bit about being an American. I want to talk about those things that bring us together, as opposed to the things that drive us apart. <p>And I just came from visiting the students and teachers at Miami Central High School, the Rockets. State champions in football. I saw some of the football team; they were huge. [<i>Laughter</i>] What are you all feeding these people down here? [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, they were big. <p>But I was there with former Governor Jeb Bush.<p><i>Audience members</i>. Boo!<p><i>The President</i>. No, no, no, now. [<i>Laughter</i>] I know this is not a name you often hear at Florida Democratic fundraisers. [<i>Laughter</i>] But even though Governor Bush and I disagree on a range of issues, we agree on the importance of education to America and the need to reform our schools. And what we saw together at Miami Central was pretty inspiring. I mean, keep in mind, more than a decade ago this is a school that scored a D on State exams in its first 5 years, an F in its second 5 years. One of the buildings was called the Fish Bowl because it would always flood. And only a third of the students said they felt safe at school. <p>And for years, there's been a fight in Washington about how do you fix schools like this. And there are thousands of them across the country. And there are some folks in our party that said, \\"Well, all you need is just to put more money in there.\\" And then there were others who said, \\"It's all about trying to blame the teachers, money didn't matter.\\" And then there were others who just thought, \\"You know what, a situation like Miami Central is hopeless; we should just give up on those kids and focus on places where you've got a stronger foundation.\\"<p>But then something happened. It was fascinating to watch--as I was talking to community members and parents and teachers--suddenly, everybody decided, you know what, we're not going to allow the school to fail any longer. And so you had parents and alumni who rushed in and started setting up mentorship programs. And you had teachers who decided, you know what, we are going to buckle down and raise our game. And you had a new principal who said, I've got high expectations for everybody. And then you had business leaders and community members who started putting in money and setting up after-school programs and Saturday programs and all kinds of extracurricular activities. And you had students who said, we are not going to allow this school to close. <p>And so they started making sure that there were outstanding school leaders and outstanding teachers in every classroom. They brought in math and science coaches to support their teachers. They started a parent academy to make sure that parents were actively engaged in their child's education, because we all know that responsibility begins at home. <p>All this happened because the community wasn't afraid of reform. And now, although Miami Central is still facing its share of challenges, over the past 5 years their performance has skyrocketed. I wanted to make sure I get this right: increased their math scores by more than 60 percent; their writing performance by more than 40 percent; graduation rates went from 36 percent to 63 percent. Right? This is a 90-percent minority school in a low-income area performing in a high level and on their way to perform even higher.<p>And I tell this story because making this kind of progress isn't easy, but it's proof that it's possible. It's proof that it's possible. It's still possible for us to tackle tough problems in a constructive way. We don't have to be calling each other names. It doesn't have to be an ideological battle each and every time. Every once in a while common sense can prevail. We can make some decisions not on behalf of power or money or self-interest, but because it's the right thing to do. Every once in a while that can still happen. Every once in a while it's still possible to do big things by working together.<p>Now, part of the reason we're all here is because we intend to win the next election. We believe in our vision for the future. There's nothing wrong with wanting to win. [<i>Laughter</i>] We wouldn't be involved if we didn't think we had better ideas. <p>But each of us who wants to serve the public also has a responsibility that goes beyond winning elections. We have a responsibility to future generations. And that's especially true during challenging times. <p>In a world that's more competitive and more connected than ever before, the biggest contest we face is not between Democrats and Republicans, it's between the United States and our workers and our businesses and our economy and our competitors around the world. If we want the new jobs, if we want the new businesses investing right here in the United States of America, then we've got to make sure that America is the best place to do business. That means we've got to have the best schools and the best trained workers. We've got to have a commitment to science and technology and invest in basic research. We need the best roads and the best runways. And yes, we could use some faster trains and Internet connections. That, by the way, has bipartisan support, I understand, here in the great State of Florida. Just a little editorial there. [<i>Laughter</i>] But we need it to move people, goods, and information as fast as possible. We've got to outeducate, we've got to outinnovate, we've got to outbuild, we've got to outhustle our competitors. <p>Now, there are folks in Washington who are saying we can't afford to make these investments because of the tough fiscal situation that we're in. Look, we understand the tough situation we're in. Patty, Bill, they understand the tough fiscal situation we're in. And if I recall, the last time we had a balanced budget, who was President? <p><i>Audience members</i>. Clinton!<p><i>The President</i>. All right, okay. I mean, I just wanted to--[<i>Laughter</i>].<p>So we understand fiscal responsibility. We've got to get serious about our deficits. I said so when I was running for President, and I say so today. That's why I introduced a budget that would freeze domestic spending for 5 years. It would bring annual domestic spending down to the lowest level since Dwight Eisenhower was President. That means since most of you were not alive--[<i>laughter</i>]--most of you. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm not naming names. [<i>Laughter</i>] It will bring our deficit down by more than $1 trillion over the next decade--$1 trillion dollars. <p>So I am absolutely committed to working to get our deficit under control. I don't want to be facing Malia and Sasha 20 years from now, my grandchildren, and them saying, \\"Gosh, Dad, you really didn't take care of business.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"We're feeling bad about all this debt that we're having to pay off because you weren't on the job.\\" I know Bill feels the same way; Patty feels exactly the same way. I am willing to cut whatever spending we can't afford. What I'm not willing to do is to cut back on the basic investments that are going to allow us to win the future. I'm not willing to do that. I'm not willing to cut back on education. I'm not willing to cut back on science and technology and innovation. I'm not willing to cut back on infrastructure. We need those things to win the future of America. <p>You know, folks talk about if we don't rein in our deficits, then we'll mortgage our future. They're right about that. But there's more than one way to mortgage your future. If we're shortchanging our commitment to education, our commitment to those kids that I met at Miami Central, then we're mortgaging our future. If we're sacrificing our commitment to research and development, the product--the results of which led to GPS and led to the Internet and led to computer chips--if we're not making those investments, we are mortgaging our future. <p>If we refuse to invest in our crumbling roads and bridges and the ports and airports; if we settle for a world where China now suddenly has the fastest trains, Singapore has a nicer airport--what happened? America used to have the best stuff. We used to have the best roads, the best bridges, the best ports, the best airports. We don't oftentimes in a lot of places. But we can. It's a matter of us making good decisions and investing in our future. There's more than one way to mortgage our future. And I refuse to let that happen. <p>And here's the other point: These investments have traditionally been nonpartisan. I mean, think about it. My favorite Republican, Abraham Lincoln, he happens to be from my home State, but he was a pretty good President, last I checked. He was a guy who invested in the interstate--in the intercontinental railroad and in land-grant colleges and in the National Academy of Sciences in the middle of the Civil War. That's how important he thought these investments were. This is at a time when he was scrambling to figure out how to finance a war that might split the Union, and yet he was still making these investments. That's how important it was.<p>When Dwight Eisenhower decided, after having won--helped to win World War II and came back as President, obviously, this was a guy who was pretty concerned about the well-being of America, had made quite a bit of sacrifice. What did he decide to do? He said, part of what we have to do is we've got to invest in the Interstate Highway System, and we've got to invest in math and science all across this country. Because he understood that's how you win the future. <p>I believe we can find common ground. I believe that we can have a government that lives within its means without sacrificing that future for our kids. And to do that we're going to have to compromise. Each side is going to have to give a little bit. Everybody is not going to get everything they want. And I have to say that to Democrats sometimes. [<i>Laughter</i>] I know everybody gets frustrated sometimes. Over the last couple of years, well, you know, yes, you got health care done, but I don't know, I had this provision in there that didn't quite make it; or yes, we were able to make sure that we ended \\"don't ask, don't tell,\\" but what took you so long? You know who you are. <p><i>Audience member</i>. It's okay, we're good now, so sorry. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President</i>. But here's the thing. The American people want us to work together. They want us to make progress. I'm proud that Democrats and Republicans joined forces in December to cut taxes for every American on their payroll taxes and allowed businesses to accelerate investment, because we need to spur growth. And we're starting to see the results. This last jobs report that just came out today: 220,000 new jobs; unemployment rate down below 9 percent, the lowest it's been in 2 years. We're moving in the right direction. But part of that was because we were able to make some commonsense decisions. And you've got a couple of commonsense people up here. These are folks who understand our job is to get stuff done for the American people. <p>Now, we know there's a lot more work to do. There are still millions of Americans who don't have work. Here in Florida there are hundreds of thousands of folks who are still worried about losing their home. And obviously, the housing market really got socked here in Florida. So we've got more work to do. But we have an opportunity to keep building on our momentum. And the only way we're going to do that is by working together, just like we did last December. And that's the spirit we need right now.<p>In the coming months, we're going to have a choice. We can allow ourselves to be consumed by the same kind of small-bore politics that's held us back before. We can allow gridlock and stalemate to prevail. We can focus on what the other side is saying about the other. [<i>Laughter</i>] Or we can focus on what they're saying about me. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Audience member</i>. We love you!<p><i>The President</i>. I know you do. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Or instead, we can focus on what it takes to win the future. For as difficult as these times may be, the good news is that the future of America still looks bright. <p>I've seen it in the eyes of the students at Miami Central. I saw it in a small-town company in Wisconsin that's putting hundreds of people to work making energy-efficient lighting. I've seen it up in Michigan's Upper Peninsula. This is as a remote a place as you can be; 20,000 people in this town of Marquette, Michigan, up in the Upper Peninsula, above Canada. It kind of--you know, Michigan kind of goes up. And because the school had set up the Internet system, a wireless system, and then allowed businesses to use it, you've got the local family-owned department store that is selling two-thirds of its goods online and is now one of the 5,000 fastest growing companies in America because of investments that were made in the Internet. <p>I went out to Pacific Northwest to Intel out in Oregon, and I watched us making magical progress in terms of computer chips, chips that were this big that used to require an entire mainframe the size of this room to contain the same amount of information. That's being created right here in the United States of America.<p>We still have the best universities on Earth. We've got the best workers, the most productive workers on Earth. We've got the most entrepreneurial spirit on Earth. <p>We are constantly willing to adapt and change. We've got the greatest freedoms on Earth. We've got the diversity that is the hallmark of this 21st century. And no place represents that more than the Sunshine State. <p>So we've got what it takes to create more jobs. We've got what it takes to create more businesses. We know what it takes to win the future. We've just got to have the political will to make it happen.<p>We've got to be fired up. We've got to be ready to go. And so if you are willing to stand with us, if you're willing to stand with Bill Nelson and Frederica and Patty, if you're willing to stand with Barack Obama one more time, I've got no doubt that we will win the future and that future will be bright.<p>Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"46" "\"Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you, everybody. Everybody have a seat. We're among friends here. We don't have to stand on ceremony. <p>Let me begin by just thanking Michael and Judy and the whole Adler clan for their incredible friendship and support and hosting us in this elegant setting. I was just in Michael's study--I assume it was Michael's because it had only golf stuff in there. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I think it was a testament to what an extraordinary contribution this family has made to the country and to the State of Florida and the Democratic Party that there was a wonderful picture of Joe Biden--black hair--[<i>Laughter</i>]--hair--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and--but the picture was with Michael's dad, who was a great friend of Joe's. And what's continued during that time, I think, is a friendship not only between Michael and the Vice President, but Michael and Judy and myself, who were early supporters of mine when I was still running for the United States Senate. Their kids, and now grandkids, are just wonderful folks. Their mom is extraordinary. And so please, everybody, give them a big round of applause. <p>We also have with us two of the finest Senators that I know--one of them who hails from the wonderful State of Washington. Some of you remember she got elected as the soccer mom in tennis shoes. She basically looks the same as when she got elected. I don't know if she's still wearing tennis shoes, but I can tell you I campaigned with her back in Washington State last time, and the connection that she's able to make with folks who just inherently understand she's looking out for them, she trusts--they trust her. They know that she's one of them. She brings that spirit to the Senate every day. Patty Murray, we're thrilled that she is here. <p>And my dear friend Bill Nelson, who--being a great United States Senator is only the second greatest thing that he's ever done. Actually, it is the third greatest thing he's ever done. The first was marrying Grace and having those wonderful kids. The second was being in space, which is very cool. And the third is representing Florida each and every day in an outstanding fashion. Please give Bill a big round of applause.<p>And finally, one of the great stars of the party, somebody who, if I'm in a foxhole, I want her there with me, because--you're wonderful too--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but I was referring to somebody who's just doing a great job each and every day in the House of Representatives, Debbie Wasserman Schultz. <p>Anyway, look, you guys are friends, so I'm not going to give a long speech. I want to talk to you a little bit about where I think we are as a country and where we need to go and why Florida is going to be so important. <p>We've gone through a little over 2 years of the toughest economy that we've seen in this country since the 1930s. And I think that most of us here are so blessed and so fortunate that although we've worried about the economy, we maybe haven't felt its full impact. But when you travel around the country, there are millions of people who are still out of work, hundreds of thousands of folks who are worried about losing their home, young people who wonder if they can still afford college. It's been a tough time.<p>And what's remarkable is not how frustrated people have been, or in some cases, how angry people have been. What's remarkable is actually how resilient people have been. I could not be prouder of the American people, because through extraordinary hardship the overwhelming majority of people have continued to be great parents and great neighbors, great coworkers, great teachers, great firefighters, great police officers, great small-businesspeople. Through thick and through thin, they've continued to contribute to their communities and coach Little League and participate in the important issues of the day. And now what we're seeing is that having gone through the toughest time in recent memory, the country is on the rebound. The country is on the move. <p>We got a jobs report today that showed that unemployment has dropped to its lowest level in 2 years. We have seen 15 consecutive months of private sector job growth. The unemployment rate now is below 9 percent, and the trendlines are good. And part of that has to do with the efforts of people like Bill and Patty and Debbie, to be able to, during the lame duck session, shape a piece of legislation that cut taxes for everybody through the payroll tax cut, helped businesses to make sure that they could invest in the future. And that has put our economy on a steady growth mode that I believe is going to continue for several years. <p>But--and here's a big but--even before this recession, we had a lot of problems in this economy that were structural in nature. We had some long-term challenges that had been kicked down the road time and time and time and time again. We still have too much dependence on foreign oil. We still have underinvestment in our infrastructure. We still have a--what used to be a massive and consistent investment in research and development and science and technology that had declined over the last several years. <p>And we still aren't doing a good enough job educating our kids. We used to have the highest college graduation rates in the world; we don't have that anymore. We rank 15th and 21st in math and science when you compare us to other countries in the world.<p>And so we understood that we've got a lot of work to do, and we also understood that we're doing this all in the midst of recovery from a recession that has really blown a hole through the Federal budget and through State budgets, which makes it all the more difficult for us to tackle these big challenges.<p>But what I have been talking about since the State of the Union, what I talked about here in Florida and what I know Bill is talking about and Debbie is talking about and Patty is talking about is that for all these challenges, I'm confident that if we make good choices now, we're going to meet these challenges not just for the short term but for the long term.<p>We just--I went over to this school, Miami Central High School; State champs in football, which--the football team was there, and they were very big. They were very large. [<i>Laughter</i>] And Donna Shalala was there, and she said it was to help promote education policy, but secretly, I think, she was doing some recruiting still for the Hurricanes. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But that's not the reason we chose this school. This is a school that a decade ago had a 36-percent graduation rate. A third--only a third--of the students said they felt safe when they were at school. There was one room at the school called the Fish Bowl because it flooded so consistently. On the State exams, it got F's and D's for 10 consecutive years. And this school, because of a vibrant principal and because of school reform efforts, both at the State level, but also assistance from the Federal level, has now transformed itself. <p>It's now got a 63-percent graduation that's moving up. We went into a science lab where kids--almost all from minority and low-income backgrounds--were working with robots. And they had used computer programming to design the robots, and they were running around and moving, swirling, and picking stuff up. And they were explaining to me how it worked, and I was nodding, pretending like I understood what was happening. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And when you talked to these kids you said to yourself, you know what, there's no reason that we can't replicate this all across Florida and all across the country if we're able to make the wise investments that are necessary to make right now. <p>And so over the next several months, there's going to be a big debate in this country. And a lot of it is going to revolve around how we get our deficits and our debt under control, and that's going to be an important debate because we can't sustain the spending path that we're on. <p>And I've put forward a budget that says we're going to freeze discretionary domestic spending for the next 5 years. We're freezing pay for Federal workers for a couple of years. As hard-working as they are, they're going to be making some sacrifices. We're going to be making some cuts in some programs that I think work but, frankly, right now we just can't afford them. We're consolidating the Federal Government. We're selling 14,000 unused Federal buildings that will save us huge amounts of money that we can then redirect. We're going to make some very difficult decisions. <p>But the tests of whether or not we emerge stronger rather than weaker over the next several months is, are we able to both make the cuts that are needed, save the money that's necessary, and then still make the investments in those kids at Miami Central, in the infrastructure of this State and States all across the country, the investments in research and development, in clean energy and biotechnology that will create the businesses and jobs for the future? Are we able to do that? That's going to be the debate. <p>It's not going to be a debate about whether we need to cut spending. We are going to be cutting spending. The question is, are we going to be doing it wisely, and are we going to make sure that everybody makes some sacrifices, that it is shared sacrifice? And if there's anything that the Democratic Party should be standing for, must stand for--if there's anything that my Presidency, I hope, stands for--is the notion that we're all in this together and that in good times everybody shares in opportunity and in tough times everybody shares in sacrifice. And it's not done on the backs of the poor or seniors or the vulnerable.<p>That's what's going to be happening here domestically. Now, obviously, internationally we've got a few things that I have to tend to as well. [<i>Laughter</i>] I don't know if you guys saw my press conference with President Calderon. The first question was, what are you going to do about the NFL strike? I said, you know what, if some billionaires and millionaires can't figure out how to divide up $9 billion, I can't help them because I've got a few other things to do.<p>But when you look at what's happening across the--around the world, what's happening in the Middle East is a manifestation of new technologies, the winds of freedom that are blowing through countries that have not felt those winds in decades, a whole new generation that says, I want to be a part of this larger world and I want to have some say in what happens. <p>Now, that's a dangerous time, but it's also a huge opportunity for us, because America is built on liberty and innovation and dynamism and technology. And all the forces that we're seeing at work in Egypt are forces that naturally should be aligned with us, should be aligned with Israel--if--if we make good decisions now and we understand, sort of, the sweep of history. <p>I met with a group of Jewish leaders in the White House this week, the presidents of all the major Jewish organizations, and I told them we have to be sober. We can't be naive about the changes that are taking place in the Middle East. Our commitment to Israel's security is inviolable, it is sacrosanct, but we should not be afraid of the possibilities of the future. <p>It does mean that we're going to have to be engaged and we're going to have to be involved and we're going to have to reach out. And there are going to be some bumps along the road.<p>But I'm actually confident that 10 years from now we're going to be able to look back, potentially, and say this was the dawning of an entirely new and better era, one in which people are striving not to be against something, but rather to be for something; where young people start saying, you know what, I'm not interested in tearing somebody else down, I'm interested in how I can build my country up and how I can create businesses and how I can have opportunity and find work that's fulfilling and support a family.<p>But I'm--we're going to have to seize that moment as well. So domestically we've gone through a lot of changes. If we are willing to make good choices now, then I think we're going to be that much stronger for it. Internationally, the world is going through huge changes, but we are perfectly poised to make the 21st century again the American century.<p>But all of this is going to require leadership. It's going to require a steady hand. It's going to require hard work. And it's going to require you, because, frankly, I can't do this stuff by myself. We can't transform schools unless we've got great teachers and unless we've got great parents and community members who are interacting with and who are willing to get engaged and get involved.<p>I can't deliver for the great State of Florida unless I've got Bill Nelson standing by my side and I've got Debbie Wasserman Schultz on TV making my case. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I can't get reelected and make sure that we're carrying on the mandate that you gave us 2 1/2 years ago unless I've got everybody here all in. And when I say \\"all in,\\" I mean all in. I don't--you know how we operate. We don't just want your money. We want your time, we want your energy, we want your ideas. We want you passionate about this being important.<p>When I won the Presidency a couple of years ago, it wasn't because I was the best connected candidate. It wasn't because I had the easiest name to pronounce. [<i>Laughter</i>] The reason was because we tapped into something that wasn't just about, sort of, traditional politics; it wasn't just about, sort of, special interests and who's going to be for who because that person checked a box on this particular issue or that particular issue. It was something more substantial, I'd like to think. It had to do with a recognition that the world was changing and that we weren't going to respond to that with fear. We were going to respond to it with hope.<p>And that if we met this new world with confidence, if we reminded ourselves of what is best about America, which is that through all these changes, we constantly adapt better than anybody else. We may be arguing about it, we may debate about it, we may go through moments of ugliness, but eventually, we keep on thinking--moving forward. We stay young as a country. And that's what we captured during the campaign.<p>We've now gone through 2 tough years. And some of us are beaten down and worn out. And the last midterm obviously was very tough. And I'm grayer and looking a little older than I did. People don't say, \\"Oh, look at that young President\\" anymore. [<i>Laughter</i>] Yes, he looks like the President. He looks--[<i>Laughter</i>]. But you know, in each of us I think that spirit still exists and that sense of hope still exists.<p>And we have good reason to be hopeful, because we've done extraordinary things over these last 2 years, because of your help. Because of your help, we yanked this economy out of what could have been a Great Depression. Because of your help, we passed a historic health care bill. Because of your help, we ended \\"don't ask, don't tell.\\" Because of your help, we are making enormous progress on the education front. Because of your help, we made the largest investment in clean energy in our history. Because of your help, we have transformed our foreign policy so that America is once again respected around the world.<p>That's because of you. I need you to do it again. That's what tonight is all about. And I promise you this is not the last time you're going to see me here in Florida, all right? [<i>Laughter</i>] I love you guys.<p>God bless you. Thank you.\" "
"47" "\"I'm talking with you from Miami, Florida, where I'm visiting Miami Central High School, a school that's turning itself around on behalf of its kids. I came here with Jeb Bush, formerGovernor of this State, because he and I share the view that education isn't a partisan issue, it's an American issue.<p>But in a larger sense, this is a moment when we've all got to do what the students and the teachers are doing here: We've got to step up our game.<p>Our top priority right now has to be creating new jobs and opportunities in a fiercely competitive world. And this week, we received very good news on that front. We learned that the unemployment rate has fallen to its lowest level in nearly 2 years as our economy added another 222,000 private sector jobs last month. <p>Now, we have a lot more work to do, not just for the Americans who still don't have jobs, but for the millions more who still don't have the right job or all the work they need to live out the American Dream. But the progress we're seeing says something about the determination and ingenuity of our people and our businesses. What's also helping to fuel this economic growth are the tax cuts that Democrats and Republicans came together to pass in December and that I signed into law, tax cuts that are already making Americans' paychecks bigger and allowing businesses to write off their investments, freeing up more money for job creation.<p>Just as both parties cooperated on tax relief that is now fueling job growth, we need to come together around a budget that cuts spending without slowing our economic momentum. We need a government that lives within its means without sacrificing job-creating investments in education, innovation, and infrastructure. <p>The budget I sent to Congress makes these investments, but it also includes a 5-year spending freeze, and it will reduce our deficits by $1 trillion over the next decade. In fact, the cuts I've proposed would bring annual domestic spending to its lowest share of the economy under any President in more than 50 years.<p>Over the last few weeks, Members of Congress have been debating their own proposals. And I was pleased that Democrats and Republicans in Congress came together a few days ago and passed a plan to cut spending and keep the Government running for 2 more weeks. But we can't do business 2 weeks at a time. It's not responsible, and it threatens the progress our economy has been making. We've got to keep that momentum going.<p>We need to come together, Democrats and Republicans, around a long-term budget that sacrifices wasteful spending without sacrificing the job-creating investments in our future. My administration has already put forward specific cuts that meet congressional Republicans halfway. And I'm prepared to do more. But we'll only finish the job together, by sitting at the same table, working out our differences, and finding common ground. That's why I've asked Vice President Biden and members of my administration to meet with the leaders of Congress going forward. <p>Getting our fiscal house in order can't just be something we use as cover to do away with things we dislike politically. And it can't just be about how much we cut. It's got to be about how we cut and how we invest. We've got to be smart about it. Because if we cut back on the kids I've met here and their education, we'd be risking the future of an entire generation of Americans. And there's nothing responsible about that.<p>We've got to come together to put America back on a fiscally sustainable course and make sure that when it comes to the economy of our 21st century, our children and our country are better prepared than anyone else in the world to take it on. Our future depends on it. That's not a Democratic or a Republican challenge, it's an American challenge. And I'm confident it's one we'll meet. <p>Thanks for listening.\" "
"48" "\"Hey, guys! What's going on? How's everybody doing? Hello, everybody! Hello, hello, hello! Good to see you. Mark, good to see you. Nice to meet you.<p>So I'm not going to make a long speech right now. I've got to speak in the other room, and I hope you guys will be able to hear it.<p>I just want to say how proud I am of all of you. You guys are doing great in school. I want to shake some hands. I expect everybody here to keep working hard. How many seniors here? How many juniors? Sophomores? [<i>Applause</i>] All right. Sophomores. Freshmen. Okay, well, the sophomores--the juniors and the seniors, I know they're working hard because they're starting to apply to college. Sophomores, you still got a lot of time, so you guys got to stay focused. All right? All right. But I'm expecting everybody here to go to college, everybody here to succeed. And I appreciate you guys very much. I'm just going to shake as many hands as I can.\" "
"49" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, TechBoston! Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you, everybody. Everybody, please have a seat. Everybody, please have a seat.<p>We are thrilled to see especially the students here today. I am grateful for the presence of a few other outstanding leaders. First of all, the great mayor of Boston, Tom Menino, is in the house. There he is over there. Lieutenant Governor Tim Murray's here. Where's Tim? Tim, good to see you. The outstanding Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan, is in the house.<p>To all of you who are contributing to the outstanding education of these young people, I could not be prouder to be here. It is wonderful to be back in Massachusetts. Some of you may know I spent some time in school here myself. I was much younger. I had no gray hair. [<i>Laughter</i>] There were definitely no SMART Boards back then. [<i>Laughter</i>] The most exciting new technology was an electric pencil sharpener. [<i>Laughter</i>] So times have changed. You remember those? [<i>Laughter</i>] Do you know what pencils are? Do you guys use pencils?<p>I am so grateful to have Melinda Gates joining us here today. Of course, we all know Melinda's husband Bill, who couldn't hack it at school here, dropped out. [<i>Laughter</i>] Then he started a modest--modestly successful computer company. That was a joke, guys. [<i>Laughter</i>] Bill Gates actually created a really big company. [<i>Laughter</i>] But Melinda's a force in her own right. She is one of the world's most generous, but also effective, philanthropists, successful businesswoman, and most important for today, she has been an extraordinary leader when it comes to education reform. Microsoft and the Gates Foundation have been partners with TechBoston since it got started, and we are very grateful for their support. Proud of them.<p>Melinda's absolutely right, by the way. One of the things that I've benefited from in this effort to make sure our schools are working for every young person is my Secretary of Education. Some of you might have known that Arne used to play professional basketball in Australia. He was on the Harvard basketball team, was a star there. Just the other week, he was in a celebrity basketball tournament, where he was outscored by Justin Bieber. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm just saying. [<i>Laughter</i>] Justin's, like, about 5´2´´--[<i>Laughter</i>]--so please give him a hard time for that if you get a chance.<p>Now, we're in the middle of what we're calling Education Month at the White House, and I wanted to come to TechBoston so that the rest of America can see how it's done. You guys are a model for what's happening all across the country. And obviously, at the helm is Mary Skipper, who is doing unbelievable work.<p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you, Skip!<p><i>The President.</i> Love you, Skip! [<i>Laughter</i>] But also the extraordinarily talented teaching staff that is working here. I had a chance to meet a couple of the teachers, and you could just tell that they are passionate about the work that they do. So they deserve a huge round of applause.<p>Every day, TechBoston is proving that no matter who you are or what you look like or where you come from, every child can learn, every child can succeed, and every child deserves that chance.<p>Getting the best possible education has never been more important than it is right now. And that's because in today's world, a good job requires a good education. I travel all across the country. I go into factories, I go into companies, and it doesn't matter where you are working: If you do not have a good education, you are not going to be able to succeed. And that includes being on the factory floor these days, because most of the equipment is highly technical.<p>Over the next 10 years, nearly half of all new jobs will require a level of education beyond a high school degree, which means obviously, first of all, you can't drop out of TechBoston. That's not allowed. All right? You can't even think about dropping out. But--can't even think about it. But even after you graduate, you're going to need some additional education. And I know that TechBoston is doing an outstanding job of making sure that every student is prepared to go to college.<p>Unfortunately, the reality is too many students are not prepared across our country. Too many leave school without the skills they need to get a job that pays. Today, as many as a quarter of American students are not finishing high school--a quarter. The quality of our math and science education lags behind many other nations, and America has fallen to ninth in the proportion of young people with a college degree. We used to be number one, and we're now number nine. That's not acceptable.<p>The most effective way to create jobs in this country is to change those statistics. There's no better economic policy than one that produces more graduates with the skills they need to succeed, to start their own businesses, to create their own Microsoft, to create new industries. And that's why reforming education is the responsibility of every single American: every parent, every teacher, every business leader, every public official, and yes, every student.<p>Now, it used to be that we weren't sure how to turn around failing schools. We weren't sure what worked to help struggling students. There were some folks in Washington who said all it took was more money; if we just poured more money into the school, everything would be better. Then there were others who said, no, you just got to blow up these schools; they can't work. A lot of people thought we should just give up on places like Dorchester, and they assumed that some kids just can't learn or they've got too many disadvantages. There were always some excuses for why our young people couldn't succeed.<p>But after awhile, parents and teachers and education reformers started to realize that maybe Washington didn't have all the answers. And I can promise you, after being there for a few years, they're on to something there. [<i>Laughter</i>] People started realizing that what's needed is not either-or, it's not either more money or more reform; it's both-and, both more money and more reform. That's what's needed.<p>What's needed is higher standards and higher expectations, more time in the classroom and greater focus on subjects like math and science. What's needed are outstanding teachers and leaders like Skip who get more flexibility--I just like that name; I'm going call you Skip from now on--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but education leaders who get more flexibility in exchange for more accountability.<p>And all those ingredients are present here at TechBoston. The students here, they get their own laptop when they walk through the door. That costs money, but it opens up a window for learning. You're required to take 4 years of math, science, and technology classes, classes like web development and entrepreneurship and even forensic science. I didn't even know what forensic science was in high school. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm not sure I do now. [<i>Laughter</i>] But that's part of the requirement that makes this school outstanding.<p>The school days are longer. Classes are 60 minutes so that young people have time to actually focus and absorb the information that's being provided. And many students go to school in July and August. I usually don't get much applause from students when I point that out, but--[<i>Laughter</i>]. Because this is a pilot school, Mary had the ability to hire her own staff, and the teachers here are offered training and constant support.<p>So those are the ingredients, and the results have been powerful. Students here come from some tough neighborhoods. Am I right? Yes. And yet the graduation rate is almost 20 points higher than the rest of the city--20 points higher. Ninety-four percent of the most recent graduating class went to college. Eighty-five percent of those students were the first in their family to do so. Your math and science scores are consistently higher than other Boston schools, and the attendance rate here is 94 percent.<p>So it's working. What's happening here is working. We know what works. What's required, then, to get results from any school is no longer a mystery. And that means there can't be any more excuses from anybody. As a nation, we have a moral and economic imperative to give every child the chance to succeed. And that's why I set a goal when I took office that by the end of the decade, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. We will be number one again.<p>Now, to achieve this goal, everybody is going to need to do their part. We need the help of philanthropists like Melinda Gates. We'll need the help of the businesses that are partnering with TechBoston. We need citizens and parents to get involved, because nothing we do in school will make much of a difference unless we instill in our kids the self-confidence and the self-discipline and the work ethic that are at the heart of success not just in school, but in life.<p>So some of you may have come from a tough neighborhood, but you've got some parents at home, you've got somebody at home who's nagging you and staying on top of you and saying, \\"You can succeed.\\" And I'm assuming somebody who's also turning off the TV set once in a while and saying, \\"Put away the video games and do your homework.\\" That has to be a critical ingredient in success.<p>We need to recognize that the true path to reform has to involve partnerships between teachers and school administrators and communities. And we'll need a national education policy that tries to figure out how do we replicate success stories like TechBoston all across the country.<p>So that's what Arne Duncan's job is, and that's what he's been doing so well over the last few years. Instead of pouring money into a broken system, under Arne's leadership, what we've done is we've launched a competition. We call it Race to the Top. We call it Race to the Top, and it's basically a challenge to States and school districts: Prove to us that you're serious about reform. We've said to all 50 States, if you show us the most innovative plans for improving teacher quality and improving student achievement, then we'll show you the money. And for less than 1 percent of what America spends on education each year, Race to the Top has led over 40 States to raise their standards for teaching and learning, standards, by the way, that were developed not in Washington, but by Republican and Democratic Governors all across the country.<p>So at the grassroots level, at the State level, standards were developed. And we said, show us how you're going to meet these standards. The more innovative you are, the more money you can get for your schools. And that's the kind of bottom-up approach that we need to follow. This year we're going to have to work with Congress to fix No Child Left Behind, and we're going to have to replace it with a law that does a better job focusing on responsibility and reform and, most of all, results.<p>We're also trying to give school districts more flexibility to open charter schools and pilot schools like TechBoston, so that they have the flexibility, the autonomy, to do what's best for students. We're working to make sure every school has a 21st-century curriculum like you do. And in the same way that we invested in the science and research that led to the breakthroughs like the Internet, I'm calling for investments in educational technology that will help create digital tutors that are as effective as personal tutors, educational software that's as compelling as the best video game. I want you guys to be stuck on a video game that's teaching you something other than just blowing something up.<p>And because we know that the single most important factor in a student's success after their parent is the person standing at the front of the classroom, we are looking to make teaching one of the most honored professions in our society. In South Korea, teachers are known as nation builders. That's what they're--that's how they're described. Here in America, it's time we treated the people who educate our children with the same level of respect. We've got to lift up teachers. We've got to reward good teachers. Of course, we also have to stop making excuses for bad teachers. We're also working to give educators the support and the preparation that they need, and I know that some of the teachers here have benefited from our investment in these programs, such as the teacher preparation partnership you have with the Boston Teachers Residency and with UMass Boston.<p>And with so many baby boomers retiring from teaching over the next few years, we intend to recruit and prepare a new generation of teachers, including 100,000 new math and science teachers over the next decade. And I hope that some of you will end up going into the teaching profession and pass on all the knowledge that you've gotten here at TechBoston.<p>Now, I've talked about how much we can improve student achievement through various reforms: setting higher standards, higher expectations; giving schools and teachers more flexibility in exchange for greater accountability. But it's also true that fixing our schools will cost some money. Recruiting and rewarding the best teachers costs money. Making it possible for families to send their kids to college costs money. Making sure that some of the state-of-the-art equipment that all of you were working on when I walked into Mr. Louis's classroom today, that costs money.<p>Making these investments in education is going to be absolutely critical, but it's tough to do after decades of deficits. I understand that. For too long, the Government has been spending more money than it's been taking in. So we're going to have to get serious about cutting whatever spending we don't need, which means I've already called for a 5-year freeze in our annual domestic budget. That's a freeze that would cut the deficit by more than $400 billion over the next decade, and it would bring such spending to a lower share of our economy than it's been in 50 years. And I've proposed cutting or eliminating more than 200 Federal programs that aren't working as well as they should. We're freezing the salaries of hard-working civil servants for 2 years. And I'm willing to do more to get our deficits under control. And that's why the White House is leading bipartisan meetings with Members of Congress, because we need to come up with a budget that forces Government to live within its means.<p>But--and I want everybody to pay attention--even as we find ways to cut spending, we cannot cut back on job-creating investments like education. We cannot cut back on the very investments that will help our economy grow and our Nation compete and make sure that these young people succeed. There's nothing responsible about that. There's nothing responsible about cutting back on our investment in these young people.<p>I mean, think about what happens in your own family. If you have a family member that loses a job or you have an illness in the family and you've got to cut back, where do you start? You maybe give up a vacation. You go out to eat less often. Maybe you don't buy that new coat you thought was sharp or the new car that you thought you needed. But the last thing you do is give up saving on your child's education, because you know that's the key to that child's success in life.<p>Well, what's true for a family has to be true for the larger American family. A budget that sacrifices our commitment to education is a budget that sacrifices our country's future. It is a budget that sacrifices our children's future, and I will not let it happen. I will not let it happen. We're not going to give up on any school in America or any child in America.<p>We can't forget that every year, schools like TechBoston have to hold a lottery because there just aren't enough spaces for all the students who want to go here. The reason they want to go here is because they know that if they go to some of the other schools in the area, they won't do as well. They know that they might drop out. They might not get the same reinforcement that they need. There might not be that same culture of excellence and performance. That means they may not go to college, and they know they may not succeed.<p>All of that shouldn't depend on a lottery. That can't be the system of education we settle for in America. No child's chance in life should be determined by the luck of a lottery. Not in this country. This is a place where everyone gets the chance to succeed, where everybody should have a chance to make it. The motto of this school is, \\"We rise and fall together.\\" Well, that is true for America as well. That's true for America as well.<p>If we want to prosper in the 21st century and if we want to keep the American Dream alive in our time, then we're going to rise together. We've all got to come together. We've got to give our children the same world-class education that you are getting right here at TechBoston. And as long as I am President, that's what I'm going to be fighting for right alongside you.<p>Thank you so much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"50" "\"Thank you, Boston! Yes, we can! Thank you so much. Everybody, please have a seat. Have a seat. Ed Markey, thanks for your extraordinary service, and thanks for the very kind introduction. There are a few other people I want to make sure to introduce. First of all, our chief host, the outstanding mayor of this great city of Boston, Tom Menino. We've got Lieutenant Governor Tim Murray in the house as well. State Senate President Therese Murray is here; the DCCC chairman, Steve Israel; somebody who has been just an extraordinary partner for me over the last several years, somebody who's going to go down as one of the greatest Speakers in our history, Nancy Pelosi. And also, I've just got to point out, even though she's going to blush and wave me off, a dear friend, somebody who I've just come to love, Vicki Kennedy is here. And thank you to the museum for this spectacular setting.<p>We have had quite a wild ride over the last 2 years. Many of you were early supporters of Nancy's, early supporters of mine. Back in 2008, we were absolutely convinced that the country was moving in the wrong direction, and we had a vision to make it right.<p>And when I first was sworn into office, I think a lot of us still did not fully understand the magnitude of the difficulties that this country was going to be going through. We lost 4 million jobs in the 6 months before I was sworn into office and another 4 million before any of our economic policies had a chance to be put into place. And so when the rubble had cleared, when the dust had settled, this country was going through as tough a time economically, as tough a time financially, as any period since the 1930s. And it meant that we had to make a series of quick decisions and oftentimes very unpopular decisions. And in that circumstance, there would have been an enormous temptation to resort to the expedient, to look at the polls, to put your finger out to the wind, and to put political security over America's long-term security.<p>And nowhere was that more true than in the House of Representatives. All right? I mean, this museum is filled with artifacts of America's history. And as many of you know, the theory has always been, the Senate is the saucer that cools the passions of the polity, and the House of Representatives, well, it's boiling hot all the time. And because when you're running for the House of Representatives you get a 2-year term, you are very vulnerable to the spikes, the ups and downs of politics at any given moment.<p>And that's why when I say I think Nancy's going to go down as one of our finest Speakers, when I say publicly thank you to an Ed Markey or a Steve Israel, I mean what I say. Because over the last 2 years, not only were we able to yank this economy out of a recession, not only were we able to get the economy growing again so that over the last 15 months, we've seen the private sector add jobs, not only were we able to help States and cities--and I think Mayor Menino will swear by the fact that all the work we did with the Recovery Act made a huge difference in terms of putting people back to work here in Boston and in the region on construction jobs and making sure that teachers weren't laid off and police officers and cops were still doing their jobs--but under Nancy's leadership, we were able to achieve historic health care legislation that over the next 10, 15, 20 years will end up benefiting millions of families all across the country and give them the kind of security that they could never imagine without it.<p>We were able to get \\"don't ask, don't tell\\" repealed. We were able to expand our investments in clean energy. We were able to make sure that we had the largest investment in infrastructure since Dwight Eisenhower. We were able to make sure that we had the largest investment in education. We expanded Pell grants to provide access to our kids--for our kids to their college educations.<p>So we didn't just rescue the economy, we put it on a stronger footing for the future. And along the way, we saved the auto industry and a few other things. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>On foreign policy, we kept a promise to end combat in Iraq. And by the end of this year, our troops will be coming home. We put a plan in place to make sure that we begin transitioning in Afghanistan so that Afghans take the lead and that our young people are not the only ones carrying the burden of freedom in that region.<p>A busy docket, a lot on our plate, but leaders like Steve and Ed and Nancy were able to make that happen.<p>Now, here's the good news: Because of these historic efforts, we are now turning the corner. We saw last week's job report. We saw today confidence among small businesses the highest level that it's been in 3 years. We can feel in pockets across the country the economy getting stronger. Not as strong as it needs to be--there's still millions of folks out there who are out of work, hundreds of thousands of people who are worried about losing their homes--but you can feel a sense of growing optimism, at least in the short term.<p>But Steve, Ed, Nancy, they didn't run, they didn't make all the sacrifices that they've made just for the short term, because we had problems even before this financial crisis. We're looking towards the long term. And it's the long-term battle for the heart and soul of this country that we're going to be fighting over the next couple of years.<p>I just came from a wonderful school with Mayor Menino, TechBoston in Dorchester. And what a spectacular turnaround we're--we've seen in this school. I mean, you've got kids from a tough neighborhood who were working on--what was it?--a spectrophotometry. And they were doing experiments in light spectrums, and they were explaining this and that and the other, and we were nodding our heads pretending like we understood what they were talking about. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Eighty-five percent of these kids are now intending to go to college. And the reason for this change is, first, a wonderful founder and principal of this school, who's recruited these extraordinary teachers. The Gates Foundation chipped in. You've got companies from around the region that have gotten involved. They're focusing entirely on math and science and technology, although I was also in an AP Government class, where they were asking me about a wide range of Supreme Court decisions.<p>You could not be more impressed with the quality of these kids and the quality of the teaching, and you walked in the classroom and you could just feel, this is a place where kids are learning.<p>Now, money alone was not enough to make that happen. So it's absolutely critical, if we're going to change our schools so that our kids can compete in the 21st century, that we're reforming those schools as well. And we can't just settle on the status quo.<p>But money made a difference. Every kid in that school has a laptop, and when we went into that science lab, they were all on Google Science because, as they explained to me, a lot of the Internet information is not accurate, and so they've got to go to this particular site in order to get the best information. And those laptops cost money. These kids are--have a longer school year and longer days. Each class is 60 minutes long so that they can absorb all the information that they net--that they need. And some of them stay in school in July and August to make sure that they're keeping up. That costs money.<p>So we as a country are going to have a series of decisions that we've got to make not just over the next 2 years, but over the next 10 years, over the next 20 years, about what our priorities are, what our values are. Now, we've been living beyond our means as a country for too long, and we're going to have to make some tough decisions about getting rid of programs that don't work, about revamping Government. Some of that will be painful. There will be some occasions where Democratic constituencies aren't happy with us because we're having to rationalize Government. But it's necessary.<p>But we've got to make sure that in that process of living within our means and driving down the deficit and driving down the debt, that we continue to invest in the American Dream, that we continue to invest in our kids, that we make sure that every young person in America is going to get the best quality education, are going to be going to college, are going to be able to get a good job at the end of it.<p>We're going to have to make an investment to make sure that research and development, the cutting-edge technologies that drive our economy, continue to happen right here in Boston. You go over to MIT, you go over to Harvard, and they'll be the first ones to tell you, if we don't have Federal research grants, a lot of the work we do is not going to happen. And if it's not happening there, then all those biotech firms, all those medical advances aren't going to be taking place here or along Route 128.<p>We're going to have to invest in infrastructure. I've been preaching this, and I know that I'm preaching to the choir when I talk to the mayor. We used to have the best stuff: best airports, best roads, best bridges, best ports. We don't anymore. Anybody who's gone through Beijing airport or ridden on a train in Europe, you know that we don't have the best infrastructure. We're way behind countries like South Korea in broadband and wireless. That's not a recipe for the future.<p>And so part of our argument, part of why it is so important for Nancy and Ed and Steve to have you as allies over the next several years--this is not a matter of power, it's not a matter of who's up and who's down in Washington. This has to do with whether the decisions we make now ensure the American Dream is strong and vibrant for the next generation and the generation after that. That's what's at stake.<p>I do not want us to look back 20 years from now and say, you know what, this is--this was the moment when we started thinking small instead of thinking big; when we started to turn on each other instead of coming together; where we decided, you know what, there's only so much, and so the job of politics is making sure that the haves have--keep their stuff and keep the have-nots at bay. That's not an America that I envision for Malia and Sasha. That's not the America that you envision for your kids and your grandkids. And so we're going to have a lot of work to do.<p>Now, let me say this: I was with--after--while I was at TechBoston, what we've been doing is going around the country and organizing forums with young people. And we had college Democrats and college Republicans and other college leaders, because we just want them to be involved. My theory is, you get young people involved in civic life, you get young people involved in politics, something good's going to come out of it. That's my belief.<p>And what was interesting, first of all, was how smart and civil they were to each other. So I was thinking about maybe sending them up to--[<i>Laughter</i>]--Capitol Hill to see if we could learn some things. But somebody asked me, how do we reinvigorate the population, the voter, after 2 very tough years, 2 1/2 very tough years? How are we going to get them involved in the 2012 cycle when a lot of folks maybe feel disillusioned after the midterm elections? How do we recapture that magic that got so many young people involved for the very first time in 2008? And I had a series of suggestions. I said, look, if you want to get voters involved, the first thing you need to do is listen, not talk, and find out what people care about and what they're thinking about. And so much of what we call apathy is actually people just not caring about the things we think they should care about, and so we need to pay a little attention to how they're thinking. But the other thing I said to these young people is, part of the reason folks get disillusioned is because we think somehow that compromise means you're unprincipled.<p>We've lost that sense in our--that in a vibrant, robust democracy like this, there are going to be some vigorous arguments, and sometimes you're not going to get 100 percent of what you want. In fact, you're probably never going to get 100 percent of what you want; you're going to get 80 percent of what you want or 70 percent of what you want. And so because this is a room dominated by Democrats, I want everybody to understand that Ed, Steve, Nancy, just as they did over the last 2 years, over the next 2 years, there are going to be times where we've got to try to find common ground to solve problems. Not everything is a fight. Not everything has to be a battle to the death. There have to be times when we step back for a moment and we say, you know what, we're thinking as Americans and not as partisans.<p>And that too is going to be, I think, a formula for our success in 2012. Because when I'm proudest of our party it's because I think our party is a practical party. I think it's a party of common sense. It's a party whose origins are with working people, who are thinking in practical, commonsense ways. And so on a whole range of issues, I think there's nothing--there's no weakness in us trying to reach out and seeing if we can find common ground.<p>Now, there are going to be times where we can't. I was born in Hawaii, what can I say? [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, I just--I can't change those facts. [<i>Laughter</i>] And in these budget battles, I mean, there are going to be some things that we will not do because we think it's wrong for the country, and we're going to have some big fights about it.<p>But I want to make sure everybody understands here that the choices we make now are so important for the country that we're going to have to, wherever we can, try to build consensus and make decisions based not necessarily just on short-term politics, but also what's good for the country long term. And I think that when we do that, ultimately, that will be good politics. And when people look back on this era of politics, I hope that, just as they do when they visit this museum and they see these portraits, they say, you know what, here were a group of leaders who weren't just thinking short term, but were thinking long term in this long, extraordinary experiment we've had with democracy.<p>So let me just close by saying this: I could not be more confident about the future of this country. And part of the reason that I'm so confident are those kids that I met at TechBoston and those college students that I met in that roundtable. But part of the reason that I couldn't be more confident is because of you.<p>I know a lot of the people in this room and the extraordinary contributions you've made in your own communities, starting businesses, helping on a whole range of civic efforts, and it gives me confidence to know that you are behind the DCCC and you're behind Nancy Pelosi and you're behind me. Because if we've got you behind us, I promise you we're going to keep this thing going not just for the next 2 years, but the next 2 years after that, the next 2 years after that, and we're going to be leading America into a bright and prosperous future.<p>Thank you, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"51" "\"Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Well, welcome to the White House. I want to thank Michelle for her introduction and for marrying me--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and for putting up with me. <p>I want to reiterate what Michelle said: Preventing bullying isn't just important to us as President and First Lady, it's important for us as parents. It's something we care deeply about.<p>We're joined here by several Members of Congress who've shown real leadership in taking up this cause. We've got a number of members of my administration with us today who are going to help us head up the efforts that come out of the White House on this issue. And I want to point out Judge Catherine O'Malley, the First Lady of Maryland. She is right here. Catherine, thank you for being here. Thank you all for being here. You have a chance to make an enormous difference, and you already have. <p>Now, bullying isn't a problem that makes headlines every day. But every day it touches the lives of young people all across this country. I want to thank all of you for participating in this conference. But more importantly, I want to thank you for being part of what's a growing movement--led by young people themselves--to put a stop to bullying, whether it takes place in school or it's taking place online. <p>And that's why we're here today. If there's one goal of this conference, it's to dispel the myth that bullying is just a harmless rite of passage or an inevitable part of growing up. It's not. Bullying can have destructive consequences for our young people, and it's not something we have to accept. As parents and students, as teachers and members of the community, we can take steps--all of us--to help prevent bullying and create a climate in our schools in which all of our children can feel safe, a climate in which they all can feel like they belong.<p>As adults, we all remember what it was like to see kids picked on in the hallways or in the schoolyard. And I have to say, with big ears and the name that I have, I wasn't immune. [<i>Laughter</i>] I didn't emerge unscathed. But because it's something that happens a lot and it's something that's always been around, sometimes we've turned our blind eye to the problem. We've said, \\"Kids will be kids.\\" And so sometimes, we overlook the real damage that bullying can do, especially when young people face harassment day after day, week after week.<p>So consider these statistics: A third of middle school and high school students have reported being bullied during the school year; almost 3 million students have said they were pushed, shoved, tripped, even spit on. It's also more likely to affect kids that are seen as different, whether it's because of the color of their skin, the clothes they wear, the disability they may have, or sexual orientation.<p>And bullying has been shown to lead to absences and poor performance in the classroom. And that alone should give us pause, since no child should be afraid to go to school in this country.<p>Today, bullying doesn't even end at the school bell. It can follow our children from the hallways to their cell phones to their computer screens. And in recent months, a series of tragedies has drawn attention to just how devastating bullying can be. We have just been heartbroken by the stories of young people who endured harassment and ridicule day after day at school and who ultimately took their own lives. These were kids brimming with promise--kids like Ty Field, kids like Carl Walker-Hoover--who should have felt nothing but excitement for the future. Instead, they felt like they had nowhere to turn, as if they had no escape from taunting and bullying that made school something they feared. I want to recognize Ty's mom and dad, who are here today, Carl's mother and sister, who are here today. They've shown incredible courage as advocates against bullying in memory of the sons and the brother that they've lost. And so we're so proud of them, and we're grateful to them for being here today. <p>No family should have to go through what these families have gone through. No child should feel that alone. We've got to make sure our young people know that if they're in trouble, there are caring adults who can help and young adults that can help, that even if they're having a tough time, they're going to get through it, and there's a whole world full of possibility waiting for them. We also have to make sure we're doing everything we can so that no child is in that position in the first place. And this is a responsibility we all share, a responsibility we have to teach all children the Golden Rule: We should treat others the way we want to be treated. <p>The good news is, people are stepping up and accepting responsibility. They're refusing to turn a blind eye to this problem. The PTA is launching a new campaign to get resources and information into the hands of parents. MTV is leading a new coalition to fight bullying online, and they're launching a series of ads to talk about the damage that's done when kids are bullied for the color of their skin or their religion or being gay or just being who they are. Others are leading their own efforts here today. And across the country, parents and students and teachers at the local level are talking--taking action as well. They're fighting not only to change rules and policies, but also to create a stronger sense of community and respect in their schools. <p>Joining this conference today is a young man I just had a chance to meet, Brandon Greene from Rhode Island. Brandon's 14 years old. Back in sixth grade, when he was just a kid, he did a class project on bullying. Now, 2 years later, it's a school-wide organization with 80 members. They do monthly surveys in their school to track bullying rates. And what they realized is that stopping bullying isn't just about preventing bad behavior, it's also about working together and creating a positive atmosphere. So Brandon and his fellow committee members are now also doing activities like coat drives and community service at their school. And it's making a real difference. So we're very proud of Brandon and the great work he's doing. <p>There are stories like this all across the country, where young people and their schools have refused to accept the status quo. And I want you all to know that you have a partner in the White House. As the former head of Chicago's public schools, nobody understands this issue better than my Education Secretary, Arne Duncan. He's going to be working on it, along with our Health Secretary, Kathleen Sebelius. Arne's going to head up our administration's efforts, which began last year with a first-of-its-kind summit on bullying. <p>And we're also launching a new resource called stopbullying.gov, which has more information for parents and for teachers. And as part of our education reform efforts, we're encouraging schools to ask students themselves about school safety and how we can address bullying and other related problems, because as every parent knows, sometimes the best way to find out what's happening with our kids is to ask, even if you have to--if it's in the case of Sasha, you have to keep on asking. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now, as adults, we can lose sight of how hard it can be sometimes to be a kid. And it's easy for us to forget what it was like to be teased or bullied. But it's also easy to forget the natural compassion and the sense of decency that our children display each and every day, when they're given a chance. <p>A couple other young people that I just had a chance to meet, Sarah and Emily Buder, who are here from California, they're right here next to the First Lady. And Sarah and Emily, they read a story about a girl named Olivia in a nearby town--this is a girl they didn't know--who had faced a lot of cruel taunting in school and online because she had had an epileptic seizure in class. So they decided to write Olivia a letter and asked their friends to do the same. <p>They figured they'd send Olivia about 50 letters. But in the months that followed, thousands and thousands of letters poured in from every corner of the country. It really tapped into something. A lot of the letters were from young people, and they wanted to wish Olivia well and let her know that somebody out there was talking--was thinking about her and let her know that she wasn't alone. And because those children treated Olivia with that small measure of kindness, it helped Olivia see that there was a light at the end of the tunnel. <p>The fact is, sometimes, kids are going to make mistakes; sometimes, they're going to make bad decisions. That's part of growing up. But it's our job to be there for them, to guide them, and to ensure that they can grow up in an environment that not only encourages their talents and intelligence, but also their sense of empathy and their regard for one another. <p>And that's what ultimately this conference is all about. And that's why all the issues that we're talking about really matter. And that's how we're going to prevent bullying and create an environment where every single one of our children can thrive. <p>So thank you for the good work that you're already doing, and I'm sure you're going to come up with some terrific ideas during the course of this conference. Thank you very much.\" "
"52" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, hello, hello, everybody! Hello, Blackhawks fans! Now, we have hosted a lot of teams at the White House over the last 2 years, but this one is a little sweeter. It's pretty special. That's because it is the first time as President I get to say congratulations on bringing a world championship to my hometown, the city of Chicago.<p>I want to start by recognizing Rocky Wirtz, John McDonough, and all the folks who helped make this team what it is. Give them a big round of applause.<p>We're proud to have some Members of Congress here today. You guys didn't have anything to do with it--[<i>laughter</i>]--but I know you're big fans, so we want to acknowledge you.<p>Finally, I want to congratulate all the fans. We have a proud tradition in Chicago of believing that no matter how long it takes, how much we have to endure, it's only a matter of time before our team finally wins it all. [<i>Laughter</i>] The waiting builds character. We have a lot of character. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now, I have to say, even by Chicago standards, 49 years, that's a pretty long time. [<i>Laughter</i>] To put that in perspective, the last time the Blackhawks won the Stanley Cup, a movie cost 69 cents. JFK had just moved into the White House. I was still in diapers. [<i>Laughter</i>] And when the legendary Glenn Hall played goalie for the Hawks, he did it with a wooden stick and no mask.<p>So you can understand why people were a little skeptical when, after this team's first practice last year, Patrick Kane came off the ice and said, \\"We want to win the Stanley Cup.\\" We had heard that before.<p>But this time it was different. This was the kind of tough, talented, selfless team that Chicago had been waiting for.<p>It was a team built around people like Coach Q, who brought years of experience and focus to the bench. Players like 22-year-old captain Jonathan Toews, who lit up the ice on his way to being named playoff MVP. There's Patrick Kane, who scored the biggest goal in franchise history in the overtime to win the Cup. And when Duncan Keith had seven of his teeth knocked out by a puck--seven--some of you guys there, you're missing a few, he's missing seven at one time--but he bit down on some gauze, took a shot of Novocain, and headed right back out onto the ice. They did all this for their fans. And along the way, they helped Chicago become a hockey town again.<p>During the playoffs, even the Michael Jordan statue had a Blackhawks uniform on. [<i>Laughter</i>] After this team won the Stanley Cup, 2 million people lined Michigan Avenue to see the victory parade go by. And when the Hawks visited Wrigley Field during the Crosstown Classic, they did something even tougher than winning the Cup: They got 40,000 Sox fans and Cubs fans to stand up and cheer at the same time. [<i>Laughter</i>] Never happened before.<p>In the end, it was about more than just bringing home one of the biggest trophies in sports. It was about a city coming together behind one team and one goal. It was about a new generation of players and fans understanding what it feels like to be the best in the world. It was about getting the chance to share that experience with others.<p>And that's why, over the last year, members of this team have been taking the Cup on the road, stopping everywhere from ice rinks to hospitals to let people have their moment with the trophy and help spread some of the joy.<p>Yesterday, for example, they took the Cup to visit wounded warriors at Walter Reed hospital. So they helped raise the spirits of men and women who've sacrificed so much on behalf of our country. Later today they're going to join Michelle in helping kids stay active by trying out some street hockey out on the South Lawn. So I want to thank them for everything they're doing to give back.<p>And finally, because it's almost playoff time again, I want to wish these guys the best of luck going into the postseason. I don't want to jinx anything, but after winning 8 of their last 10 games, I think it might be time for Patrick to start growing that playoff mullet again. [<i>Laughter</i>] I thought it was pretty sharp. Because I want to see you back here next year.<p>And let me, yes, just say to all the Bears fans, Bulls fans, White Sox fans, and Cubs fans--[<i>Laughter</i>]--I want to see all of you sometime soon as well.<p>So congratulations, guys. Thank you.<p>What have you got for me here?<p><i>[At this point, the President was presented with a team jersey.]</i><p>Thank you so much. Thank you. There we go. I think we've even got some blood on here. [<i>Laughter</i>] It shows it's authentic. Fantastic.<p><i>Chicago Blackhawks President and Chief Executive Officer John F. McDonough.</i> Do you want to put the ring on?<p><i>The President.</i> Oh, absolutely. I've got to try the ring out and everything. That's what you call some bling, right there. [<i>Laughter</i>] All right, there you go.<p>Pete, you got me here? <p>Let's step up a little bit. <p><i>[The President posed for a photograph with members of the Chicago Blackhawks organization.]</i><p><i>Center Jonathan Toews.</i> We got this for you too.<p><i>The President.</i> What else do we got here? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Mr. Toews.</i> A mini Stanley Cup, there you go.<p><i>The President.</i> Look at this, a mini Stanley--now, can I say that when I first saw this I thought, it looks so much bigger on TV. [<i>Laughter</i>] But then it turned out it was just a replica. But what a wonderful, wonderful gift this is. Thank you so much, team. We are proud of you. Thank you. Appreciate you. Go, Blackhawks!\" "
"53" "\"March is Women's History Month, a time not only to celebrate the progress that women have made, but also the women throughout our history who have made that progress possible.<p>One inspiring American who comes to mind is Eleanor Roosevelt. In 1961, the former First Lady was unhappy about the lack of women in Government, so she marched up to President Kennedy and handed him a three-page list of women who were qualified for top posts in his administration. This led the President to select Mrs. Roosevelt as the head of a new commission to look at the status of women in America and the unfairness they routinely faced in their lives.<p>Though she passed away before the commission could finish its work, the report they released spurred action across the country. It helped galvanize a movement led by women that would help make our society a more equal place.<p>It's been almost 50 years since the Roosevelt commission published its findings, and there have been few similar efforts by the Government in the decades that followed. That's why last week, here at the White House, we released a new comprehensive report on the status of women in the spirit of the one that was released half a century ago.<p>There was a lot of positive news about the strides we've made, even in recent years. For example, women have caught up with men in seeking higher education. In fact, women today are more likely than men to attend and graduate from college.<p>Yet there are also reminders of how much more work remains to be done. Women are still more likely to live in poverty in this country. In education, there are areas like math and engineering where women are vastly outnumbered by their male counterparts. This is especially troubling, for we know that to compete with nations around the world, these are fields in which we need to harness the talents of all our people. That's how we'll win the future.<p>And today, women still earn, on average, only about 75 cents for every dollar a man earns. That's a huge discrepancy. And at a time when folks across this country are struggling to make ends meet and many families are just trying to get by on one paycheck after a job loss, it's a reminder that achieving equal pay for equal work isn't just a women's issue, it's a family issue.<p>In one of my first acts as President, I signed a law so that women who've been discriminated against in their salaries could have their day in court to make it right. But there are steps we should take to prevent that from happening in the first place. That's why I was so disappointed when an important bill to give women more power to stop pay disparities, the \\"Paycheck Fairness Act,\\" was blocked by just two votes in the Senate. And that's why I'm going to keep up the fight to pass the reforms in that bill.<p>Achieving equality and opportunity for women isn't just important to me as President. It's something I care about deeply as the father of two daughters who wants to see his girls grow up in a world where there are no limits to what they can achieve.<p>As I've traveled across the country visiting schools and meeting young people, I've seen so many girls passionate about science and other subjects that were traditionally not open to them. We even held a science fair here at the White House, where I met a young woman named Amy Chyao. She was only 16 years old, but she was actually working on a treatment for cancer. She never thought, \\"Science isn't for me.\\" She never thought, \\"Girls can't do that.\\" She was just interested in solving a problem. And because someone was interested in giving her a chance, she has the potential to improve lives.<p>That tells me how far we've come. But it also tells me we have to work even harder to close the gaps that still exist and to uphold that simple American ideal: We are all equal and deserving of the chance to pursue our own version of happiness. That's what Eleanor Roosevelt was striving toward half a century ago. That's why this report matters today. And that's why, on behalf of all our daughters and all our sons, we've got to keep making progress in the years ahead.<p>Thanks for listening.\" "
"54" "\"[<i>\\"Hail To The Chief\\" plays as the President enters.</i>]<p>THE PRESIDENT: Thank you! [<i>applause</i>] Can we go with the song that we talked about? [<i>laughter</i>]<p>[<i>\\"Born In The USA\\" plays.</i>] {<i>Laughter and applause.</i>]<p>THE PRESIDENT: Some things just bear repeating. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>Good evening. As we gather here tonight, all across the world a powerful spirit of change is tearing down old regimes, decaying institutions, remnants of the past. So, look out, Gridiron Club! [<i>laughter</i>] I mean, look at this getup. [<i>laughter</i>] Forget about winning the future. How about entering the present? [<i>laughter and applause</i>]<p>Anyway, it's great to be here. And I'm glad we're ending on time because I really couldn't stay here much longer. [<i>laughter</i>] I have to get back to not being involved in the budget negotiations. [<i>laughter</i>] My schedule is just packed with meetings that I'm not attending. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>You know, the last time I attended this dinner was in 2006. A lot has changed in those past five years. Back then I was a newcomer who couldn't get anything done in the Senate. Now I'm a President who can't get anything done in the Senate. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>But it's good to be back and have a chance to spend time with so many members of the press. And, Susan, thank you for the extraordinary job that you've done tonight. [<i>applause</i>] I know people say that I have a testy relationship with the media &mdash; but how can that be? I hardly ever see you. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>Come on, I love the press. I even sat for an interview with Bill O'Reilly right before the Super Bowl. That was a change of pace. [<i>laughter</i>] I don't often get a chance to be in a room with an ego that's bigger than mine. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>And while I know I have my share of critics out there, I don't focus on the negative stuff. I just don't pay much attention to it. Most days I barely skim through the comment section of Huffington Post &mdash; Daily Kos &mdash; Fire Dog Lake &mdash; The Daily Dish &mdash; boingboing.net. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>All right, I hear the criticisms. I do. For example, I know that people think I'm not passionate enough. That I'm too cool. That I'm too detached. But as I was going through my daily routine &mdash; sitting alone in my study &mdash; [<i>laughter</i>] &mdash; meditating, thinking about how to win the future &mdash; [<i>laughter</i>] &mdash; I pondered this critique, and calmly rejected it &mdash; [<i>laughter and applause</i>] &mdash; as thoroughly illogical. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>And for all those who think I golf too much, let me be clear. I'm not spending time on the golf course &mdash; I'm investing time on the golf course. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>Here's another criticism I haven't paid much attention to &mdash; we heard a little bit of it tonight &mdash; my reliance on the teleprompter. Republicans even tried to take it away from me. And I'm fine with that. As if I can't speak without a &mdash; without a &mdash; [<i>laughter</i>] &mdash; a teleprompter. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>I want to acknowledge a few people in the house tonight. Kathleen Sebelius did a great job, didn't she? [<i>applause</i>] She does a great job each and every day. In these tough times I've asked all my Cabinet members to cut even those things that they care deeply about. In Kathleen's case, it was her once-promising political career. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>My understanding is the Speaker of the House, John Boehner &mdash; is he here? He couldn't show up, huh? Okay. I mean, we've heard a few jokes about John, and I've made a few jokes over the years about John's unusual coloring. [<i>laughter</i>] I used to think that it was a tan, but after seeing how often he tears up I've come to realize that's not a tan &mdash; that's rust. [<i>laughter</i>] Think about it. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>I want to congratulate my dear friend Chris Dodd on his new role as head of the MPAA. Though I'm wondering what life experience could possibly prepare Chris to deal with a town full of blowhards and inflated egos. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>America's favorite voyeur, TSA Administrator John Pistole is in the house. No hard feelings, John. I mean that literally. Please. [<i>laughter and applause</i>]<p>Last but not least, Rahm Emanuel is here &mdash; already hard at work on Chicago's problems. [<i>laughter</i>] Let me just be the first to say: Welcome home. [<i>laughter and applause</i>] Unless anybody from the Illinois Supreme Court is here &mdash; then welcome to Washington. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>You know, the day I hired Rahm as my chief of staff, unemployment was under 8 percent and my approval ratings were in the 60s. So, good luck, Chicago. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>Thankfully, Bill Daley came over from Wall Street to take his place. And the senior staff actually seems pretty happy with the change &mdash; particularly the new executive bonus plan. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>I do have a couple of regrets to pass along. My Secretary of State could not be with us. I've dispatched Hillary to the Middle East to talk about how these countries can transition to new leaders &mdash; though, I've got to be honest, she's gotten a little passionate about the subject. [<i>laughter</i>] These past few weeks it's been tough falling asleep with Hillary out there on Pennsylvania Avenue shouting, throwing rocks at the window. [<i>laughter</i>] Settle down. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>Former Congressman Chris Lee wanted to be here tonight. But apparently he didn't know the rules &mdash; no shoes, no shirt, no service. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>Speaking of Republican exploratory activities &mdash; [<i>laughter</i>] &mdash; we have quite a few considering presidential candidacies. Of course, there's our outstanding speaker for the evening, Mitch Daniels. [<i>applause</i>] Did a great job. Mitch, I heard your friends over at FOX News told you that you don't look like a President. But I wouldn't worry about it &mdash; they say the same thing about me every single day. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>I know some people discount Mitch because he's not &mdash; as they say in the NBA &mdash; long enough. [<i>laughter</i>] But the don't realize how scrappy he is. I watched him during dinner. He tore into that fillet like it was a public employee. [<i>laughter and applause</i>]<p>And Mitch is experienced. Before he was governor Mitch was a pharmaceutical executive and he was George W. Bush's budget director. I don't have a joke here. I just want to point it out. [<i>laughter and applause</i>] To all the journalists in case you didn't know. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>Haley Barbour is here. And I want to thank him for working with Michelle on the \\"Let's Move\\" campaign. I do have one thing to clear up, though, Haley. You know, when Michelle said, you need to run, she didn't mean for President. [<i>laughter and applause</i>] I wanted to be clear about that.<p>Tim Pawlenty is not here. But he's hard on the campaign trail. To be honest, I think the American people are going to have some tough questions for Tim &mdash; specifically, who are you? [<i>laughter</i>] And where did you come from? [<i>laughter</i>] Which is okay &mdash; two years into my presidency and I'm still getting those questions. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>But I have to say, as much as I admire Haley, Mitch, Tim, all the others, I'm a little biased towards my dear, dear friend, Jon Huntsman. [<i>laughter</i>] In fact, I was just telling the Des Moines Register, nobody has done more for my administration than Jon Huntsman. [<i>laughter</i>] As his good friends in China might say, he is truly the yin to my yang. [<i>laughter</i>] And I'm going to make sure that every primary voter knows it. [<i>laughter</i>] If there's a fish fry for Jon Huntsman in Cedar Rapids, guess who's going to be at the grill. [<i>laughter</i>] Barack Obama. [<i>laughter and applause</i>] If you see me on the streets of Nashua, wearing my parka and waving a sign, give me a honk for Huntsman. [<i>laughter</i>] The next GOP nominee for President. Love that guy. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>All these jokes are in good fun. [<i>laughter</i>] They're all in the spirit of bipartisanship, a spirit that's sweeping the nation. [<i>laughter</i>] We're seeing people with strong disagreements get along as never before. You have the former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney, current Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney &mdash; working together every day, sharing a host body. [<i>laughter</i>] It's inspiring. [<i>laughter</i>] Or creepy. [<i>laughter</i>] Depending on how you look at it. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>Allow me to close on a serious note. As has already been mentioned, we meet tonight in celebration, but also great sorrow over the loss of one of the Gridiron's most beloved members and one of America's most respected journalists. For nearly half a century, David Broder set the standard for political coverage. He was fair. He was honest. He was insightful. Nobody worked harder than David or with greater dignity &mdash; even as he covered a process that's sometimes lacking in those qualities.<p>He appreciated the great pageant of democracy like nobody else. But he also understood its deeper meaning. And his passing only reminds us of the importance of the work that all of you do.<p>These are momentous times. We face extraordinary economic challenges here at home. We have young men and women who are making extraordinary sacrifices, sometimes the ultimate sacrifice, for us overseas. We're seeing transformative change all around the world. And yesterday we were reminded how tragedy can strike at any moment. Tonight, of course, our thoughts and prayers are with the people of Japan. And I want to reiterate that the American people will stand with Japan as they recover and they rebuild.<p>But whatever challenges we face and however history unfolds, we rely on all of you &mdash; the press &mdash; to tell the story. Those of us who are fortunate enough to be in positions of power may have our gripes about how the media covers us, but that's only because your job is to hold us accountable. And none of us would want to live in a country without that failsafe &mdash; without a free press and freedom of expression.<p>That's what people all around the world are fighting for as we speak. In some cases, they're dying for those rights. And that's what many reporters risk their lives to uphold &mdash; from Kandahar to Tripoli. So let us protect and cherish those freedoms here at home, and never take them for granted.<p>And enjoy yourselves for the rest of the evening. My understanding is &mdash; although, Susan, you did an outstanding job keeping things on time, that the bar is still open and will be open until midnight. Last I checked, so is the government. [<i>laughter</i>]<p>Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. [<i>applause</i>]\" "
"55" "\"Hello, everybody! Hello! Thank you so much. Thank you. Everybody, have a seat. Have a seat, everybody.<p>It is wonderful to be here at Kenmore. And I want to first of all thank our principal, Mr.--Dr. John Word--Doctor; Superintendent of Arlington Public Schools Patrick Murphy. I believe that the Arlington County School Board is represented here--where are they? There they are over there, all doing great work. We've got your own Congressman, Jim Moran, here in the house. And we've got somebody who I believe is going to go down as the finest Secretary of Education we've ever had, Arne Duncan.<p>Now, before I begin, let me just say that like all Americans, I continue to be heartbroken by the images of devastation in Japan. And I know all of you, young and old, have been watching the full magnitude of this tragedy unfold. I want to reiterate America's support for the people of Japan, who are some of our closest friends and allies. And I've said directly to the Prime Minister of Japan, Prime Minister Kan, that the United States will continue to offer any assistance we can as Japan recovers from multiple disasters and we will stand with the people of Japan in the difficult days ahead.<p>Now, I just had a chance to talk with some of your teachers as well as some students, who told me about your all-school project that's weaving the life and music of Duke Ellington into your classes. And by getting students engaged in learning, you're teaching the kinds of skills about how to think and how to work together that young people are going to need in college and beyond. That's what all of our schools need to be doing.<p>And in an economy that's more competitive and connected than ever before, a good job and a good career is going to demand a good education. Over the next 10 years, nearly half of all new jobs are going to require more than a high school diploma. So if you want a bright future, you're going to need a college degree or advanced training.<p>And as Arne mentioned, unfortunately, too many students aren't getting a world-class education today. As many as a quarter of American students aren't finishing high school. The quality of our math and science education lags behind many other nations. And America has fallen to ninth in the proportion of young people with a college degree. Understand, we used to be first, and we now rank ninth. That's not acceptable.<p>And turning these statistics around isn't just the right thing to do for our kids, it's the right thing to do for our economy, because the best jobs program out there is a good education. The best economic policy is one that produces more college graduates. And that's why for the sake of our children and our economy and America's future, we're going to have to do a better job educating every single one of our sons and daughters, all of them.<p>Now, that responsibility begins not in our classrooms, but it begins in our homes. It begins with parents who are instilling in their kids not only a love of learning, but also the self-confidence and especially the self-discipline and work ethics that are at the heart of success in school and success in life. We've got to work hard. Young people, I'm talking to you. [<i>Laughter</i>] I've got a couple of them at home. And the truth is, the world's going to be more competitive, and nobody's going to just give success to you. You're going to have to earn it, and that means you've got to apply yourself. <p>So that you're going to learn at home, first and foremost. But that's not where the responsibility ends. All of us have a responsibility--not just as parents, but as citizens--for giving our kids the best possible education.<p>Now, for a long time we weren't sure about how to give our kids that kind of education. There were a lot of arguments for a lot of years. Some people thought, if you just put more money into education, that would solve the problem. And then on--the other side thought, money doesn't matter, what we need is reform. In fact, there were those who argued that we should just dismantle the public education system altogether. Rather than working together, both sides remained locked in this stalemate year after year, decade after decade, and nothing much changed.<p>And then something began to happen in States and local school districts. Instead of getting caught up in these old, stale debates, people began to agreeing--to agree that, you know what, we need both more money and more reform. We need more resources for the schools, but we've got to reorganize how our schools are doing business in order to assure success for our young people. People began coming together--parents, students, teachers, administrators, reformers, local officials--and we started witnessing amazing success stories all across America.<p>There's a school in Denver, Bruce Randolph School, that went from being one of the worst schools in Colorado to graduating 97 percent of its seniors last May. In Cincinnati, Taft High School went from handing out only one diploma for every five students to graduating 95 percent of its seniors and preparing them for careers in technology.<p>So our goal as an administration, my goal as President, has been to build on these successes across America. We know what can work. And so 2 years ago, we started doing exactly that: trying to figure out how do we incentivize success by starting something--a competition called Race to the Top. So what we're doing is we're saying to States: Prove you're serious about reform, and we'll show you the money.<p>And because it's a competition for less than 1 percent of what our country spends on education each year, Race to the Top has led over 40 States to raise their standards for teaching, learning, and student achievement. And these standards weren't developed in Washington, but they were developed by Republican and Democratic Governors all across this country.<p>So we've made enormous progress. As Arne has said, this is probably the most significant education reform initiative that we've seen in a generation. But we need to make sure we're reaching every child in America, not just those in States or districts that take part in Race to the Top. And that's why not only do we need to continue this competition, we've got to open it up. We're letting local school districts apply. [<i>Applause</i>] We're going to let local school districts apply.<p>And that's why we need to take the same bottom-up approach when it comes to reforming America's most important education law, otherwise known as No Child Left Behind. We have to reform No Child Left Behind.<p>Now, over these last few weeks, during what we've called Education Month around the White House, I've been traveling across the country talking with folks about education. In fact, we've actually been doing that for the last couple of years. And what I've heard, what Arne's heard, what the rest of my team has heard loud and clear from teachers and students and parents and communities is that No Child Left Behind got some things right and got some things wrong. The goals of No Child Left Behind were the right goals: making a promise to educate every child with an excellent teacher. That's the right thing to do; that's the right goal. Higher standards are right. Accountability is right. Shining a light on the achievement gap between students of different races and backgrounds and those with and without disabilities, that's the right thing to do.<p>But what hasn't worked is denying teachers, schools, and States what they need to meet these goals. That's why we need to fix No Child Left Behind. We need to make sure we're graduating students who are ready for college and ready for careers. We need to put outstanding teachers in every classroom and give those teachers the pay and the support that they deserve. [<i>Applause</i>] I got some applause for that one. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>We need to not only hold failing schools accountable, we need to help turn those schools around. In the 21st century, it's not enough to leave no child behind, we need to help every child get ahead. We need to get every child on a path to academic excellence. <p>Now, here's the good news: I am proud of the commitment by Democrats and Republicans in Congress to fix No Child Left Behind, to make this reform a reality, because they recognize education is an area where we can't afford to drag our feet. As Arne says, our kids only get one shot at an education, and we've got to get it right. So that's why I'm calling on Congress to send me an education reform bill I can sign into law before the next school year begins--before next year's school year.<p>I want every child in this country to head back to school in the fall knowing that their education is America's priority. Let's seize this education moment. Let's fix No Child Left Behind.<p>Now, last week, we got a reminder of why it's so critical that we reform this law. According to new estimates, under the system No Child Left Behind put in place, more than 80 percent of our schools may be labeled as failing--80 percent of our schools. Four out of five schools will be labeled as failing. Now, that's an astonishing number. And our impulse is to either be outraged that the numbers are so high or skeptical that they're even true. And let's face it, skepticism is somewhat justified. We know that four out of five schools in this country aren't failing. So what we're doing to measure success and failure is out of line.<p>In fact, the list of supposedly failing schools is--includes schools that are making extraordinary progress, including Kenmore. So yes, we've still got more work to do here at this school to close the achievement gap. I think Dr. Word would agree with that. We've got to make sure that every student is on track. But I mean, we can see here at Kenmore what--Kenmore's thriving. You guys are doing great. You got more work to do, but you're doing fine.<p>So what this means, though, is, is that we need a better way of figuring out which schools are deeply in trouble, which schools aren't, and how we get not only the schools that are in really bad shape on track, how do we help provide the tools to schools that want to get even better to get better.<p>That way of measuring success and failure, that's the first problem with No Child Left Behind that we need to fix. Instead of labeling schools a failure one day and then throwing up our hands and walking away from them, we need to refocus on the schools that need the most help. We need to hold our schools accountable for the success of every child: Black, White, Latino, Asian, students with disabilities, English language learners.<p>We need to make sure some of our best teachers are teaching in some of our worst schools. We need to reward schools that are doing the difficult work of turning themselves around. We're going to have to take a series of steps across a broad range of measures to not only target our most troubled schools, but also raise expectations for all our schools.<p>So first, we're going to have to fix how schools are labeled and identified. But we've got to do more than that. In recent years, 15 States have actually lowered their standards to make it easier for their kids to meet the targets set by No Child Left Behind. Think about that. That was--that's a pretty perverse incentive when States say to themselves, you know what, let's lower our standards so that we have an easy time--easier time passing those standards so that we don't get punished under No Child Left Behind. That makes no sense. That's inexcusable.<p>So instead of measuring students based on whether they're above or below an arbitrary bar, we need to set better standards to make sure our students are meeting one clear goal: They're graduating ready for college and ready for a career. That's the goal we need to set. To know whether our kids are on track to meet that goal, we need better assessments. <p>Now, I want to speak to teachers in particular here. I'm not talking about more tests. I'm not talking about teaching to the test. We don't need to know whether a student can fill out a bubble. We do need to know whether they're making progress. We do need to know whether they're not only mastering reading, math, and science, but also developing the kinds of skills, like critical thinking and creativity and collaboration, that I just saw on display with the students that I met here. Those are skills they're going to need for the rest of their lives, not just to be good workers, but to be good citizens.<p>Now, that doesn't mean testing's going to go away; there will be testing. But the point is, is that we need to refine how we're assessing progress so that we can have accountability without rigidity, accountability that still encourages creativity inside the classroom and empowers teachers and students and administrators.<p>Of course, we also know that better standards, better assessments, and better curriculum won't make a difference without outstanding teachers. Every day in this country, teachers are doing a heroic job for their kids--every day. They're taking on the problems that follow students into class, come in early to rewrite lessons, spending hours after school tutoring students. I know; my sister is a teacher. Now, in South Korea, teachers are known as nation builders, and I think it's time we treated our teachers with the same level of respect right here in the United States of America.<p>But if we're serious about treating teachers that way, if we're serious about educating all our kids with an excellent teacher, then we're going to have to fix No Child Left Behind.<p>What No Child Left Behind says is that teachers need to be certified before they step into the classroom. Now, certification can be an important measure of the quality of the teacher, and obviously, we want teachers to be well-qualified. But when the quality of a teacher can make or break a child's education, we've got to make sure our certified teachers are also outstanding teachers, teachers who can reach every last child.<p>And so what we need to do is a better job preparing and supporting our teachers, measuring their success in the classroom, holding them accountable. We're going to have to stop making excuses for the occasional bad teacher. We're going to have to start paying good ones like the professionals that they are. If we truly believe that teaching is one of the most valued professions in society--and I can't think of a more important profession--then we've got to start valuing our great teachers.<p>And there are a lot of ways of valuing teachers. I don't know any teacher who got into it for the pay. [<i>Laughter</i>] The teachers who are here, you got into it for the kids, for the satisfaction of feeling like your passing on knowledge that these young people will use and carry on for the rest of their lives.<p>So we need to reward you by letting you make more of a difference for your kids. We need to build on what's being done here at Kenmore: give our best teachers more time to learn from each other, more time to mentor each other, more responsibilities in their schools. And to replace the baby boomers who are retiring in the coming years, we're going to have to recruit a whole new generation of teachers, including a hundred thousand new math and science teachers over the next decade.<p>So these are the steps we're going to have to take to fix No Child Left Behind. And together with what we're already doing to make college more affordable for millions more students, I'm confident these reforms will help us meet the goal that I set when I took office, which is, by the end of the decade, we will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. We'll be number one again. That's my priority.<p>So these steps will require reforms. They'll require a change in rules and standards and even attitudes. But let me just point out, there's no avoiding the fact they'll also cost some money. Fixing our failing schools costs money. It requires reform, but it costs some money. Recruiting and rewarding the best teachers will cost money. Making it possible for families to send their kids to college costs money.<p>Now, after a decade of deficits, there isn't a lot of money to go around. I understand that. And for too long, Government's been spending more than it's been taking in, and we can't keep that up. We're going to have to cut whatever spending we can afford to do without.<p>So I've called on a 5-year freeze on annual domestic spending. That will cut the deficit by more than $400 billion over the next decade, making that kind of spending a much smaller share of the economy, smaller than it's been in 50 years. Right now we're sitting down with Republicans and Democrats to find other ways to get our deficits under control.<p>But even as we do, we can't be reckless and we can't be irresponsible about how we cut. Let me make it plain: We cannot cut education. We can't cut the things that will make America more competitive.<p>I mean, think about what happens in your own family when somebody loses a job or has an illness and you need to cut back. What do you do? You start by skipping that vacation you'd been planning, or you see what's on TV instead of going to the movies. Maybe you start packing your own lunch. There are a whole bunch of things that you might do. The last thing you're going to do is to dip into your child's college savings. That's too important. You're not going to give that up.<p>Well, what's true for your family is true for the American family. It's the same principle. A budget that sacrifices our commitment to education would be a budget that's sacrificing our country's future. That would be a budget that sacrifices our children's future, and I will not let it happen.<p>So yes, I'm determined to cut our deficits. But I refuse to do it by telling students here, who are so full of promise, that we're not willing to invest in your future. I'm not willing to tell these young people right here that their education isn't a priority.<p>I'm talking about students like Katherine Diaz, who says, \\"I think I should have the opportunity to be who I want to be.\\" And it turns out that Katherine wants to either be a professional violinist or the first woman President of the United States. [<i>Laughter</i>] So she's still--Katherine's still--she's not sure yet. [<i>Laughter</i>] She might do both. You could do it one at a time: professional violinist, President. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Or I'm talking about Roberto Claure. Where's Roberto? There's Roberto, right here. He says, \\"With good schools and good teachers, we can grow up to be anything we want.\\" So--[<i>Applause</i>]. It turns out Roberto wants to be the first Hispanic President of the United States. [<i>Laughter</i>] So you guys will have to work out, sort of, the sequence. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Roberto, Katherine, the millions of students like them across the country, they need us to offer them the best education possible, not only because that's how they'll succeed, not only because that's how we'll outcompete countries around the world, but because that's what we do. That's who we are. That's what America's about.<p>We are a place that believes every child, no matter where they come from, can grow up to be anything they want, where Katherine or Roberto or a skinny kid with a funny name named Barack Obama--[<i>Laughter</i>]--can grow up to be President of the United States. That's who we are. That's the commitment we make to the next generation.<p>And I'm confident that if we fix No Child Left Behind, if we continue to reform American education, continue to invest in our children's future, that's the America we'll always be.<p>Thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"56" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hey! Hey, Kenmore! How are you? Good to see you guys. Hello, everybody. Hello, everybody. How are you? All right, everybody, have a seat. Everybody, have a seat.<p>Well, I was just wandering out and I--suddenly all of you were here. Well, it is wonderful to see you guys. First of all, I want to introduce--this is Arne Duncan, who's the Secretary of Education and a good friend of mine. Give him a big round of applause.<p>How's everybody doing today?<p><i>Audience members</i>. Good!<p><i>The President</i>. Good. Well, I wanted to come by partly because we've designated this Education Month at the White House. And what we are doing is traveling all across the country, finding schools that are doing a great job, and highlighting how we can make sure that every school is doing a great job.<p>So I want to congratulate your principal, I want to congratulate your teachers, and most of all, I want to congratulate the students for doing some outstanding work here at Kenmore. You guys have made us proud. When we look at the improvement that you're making, day in, day out, what that tells me is, is that you've got a lot of hard-working young people who are really focused on learning.<p>And there's never been a time where that's more important. Part of what I'm going to do when I speak to the other group is to explain that it used to be, if you were willing to work hard, you didn't really need an education to get a good job. You could go to a factory, and you could build things, you could make things. But you didn't necessarily have to know math. You didn't necessarily have to be able to communicate that effectively.<p>These days, if you want to get a good job, have a great career, the only way you're going to do it is if you have a good education. And so that starts early. It can't--you can't wait until you get to be old like me--[<i>Laughter</i>]--to get an education. You got to start young. And that's what you guys are doing each and every day.<p>So the main message I have for you is that we're proud of you, but we need you all to buckle down and keep working hard. This is right about the age when I--what grades are you guys? Seventh, eighth?<p><i>Audience members</i>. Eighth grade.<p><i>The President</i>. This is eighth grade. I've got a confession to make. This is probably right around the time I was at my worst. I mean, I was getting in trouble all the time. I was in the principal's office all the time. I was--and so boys especially--[<i>Laughter</i>]--this is the age where you start getting a little distracted. And so I just hope that everybody really stays focused. Yes, have fun, but listen to your teachers, listen to your parents, and make sure that you really are doing everything you can to succeed in school.<p>And I know that--I know you will, and as a consequence, I know that you guys are going to be able to do anything that you ever want to do, including maybe being the Secretary of Education or the President of the United States.<p>All right. Thank you, guys. See you later. See you. And teachers, good job! We're proud of you.\" "
"57" "\"Thank you, everybody. Thank you so much. Everyone, please have a seat.<p>To Taoiseach Kenny; to his lovely wife, who has made a wonderful luncheon companion; to the Vice President, who is here; to our host, Speaker Boehner, for gathering us together; Ambassador Collins and Mrs. Collins; distinguished Members of the House and Senate; distinguished guests from Irish, Northern Irish, and British governments: It is wonderful to be here and a great privilege. It's my privilege to join all of you today for this wonderful St. Patrick's Day celebration, a day when red, white, and blue has a strong hint of green.<p>Taoiseach Kenny, welcome. We thank you for joining us. Your presence at this lunch virtually guarantees that any partisan clashes will be limited to who is more Irish than whom. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now, speaking of ancestry, there has been some controversy about my own background. [<i>Laughter</i>] Two years into my Presidency, some are still bent on peddling rumors about my origins. So today I want to put all those rumors to rest. It is true, my great-great-great-grandfather really was from Ireland. It's true--Moneygall, to be precise. I can't believe I have to keep pointing this out. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>As John mentioned, this tradition began with Tip O'Neill and President Reagan, two men of Irish stock, quick wit, and no small amount of fighting spirit. Tip's and Gip's differences were real; their beliefs and their battles were sincere. But so too were the bonds of affection and respect for one another. In fact, on the Speaker's 70th birthday, President Reagan threw him a small party at the White House, where he offered up a toast. \\"Tip,\\" he said, \\"if I had a ticket to heaven and you didn't have one, I would give mine away and go to hell with you.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] The two later left the room arm in arm.<p>Before 6 o'clock, it was politics; after 6 o'clock, they could be friends. They extended that safe zone to St. Patrick's Day, setting aside this lunch each year so that folks in both parties could enjoy the good cheer and the good company. Our dear friend Ted Kennedy and others persuaded Taoiseach to join them. And the only hint of fighting in the air was the contest to outdo one another's stories.<p>President Reagan insisted that this lunch not be a place for policy battles, but rather for good cheer and fellowship that so often is missing in Washington. \\"Our friendship,\\" President Reagan said of Tip O'Neill, \\"is testimony to the political system that we're part of and the country that we live in, a country which permits two not so shy and not so retiring Irishmen to have it out on the issues, rather than on each other or their countrymen.\\" I think that's a sentiment that we should all strive to keep in mind, whether Irish or not.<p>Over the past week, we've witnessed one of our finest allies, Japan, endure a terrible tragedy. As Americans, our first instinct naturally has been to help in any way that we can, and we will help the Japanese people as they recover and rebuild. But what these events should also remind us is that, in the scheme of things, our differences are small. In the face of all that we have in common, our differences are insignificant. None of us are alone in this world. We need one another, especially in times of turmoil and trial.<p>And as servants of the people who sent us here, we can all do better to live up to the example that Tip O'Neill and Ronald Reagan and others often set: to put the differences of the day aside, to seek common ground, to forge progress for the sake of this country that we love--even before 6 o'clock.<p>So in the months and years ahead, I hope we can summon some of the spirit of this day and work together with renewed commitment to bring about better days for all of our people. But today is a day for tens of millions of Americans of Irish descent to celebrate the tremendous influence that one small island with a bighearted people has had on our country.<p>Prime Minister Kenny, I thank you and your lovely wife for coming today. We are proud to call Ireland a friend on this St. Patrick's Day and on all the days of the calendar, and we thank the Irish people for all that they've done to enrich the United States of America.<p>So let me grab a glass. To our guest, the Taoiseach of Ireland: Happy St. Patrick's Day to all of you, and may the friendship between our two countries grow ever greener. Cheers.\" "
"58" "\"Good evening, everybody. Welcome to the White House on this beautiful St. Patrick's Day. It was remarked upon that the fountain is the appropriate green this year. Last year, Michelle asked the White House team to make the fountain green, and it was a little tepid. [<i>Laughter</i>] So people just thought there was algae in the fountain. [<i>Laughter</i>] This year they made sure that there was no confusion, so we're very happy about that.<p>I am not going to stand up here very long because, as the old Irish saying goes, everyone is wise until he speaks. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I know we've got some entertainment to get to. But the Irish also tells us that what fills the eye fills the heart. And tonight, in this room filled with so many friends both old and new, I can't imagine a better place to be than right here with the sons and daughters of Ireland--and those who wish they were. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I want to start by welcoming Taoiseach Kenny and his lovely wife Fionnuala. Please give them a big round of applause. Now, poor Taoiseach, he's only been in office for a little over a week. [<i>Laughter</i>] He's already jetlagged. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I'm honored that he agreed to leave the unpacking for another day and fly across the ocean to be with us here tonight.<p>We also have more than a few Irish and Irish American friends in the house tonight. I want to thank our very talented performers as well as the members of my administration and the Members of Congress who are here. We are joined by three very Irish Governors: Martin O'Malley, Dan Malloy, and Pat Quinn. Thank you for coming.<p>Every year at this time, we're reminded of just how many strands of green are woven into our American story. And even though St. Patrick's Day has perhaps been better known for revelry than reflection--[<i>Laughter</i>]--it's also a chance for us to remember how the journey to America began for so many of our ancestors--including, as I discovered as I was running for office, one of mine--how millions of Irish boarded dank and crowded ships with a promise to send for their families later, often with no friends, no money, and nothing but hope waiting for them on the other side.<p>Like so many immigrants who came to call this country home, these men and women were guided by a deep faith and an unwavering belief that here in America, a better life is available for anybody who's willing to try. And even though they weren't always welcomed in their new land, they persevered. They built and led and defended our country while still holding fast to their heritage. And in many ways, what it means to be Irish helped define what it means to be American.<p>That's why today, when we think about a Tip O'Neill--whose daughter, by the way, is here tonight, and his granddaughter; it was wonderful to meet them--or a Ronald Reagan, we see an example of how it's possible to argue over policy without sacrificing friendship, how it's easy to disagree without being disagreeable if you make the effort.<p>When we think about a Henry Ford or a Cyrus McCormick, we see the ingenuity that has driven generations of Americans to build the businesses and create the inventions that have helped make a nation an engine of prosperity.<p>When we think about an Audie Murphy or a John King, two of the hundreds of Irish Americans who've won the Medal of Honor, we see the heroism and bravery that comes with risking your own life for your country.<p>When we think about a family like the Kennedys, we see a steadfast belief in the importance of service and the duty each of us has to stand up for those who can't stand up for themselves.<p>In so many ways, the Irish and their descendants have set an example for us as a people. But they've also set an example for us as a nation struggling to be more just and more free. In 1845, Frederick Douglass, the great fighter for freedom here in this country, had just published his \\"Narrative of a Life of an American Slave.\\" And even as the book was a bestseller, Douglass began receiving steady streams of threats to his life.<p>So he decided to embark on a 2-year lecture tour of the British Isles until things cooled down. He began by spending 4 months in Ireland, far from the threat of slave catchers, where he quickly found common ground with a people locked in their own struggle against oppression.<p>As Douglass wrote: \\"I have spent some of the happiest moments of my life since landing in this country. I seem to have undergone a transformation. I live a new life.\\" It was at a Dublin rally that Douglass met the Irish nationalist Daniel O'Connell. And soon, the two struck up an unlikely friendship. O'Connell was a fierce opponent of slavery, and he began calling Douglass \\"the Black O'Connell of the United States.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>For his part, Douglass drew inspiration from the Irishman's courage and intelligence, ultimately modeling his own struggle for justice on O'Connell's belief that change could be achieved peacefully through rule of law. Daniel O'Connell never lived to see another great emancipator named Abraham Lincoln put pen to paper and bring slavery to an end. But the two men shared a universal desire for freedom, one that cannot be contained by language or culture or even the span of an ocean.<p>And stories like this remind us just how deeply intertwined our two nations are. Nights like this remind us how much we share. And so as we celebrate together, let us take a moment to appreciate all that Ireland has given to America: the faith we keep, the family we hold close, the laughter and song and warmth we feel when surrounded by the ones we love.<p>On behalf of the American people, I want to thank the people of Ireland. In the years ahead, may our sons and daughters only grow closer. And now I would like to present to you the Taoiseach of Ireland. Happy St. Patrick's Day to all of you.\" "
"59" "\"Good afternoon, everyone. Over the last several days, the American people have been both heartbroken and deeply concerned about the developments in Japan.<p>We've seen an earthquake and tsunami render unimaginable--an unimaginable toll of death and destruction on one of our closest friends and allies in the world. And we've seen this powerful natural disaster cause even more catastrophe through its impact on nuclear reactors that bring peaceful energy to the people of Japan.<p>Today I wanted to update the American people on what we know about the situation in Japan, what we're doing to support American citizens and the safety of our own nuclear energy, and how we are helping the Japanese people contain the damage, recover, and rebuild.<p>First, we are bringing all available resources to bear to closely monitor the situation and to protect American citizens who may be in harm's way. Even as Japanese responders continue to do heroic work, we know that the damage to the nuclear reactors in Fukushima Daiichi plant poses a substantial risk to people who are nearby. That is why yesterday, we called for an evacuation of American citizens who are within 50 miles of the plant. This decision was based upon a careful scientific evaluation and the guidelines that we would use to keep our citizens safe here in the United States or anywhere in the world.<p>Beyond this 50-mile radius, the risks do not currently call for an evacuation. But we do have a responsibility to take prudent and precautionary measures to educate those Americans who may be endangered by exposure to radiation if the situation deteriorates. That's why last night, I authorized the voluntary departures of family members and dependents of U.S. officials working in northeastern Japan.<p>All U.S. citizens in Japan should continue to carefully monitor the situation and follow the guidance of the U.S. and Japanese governments. And those who are seeking assistance should contact our Embassy and consulates, which continue to be open and operational.<p>Second, I know that many Americans are also worried about the potential risks to the United States. So I want to be very clear: We do not expect harmful levels of radiation to reach the United States, whether it's the West Coast, Hawaii, Alaska, or U.S. Territories in the Pacific. Let me repeat that: We do not expect harmful levels of radiation to reach the West Coast, Hawaii, Alaska, or U.S. Territories in the Pacific. That is the judgment of our Nuclear Regulatory Commission and many other experts.<p>Furthermore, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and public health experts do not recommend that people in the United States take precautionary measures beyond staying informed. And going forward, we will continue to keep the American people fully updated, because I believe that you must know what I know as President.<p>Here at home, nuclear power is also an important part of our own energy future, along with renewable sources like wind, solar, natural gas, and clean coal. Our nuclear power plants have undergone exhaustive study and have been declared safe for any number of extreme contingencies. But when we see a crisis like the one in Japan, we have a responsibility to learn from this event and to draw from those lessons to ensure the safety and security of our people. That's why I've asked the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to do a comprehensive review of the safety of our domestic nuclear plants in light of the natural disaster that unfolded in Japan.<p>Finally, we are working aggressively to support our Japanese ally at this time of extraordinary challenge. Search and rescue teams are on the ground in Japan to help the recovery effort. A disaster assistance and response team is working to confront the aftermath of the earthquake and tsunami. The U.S. military, which has helped to ensure the security of Japan for decades, is working around the clock.<p>To date, we've flown hundreds of missions to support the recovery efforts and distributed thousands of pounds of food and water to the Japanese people. We've also deployed some of our leading experts to help contain the damage at Japan's nuclear reactors. We're sharing with them expertise, equipment, and technology so that the courageous responders on the scene have the benefit of American teamwork and support.<p>And the American people have also opened up their hearts. Many have given generously to support the ongoing relief efforts. The Red Cross is providing assistance to help meet the immediate needs of those who've been displaced. And I would encourage anybody who wants to lend a hand to go to usaid.gov to learn more--that's usaid.gov--to find out how you can be helpful.<p>As I told Prime Minister Kan last night and reaffirmed at the Japanese Embassy here in Washington today, the Japanese people are not alone in this time of great trial and sorrow. Across the Pacific, they will find a hand of support extended from the United States as they get back on their feet. After all, we have an alliance that was forged more than a half century ago and strengthened by shared interests and democratic values. Our people share ties of family, ties of culture, and ties of commerce. Our troops have served to protect Japan's shores, and our citizens have found opportunity and friendship in Japan's cities and towns.<p>Above all, I am confident that Japan will recover and rebuild because of the strength and spirit of the Japanese people. Over the last few days, they've opened up their homes to one another. They've shared scarce resources of food and water. They've organized shelters, provided free medical care, and looked out for their most vulnerable citizens. One man put it simply: \\"It's a Japanese thing. When hard times hit, we have to help each other.\\"<p>In these hard times, there remains, nevertheless, hope for the future. In one small town that had been flattened by the tsunami, emergency workers rescued a 4-month-old baby who had been swept out of her parents' arms and stranded for days among the debris. No one can say for certain just how she survived the water and the wreckage around her. There is a mystery in the course of human events.<p>But in the midst of economic recovery and global upheaval, disasters like this remind us of the common humanity that we share. We see it in the responders who are risking their lives at Fukushima. We show it through the help that has poured into Japan from 70 countries. And we hear it in the cries of a child, miraculously pulled from the rubble.<p>In the coming days, we will continue to do everything we can to ensure the safety of American citizens and the security of our sources of energy. And we will stand with the people of Japan as they contain this crisis, recover from this hardship, and rebuild their great nation.<p>Thanks very much.\" "
"60" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. I want to take this opportunity to update the American people about the situation in Libya. Over the last several weeks, the world has watched events unfold in Libya with hope and alarm. Last month, protesters took to the streets across the country to demand their universal rights and a government that is accountable to them and responsive to their aspirations. But they were met with an iron fist.<p>Within days, whole parts of the country declared their independence from a brutal regime and members of the Government serving in Libya and abroad chose to align themselves with the forces of change. Muammar Qadhafi clearly lost the confidence of his own people and the legitimacy to lead.<p>Instead of respecting the rights of his own people, Qadhafi chose the path of brutal suppression. Innocent civilians were beaten, imprisoned, and in some cases killed. Peaceful protests were forcefully put down. Hospitals were attacked and patients disappeared. A campaign of intimidation and repression began.<p>In the face of this injustice, the United States and the international community moved swiftly. Sanctions were put in place by the United States and our allies and partners. The U.N. Security Council imposed further sanctions, an arms embargo, and the specter of international accountability for Qadhafi and those around him. Humanitarian assistance was positioned on Libya's borders, and those displaced by the violence received our help. Ample warning was given that Qadhafi needed to stop his campaign of repression or be held accountable. The Arab League and the European Union joined us in calling for an end to violence.<p>Once again, Qadhafi chose to ignore the will of his people and the international community. Instead, he launched a military campaign against his own people. And there should be no doubt about his intentions because he himself has made them clear.<p>For decades, he's demonstrated a willingness to use brute force through his sponsorship of terrorism against the American people as well as others and through the killings that he has carried out within his own borders. And just yesterday, speaking of the city of Benghazi, a city of roughly 700,000 people, he threatened, and I quote, \\"We will have no mercy and no pity.\\" No mercy on his own citizens.<p>Now, here's why this matters to us. Left unchecked, we have every reason to believe that Qadhafi would commit atrocities against his people. Many thousands could die. A humanitarian crisis would ensue. The entire region could be destabilized, endangering many of our allies and partners. The calls of the Libyan people for help would go unanswered. The democratic values that we stand for would be overrun. Moreover, the words of the international community would be rendered hollow.<p>And that's why the United States has worked with our allies and partners to shape a strong international response at the United Nations. Our focus has been clear: protecting innocent civilians within Libya and holding the Qadhafi regime accountable.<p>Yesterday, in response to a call for action by the Libyan people and the Arab League, the U.N. Security Council passed a strong resolution that demands an end to the violence against citizens. It authorizes the use of force with an explicit commitment to pursue all necessary measures to stop the killing, to include the enforcement of a no-fly zone over Libya. It also strengthens our sanctions and the enforcement of an arms embargo against the Qadhafi regime.<p>Now, once more, Muammar Qadhafi has a choice. The resolution that passed lays out very clear conditions that must be met. The United States, the United Kingdom, France, and Arab States agree that a cease-fire must be implemented immediately. That means all attacks against civilians must stop. Qadhafi must stop his troops from advancing on Benghazi, pull them back from Ajdabiya, Misurata, and Zawiyah, and establish water, electricity, and gas supplies to all areas. Humanitarian assistance must be allowed to reach the people of Libya.<p>Let me be clear: These terms are not negotiable. These terms are not subject to negotiation. If Qadhafi does not comply with the resolution, the international community will impose consequences and the resolution will be enforced through military action.<p>In this effort, the United States is prepared to act as part of an international coalition. American leadership is essential, but that does not mean acting alone. It means shaping the conditions for the international community to act together.<p>That's why I've directed Secretary Gates and our military to coordinate their planning, and tomorrow Secretary Clinton will travel to Paris for a meeting with our European allies and Arab partners about the enforcement of Resolution 1973. We will provide the unique capabilities that we can bring to bear to stop the violence against civilians, including enabling our European allies and Arab partners to effectively enforce a no-fly zone. I have no doubt that the men and women of our military are capable of carrying out this mission. Once more, they have the thanks of a grateful nation and the admiration of the world.<p>I also want to be clear about what we will not be doing. The United States is not going to deploy ground troops into Libya. And we are not going to use force to go beyond a well-defined goal, specifically, the protection of civilians in Libya. In the coming weeks, we will continue to help the Libyan people with humanitarian and economic assistance so that they can fulfill their aspirations peacefully.<p>Now, the United States did not seek this outcome. Our decisions have been driven by Qadhafi's refusal to respect the rights of his people and the potential for mass murder of innocent civilians. It is not an action that we will pursue alone. Indeed, our British and French allies and members of the Arab League have already committed to take a leadership role in the enforcement of this resolution, just as they were instrumental in pursuing it. We are coordinating closely with them. And this is precisely how the international community should work as more nations bear both the responsibility and the cost of enforcing international law.<p>This is just one more chapter in the change that is unfolding across the Middle East and North Africa. From the beginning of these protests, we've made it clear that we are opposed to violence. We've made clear our support for a set of universal values and our support for the political and economic change that the people of the region deserve. But I want to be clear: The change in the region will not and cannot be imposed by the United States or any foreign power; ultimately, it will be driven by the people of the Arab world. It is their right and their responsibility to determine their own destiny.<p>Let me close by saying that there is no decision I face as your Commander in Chief that I consider as carefully as the decision to ask our men and women to use military force. Particularly at a time when our military is fighting in Afghanistan and winding down our activities in Iraq, that decision is only made more difficult. But the United States of America will not stand idly by in the face of actions that undermine global peace and security. So I've taken this decision with the confidence that action is necessary and that we will not be acting alone. Our goal is focused, our cause is just, and our coalition is strong.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"61" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. Today I authorized the Armed Forces of the United States to begin a limited military action in Libya in support of an international effort to protect Libyan civilians. That action has now begun.<p>In this effort, the United States is acting with a broad coalition that is committed to enforcing United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973, which calls for the protection of the Libyan people. That coalition met in Paris today to send a unified message, and it brings together many of our European and Arab partners.<p>This is not an outcome that the United States or any of our partners sought. Even yesterday, the international community offered Muammar Qadhafi the opportunity to pursue an immediate ceasefire, one that stopped theviolence against civilians and the advances of Qadhafi's forces. But despite the hollow words of his Government, he has ignored that opportunity. His attacks on his own people have continued. His forces have been on the move. And the danger faced by the people of Libya has grown.<p>I am deeply aware of the risks of any military action, no matter what limits we place on it. I want the American people to know that the use of force is not our first choice, and it's not a choice that I make lightly. But we cannot stand idly by when a tyrant tells his people that there will be no mercy, and his forces step up their assaults on cities like Benghazi and Misurata, where innocent men and women face brutality and death at the hands of their own Government.<p>So we must be clear: Actions have consequences, and the writ of the international community must be enforced. That is the cause of this coalition.<p>As a part of this effort, the United States will contribute our unique capabilities at the front end of the mission to protect Libyan civilians and enable the enforcement of a no-fly zone that will be led by our international partners. And as I said yesterday, we will not--I repeat--we will not deploy any U.S. troops on the ground.<p>As Commander in Chief, I have great confidence in the men and women of our military who will carry out this mission. They carry with them the respect of a grateful nation.<p>I'm also proud that we are acting as part of a coalition that includes close allies and partners who are prepared to meet their responsibility to protect the people of Libya and uphold the mandate of the international community.<p>I've acted after consulting with my national security team and Republican and Democratic leaders of Congress. And in the coming hours and days, my administration will keep the American people fully informed. But make no mistake: Today, we are part of a broad coalition. We are answering the calls of a threatened people. And we are acting in the interests of the United States and the world.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"62" "\"In recent days, we've seen turmoil and tragedy around the world, from change in the Middle East and North Africa to the earthquake and tsunami in Japan. As I said on Friday, we will work with our partners in the region to protect innocent civilians in Libya and hold the Qadhafi regime accountable, and we will continue to stand with the people of Japan in their greatest hour of need.<p>As we respond to these immediate crises abroad, we also will not let up in our effort to tackle the pressing, ongoing challenges facing our country, including accelerating economic growth. That's why, over the weekend, I'll be in Latin America. One of the main reasons for my trip is to strengthen economic partnerships abroad so that we create good jobs here at home.<p>Latin America is a part of the world where the economy is growing very quickly. And as these markets grow, so does their demand for goods and services. The question is, where are those goods and services going to come from? As President, I want to make sure these products are made in America. I want to open more markets around the world so that American companies can do more business and hire more of our people.<p>Here's a statistic to explain why this is important: Every $1 billion of goods and services we export supports more than 5,000 jobs in the United States. So the more we sell overseas, the more jobs we create on our shores. That's why last year, I set a goal for this country: to double our exports by 2014. And it's a goal we're on track to meet.<p>Part of the reason why is the rapid growth of Latin America and their openness to American business. We now export more than three times as much to Latin America as we do to China, and our exports to the region will soon support more than 2 million jobs here in the United States.<p>Brazil, the first stop on our trip, is a great example. In 2010, America's exports to Brazil supported more than 250,000 American jobs. These are jobs at places like Capstone Turbine in California, which recently sold $2 million worth of high-tech energy equipment to Brazil. Another company is Rhino Assembly, a small business in Charlotte, North Carolina, that sells and repairs tools for building cars and planes. A deal with a distributor in Brazil has resulted in new sales and new employees at that firm. And we can point to large companies like Sikorsky, whose helicopter sales to Brazil help sustain a large, skilled workforce in Connecticut, Alabama, and Pennsylvania.<p>Today, Brazil imports more goods from the United States than from any other nation. And I'll be meeting with business leaders from both countries to talk about how we can create even more jobs by deepening these economic ties. After Brazil, I will also visit Chile, a country with a growing economy and increasing demand for American goods. In fact, since 2004, our exports there are up 300 percent and now support about 70,000 jobs in the United States. Finally, we'll head to El Salvador, a nation with so much promise for growth, with the potential to benefit both of our nations.<p>We've always had a special bond with our neighbors to the south. It's a bond born of shared history and values and strengthened by the millions of Americans who proudly trace their roots to Latin America. But what's clear is that in an increasingly global economy, our partnership with these nations is only going to become more vital. For it's a source of growth and prosperity, and not just for the people of Latin America, but for the American people as well.<p>Thanks.\" "
"63" "\"<i>Boa tarde</i>. Thank you very much. Please, please, everybody be seated. It is a great joy to be here in Brazil. And on behalf of Michelle and myself, I want to thank the people of Brasilia for the incredibly warm welcome that you've shown us since we arrived.<p>I want to make a few acknowledgements. First of all, I want to thank the Brazil-U.S. Business Council for the outstanding work that they're doing: the National Conference of Industry and the American Chamber of Commerce for Brazil. Thank you all for the great job in hosting this conference.<p>I want to acknowledge a number of my Cabinet who are here: the Secretary of the Treasury, Timothy Geithner, is here; Gary Locke, the Secretary of Commerce; Ron Kirk, our U.S. Trade Representative; Lisa Jackson, our EPA Administrator; Fred Hochberg, President of the Export-Import Bank; Michael Froman, my Deputy National Security Adviser for International Economic Affairs. And to all the Government officials of Brazil, thank you for your hospitality.<p>My only regret is that we missed the party by coming a few weeks after Carnival. [<i>Laughter</i>] Maybe that's the best, since I'm not sure I would have had the same level of productivity from my staff. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I also want to thank all the business and Government officials who have traveled from the U.S. and all over Brazil to be here today. After spending the morning discussing a range of economic issues with President Rousseff and talking with some Brazilian and American CEOs, I want to speak with you today about how we can work together to create new jobs and new opportunities in both our countries.<p>In the last two centuries, there has never been a moment of greater promise for Brazil. You now have the seventh largest economy in the world and one of the fastest growing of any country. In the span of nearly a decade, tens of millions of Brazilians have been lifted out of poverty. Nearly half of your population is now considered middle class. Instead of relying on the helping hand of other countries, you are now extending a hand to help developing nations. You grow much of the world's food, supply much of its biofuels, and will host the two largest international sporting events in the world. And as I mentioned at the joint press conference with Madam President Rousseff, I'm still a little hurt about the Olympics coming here instead of my hometown in Chicago. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I know you'll do an outstanding job.<p>So what has been accomplished here in Brazil is nothing short of remarkable. It's often said that Brazil is a country for the future. Well, that future has now arrived. And despite the uncertainties of the last 2 years, Brazil has stepped onto the world stage as a major financial and economic power.<p>You did not arrive at this point by simply chance or good fortune. Your success came because of hard work and the perseverance of the Brazilian people, the entrepreneurial spirit of many in this room, and the vision of leaders like Presidents Cardoso and Lula. What these leaders realized and what President Rousseff understands is that the surest path to prosperity for Brazil involves free people and free markets.<p>In a region of the world where the legacy of colonialism is still fresh, there was a legitimate concern in the last century that opening your economies to more trade would lead wealthier countries to extract resources without regard to your own nation's development. I understand that. At the same time, many Latin American nations, including this one, lived through decades of dictatorships, where closed economies failed to produce decent standards of living for the vast majority of people.<p>But over the last decade, Brazil has proved the world that there is another way. You've shown that participation in the global economy can lead to widespread opportunity at home. You've shown that the spirit of capitalism can thrive alongside the spirit of social justice. You've shown that democracy is still the best path to economic progress, for when governments are accountable to their people, their people are more likely to prosper.<p>In the United States of America, we have always shared these beliefs. Like you, we threw off the yoke of colonialism and established our independence in the New World. We too are a vast nation of immigrants, from different backgrounds and cultures, who find strength in our diversity, strength and unity in our national pride. And as the two largest democracies and economies in the Western Hemisphere, we share a belief that all human beings deserve the chance to shape their own destiny and fulfill their God-given potential.<p>For all these reasons, the United States supports the rise of Brazil as a global power. That's why we worked to empower the G-20, where Brazil has a prominent seat at the table, to be the premier forum for international economic cooperation. That's why we supported a bigger role for Brazil in various international institutions such as the IMF and the World Bank. And that's why Brazil is my first stop on my first trip to South America, because we seek a deeper partnership with your Government and a closer friendship with your people. We believe that strengthening our economy--economic ties will create new jobs and opportunities for both of our nations.<p>As the United States looks to Brazil, we see the chance to sell more goods and services to a rapidly growing market of around 200 million consumers. And for us, this is a jobs strategy. When our businesses send more products overseas, it supports the workers who make and sell those products. Now, I think most American businessmen who are here understand this. For every $1 billion in U.S. exports, we see 5,000 U.S. jobs.<p>Already our exports to Brazil have more than doubled over the last 5 years, growing twice as fast as our overall exports and faster than our exports to China. We now sell $50 billion worth of goods and services to Brazil, and those sales support more than 250,000 jobs in the United States.<p>For example, after one small business in North Carolina attended a trade forum in Sao Paulo last year, they came away with a manufacturing deal that sent auto parts to Brazil and led to the hiring of new workers in the United States. Capstone Turbine in California recently sold $2 million worth of high-tech energy equipment that will support jobs in America and serve millions of Brazilians in the years to come. And the Government of Brazil recently purchased helicopters that will support U.S. manufacturing jobs from Pennsylvania to Alabama.<p>These exports don't just mean jobs for the United States, they also mean more services and more choices for the people of Brazil. From telecommunication and information services to machinery and clean energy technology, American companies are contributing to the economic growth that is raising the living standards of Brazilians everywhere. And our businesses don't just make that contribution by exporting to Brazil, but also through billions of dollars in direct investment that supports jobs and businesses in both our countries.<p>Of course, our economic relationship isn't just a one-way street of U.S. exports and U.S. investment. The United States is the second largest market for Brazilian exports, supporting tens of thousands of jobs and businesses in this country. Over the last decade, Brazilian companies have invested billions of dollars in American industries, ranging from steel to information technology, projects that will create thousands of jobs in the United States. At the end of 2008, U.S. subsidiaries of Brazilian firms employed more than 42,000 U.S. workers.<p>So there is no question that the United States and Brazil benefit from the economic ties we've developed over the years. There's also no question that strengthening those ties would be a win-win for both our nations. And I'd like to mention four areas where I think we can do just that.<p>First of all, I'm pleased to announce that President Rousseff and I just completed an agreement for a new economic and financial dialogue. It's time for the United States to treat our engagement with Brazil on economic issues as seriously as we do with nations like China and India. And this dialogue will help us do that by promoting economic cooperation, streamlining regulations, and enhancing international cooperation not only at the G-20, but elsewhere.<p>We've also completed an agreement for trade and economic cooperation, which will help us expand the trade and investment that creates jobs in both of our countries. This agreement will also foster greater dialogue about how we can break down the barriers that still exist between our two nations. As the World Bank has noted, there are still too many obstacles in the way of doing business in Brazil. And I know Brazil has issues with certain policies in the United States. But I also know that there's no country that has more to gain than Brazil from expanded trade and open markets. And we want to help you resolve whatever challenges stand in the way of this goal.<p>The second place we want to partner with Brazil is on the issue of energy, which is why President Rousseff and I also agreed to launch a strategic energy dialogue. By some estimates, the oil you recently discovered off the shores of Brazil could amount to twice the reserves we have in the United States. We want to work with you. We want to help with technology and support to develop these oil reserves safely. And when you're ready to start selling, we want to be one of your best customers. At a time when we've been reminded how easily instability in other parts of the world can affect the price of oil, the United States could not be happier with the potential for a new, stable source of energy.<p>Now, even as we focus on oil in the near term, we shouldn't lose sight of the fact that the only long-term solution to the world's dependence on fossil fuels is clean energy technology. And that's why the United States and Brazil are deepening our cooperation on biofuels and why we're launching a U.S.-Brazil Green Economy Partnership, because we know that the development of clean energy is one of the best ways to create new jobs and industries in both our nations.<p>Already more than half of the vehicles in Brazil run on biofuels. Nearly 80 percent of your electricity comes from hydropower. In the United States, we've jump-started a clean energy industry, and we'll soon have the capacity to produce 40 percent of the world's advanced batteries. If we can start sharing these new technologies and leverage private investment from businesses like the ones in this room, we can grow our economies and clean our environment by making, using, trading, selling clean energy products all over the world. That is a win for both our nations.<p>A third place we can cooperate is education. I was speaking over lunch with President Rousseff, and we agreed a knowledge-based economy will be the key to growth and prosperity, and that means a skilled and educated workforce. The more our young people, the more our students, the more our workers are exposed to new cultures and new ideas, the more equipped they'll be able--they'll be to compete on a global scale. And that's why I'm so pleased that American and Brazilian business leaders have expressed interest in increasing student exchanges between our nations, because when we invest in our people, we invest in our future.<p>The final place we can work together is on infrastructure. In 2014, the World Cup will take place in Brazil, the only nation that's a five-time champion, although the U.S. is getting better, you have to admit. [<i>Laughter</i>] We're getting better. And as I already mentioned, Rio will host the Olympics in 2016. But even though we lost a hard-fought contest, the United States doesn't just want to watch from the stands. Brazil's expected to invest over $200 billion to prepare for both of these events. And as you look for businesses to design and build new roads and bridges and stadiums, American companies stand ready to help you meet this challenge, on everything from engineering to manufacturing to construction. We want to see these games and this nation succeed.<p>So these are just some of the steps we can take to strengthen the ties that bind our two nations, ties that offer the promise of greater prosperity and opportunity for Americans and Brazilians alike. And yet for all the deals and agreements that we may sign, the true potential of our partnership will only be realized by forging relationships between our people: between business leaders, entrepreneurs, scientists, engineers, teachers, students, and over the one--over 1 million citizens who travel to the U.S. and Brazil every year.<p>Like all friends, we may not agree on every issue. We won't always take the exact same path. But as the two largest democracies in the New World begin the second decade of a young century, let's never forget all that we share.<p>In the United States, we believe in what's known as the American Dream, the idea that no matter who you are or where you come from or how you start out, you can overcome the greatest obstacles and fulfill the greatest hopes. I'm a testament to that dream. I believe that that dream exists in this America as well. I can see it in the entrepreneurial spirit of the men and women in this room. I could see it in the celebrations of Caricoas upon learning that the world will come to compete in Rio. And I can see it running through so much of your history.<p>Brasilia's a young city; it will turn 51 next month. But it began as a dream more than a century ago. In 1883, Dom Bosco, Brasilia's patron saint, had a vision that one day a capital city of a great nation would be built between the 15th and 20th parallels. It would be a model for the future and ensure that opportunity was the birthright of every Brazilian.<p>And today, this city and this country are indeed a model for the future, showing the world that democracy is still the best partner of human progress. As friends and neighbors who have lived the same story, we are eager to be a part of your future and fulfill our American Dream together.<p><i>Muito obrigado</i>. Thank you.\" "
"64" "\"President Rousseff, to all the distinguished guests, elected officials, business leaders who are here, I want to thank you so much, not only for your very kind words, but for the extraordinary hospitality that you and the Brazilian people have shown me, Michelle, and our daughters. You've shown us the essence of the Brazilian spirit, which is truly <i>simpatico</i>. <p>We gather here at one of the city's most magnificent structures, which speaks to the creativity and the ingenuity and vision of Brazil and its people. It calls to mind the words of President Kubitschek, who said, \\"What is Brasilia if not the dawn of a new day for Brazil?\\" In our lives we've seen that new day come to pass. Because of the sacrifices and courage of Brazilians like Madam President, you have built a vibrant democracy. Because of the hard work and determination of the Brazilian people--parents, students, entrepreneurs--you've built a thriving economy. Future historians will surely record Brazil's rise as one of the great achievements of our time. <p>As I said earlier today, the United States doesn't simply welcome Brazil's rise; we want to help in any ways that we can to realize Brazil's full potential. When you look at what our two countries share, as President Rousseff mentioned--our belief in the dignity of every individual, our confidence that if we put our minds to it there's nothing we can't do, the incredible diversity of our peoples, our sense ofresponsibility to not only people within our borders, but people beyond our borders--well, it's only natural that we would end up being close partners. We can go further together.<p>Madam President, today we have seized an historic opportunity. We've laid a foundation for greater cooperation and partnership between our nations for decades to come. And I firmly believe that this will mean more dignity, more prosperity, and more security, not only for the peoples of our two nations, but for people across Latin America and around the world.<p>So I propose a toast. Recalling those words from President Kubitschek: To the new day in Brazil, may the sunlight of progress and peace always shine upon you. <i>Salude.</i>\" "
"65" "\"I just want to begin by thanking President Rousseff for her extraordinary hospitality. To the Brazilian companies who are here, many of whom have investments in the United States, we're grateful for the dialogue with our colleagues from the north.<p>As I stated in the statement that I just made before coming here, Brazil is on the rise. And the United States is excited and fully supportive of Brazil's rapid expansion, its extraordinary talent, its resources, its enormous potential that's now being realized, in part because of the outstanding leadership of President Rousseff.<p>And I think the goal today--so I'm not going to speak long--is simply to make sure that we were helping to facilitate an effective dialogue. I know that there are a couple of areas where we're going to be announcing agreements: an agreement on trade and economic cooperation, an open skies agreement. I know those are two issues that everybody was advocating and we're going to announce them today, so we're pleased to do that. I know there's been some work done on extending visas for both countries, and although we haven't gotten all that worked through, we are making progress, and we will continue to do so.<p>Brazil is going to be hosting several important sporting events over the next few years. I mentioned that it pains me to say this when it comes to the Olympics because--[<i>Laughter</i>]--Lula beat me on that one. [<i>Laughter</i>] But we want to make sure that through this forum, companies that have both an expertise on security and infrastructure, that they will potentially participate.<p>On energy, obviously, Brazil is a major player on the world stage----<p><i>[At this point, the press pool was escorted out of the room. The forum continued, but no transcript was provided.]</i>\" "
"66" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, Rio de Janeiro!<p><i>Audience members</i>. Hello!<p><i>Audience member</i>. Many welcomes!<p><i>The President</i>. <i>Alo</i>, <i>Cidade</i><i>Maravilhoso</i>! <i>Boa tarde, todo o povo brasileiro</i>.<p>Since the moment we arrived, the people of this nation have graciously shown my family the warmth and generosity of the Brazilian spirit. <i>Obrigado</i>. Thank you. And I want to give a special thanks for you--to all of you for being here, because I've been told that there's a Vasco football game coming--Botafogo.<p><i>Audience members</i>. [<i>Applause</i>]<p><i>Audience members</i>. Boo!<p><i>The President</i>. Botafogo? [<i>Laughter</i>] So I know that--I realize Brazilians don't give up their soccer very easily. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now, one of my earliest impressions of Brazil was a movie I saw with my mother as a very young child, a movie called \\"Black Orpheus,\\" that is set in the <i>favelas</i> of Rio during Carnival. And my mother loved that movie, with its singing and dancing against the backdrop of the beautiful green hills. And it first premiered as a play right here in Theatro Municipal. That's my understanding.<p>And my mother is gone now, but she would have never imagined that her son's first trip to Brazil would be as President of the United States. She would have never imagined that. And I never imagined that this country would be even more beautiful than it was in the movie. You are, as Jorge Ben Jor sang, \\"A tropical country, blessed by God, and beautiful by nature.\\"<p>I've seen that beauty in the cascading hillsides, in your endless miles of sand and ocean, and in the vibrant, diverse gatherings of <i>brasileiros</i> who have come here today.<p>And we have a wonderfully mixed group. We have Cariocas and Paulistas, Baianas, Mineiros. We've got men and women from the cities to the interior, and so many young people here who are the great future of this great nation.<p>Now, yesterday I met with your wonderful new President, Dilma Rousseff, and talked about how we can strengthen the partnership between our governments. But today I want to speak directly to the Brazilian people about how we can strengthen the friendship between our nations. I've come here to share some ideas because I want to speak of the values that we share, the hopes that we have in common, and the difference that we can make together.<p>When you think about it, the journeys of the United States of America and Brazil began in similar ways. Our lands are rich with God's creation, home to ancient and indigenous peoples. From overseas, the Americas were discovered by men who sought a New World and settled by pioneers who pushed westward across vast frontiers. We became colonies claimed by distant crowns, but soon declared our independence. We then welcomed waves of immigrants to our shores, and eventually, after a long struggle, we cleansed the stain of slavery from our land.<p>The United States was the first nation to recognize Brazil's independence and set up a diplomatic outpost in this country. The first head of state to visit the United States was the leader of Brazil, Dom Pedro II. In the Second World War, our brave men and women fought side by side for freedom. And after the war, both of our nations struggled to achieve the full blessings of liberty.<p>On the streets of the United States, men and women marched and bled and some died so that every citizen could enjoy the same freedoms and opportunities, no matter what you looked like, no matter where you came from.<p>In Brazil, you fought against two decades of dictatorships for the same right to be heard, the right to be free from fear, free from want. And yet, for years, democracy and development were slow to take hold, and millions suffered as a result.<p>But I come here today because those days have passed. Brazil today is a flourishing democracy, a place where people are free to speak their mind and choose their leaders, where a poor kid from Pernambuco can rise from the floors of a copper factory to the highest office in Brazil.<p>Over the last decade, the progress made by the Brazilian people has inspired the world. More than half of this nation is now considered middle class. Millions have been lifted from poverty. For the first time, hope is returning to places where fear had long prevailed. I saw this today when I visited Cidade de Deus, the City of God.<p>It isn't just the new security efforts and social programs--and I want to congratulate the mayor and the Governor for the excellent work that they're doing--but it's also a change in attitudes. As one young resident said, \\"People have to look at <i>favelas</i> not with pity, but as a source of Presidents and lawyers and doctors, artists, and people with solutions.\\"<p>With each passing day, Brazil is a country with more solutions. In the global community, you've gone from relying on the help of other nations to now helping fight poverty and disease wherever they exist. You play an important role in the global institutions that protect our common security and promote our common prosperity. And you will welcome the world to your shores when the World Cup and the Olympic Games come to Rio de Janeiro.<p>Now, you may be aware that this city was not my first choice for the Summer Olympics. [<i>Laughter</i>] But if the games could not be held in Chicago, then there's no place I'd rather see them than right here in Rio. And I intend to come back in 2016 to watch what happens.<p>For so long, Brazil was a nation brimming with potential but held back by politics, both at home and abroad. For so long, you were called a country of the future, told to wait for a better day that was always just around the corner.<i> Meus amigos</i>, that day has finally come. And this is a country of the future no more. The people of Brazil should know that the future has arrived. It is here now. And it's time to seize it.<p>Now, our countries have not always agreed on everything. And just like many nations, we're going to have our differences of opinion going forward. But I'm here to tell you that the American people don't just recognize Brazil's success, we root for Brazil's success. As you confront the many challenges you still face at home as well as abroad, let us stand together, not as senior and junior partners, but as equal partners, joined in a spirit of mutual interest and mutual respect, committed to the progress that I know that we can make together. I'm confident we can do it.<p>Together, we can advance our common prosperity. As two of the world's largest economies, we worked side by side during the financial crisis to restore growth and confidence. And to keep our economies going--growing, we know what's necessary in both of our nations. We need a skilled, educated workforce, which is why American and Brazilian companies have pledged to help increase student exchanges between our two nations. We need a commitment to innovation and technology, which is why we've agreed to expand cooperation between our scientists, researchers, and engineers. We need world-class infrastructure, which is why American companies want to help you build and prepare this city for Olympic success.<p>In a global economy, the United States and Brazil should expand trade, expand investment, so that we create new jobs and new opportunities in both of our nations. And that's why we're working to break down barriers to doing business. That's why we're building closer relationships between our workers and our entrepreneurs.<p>Together, we can also promote energy security and protect our beautiful planet. As two nations that are committed to greener economies, we know that the ultimate solution to our energy challenges lies in clean and renewable power. And that's why half the vehicles in this country can run on biofuels and most of your electricity comes from hydropower. That's also why, in the United States, we've jump-started a new clean energy industry. And that's why the United States and Brazil are creating new energy partnerships, to share technologies, create new jobs, and leave our children a world that is cleaner and safer than we found it.<p>Together, our two nations can also help defend our citizens' security. We're working together to stop narcotrafficking that has destroyed too many lives in this hemisphere. We seek the goal of a world without nuclear weapons. We're working together to enhance nuclear security across our hemisphere. From Africa to Haiti, we are working side by side to combat the hunger, disease, and corruption that can rot a society and rob human beings of dignity and opportunity. And as two countries that have been greatly enriched by our African heritage, it's absolutely vital that we are working with the continent of Africa to help lift it up. That is something that we should be committed to doing together.<p>Today, we're both also delivering assistance and support to the Japanese people at their greatest hour of need. The ties that bind our nations to Japan are strong. In Brazil, you are home to the largest Japanese population outside of Japan. In the United States, we've forged an alliance of more than 60 years. The people of Japan are some of our closest friends, and we will pray with them and stand with them and rebuild with them until this crisis has passed.<p>In these and other efforts to promote peace and prosperity throughout the world, the United States and Brazil are partners not just because we share history, not just because we're in the same hemisphere, not just because we share ties of commerce and culture, but also because we share certain enduring values and ideals.<p>We both believe in the power and promise of democracy. We believe that no other form of government is more effective at promoting growth and prosperity that reaches every human being, not just some, but all. And those who argue otherwise, those who argue that democracy stands in the way of economic progress, they must contend with the example of Brazil.<p>The millions in this country who have climbed from poverty into the middle class, they did not do so in a closed economy controlled by the state. You're prospering as a free people with open markets and a government that answers to its citizens. You're proving that the goal of social justice and social inclusion can be best achieved through freedom, that democracy is the greatest partner of human progress.<p>We also believe that in nations as big and diverse as ours, shaped by generations of immigrants from every race and faith and background, democracy offers the best hope that every citizen is treated with dignity and respect and that we can resolve our differences peacefully, that we find strength in our diversity.<p>We know that experience in the United States. We know how important it is to be able to work together, even when we often disagree. I understand that our chosen form of government can be slow and messy. We understand that democracy must be constantly strengthened and perfected over time. We know that different nations take different paths to realize the promise of democracy. And we understand that no one nation should impose its will on another.<p>But we also know that there's certain aspirations shared by every human being. We all seek to be free. We all seek to be heard. We all yearn to live without fear or discrimination. We all yearn to choose how we are governed. And we all want to shape our own destiny. These are not American ideals or Brazilian ideals. These are not Western ideals. These are universal rights, and we must support them everywhere.<p>Today, we are seeing the struggle for these rights unfold across the Middle East and North Africa. We've seen a revolution born out of a yearning for basic human dignity in Tunisia. We've seen peaceful protestors pour into Tahrir Square: men and women, young and old, Christian and Muslim. We've seen the people of Libya take a courageous stand against a regime determined to brutalize its own citizens. Across the region, we've seen young people rise up, a new generation demanding the right to determine their own future.<p>From the beginning, we have made clear that the change they seek must be driven by their own people. But for our two nations, for the United States and Brazil, two nations who have struggled over many generations to perfect our own democracies, the United States and Brazil know that the future of the Arab world will be determined by its people.<p>No one can say for certain how this change will end, but I do know that change is not something that we should fear. When young people insist that the currents of history are on the move, the burdens of the past can be washed away. When men and women peacefully claim their human rights, our own common humanity is enhanced. Wherever the light of freedom is lit, the world becomes a brighter place.<p>That is the example of Brazil. [<i>Applause</i>] That is the example of Brazil. Brazil, a country that shows that a dictatorship can become a thriving democracy; Brazil, a country that shows democracy delivers both freedom and opportunity to its people; Brazil, a country that shows how a call for change that starts in the streets can transform a city, transform a country, transform a world.<p>Decades ago, it was directly outside of this theater in Cinelandia Square where the call for change was heard in Brazil. Students and artists and political leaders of all stripes would gather with banners that said, \\"Down with the dictatorship.\\" \\"The people in power.\\" Their democratic aspirations would not be fulfilled until years later, but one of the young Brazilians in that generation's movement would go on to forever change the history of this country.<p>A child of an immigrant, her participation in the movement led to her arrest and her imprisonment, her torture at the hands of her own Government. And so she knows what it's like to live without the most basic human rights that so many are fighting for today. But she also knows what it is to persevere. She knows what it is to overcome, because today that woman is your nation's President, Dilma Rousseff.<p>Our two nations face many challenges. On the road ahead, we will certainly encounter many obstacles. But in the end, it is our history that gives us hope for a better tomorrow. It is the knowledge that the men and women who came before us have triumphed over greater trials than these, that we live in places where ordinary people have done extraordinary things.<p>It's that sense of possibility, that sense of optimism that first drew pioneers to this New World. It's what binds our nations together as partners in this new century. It's why we believe, in the words of Paulo Coelho, one of your most famous writers, \\"With the strength of our love and our will, we can change our destiny, as well as the destiny of many others.\\"<p><i>Muito obrigado</i>. Thank you. And may God bless our two nations. Thank you very much.\" "
"67" "\"Today I want to extend my best wishes to all who are celebrating Nowruz here in the United States and around the world.<p>Each year of my Presidency, I have marked this holiday by speaking directly to the people of Iran. That is what I would like to do once more.<p>This is a holiday for the Iranian people to spend time with friends and family, to reflect on the extraordinary blessings that you enjoy, and to look forward to the promise of a new day. After all, this is a season of hope and renewal. And today, we know that this is also a season of promise across the Middle East and North Africa, even as there are also enormous challenges.<p>I believe that there are certain values that are universal: the freedom of peaceful assembly and association, the ability to speak your mind and choose your leaders. And what we are seeing across the region is the insistence on governments that are accountable to the people.<p>But we also know that these movements for change are not unique to these last few months. The same forces of hope that swept across Tahrir Square were seen in Azadi Square in June of 2009. And just as the people of the region have insisted that they have a choice in how they are governed, so do the governments of the region have a choice in their response.<p>So far, the Iranian Government has responded by demonstrating that it cares far more about preserving its own power than respecting the rights of the Iranian people.<p>For nearly 2 years, there has been a campaign of intimidation and abuse. Young and old, men and women, rich and poor, the Iranian people have been persecuted. Hundreds of prisoners of conscience are in jail. The innocent have gone missing. Journalists have been silenced. Women tortured. Children sentenced to death.<p>The world has watched these unjust actions with alarm. We have seen Nasrin Sotoudeh jailed for defending human rights; Jafar Panahi imprisoned and unable to make his films; Abdolreza Tajik thrown in jail for being a journalist; the Baha'i community and Sufi Muslims punished for their faith; Mohammad Valian, a young student, sentenced to death for throwing three stones.<p>These choices do not demonstrate strength, they show fear. For it is telling when a government is so afraid of its own citizens that it won't even allow them the freedom to access information or to communicate with each other. But the future of Iran will not be shaped by fear. The future of Iran belongs to the young people, the youth who will determine their own destiny.<p>Over 60 percent of the Iranian people were born after 1979. You are not bound by the chains of the past: the distracting hatred of America that will create no jobs or opportunity, the rigid and unaccountable government, the refusal to let the Iranian people realize their full potential for fear of undermining the authority of the state.<p>Instead, you--the young people of Iran--carry within you both the ancient greatness of Persian civilization and the power to forge a country that is responsive to your aspirations. Your talent, your hopes, and your choices will shape the future of Iran and help light the world. And though times may seem dark, I want you to know that I am with you.<p>On this day, a celebration that serves as a bridge from the past to the future, I would like to close with a quote from the poet Simin Behbahani, a woman who has been banned from traveling beyond Iran, even though her words have moved the world: \\"Old I may be, but given the chance, I will learn. I will begin a second youth alongside my progeny. I will recite the Hadith of love of country with such fervor as to make each word bear life.\\"<p>Let this be a season of second youth for all Iranians, a time in which a new season bears new life once more. Thank you. And <i>Aid-eh-Shoma Mobarak</i>.\" "
"68" "\"<i>Buenas noches</i>. President Pinera; First Lady; former Presidents Aylwin, Frei, Lagos; to all the distinguished guests here tonight, especially the Secretary General of the Organization of American States, Jose Miguel Insulza: It is wonderful to be here. I have to say that because I've already given one speech tonight, I've already made remarks at the press, I'm going to keep my remarks tonight very brief. Because otherwise, you won't invite me back. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>On our flight into Chile today, we were all struck by the incredible beauty of the Andes. We looked out the window, Michelle and my daughters and my staff, and we marveled at the awesome ranges and the snowcapped peaks. It was truly spectacular.<p>And it called to mind something once said by a beloved daughter of both our countries, the novelist Isabel Allende. She said, \\"I come from a land of mountains, where friendship is a blood pact . . . hospitality is sacred, [and] bonds unbreakable.\\"<p>President Pinera, First Lady, to you and the people of Santiago and of Chile, thank you for the extraordinary hospitality that you have shown to both me, Michelle, and our daughters. And thank you for the friendship and the strong bonds between our people, which indeed are unbreakable.<p>Given the events that are unfolding half a world away, in the Middle East and North Africa, I hope you'll give me a brief moment to reflect on the broader meaning of the times that we live in.<p>We gather in a palace that tells the story of a nation and its relationship with my own. For many years, this was a symbol of how Chile lost its democracy. But today, it stands as a testament to how Chile regained and rebuilt your democracy, an achievement for which I know all Chileans are extraordinarily proud.<p>In this sense, you've fulfilled the vision of the liberator Bolivar, who long ago predicted, \\"Chile can be free.\\" Chile can be free. And as I said in my speech today, at a time when others around the world are reaching for their own rights and struggling for their own sense of dignity, Chile sends a powerful message: You too can write a new chapter in the story of your nation; you too can be free.<p>Some have called Chile's progress a miracle. But as you know so well, there was nothing miraculous about it. It takes courage and sacrifice and resolve over many years. This too is Chile's lesson for the world. Democracy can't be imposed from the outside. It must spring from within, from the hearts and souls of those who seek it and are willing to work for it.<p>There's a saying that goes, \\"Tell me who is by your side, and I'll tell you who you are.\\" And so I would like to propose a toast. I hope they didn't mix up our glasses. [<i>Laughter</i>].<p>To the people and progress of Chile, the United States of America is proud to stand with you as partners. And to what our partnership says about who we are, two proud nations bound by the conviction that change is possible, that every nation can be free, and that there can be no denying the dignity and human rights that are so eloquently expressed in our Constitution and are now lived out in Chile today.<p><i>Salud</i>.\" "
"69" "\"<i>Muchas gracias</i>. Thank you so much. Thank you. Please, please, everyone be seated.<p>Thank you. <i>Buenas tardes</i>. It is a wonderful honor to be here in Santiago, Chile. And I want to first of all thank your President, President Pinera, for his outstanding leadership and the hospitality that he's extended not only to me, but also to my wife, my daughters, and most importantly, my mother-in-law. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>To the people of Santiago, to the people of Chile, thank you so much for your wonderful welcome. And on behalf of the people of the United States, let me thank you for your friendship and the strong bonds between our people. <p>There are several people that I just want to acknowledge very briefly. We have the President of the Inter-American Development Bank, Luis Alberto Moreno, who is here. We also have Alicia Barcena, who is the Executive Secretary of the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean. <p>Throughout our history, this land has been called <i>el fin de la tierra</i>--the end of the world. But I've come here today because in the 21st century, this nation is a vital part of our interconnected world. In an age when peoples are intertwined like never before, Chile shows that we need not be divided by race or religion or ethnic conflict. You've welcomed immigrants from every corner of the globe, even as you celebrate a proud indigenous heritage.<p>At a time when people around the world are reaching for their freedoms, Chile shows that, yes, it is possible to transition from dictatorship to democracy and to do so peacefully. Indeed, our marvelous surroundings today, just steps from where Chile lost its democracy decades ago, is a testament to Chile's progress and its undying democratic spirit.<p>Despite barriers of distance and geography, you've integrated Chile into the global economy, trading with countries all over the world and, in this Internet age, becoming the most digitally connected country in Latin America.<p>And in a world of sometimes wrenching pain--as we're seeing today in Japan--it is the character of this country that inspires. \\"Our original guiding stars,\\" said Pablo Neruda, \\"are struggle and hope.\\" But, he added, \\"there is no such thing as a lone struggle, no such thing as a lone hope.\\" The Chilean people have shown this time and again, including your recovery from the terrible earthquake here 1 year ago.<p>Credit for Chile's success belongs to the Chilean people, whose courage, sacrifices, and perseverance built this nation into the leader that it is. And we are very honored to be joined today by four leaders who have guided this nation through years of great progress: Presidents Aylwin, Frei, Lagos, and of course your current President Pinera. Thank you all to the former Presidents for being here, as well as President Pinera. <p>So I could not imagine a more fitting place to discuss the new era of partnership that the United States is pursuing not only with Chile, but across the Americas. And I'm grateful that we're joined by leaders and members of the diplomatic corps from across the region. <p>Within my first 100 days in office, one of my first foreign trips as President, I traveled to Trinidad and Tobago to meet with leaders from across the hemisphere at the Summit of the Americas. And there, I pledged to seek partnerships of equality and shared responsibility, based on mutual interest and mutual respect, but also on shared values. <p>Now, I know I'm not the first President from the United States to pledge a new spirit of partnership with our Latin American neighbors. Words are easy, and I know that there have been times where perhaps the United States took this region for granted. <p>Even now, I know our headlines are often dominated by events in other parts of the world. But let's never forget: Every day, the future is being forged by the countries and peoples of Latin America. For Latin America is not the old stereotype of a region of--in perpetual conflict or trapped in endless cycles of poverty. The world must now recognize Latin America for the dynamic and growing region that it truly is.<p>Latin America is at peace. Civil wars have ended. Insurgencies have been pushed back. Old border disputes have been resolved. In Colombia, great sacrifices by citizens and security forces have restored a level of security not seen in decades. <p>And just as old conflicts have receded, so too have the ideological battles that often fueled them: the old, stale debates between state-run economies and unbridled capitalism, between the abuses of right-wing paramilitaries and left-wing insurgents, between those who believe that the United States causes all the region's problems and those who believe that the United States ignores all the problems. Those are false choices, and they don't reflect today's realities. <p>Today, Latin America is democratic. Virtually all the people of Latin America have gone from living under dictatorships to living in democracies. Across the region, we see vibrant democracies, from Mexico to Chile to Costa Rica. We've seen historic peaceful transfers of power, from El Salvador to Uruguay to Paraguay. The work of perfecting our democracies, of course, is never truly done, but this is the outstanding progress that's been made here in the Americas.<p>Today, Latin America is growing. Having made tough but necessary reforms, nations like Peru and Brazil are seeing impressive growth. As a result, Latin America weathered the global economic downturn better than other regions. Across the region, tens of millions of people have been lifted from extreme poverty. From Guadalajara to Santiago to Sao Paulo, a new middle class is demanding more of themselves and more of their governments. <p>Latin America is coming together to address shared challenges. Chile, Colombia, and Mexico are sharing their expertise in security with nations in Central America. When a coup in Honduras threatened democratic progress, the nations of the hemisphere unanimously invoked the Inter-American Democratic Charter, helping to lay the foundation for the return to the rule of law. The contributions of Latin American countries have been critical in Haiti, as has Latin American diplomacy in the lead up to yesterday's election in Haiti. <p>And increasingly, Latin America is contributing to global prosperity and security. As longtime contributors to United Nations peacekeeping missions, Latin American nations have helped to prevent conflicts from Africa to Asia. At the G-20, nations like Mexico, Brazil, Argentina now have a greater voice in global economic decisionmaking. Under Mexican leadership, the world made progress at Cancun in our efforts to combat climate change. Nations like Chile have played a leading role in strengthening civil society groups around the world.<p>So this is the Latin America that I see today: a region on the move, proud of its progress, and ready to assume a greater role in world affairs. And for all these reasons, I believe that Latin America is more important to the prosperity and security of the United States than ever before. With no other region does the United States have so many connections. And nowhere do we see that more than in the tens of millions of Hispanic Americans across the United States, who enrich our society, grow our economy, and strengthen our Nation every single day. <p>And I believe Latin America is only going to become more important to the United States, especially to our economy. Trade between the United States and Latin America has surged. We buy more of your products, more of your goods than any other country, and we invest more in this region than any other country.<p>For instance, we export more than three times as much to Latin America as we do to China. Our exports to this region, which are growing faster than our exports to the rest of the world, will soon support more than 2 million U.S. jobs. In other words, when Latin America is more prosperous, the United States is more prosperous.<p>But even more than interests, we're bound by shared values. In each other's journey, we see reflections of our own: colonists who broke free from empires, pioneers who opened new frontiers, citizens who have struggled to expand our nations' promise to all people--men and women, White, Black, and Brown. We're people of faith who must remember that all of us, especially the most fortunate among us, must do our part, especially for the least among us. We're citizens who know that ensuring that democracies deliver for our people must be the work of all.<p>This is our common history. This is our common heritage. We are all Americans. <i>Todos somos Americanos</i>.<p>Across the Americas, parents want their children to be able to run and play and know that they'll come home safely. Young people all desperately want an education. Fathers want the dignity that comes from work, and women want the same opportunities as their husbands. Entrepreneurs want the chance to start that new business. And people everywhere want to be treated with the respect to which every human being is entitled. These are the hopes--simple yet profound--that beat in the hearts of millions across the Americas.<p>But if we're honest, we'll also admit that that these dreams are still beyond the reach of too many, that progress in the Americas has not come fast enough. Not for the millions who endure the injustice of extreme poverty. Not for the children in shantytowns and the <i>favelas,</i> who just want the same chance as everybody else. Not for the communities that are caught in the brutal grips of cartels and gangs, where the police are outgunned and too many people live in fear.<p>And despite this region's democratic progress, stark inequalities endure: in political and economic power that is too often concentrated in the hands of the few, instead of serving the many; in the corruption that too often still stifles economic growth and development, innovation and entrepreneurship; and in some leaders who cling to bankrupt ideologies to justify their own power and who seek to silence their opponents because those opponents have the audacity to demand their universal rights. These too are realities that we must face.<p>Of course, we are not the first generation to face these challenges. Fifty years ago this month, President John F. Kennedy proposed an ambitious Alliance for Progress. It was, even by today's standards, a massive investment, billions of U.S. dollars to meet the basic needs of people across the region. Such a program was right; it was appropriate for that era. But the realities of our time--and the new capabilities and confidence of Latin America--demand something different. <p>President Kennedy's challenge endures: \\"to build a hemisphere where all people can hope for a sustainable, suitable standard of living, and all can live out their lives in dignity and in freedom.\\" But half a century later, we must give meaning to this work in our own way, in a new way.<p>I believe that in the Americas today, there are no senior partners, and there are no junior partners, there are only equal partners. Of course, equal partnership, in turn, demands a sense of shared responsibility. We have obligations to each other. And today, the United States is working with the nations of this hemisphere to meet our responsibilities in several key areas.<p>First, we're partnering to address the concerns that people across the Americas say they worry about the most, and that's the security of their families and communities. Criminal gangs and narcotraffickers are not only a threat to the security of our citizens, they're a threat to development, because they scare away investments that economies need to prosper. And they are a direct threat to democracy, because they fuel the corruption that rots institutions from within. <p>So with our partners from Colombia to Mexico and new regional initiatives in Central America and the Caribbean, we're confronting this challenge together, from every direction. We've increased our support: the equipment, training, and technologies that security forces, border security, and police need to keep communities safe. We're improving coordination and sharing more information so that those who traffic in drugs and in human beings have fewer places to hide. And we're putting unprecedented pressure on cartel finances, including in the United States.<p>But we'll never break the grip of the cartels and the gangs unless we also address the social and economic forces that fuel criminality. We need to reach at-risk youth before they turn to drugs and crime. So we're joining with partners across the Americas to expand community-based policing, strengthen juvenile justice systems, and invest in crime and drug prevention programs.<p>As the nations of Central America develop a new regional security strategy, the United States stands ready to do our part through a new partnership that puts the focus where it should be: on the security of citizens. And with regional and international partners, we'll make sure our support is not just well intentioned, but is well coordinated and well spent. <p>I've said before, and I will repeat: As President, I've made it clear that the United States shares and accepts our share of responsibility for drug violence. After all, the demand for drugs, including in the United States, drives this crisis. And that's why we've developed a new drug control strategy that focused on reducing the demand for drugs through education and prevention and treatment. And I would point out that even during difficult fiscal times in the United States, we've proposed increasing our commitment to these efforts by some $10 billion this year alone.<p>We're also doing more to stem the southbound flow of guns into the region. We're screening all southbound rail cargo, we're seizing many more guns bound for Mexico, and we're putting more gunrunners behind bars. And every gun or gunrunner that we take off the streets is one less threat to the families and communities of the Americas.<p>As we work to ensure the security of our citizens, we're partnering in a second area, and that's promoting prosperity and opportunity. I've been so impressed with President Pinera's pledge to lift everyone out of extreme poverty by 2020. That's an ambitious goal and an appropriate goal. And with this trip, I'm working to expand some of the trade and investment that might help achieve this goal.<p>Across the region, we're moving ahead with Open Skies agreements to bring our people and businesses closer together. We're moving forward with our Trans-Pacific Partnership, which includes Chile and Peru, to create new trade opportunities in the fast-growing markets of the Asia-Pacific. And as I've directed, my administration has intensified our efforts to move forward on trade agreements with Panama and Colombia, consistent with our values and with our interests.<p>We're also encouraging the next generation of businesses and entrepreneurs. So we'll work with the Inter-American Development Bank to increase lending. We've expanded credit under a new Microfinance Growth Fund for the Americas. We're supporting reforms to tax systems, which are critical for economic growth and public investment. We're creating new Pathways to Prosperity--microcredit, entrepreneurship training--for those who must share in economic growth, including women and members of Afro-Caribbean and indigenous communities. <p>And we're coming together as a hemisphere to create clean energy jobs and pursue more secure and sustainable energy futures. And if anybody doubts the urgency of climate change, they look--they should look no further than the Americas, from the stronger storms in the Caribbean to glacier melt in the Andes to the loss of forests and farmland across the region.<p>Under the Energy and Climate Partnership of the Americas that I proposed, countries have stepped forward, each providing leadership and expertise. Brazil has expertise in biofuels, Chile in geothermal, Mexico on energy efficiency. El Salvador is connecting grids in Central America to make electricity more reliable. These are exactly the kind of partnerships that we need, neighbors joining with neighbors to unleash the progress that none of us can achieve alone.<p>It's the same philosophy behind two additional initiatives that I'm announcing today, which will help our countries educate and innovate for the future. First, we're launching a new initiative to harness the power of social media and online networks to help students, scientists, academics, and entrepreneurs collaborate and develop the new ideas and products that will keep America--the Americas competitive in a global economy. <p>And I'm proud to announce that the United States will work with partners in this region, including the private sector, to increase the number of U.S. students studying in Latin America to 100,000 and the number of Latin American students studying in the United States to 100,000. <p>Staying competitive also, of course, demands that we address immigration, an issue that evokes great passions in the United States as well as in the Americas. As President, I've made it clear that immigration strengthens the United States. We are a nation of immigrants, which is why I have consistently spoken out against anti-immigrant sentiment. We're also a nation of laws, which is why I will not waver in my determination to fix our broken immigration system. I'm committed to comprehensive reform that secures our borders, enforces our laws, and addresses the millions of undocumented workers who are living in the shadows of the United States. <p>I believe, though, that this challenge will be with us for a very long time so long as people believe that the only way to provide for their families is to leave their families and head north. <p>And that's why the United States has to continue to partner with countries that pursue the broad-based economic growth that gives people and nations a path out of poverty. And that's what we're seeing here in Chile. As part of our new approach to development, we're working with partners like Guatemala and El Salvador, who are committed to building their own capacity, from helping farmers improve crop yields to helping health care systems to deliver better care. <p>Which leads me to the final area where we must continue to partner, and that's strengthening democracy and human rights. More than 60 years ago, our nations came together in an Organization of American States and declared, and I quote, that \\"representative democracy is an indispensable condition for the stability, peace, and development of the region.\\" A decade ago, we reaffirmed this principle, with an Inter-American Democratic Charter that stated, and I quote, \\"The people of the Americas have a right to democracy and their governments have an obligation to promote and defend it.\\"<p>Across the Americas, generations, including generations of Chileans, have struggled and sacrificed to give meaning to these words: ordinary men and women who dared to speak their mind; activists who organized new movements; faith leaders who preached social justice; the mothers of the disappeared who demanded the truth; political prisoners who rose to become Presidents; and even now, <i>las Damas de Blanco</i>, who march in quiet dignity.<p>The people of the Americas have shown that there is no substitute for democracy. As governments, we have, then, an obligation to defend what has been won. So as we mark the 10th anniversary of the Inter-American Democratic Charter this year, let's reaffirm the principles that we know to be true. <p>Let's recommit to defending democracy and human rights in our own countries by strengthening the institutions that democracy needs to flourish: free and fair elections in which people choose their own leaders, vibrant legislatures that provide oversight, independent judiciaries that uphold the rule of law, a free press that promotes open debate, professional militaries under civilian control, strong civil societies that hold governments accountable, and governments that are transparent and responsive to their citizens. This is what makes a democracy.<p>And just as we defend democracy and human rights within our borders, let's recommit to defending them across our hemisphere. I understand every nation will follow its own path. No nation should impose its will on another. But surely we can agree that democracy is about more than majority rule, that simply holding power does not give a leader the right to suppress the rights of others, and that leaders must maintain power through consent and not coercion. We have to speak out when we see those principles violated. <p>Let's never waver in our support for the rights of people to determine their own future, and yes, that includes the people of Cuba. Since taking office, I've announced the most significant changes to my Nation's policy towards Cuba in decades. I've made it possible for Cuban Americans to visit and support their families in Cuba. We're allowing Americans to send remittances that bring some economic hope for people across Cuba, as well as more independence from Cuban authorities. <p>Going forward, we'll continue to seek ways to increase the independence of the Cuban people, who I believe are entitled to the same freedom and liberty as everyone else in this hemisphere. I will make this effort to try to break out of this history that's now lasted for longer than I've been alive.<p>But Cuban authorities must take some meaningful actions to respect the basic rights of their own people, not because the United States insists upon it, but because the people of Cuba deserve it, no less than the people of the United States or Chile or Brazil or any other country deserve it.<p>The lessons of Latin America, I believe, can be a guide, a guide for people around the world who are beginning their own journeys toward democracy. There is no one model for democratic transitions. But as this region knows, successful transitions do have certain ingredients: the moral force of nonviolence; dialogue that's open and inclusive; the protection of basic rights, such as peaceful expression and assembly; accountability for past wrongs; and matching political reform with economic reform, because democracy must meet the basic needs and aspirations of people.<p>With decades of experience, there's so much Latin America can now share: how to build political parties and organize free elections, how to ensure peaceful transfers of power, how to navigate the winding paths of reform and reconciliation. And when the inevitable setbacks occur, you can remind people to never lose sight of those guiding stars of which Pablo Neruda spoke: struggle, but also hope. <p>Security for our citizens, trade and development that creates jobs, prosperity and a clean energy future, standing up for democracy and human rights--these are the partnerships that we can forge together, here in the Americas, but also around the world. And if anyone doubts whether this region has the capacity to meet these challenges, they need to only remember what happened here in Chile only a few months ago.<p>Their resolve and faith inspired the world, \\"<i>Los Treinta y Tres</i>.\\" I don't need to tell you the story; you know it well. But it's worth remembering how this entire nation came together. Across government, civilian and military, national and local, across the private sector, with large companies and small shopkeepers donating supplies, and across every segment of Chilean society, people came together to sustain those men down below and their families up at Camp Esperanza. It was a miraculous rescue. It was a tribute to Chilean leadership. And when, finally, Luis Urzua emerged, he spoke for an entire nation when he said, \\"I am proud to be Chilean.\\"<p>Yet something else happened in those 2 months. The people and governments of Latin America came together to stand with a neighbor in need. And with a Latin American country in the lead, the world was proud to play a supporting role, sending workers from the United States and Canada, rescue equipment from Europe, communications gear from Asia. And as the miners were lifted to safety for those joyous reunions, it was a truly global movement, watched and celebrated by more than a billion people. <p>If ever we needed a reminder of the humanity and the hopes that we share, that moment in the desert was such. When a country like Chile puts its mind to it, there's nothing you can't do. When countries across Latin America come together and focus on a common goal, when the United States and others in the world do our part, there's nothing we can't accomplish together. <p>And that is our vision of the Americas. This is the progress we can achieve together. This is the spirit of partnership and equality to which the United States is committed. I am confident that, working together, there is nothing we cannot achieve. Thank you very much<i>. Muchas gracias</i>. Thank you.\" "
"70" "\"Buenas noches. President Funes, First Lady, former Presidents Cristiani and Saca, distinguished guests, on behalf of Michelle and our daughters, thank you for the wonderful hospitality that's been shown to us here in San Salvador.<p>As many of you know, this has been my first trip through Latin America as President, and this is our final night. We are closer to home. I mean this in more than just a geographical sense. El Salvador is one of those places where the bonds between the United States and Latin America are strongest.<p>Just about every Salvadoran has a loved one or a friend in the United States--husbands and sons, mothers and daughters--working hard, sacrificing every day. They strengthen my country, and they mean so much to El Salvador. They're very much in our thoughts tonight.<p>In my speech in Santiago yesterday, I said that Latin America is not the stereotype of a region in perpetual conflict or trapped in an endless cycle of poverty. I repeat that tonight because many look at a country like El Salvador and only see the struggles. I'm proud to work with President Funes, a courageous leader, to meet those challenges together as partners.<p>But I also want to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the side of this nation that is too often overlooked, which is just as real and just as important. It's the El Salvador that endures, even when the earth shakes and the floodwaters rise, because Salvadorans are people who persevere.<p>It's the El Salvador that has struggled for justice and human rights. And along with President Funes, I was honored to visit the cathedral this evening and pay my respects to Archbishop Romero, who remains an inspiration to people all around the world. And I see the current archbishop here. We're very grateful for the wonderful tour that you offered.<p>It's the El Salvador that not only forged historic accords, but has sustained them for nearly two decades, proving, in the words of your national anthem, that \\"happiness is found in peace.\\"<p>And it's the El Salvador that gets up every day and goes to work--students, merchants, farmers, young entrepreneurs, businesspeople--who remind us that building a just and prosperous future cannot be the work of government alone; it must be the responsibility of all--of all--who love their countries.<blockquote>Of peace enjoyed in perfect happiness<br>El Salvador always nobly dreamed,<br>To achieve this has been Her eternal struggle,<br>To keep it, Her greatest glory.</blockquote><p>With these words, I'd like to propose a toast, if I can get a glass. [<i>Laughter</i>] To President Funes and the First Lady, for their outstanding hospitality and friendship, and to the peace and happiness that we seek: for our peoples, for the region, and for the world. May we not only achieve our dreams, may we keep them for this and for generations yet to come.<p><i>Salud</i>.\" "
"71" "\"The President. Well, good evening, everybody.<p><i>Audience members</i>. Good evening.<p><i>The President</i>. <i>Kalispera</i>.<p><i>Audience members</i>. <i>Kalispera</i>.<p><i>The President</i>. Thank you, Your Eminence, for the kind introduction. It is always an honor to welcome you here in the White House. We've been friends for quite some time now, and His Eminence always displays such grace and good humor and is so generous. We are so very grateful for your leadership.<p>It is a wonderful pleasure to see so many friends and leaders of the Hellenic American community here as we celebrate the 190th anniversary of Greek independence. I want to acknowledge several people. First of all, we've got some Members of Congress here. Michael Grimm from New York, where's Michael? There he is. Carolyn Maloney, also from New York; John Sarbanes, from Maryland; and then we have another guy--I don't know if he's any relation--Paul Sarbanes, also of Maryland.<p>We've got Ambassador Demetrios Marantis, Deputy USTR. He's got a few fans here. We've got Nicholas Karacostas, the President of the American Hellenic Educational Progressive Association.<p>I want to especially welcome Deputy Foreign Minister Dollis for traveling all the way here from Athens to join us today. I spoke with your Prime Minister, our good friend Mr. Papandreou, today, and I wanted him to extend our congratulations to the entire Greek nation. And we very much appreciate you being here to represent your Government.<p>We are also joined here by Greek Ambassador Kaskarelis. Where is he? There he is. Good to see you, Mr. Ambassador. We have the Cypriot Ambassador Anas--aww--[<i>laughter</i>]--Anastasiades--there you go--[<i>laughter</i>]--and his wife Maria.<p>Tonight we reaffirm the bond our two nations have shared for as long as we've existed. Our Founding Fathers were students of Greek philosophy and Greek history, drawing on Greek principles to guide our own Nation in its earliest days.<p>When it was time for Greek revolutionaries to fight for freedom, they looked to the United States for strength and support. And to this day, the United States and Greece shares a bond rooted in common values and common ideals.<p>As allies, we stand together, not only for our own security, but for the freedom of peoples around the world. And right now Greek and American soldiers are serving together in Afghanistan. And as we celebrate the independence of the Greek people, the United States and Greece are standing with our NATO allies to support the Libyan people as they stand up for their own freedom.<p>So I just want to express the extraordinary thanks that I give to the people of Greece for their friendship and for their contributions to the life of our Nation and so many others. I also obviously want to say to all my great friends in the Greek American community how much I appreciate your support and your friendship, and I'm glad that we have one more occasion to celebrate together here in the White House. So it's wonderful to see you again, and I hope you guys have a great time today.<p>All right? Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"72" "\"Last week, when I ordered our Armed Forces to protect the Libyan people from the brutality of Muammar Qadhafi, I pledged to keep the American people fully informed. Since then, I've spoken about the limited scope and specific purpose of this mission. Today I can report that thanks to our brave men and women in uniform, we've made important progress.<p>As Commander in Chief, I face no greater decision than sending our military men and women into harm's way. And the United States should not, and cannot, intervene every time there's a crisis somewhere in the world.<p>But I firmly believe that when innocent people are being brutalized, when someone like Qadhafi threatens a bloodbath that could destabilize an entire region, and when the international community is prepared to come together to save many thousands of lives, then it's in our national interest to act. And it's our responsibility. This is one of those times.<p>Our military mission in Libya is clear and focused. Along with our allies and partners, we're enforcing the mandate of the United Nations Security Council. We're protecting the Libyan people from Qadhafi's forces. And we've put in place a no-fly zone and other measures to prevent further atrocities.<p>We're succeeding in our mission. We've taken out Libya's air defenses. Qadhafi's forces are no longer advancing across Libya. In places like Benghazi, a city of some 700,000 that Qadhafi threatened to show no mercy, his forces have been pushed back. So make no mistake, because we acted quickly, a humanitarian catastrophe has been avoided and the lives of countless civilians--innocent men, women, and children--have been saved.<p>As I pledged at the outset, the role of American forces has been limited. We are not putting any ground forces into Libya. Our military has provided unique capabilities at the beginning, but this is now a broad, international effort. Our allies and partners are enforcing the no-fly zone over Libya and the arms embargo at sea. Key Arab partners like Qatar and the United Arab Emirates have committed aircraft. And as agreed this week, responsibility for this operation is being transferred from the United States to our NATO allies and partners.<p>This is how the international community should work: more nations, not just the United States, bearing the responsibility and cost of upholding peace and security.<p>This military effort is part of our larger strategy to support the Libyan people and hold the Qadhafi regime accountable. Together with the international community, we're delivering urgent humanitarian assistance. We're offering support to the Libyan opposition. We've frozen tens of billions of dollars of Qadhafi's assets that can help meet the needs and aspirations of the Libyan people. And every day, the pressure on Qadhafi and his regime is increasing.<p>Our message is clear and unwavering: Qadhafi's attacks against civilians must stop. His forces must pull back. Humanitarian assistance must be allowed to reach those in need. Those responsible for violence must be held accountable. Muammar Qadhafi has lost the confidence of his people and the legitimacy to rule, and the aspirations of the Libyan people must be realized.<p>In recent days, we've heard the voices of Libyans expressing their gratitude for this mission. \\"You saved our lives,\\" said one Libyan. Said another, \\"Today, there is hope.\\"<p>Every American can be proud of the lives we've saved in Libya and of the service of our men and women in uniform who once again have stood up for our interests and our ideals. And people in Libya and around the world are seeing that the United States of America stands with those who hope for a future where they can determine their own destiny.\" "
"73" "\"Tonight I'd like to update the American people on the international effort that we have led in Libya: what we've done, what we plan to do, and why this matters to us.<p>I want to begin by paying tribute to our men and women in uniform who, once again, have acted with courage, professionalism, and patriotism. They have moved with incredible speed and strength. Because of them and our dedicated diplomats, a coalition has been forged and countless lives have been saved.<p>Meanwhile, as we speak, our troops are supporting our ally Japan, leaving Iraq to its people, stopping the Taliban's momentum in Afghanistan, and going after Al Qaida all across the globe. As Commander in Chief, I'm grateful to our soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, coastguardsmen, and to their families. And I know all Americans share in that sentiment.<p>For generations, the United States of America has played a unique role as an anchor of global security and as an advocate for human freedom. Mindful of the risks and costs of military action, we are naturally reluctant to use force to solve the world's many challenges. But when our interests and values are at stake, we have a responsibility to act. That's what happened in Libya over the course of these last 6 weeks.<p>Libya sits directly between Tunisia and Egypt, two nations that inspired the world when their people rose up to take control of their own destiny. For more than four decades, the Libyan people have been ruled by a tyrant, Muammar Qadhafi. He has denied his people freedom, exploited their wealth, murdered opponents at home and abroad, and terrorized innocent people around the world, including Americans who were killed by Libyan agents.<p>Last month, Qadhafi's grip of fear appeared to give way to the promise of freedom. In cities and towns across the country, Libyans took to the streets to claim their basic human rights. As one Libyan said, \\"For the first time we finally have hope that our nightmare of 40 years will soon be over.\\"<p>Faced with this opposition, Qadhafi began attacking his people. As President, my immediate concern was the safety of our citizens, so we evacuated our Embassy and all Americans who sought our assistance. Then we took a series of swift steps in a matter of days to answer Qadhafi's aggression. We froze more than $33 billion of Qadhafi's regime's assets. Joining with other nations at the United Nations Security Council, we broadened our sanctions, imposed an arms embargo, and enabled Qadhafi and those around him to be held accountable for their crimes. I made it clear that Qadhafi had lost the confidence of his people and the legitimacy to lead, and I said that he needed to step down from power.<p>In the face of the world's condemnation, Qadhafi chose to escalate his attacks, launching a military campaign against the Libyan people. Innocent people were targeted for killing. Hospitals and ambulances were attacked. Journalists were arrested, sexually assaulted, and killed. Supplies of food and fuel were choked off. Water for hundreds of thousands of people in Misurata was shut off. Cities and towns were shelled, mosques were destroyed, and apartment buildings reduced to rubble. Military jets and helicopter gunships were unleashed upon people who had no means to defend themselves against assaults from the air.<p>Confronted by this brutal repression and a looming humanitarian crisis, I ordered warships into the Mediterranean. European allies declared their willingness to commit resources to stop the killing. The Libyan opposition and the Arab League appealed to the world to save lives in Libya. And so at my direction, America led an effort with our allies at the United Nations Security Council to pass a historic resolution that authorized a no-fly zone to stop the regime's attacks from the air and further authorized all necessary measures to protect the Libyan people.<p>Ten days ago, having tried to end the violence without using force, the international community offered Qadhafi a final chance to stop his campaign of killing or face the consequences. Rather than stand down, his forces continued their advance, bearing down on the city of Benghazi, home to nearly 700,000 men, women, and children who sought their freedom from fear.<p>At this point, the United States and the world faced a choice. Qadhafi declared he would show no mercy to his own people. He compared them to rats and threatened to go door to door to inflict punishment. In the past, we have seen him hang civilians in the streets and kill over a thousand people in a single day. Now we saw regime forces on the outskirts of the city. We knew that if we wanted--if we waited one more day, Benghazi, a city nearly the size of Charlotte, could suffer a massacre that would have reverberated across the region and stained the conscience of the world.<p>It was not in our national interest to let that happen. I refused to let that happen. And so 9 days ago, after consulting the bipartisan leadership of Congress, I authorized military action to stop the killing and enforce U.N. Security Council Resolution 1973.<p>We struck regime forces approaching Benghazi to save that city and the people within it. We hit Qadhafi's troops in neighboring Ajdabiya, allowing the opposition to drive them out. We hit Qadhafi's air defenses, which paved the way for a no-fly zone. We targeted tanks and military assets that had been choking off towns and cities, and we cut off much of their source of supply. And tonight I can report that we have stopped Qadhafi's deadly advance.<p>In this effort, the United States has not acted alone. Instead, we have been joined by a strong and growing coalition. This includes our closest allies: nations like the United Kingdom, France, Canada, Denmark, Norway, Italy, Spain, Greece, and Turkey, all of whom have fought by our sides for decades. And it includes Arab partners like Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, who have chosen to meet their responsibilities to defend the Libyan people.<p>To summarize then, in just 1 month, the United States has worked with our international partners to mobilize a broad coalition, secure an international mandate to protect civilians, stop an advancing army, prevent a massacre, and establish a no-fly zone with our allies and partners. To lend some perspective on how rapidly this military and diplomatic response came together, when people were being brutalized in Bosnia in the 1990s, it took the international community more than a year to intervene with air power to protect civilians. It took us 31 days.<p>Moreover, we've accomplished these objectives consistent with the pledge that I made to the American people at the outset of our military operations. I said that America's role would be limited, that we would not put ground troops into Libya, that we would focus our unique capabilities on the front end of the operation and that we would transfer responsibility to our allies and partners. Tonight we are fulfilling that pledge.<p>Our most effective alliance, NATO, has taken command of the enforcement of the arms embargo and the no-fly zone. Last night NATO decided to take on the additional responsibility of protecting Libyan civilians. This transfer from the United States to NATO will take place on Wednesday. Going forward, the lead in enforcing the no-fly zone and protecting civilians on the ground will transition to our allies and partners, and I am fully confident that our coalition will keep the pressure on Qadhafi's remaining forces.<p>In that effort, the United States will play a supporting role, including intelligence, logistical support, search-and-rescue assistance, and capabilities to jam regime communications. Because of this transition to a broader, NATO-based coalition, the risk and cost of this operation--to our military and to American taxpayers--will be reduced significantly.<p>So for those who doubted our capacity to carry out this operation, I want to be clear: The United States of America has done what we said we would do.<p>That's not to say that our work is complete. In addition to our NATO responsibilities, we will work with the international community to provide assistance to the people of Libya, who need food for the hungry and medical care for the wounded. We will safeguard the more than $33 billion that was frozen from the Qadhafi regime so that it's available to rebuild Libya. After all, the money doesn't belong to Qadhafi or to us, it belongs to the Libyan people. And we'll make sure they receive it.<p>Tomorrow Secretary Clinton will go to London, where she will meet with the Libyan opposition and consult with more than 30 nations. These discussions will focus on what kind of political effort is necessary to pressure Qadhafi, while also supporting a transition to the future that the Libyan people deserve, because while our military mission is narrowly focused on saving lives, we continue to pursue the broader goal of a Libya that belongs not to a dictator, but to its people.<p>Now, despite the success of our efforts over the past week, I know that some Americans continue to have questions about our efforts in Libya. Qadhafi has not yet stepped down from power, and until he does, Libya will remain dangerous. Moreover, even after Qadhafi does leave power, 40 years of tyranny has left Libya fractured and without strong civil institutions. The transition to a legitimate government that is responsive to the Libyan people will be a difficult task. And while the United States will do our part to help, it will be a task for the international community and, more importantly, a task for the Libyan people themselves.<p>In fact, much of the debate in Washington has put forward a false choice when it comes to Libya. On the one hand, some question why America should intervene at all, even in limited ways, in this distant land. They argue that there are many places in the world where innocent civilians face brutal violence at the hands of their government, and America should not be expected to police the world, particularly when we have so many pressing needs here at home.<p>It's true that America cannot use our military wherever repression occurs. And given the costs and risks of intervention, we must always measure our interests against the need for action. But that cannot be an argument for never acting on behalf of what's right. In this particular country, Libya, at this particular moment, we were faced with the prospect of violence on a horrific scale. We had a unique ability to stop that violence: an international mandate for action, a broad coalition prepared to join us, the support of Arab countries, and a plea for help from the Libyan people themselves. We also had the ability to stop Qadhafi's forces in their tracks without putting American troops on the ground.<p>To brush aside America's responsibility as a leader, and more profoundly, our responsibilities to our fellow human beings under such circumstances would have been a betrayal of who we are. Some nations may be able to turn a blind eye to atrocities in other countries. The United States of America is different. And as President, I refused to wait for the images of slaughter and mass graves before taking action.<p>Moreover, America has an important strategic interest in preventing Qadhafi from overrunning those who oppose him. A massacre would have driven thousands of additional refugees across Libya's borders, putting enormous strains on the peaceful yet fragile transitions in Egypt and Tunisia. The democratic impulses that are dawning across the region would be eclipsed by the darkest form of dictatorship, as repressive leaders concluded that violence is the best strategy to cling to power. The writ of the United Nations Security Council would have been shown to be little more than empty words, crippling that institution's future credibility to uphold global peace and security. So while I will never minimize the costs involved in military action, I am convinced that a failure to act in Libya would have carried a far greater price for America.<p>Now, just as there are those who have argued against intervention in Libya, there are others who have suggested that we broaden our military mission beyond the task of protecting the Libyan people and do whatever it takes to bring down Qadhafi and usher in a new government.<p>Of course, there is no question that Libya and the world would be better off with Qadhafi out of power. I, along with many other world leaders, have embraced that goal and will actively pursue it through nonmilitary means. But broadening our military mission to include regime change would be a mistake.<p>The task that I assigned our forces--to protect the Libyan people from immediate danger and to establish a no-fly zone--carries with it a U.N. mandate and international support. It's also what the Libyan opposition asked us to do. If we tried to overthrow Qadhafi by force, our coalition would splinter. We would likely have to put U.S. troops on the ground to accomplish that mission or risk killing many civilians from the air. The dangers faced by our men and women in uniform would be far greater. So would the costs and our share of the responsibility for what comes next.<p>To be blunt, we went down that road in Iraq. Thanks to the extraordinary sacrifices of our troops and the determination of our diplomats, we are hopeful about Iraq's future. But regime change there took 8 years, thousands of American and Iraqi lives, and nearly a trillion dollars. That is not something we can afford to repeat in Libya.<p>As the bulk of our military effort ratchets down, what we can do, and will do, is support the aspirations of the Libyan people. We have intervened to stop a massacre, and we will work with our allies and partners to maintain the safety of civilians. We will deny the regime arms, cut off its supplies of cash, assist the opposition, and work with other nations to hasten the day when Qadhafi leaves power. It may not happen overnight, as a badly weakened Qadhafi tries desperately to hang on to power. But it should be clear to those around Qadhafi and to every Libyan that history is not on Qadhafi's side. With the time and space that we have provided for the Libyan people, they will be able to determine their own destiny, and that is how it should be.<p>Let me close by addressing what this action says about the use of America's military power and America's broader leadership in the world under my Presidency.<p>As Commander in Chief, I have no greater responsibility than keeping this country safe. And no decision weighs on me more than when to deploy our men and women in uniform. I've made it clear that I will never hesitate to use our military swiftly, decisively, and unilaterally when necessary to defend our people, our homeland, our allies, and our core interests. That's why we're going after Al Qaida wherever they seek a foothold. That is why we continue to fight in Afghanistan, even as we have ended our combat mission in Iraq and removed more than 100,000 troops from that country.<p>There will be times, though, when our safety is not directly threatened, but our interests and our values are. Sometimes the course of history poses challenges that threaten our common humanity and our common security: responding to natural disasters, for example, or preventing genocide and keeping the peace, ensuring regional security and maintaining the flow of commerce. These may not be America's problems alone, but they are important to us. They're problems worth solving. And in these circumstances, we know that the United States, as the world's most powerful nation, will often be called upon to help.<p>In such cases, we should not be afraid to act, but the burden of action should not be America's alone. As we have in Libya, our task is instead to mobilize the international community for collective action. Because contrary to the claims of some, American leadership is not simply a matter of going it alone and bearing all of the burden ourselves. Real leadership creates the conditions and coalitions for others to step up as well, to work with allies and partners so that they bear their share of the burden and pay their share of the costs, and to see that the principles of justice and human dignity are upheld by all.<p>That's the kind of leadership we've shown in Libya. Of course, even when we act as part of a coalition, the risks of any military action will be high. Those risks were realized when one of our planes malfunctioned over Libya. Yet when one of our airmen parachuted to the ground, in a country whose leader has so often demonized the United States, in a region that has such a difficult history with our country, this American did not find enemies. Instead, he was met by people who embraced him. One young Libyan who came to his aid said: \\"We are your friends. We are so grateful to those men who are protecting the skies.\\"<p>This voice is just one of many in a region where a new generation is refusing to be denied their rights and opportunities any longer.<p>Yes, this change will make the world more complicated for a time. Progress will be uneven, and change will come differently to different countries. There are places, like Egypt, where this change will inspire us and raise our hopes. And then there will be places, like Iran, where change is fiercely suppressed. The dark forces of civil conflict and sectarian war will have to be averted and difficult political and economic concerns will have to be addressed.<p>The United States will not be able to dictate the pace and scope of this change. Only the people of the region can do that. But we can make a difference.<p>I believe that this movement of change cannot be turned back and that we must stand alongside those who believe in the same core principles that have guided us through many storms: our opposition to violence directed at one's own people; our support for a set of universal rights, including the freedom for people to express themselves and choose their leaders; our support for governments that are ultimately responsive to the aspirations of the people.<p>Born, as we are, out of a revolution by those who longed to be free, we welcome the fact that history is on the move in the Middle East and North Africa, and that young people are leading the way. Because wherever people long to be free, they will find a friend in the United States. Ultimately, it is that faith, those ideals that are the true measure of American leadership.<p>My fellow Americans, I know that at a time of upheaval overseas, when the news is filled with conflict and change, it can be tempting to turn away from the world. And as I've said before, our strength abroad is anchored in our strength here at home. That must always be our north star: the ability of our people to reach their potential, to make wise choices with our resources, to enlarge the prosperity that serves as a wellspring for our power, and to live the values that we hold so dear.<p>But let us also remember that for generations, we have done the hard work of protecting our own people, as well as millions around the globe. We have done so because we know that our own future is safer, our own future is brighter, if more of mankind can live with the bright light of freedom and dignity.<p>Tonight let us give thanks for the Americans who are serving through these trying times and the coalition that is carrying our effort forward. And let us look to the future with confidence and hope not only for our own country, but for all those yearning for freedom around the world.<p>Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"74" "\"Thank you. Everybody, please be seated. I am so grateful to be here in this beautiful space. Let me begin by thanking the Brown family for making me a part of this celebration. I want to thank President Clinton for his leadership and his outstanding example when it comes to foreign affairs. I want to thank my outstanding--and I mean outstanding--U.N. Ambassador, Susan Rice; and the members of the diplomatic community who are here for your wonderful work; our dedicated U.N. Mission staff. I want to thank Charlie Rangel for helping to make this day possible. Mayor Dinkins, it's wonderful to see you; all the great friends of Ron Brown.<p>It is a pleasure to be here. I only met Ron Brown once. I was primarily an admirer from afar. Thank you, Patti, also for your pipes. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Unlike Ambassador Rice, I didn't grow up next door, playing basketball on the Brown family court. Although now I know where she got her jump shot and where her brother John got his jump shot. We play occasionally in the way-over-40 league. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Unlike many of you, I didn't directly experience his irrepressible spirit--always the best-dressed guy in the room--I'm sure he gave some tips to these two--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and the most confident, never losing his cool, an outlook, as Ted Kennedy put it, where \\"no, you can't\\" always became \\"yes, you can.\\" So Ron Brown was my kind of guy. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Unlike President Clinton, I didn't serve with Ron Brown, whose legacy is measured in the lives he touched and the memories that all of you carry. And coming to the podium as the final speaker, I was thinking--once again, everything has been said, and once again, Bill Clinton has said it better than I could. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But while I didn't know Ron Brown personally, I knew his story, and I drew inspiration from that story. And so when you say he'd be proud that I'm President, I think it's fair to say that I'm President in part because of him: because of the example he set; because of the organization that he brought to the Democratic Party; because his capacity to get Bill Clinton elected, which in turn, I think, showed how we could govern in a way that met the realities of the late 20th century and ultimately the 21st century. He carved out that path for so many of us. And I know why it's so fitting that the home of our United Nations--United States Mission to the United Nations is named in his honor.<p>Obviously, Ron wasn't a diplomat in the traditional sense. He never held the rank of Ambassador. He never forged a peace accord between warring factions, unless you include the 1988 Democratic convention. [<i>Laughter</i>] We're here not because of the titles that he held, but because of the life he led. Because Ron Brown embodied the values and the ideals, that sense of possibility, that is at the heart of the American story.<p>His was a quintessentially American story: growing up in Harlem, serving his country in uniform, working his way through law school, and then just breaking down every barrier that he came across. He lived that American creed that if you work hard enough, if you're willing to put your shoulders to the wheel, there is nothing you cannot do.<p>As President Clinton mentioned, he never forgot where he came from. No matter how successful he became, he was there: counseling kids on the street, giving them hope; fighting for workers and minority businesses to make sure that they had the same chances that he had had; mentoring the next generation--so many of you--imparting not only wisdom, but the inspiration of his example. \\"The American Dream,\\" he always believed, \\"rightfully belongs to every child in this Nation.\\"<p>Ron Brown brought people together across race and cultures, various stations in life, an ability that no doubt came from deep within him. He was at once proud of his race--he never shied away from it--but he transcended his race at the same time. It was said that some Republican business executives, when they went out on a trade mission, every once in a while they'd look over and say, that was Jesse Jackson's campaign manager. And yet here I am, and I like this guy, and he knows my business, and he is helping me succeed.<p>And in that way, not only was he serving them, but he was also serving the country. Because that understanding that he was fostering on those trade missions, they'd bring that back home and make it easier for people to work together in other contexts. That was the lesson of his life: that despite all the differences that we supposedly are divided by, at the end, we're bound by what we have in common, as Americans and as human beings.<p>And Ron Brown understood America's unique role in the world. He had that blend of idealism and realism which recognizes that when we advance the prosperity of others, we advance our interests. The scope of our influence, the values that we care so deeply about, they ripple around the world. And that's good for us.<p>That's why he invested so much time and energy in Africa. It's why he argued that economic progress and human rights can't be separated. That's why he called commerce and economic development the \\"infrastructure of democracy.\\" That's why he was on that flight to the Balkans, because, he said, just as America \\"took the lead in the peace process, we need to show the way in rebuilding from the ruins of war.\\"<p>We need to show the way. That was what Ron Brown did. And that's what America and our tireless diplomats do every single day, around the world and here at the United Nations. And so on an occasion such as this, we don't just dedicate a building, we also rededicate ourselves to the principles that guide us, as a sovereign nation, but also as a member of the international community.<p>We believe, as we declared in the charter of this institution, \\"in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth\\" of all people and \\"in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small.\\" And so as united nations, we address the conditions that make the world more just and conflict less likely: caring for children, tending to the sick, keeping the peace in places that are wracked by conflict, speaking out for the rights and dignity of every human being.<p>We believe that just as every sovereign nation has rights, that they also have fundamental responsibilities. Governments exist not simply to perpetuate themselves, their own rule, but to fulfill the aspirations of their people. And history teaches us that nations are more secure and the world is more peaceful when nations meet these responsibilities to uphold human rights, to resolve differences peacefully, when we advance our interests together.<p>We believe that when nations fail to meet these basic obligations, when peace is threatened or international law is undermined, that we cannot stand idly by. The words of the charter must have meaning. The writ of the international community must have credibility. Violations of these core principles must have consequences.<p>Because what we've learned from bitter experience, from the wars that were not prevented, the innocent lives that were not saved, is that all that's necessary for evil to triumph is that good people and responsible nations stand by and do nothing. There are times, as when President Clinton showed extraordinary leadership in the Balkans, and moments such as now in the situation in Libya, where our conscience and our common interests compel us to act.<p>We believe that force should not be the first option. We understand the costs and risks involved in the use of force. So whenever possible, we turn to alternatives that might change behavior: condemnation that puts violators on notice, sanctions that increase pressure, embargoes that block arms to aggressors, and accountability for those who commit crimes. And should those prove insufficient, we have to be prepared to take the necessary measures to uphold international peace and security and protect innocent people. That's what we're doing in Libya, in large part because of the extraordinary work of some people in this room.<p>And finally, we believe that the world is more secure and the interests of the United States are best advanced, when we act collectively. As I said last night, the burden of action should not always be America's alone. So in Libya today we see a broad and growing coalition, including Arab partners. And I had to apologize to President Clinton before he walked out because he never sees his wife. [<i>Laughter</i>] But the extraordinary work she's doing in London today, the extraordinary work that she's done over the past several months, is part of that core understanding that when we act together, it's a force multiplier.<p>Today we see the NATO alliance in command of the arms embargo, the no-fly zone; starting tomorrow, the mission to protect the Libyan people. We see the United Nations and many international organizations providing the assistance that's needed to people who've been harmed by Qadhafi over the last several weeks. Today in London, we're seeing more than 30 nations and the Libyan opposition come together to support a transition to a future that better serves the Libyan people.<p>That's how the international community should work: more nations--the United States right there at the center of it, but not alone--everybody stepping up, bearing their responsibilities, carrying the costs of upholding peace and security. That's what it means to be united nations. That was the vision imagined by the founders of this institution.<p>\\"In our disillusionment after the last war,\\" Franklin Roosevelt said, \\"we gave up the hope of gradually achieving a better peace because we had not the courage to fulfill our responsibilities in an admittedly imperfect world.\\" And over the past six decades, there have been times where this imperfect institution and its members did not find the courage to fulfill our responsibilities. And we are forever haunted by that. We have seen the consequences of that in atrocities that might have been prevented.<p>And yet today in Libya, we are showing what's possible when we find our courage, when we fulfill our responsibilities, and when we come together as an international community to defend our common interests and our common values. We're saving innocent lives. We're making it clear that the United States of America and the world stand with those who seek to determine their own destiny, free from fear, and free to dream of a day when they too can live in justice and dignity.<p>I think that's the essence of American leadership. That's what it means to lead. This is the purpose of the United Nations. And this will be the work of all who now labor in a building that bears the name of somebody who understood leadership, who lived a life of leadership, and that is Ronald H. Brown. We are grateful to him. And I cannot think of a better way to honor the extraordinary work that he has done and the influence that he continues to carry in all of our lives.<p>So with that, I would like to invite Alma, Michael, and Tracey to join me for the presentation.<p><i>[At this point, the President presented the Brown family with a commemorative flag and plaque.]</i>\" "
"75" "\"Thank you, everybody. Everybody, please have a seat. Please have a seat. It is wonderful to be back at Georgetown.<p>We've got a number of acknowledgements. First of all, I just want to thank President DeGioia for his outstanding leadership here, but also for his hospitality.<p>We also have here Secretary Steven Chu, my Energy Secretary. Where is Steven? There he is over there; Secretary Ken Salazar of the Interior Department; Secretary Tom Vilsack, our Agriculture Secretary; Ray LaHood, our Transportation Secretary; Lisa Jackson, our EPA Administrator; Nancy Sutley, who is our Council on Environmental Quality director, right here.<p>A couple of great Members of Congress: Congressman Jay Inslee of Washington; where's Jay? There he is over there. And Rush Holt of New Jersey is here. We've got--he didn't bring the weather with him--but the mayor of Los Angeles, Antonio Villaraigosa, is in the house. Mayor Scott Smith of Mesa, Arizona, is here.<p>And most importantly, the students of Georgetown University are in the house.<p>I want to start with a difficult subject: The Hoyas had a tough loss, Coach. [<i>Laughter</i>] Coach is here too, and I love Coach Thompson. I love his dad and the great tradition that they've had. And it turned out VCU was pretty good. [<i>Laughter</i>] I had Georgetown winning that game in my bracket, so we're all hurting here. [<i>Laughter</i>] But that's what next year is for.<p>We meet here at a tumultuous time for the world. In a matter of months, we've seen regimes toppled. We've seen democracy take root in North Africa and in the Middle East. We've witnessed a terrible earthquake, a catastrophic tsunami, a nuclear emergency that has battered one of our strongest allies and closest friends and the world's third largest economy. We've led an international effort in Libya to prevent a massacre and maintain stability throughout the broader region.<p>And as Americans, we're heartbroken by the lives that have been lost as a result of these events. We're deeply moved by the thirst for freedom in so many nations, and we're moved by the strength and the perseverance of the Japanese people. And it's natural, I think, to feel anxious about what all of this means for us.<p>And one big area of concern has been the cost and security of our energy. Obviously, the situation in the Middle East implicates our energy security. The situation in Japan leads us to ask questions about our energy sources.<p>In an economy that relies so heavily on oil, rising prices at the pump affects everybody, workers, farmers, truck drivers, restaurant owners, students who are lucky enough to have a car. [<i>Laughter</i>] Businesses see rising prices at the pump hurt their bottom line. Families feel the pinch when they fill up their tank. And for Americans that are already struggling to get by, a hike in gas prices really makes their lives that much harder. It hurts.<p>If you're somebody who works in a relatively low-wage job and you've got to commute to work, it takes up a big chunk of your income. You may not be able to buy as many groceries. You may have to cut back on medicines in order to fill up the gas tank. So this is something that everybody is affected by.<p>Now, here's the thing. We have been down this road before. Remember, it was just 3 years ago that gas prices topped $4 a gallon. I remember because I was in the middle of a Presidential campaign. Working folks certainly remember because it hit a lot of people pretty hard. And because we were at the height of political season, you had all kinds of slogans and gimmicks and outraged politicians; they were waving their three-point plans for 2-dollar-a-gallon gas. You remember that--\\"drill, baby, drill\\"--and we were going through all that. [<i>Laughter</i>] And none of it was really going to do anything to solve the problem. There was a lot of hue and cry, a lot of fulminating and hand-wringing, but nothing actually happened. Imagine that in Washington. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>The truth is, none of these gimmicks, none of these slogans made a bit of difference. When gas prices finally did fall, it was mostly because the global recession had led to less demand for oil. Companies were producing less, the demand for petroleum went down, prices went down. Now that the economy is recovering, demand is back up. Add the turmoil in the Middle East, and it's not surprising that oil prices are higher. And every time the price of a barrel of oil on the world market rises by $10, a gallon of gas goes up by about 25 cents.<p>The point is, the ups and downs in gas prices historically have tended to be temporary. But when you look at the long-term trends, there are going to be more ups in gas prices than downs in gas prices. And that's because you've got countries like India and China that are growing at a rapid clip, and as 2 billion more people start consuming more goods--they want cars just like we've got cars; they want to use energy to make their lives a little easier just like we've got--it is absolutely certain that demand will go up a lot faster than supply. It's just a fact.<p>So here's the bottom line: There are no quick fixes. Anybody who tells you otherwise isn't telling you the truth. And we will keep on being a victim to shifts in the oil market until we finally get serious about a long-term policy for a secure, affordable energy future.<p>We're going to have to think long term, which is why I came here, to talk to young people here at Georgetown, because you have more of a stake in us getting our energy policy right than just about anybody.<p>Now, here's a source of concern, though. We've known about the dangers of our oil dependence for decades. Richard Nixon talked about freeing ourselves from dependence on foreign oil. And every President since that time has talked about freeing ourselves from dependence on foreign oil. Politicians of every stripe have promised energy independence, but that promise has so far gone unmet.<p>I talked about reducing America's dependence on oil when I was running for President, and I'm proud of the historic progress that we've made over the last 2 years towards that goal, and we'll talk about that a little bit. But I've got to be honest. We've run into the same political gridlock, the same inertia, that has held us back for decades.<p>That has to change. That has to change. We cannot keep going from shock when gas prices go up to trance when they go back down. We go back to doing the same things we've been doing until the next time there's a price spike, and then we're shocked again. We can't rush to propose action when gas prices are high and then hit the snooze button when they fall again. We can't keep on doing that.<p>The United States of America cannot afford to bet our long-term prosperity, our long-term security on a resource that will eventually run out and even before it runs out will get more and more expensive to extract from the ground. We can't afford it when the costs to our economy, our country, and our planet are so high, not when your generation needs us to get this right. It's time to do what we can to secure our energy future.<p>And today I want to announce a new goal, one that is reasonable, one that is achievable, and one that is necessary. When I was elected to this office, America imported 11 million barrels of oil a day. By a little more than a decade from now, we will have cut that by one-third. That is something that we can achieve. We can cut our oil dependence by a third.<p>I set this goal knowing that we're still going to have to import some oil. It will remain an important part of our energy portfolio for quite some time, until we've gotten alternative energy strategies fully in force. And when it comes to the oil we import from other nations, obviously, we've got to look at neighbors like Canada and Mexico that are stable and steady and reliable sources. We also have to look at other countries like Brazil. Part of the reason I went down there is to talk about energy with the Brazilians. They recently discovered significant new oil reserves, and we can share American technology and know-how with them as they develop these resources.<p>But our best opportunities to enhance our energy security can be found in our own backyard, because we boast one critical, renewable resource that the rest of the world can't match: American ingenuity--American ingenuity, American know-how.<p>To make ourselves more secure, to control our energy future, we're going to have to harness all of that ingenuity. It's a task we won't be finished with by the end of my Presidency or even by the end of the next Presidency. But if we continue the work that we've already begun over the last 2 years, we won't just spark new jobs, industries, and innovations, we will leave your generation and future generations with a country that is safer, that is healthier, and that's more prosperous.<p>So today my administration is releasing a blueprint for a secure energy future that outlines a comprehensive national energy policy, one that we've been pursuing since the day I took office. And cutting our oil dependence by a third is part of that plan. Here at Georgetown, I'd like to talk in broad strokes about how we can achieve these goals.<p>Now, meeting the goal of cutting our oil dependence depends largely on two things: first, finding and producing more oil at home; second, reducing our overall dependence on oil with cleaner alternative fuels and greater efficiency.<p>This begins by continuing to increase America's oil supply. Even for those of you who are interested in seeing a reduction in our dependence on fossil fuels--and I know how passionate young people are about issues like climate change--the fact of the matter is, is that for quite some time, America is going to be still dependent on oil in making its economy work.<p>Now, last year, American oil production reached its highest level since 2003. And for the first time in more than a decade, oil we imported accounted for less than half of the liquid fuel we consumed. So that was a good trend. To keep reducing that reliance on imports, my administration is encouraging offshore oil exploration and production, as long as it's safe and responsible.<p>I don't think anybody here has forgotten what happened last year, where we had to deal with the largest oil spill in [our]* history. I know some of the fishermen down in the Gulf Coast haven't forgotten it. And what we learned from that disaster helped us put in place smarter standards of safety and responsibility. For example, if you're going to drill in deep water, you've got to prove, before you start drilling, that you can actually contain an underwater spill. That's just common sense. And lately, we've been hearing folks saying, well, the Obama administration, they put restrictions on how oil companies operate offshore. Well, yes, because we just spent all that time, energy, and money trying to clean up a big mess. And I don't know about you, but I don't have amnesia. I remember these things. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I think it was important for us to make sure that we prevent something like that from happening again.<p>Now, today, we're working to expedite new drilling permits for companies that meet these higher standards. Since they were put in, we've approved 39 new shallow-water permits; we've approved seven deepwater permits in recent weeks. When it comes to drilling offshore, my administration approved more than two permits last year for every new well that the industry started to drill. So any claim that my administration is responsible for gas prices because we've, quote, unquote, \\"shut down\\" oil production, any claim like that is simply untrue. It might make for a useful sound bite, but it doesn't track with reality.<p>What is true is we've said, if you're going to drill offshore you've got to have a plan to make sure that we don't have the kind of catastrophe that we had last year. And I don't think that there's anybody who should dispute that that's the right strategy to pursue.<p>Moreover, we're actually pushing the oil industry to take advantage of the opportunities that they've already got. Right now the industry holds tens of millions of acres of leases where they're not producing a single drop. They're just sitting on supplies of American energy that are ready to be tapped. And that's why part of our plan is to provide new and better incentives that promote rapid, responsible development of these resources.<p>And we're also exploring and assessing new frontiers for oil and gas development from Alaska to the mid- and South Atlantic States, because producing more oil in America can help lower oil prices, can help create jobs, and can enhance our energy security, but we've got to do it in the right way.<p>Now, even if we increase domestic oil production, that is not going to be the long-term solution to our energy challenge. I give out this statistic all the time, and forgive me for repeating it again: America holds about 2 percent of the world's proven oil reserves. What that means is, is that even if we drilled every drop of oil out of every single one of the reserves that we possess, offshore and onshore, it still wouldn't be enough to meet our long-term needs. We consume about 25 percent of the world's oil. We only have 2 percent of the reserves. Even if we doubled U.S. oil production, we're still really short.<p>So the only way for America's energy supply to be truly secure is by permanently reducing our dependence on oil. We're going to have to find ways to boost our efficiency so we use less oil. We've got to discover and produce cleaner, renewable sources of energy that also produce less carbon pollution, which is threatening our climate. And we've got to do it quickly.<p>Now, in terms of new sources of energy, we have a few different options. The first is natural gas. Recent innovations have given us the opportunity to tap large reserves--perhaps a century's worth of reserves, a hundred years' worth of reserves--in the shale under our feet. But just as is true in terms of us extracting oil from the ground, we've got to make sure that we're extracting natural gas safely, without polluting our water supply.<p>That's why I've asked Secretary Chu, my Energy Secretary, to work with other agencies, the natural gas industry, States, and environmental experts to improve the safety of this process. And Chu is the right guy to do this. He's got a Nobel Prize in physics. He actually deserved his Nobel Prize. [<i>Laughter</i>] And this is the kind of thing that he likes to do for fun on the weekend. [<i>Laughter</i>] He goes into his garage, and he tinkers around and figures out how to extract natural gas. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>No, I'm going to embarrass him further. [<i>Laughter</i>] Last year, when we were trying to fill--figure out how to close the cap, I sent Chu down to sit in the BP offices, and he essentially designed the cap that ultimately worked, and he drew up the specs for it and had BP build it, construct it. So this is somebody who knows what he's doing. So for those of you who are studying physics, it may actually pay off someday. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But the potential for natural gas is enormous. And this is an area where there's actually been some broad bipartisan agreement. Last year, more than 150 Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle produced legislation providing incentives to use clean-burning natural gas in our vehicles instead of oil. And that's a big deal. Getting 150 Members of Congress to agree on anything is a big deal. And they were even joined by T. Boone Pickens, a businessman who made his fortune on oil, but who is out there making the simple point that we can't simply drill our way out of our energy problems.<p>So I ask Members of Congress and all the interested parties involved to keep at it, pass a bill that helps us achieve the goal of extracting natural gas in a safe, environmentally sound way.<p>Now, another substitute for oil that holds tremendous promise is renewable biofuels, not just ethanol, but biofuels made from things like switch grass and wood chips and biomass.<p>If anybody doubts the potential of these fuels, consider Brazil. As I said, I was just there last week. Half of Brazil's vehicles can run on biofuels. Half of their fleet of automobiles can run on biofuels instead of petroleum. Just last week, our Air Force--our own Air Force--used an advanced biofuel blend to fly a Raptor 22--an F-22 Raptor faster than the speed of sound. Think about that. I mean, if an F-22 Raptor can fly at the speed of--faster than the speed of sound on biomass, then I know the old beater that you've got, that you're driving around in--[<i>laughter</i>]--can probably do so too. There's no reason why we can't have our cars do the same.<p>In fact, the Air Force is aiming to get half of its domestic jet fuel from alternative sources by 2016. And I'm directing the Navy and the Department of Energy and Agriculture to work with the private sector to create advanced biofuels that can power not just fighter jets, but also trucks and commercial airliners.<p>So there's no reason we shouldn't be using these renewable fuels throughout America. And that's why we're investing in things like fueling stations and research into the next generation of biofuels. One of the biggest problems we have with alternative energy is not just producing the energy, but also distributing it. We've got gas stations all around the country, so whenever you need gas you know you can fill up. It doesn't matter where you are. Well, we've got to have that same kind of distribution network when it comes to our renewable energy sources so that when you are converting to a different kind of car that runs on a different kind of energy, you're going to be able to have that same convenience. Otherwise, the market won't work; it won't grow.<p>Over the next 2 years, we'll help entrepreneurs break ground for four next-generation biorefineries, each with a capacity of more than 20 million gallons per year. And going forward, we should look for ways to reform biofuels incentives to make sure that they're meeting today's challenges and that they're also saving taxpayers money.<p>So as we replace oil with fuels like natural gas and biofuels, we can also reduce our dependence by making cars and trucks that use less oil in the first place. Seventy percent of our petroleum consumption goes to transportation--70 percent. And by the way, so does the second biggest chunk of most families' budgets, goes into transportation. And that's why one of the best ways to make our economy less dependent on oil and save folks more money is to make our transportation sector more efficient.<p>Now, we went through 30 years where we didn't raise fuel efficiency standards on cars. And part of what happened in the U.S. auto industry was because oil appeared relatively cheap, the U.S. auto industry decided we're just going to make our money on SUVs and we're not going to worry about fuel efficiency. Thirty years of lost time when it comes to technology that could improve the efficiency of cars.<p>So last year, we established a groundbreaking national fuel efficiency standard for cars and trucks. We did this last year without legislation. We just got all the parties together, and we got them to agree: automakers, autoworkers, environmental groups, industry.<p>So that means our cars will be getting better gas mileage, saving 1.8 billion barrels of oil over the life of the program--1.8 billion. Our consumers will save money from fewer trips to the pump: $3,000, on average, over time you will save because of these higher fuel efficiency standards. And our automakers will build more innovative products. Right now there are even cars rolling off the assembly lines in Detroit with combustion engines. I'm not talking about hybrids--combustion engines that get more than 50 miles per gallon. So we know how to do it. We know how to make our cars more efficient.<p>But going forward, we're going to continue to work with the automakers, with the autoworkers, with States, to ensure the high-quality, fuel-efficient cars and trucks of tomorrow are built right here in the United States of America. That's going to be a top priority for us.<p>This summer, we're going to propose the first-ever fuel efficiency standards for heavy-duty trucks. And this fall, we'll announce the next round of fuel standards for cars that builds on what we've already done.<p>And by the way, the Federal Government is going to need to lead by example. The fleet of cars and trucks we use in the Federal Government is one of the largest in the country. We've got a lot of cars. And that's why we've already doubled the number of alternative vehicles in the Federal fleet. And that's why today I am directing agencies to purchase 100 percent alternative fuel, hybrid, or electric vehicles by 2015. All of them should be alternative fuel.<p>Going forward, we'll partner with private companies that want to upgrade their large fleets. And this means, by the way, that you students, as consumers or future consumers of cars, you've got to make sure that you are boosting demand for alternative vehicles. You're going to have a responsibility as well, because if alternative-fuel vehicles are manufactured, but you guys aren't buying them, then folks will keep on making cars that don't have the same fuel efficiency. So you've got power in this process, and the decisions you make individually in your lives will say something about how serious we are when it comes to energy independence.<p>We've also made historic investments in high-speed rail and mass transit, because part of making our transportation sector cleaner and more efficient involves offering all Americans, whether they are urban, suburban, or rural, the choice to be mobile without having to get in a car and pay for gas.<p>Still, there are few breakthroughs as promising for increasing fuel efficiency and reducing our dependence on oil as electric vehicles. Soon after I took office, I set a goal of having one million electric vehicles on our roads by 2015. We've created incentives for American companies to develop these vehicles and for Americans who want them to buy them.<p>So new manufacturing plants are opening over the next few years. And a modest $2 billion investment in competitive grants for companies to develop the next generation of batteries for these cars has jump-started a big new American industry. Pretty soon, America will be home to 40 percent of global manufacturing capacity for these advanced batteries.<p>And for those of you who are wondering what that means, the thing that's been holding back electric vehicles is the battery that stores that electricity, that energy. And the more efficient, the more lightweight we can make those batteries, the easier it is to manufacture those cars at a competitive price.<p>And if we can have that industry here in the United States of America, that means jobs. If those batteries are made here, the cars are made here. Those cars are made here, we're putting Americans back to work.<p>Now, to make sure we stay on this goal, we're going to need to do more by offering more powerful incentives to consumers and by rewarding the communities that pave the way for the adoption of these vehicles.<p>Now, one other thing about electric cars--and you don't need to talk to Chu about this--it turns out electric cars run on electricity. [<i>Laughter</i>] And so even if we reduce our oil dependency and we're producing all these great electric cars, we're going to have to have a plan to change the way we generate electricity in America so that it's cleaner and safer and healthier. We know that ushering in a clean energy economy has the potential of creating untold numbers of new jobs and new businesses right here in the United States. But we're going to have to think about how do we produce electricity more efficiently.<p>Now, in addition to producing it, we actually also have to think about making sure we're not wasting energy. Now, I don't know how we're doing on the Georgetown campus, Mr. President, but every institution and every household has to start thinking about how are we reducing the amount of energy that we're using and doing it in more efficient ways.<p>Today, our homes and businesses consume 40 percent of the energy that we use, and it costs us billions of dollars in energy bills. Manufacturers that require large amounts of energy to make their products, they're challenged by rising energy costs. And so you can't separate the issue of oil dependence from the issue of how we are producing generally--more energy generally.<p>And that's why we've proposed new programs to help Americans upgrade their homes and businesses and plants with new, energy-efficient building materials--new lighting, new windows, new heating and cooling systems--investments that will save consumers and business owners tens of billions of dollars a year and free up money for investment and hiring and creating new jobs and hiring more workers and putting contractors to work as well.<p>The nice thing about energy efficiency is we already have the technology. We don't have to create something new. We just have to help businesses and homeowners put in place the installation, the energy-efficient windows, the energy-efficient lighting. They'll get their money back. You will save money on your electricity bill that pays for those improvements that you made, but a lot of people may not have the money up front, and so we've got to give them some incentives to do that.<p>And just like the fuels we use in our cars, we're going to have to find cleaner renewable sources of electricity. Today, about two-fifths of our electricity come from clean energy sources. But we can do better than that. I think that with the right incentives in place, we can double our use of clean energy. And that's why, in my State of the Union Address back in January, I called for a new clean energy standard for America. By 2035, 80 percent of our electricity needs to come from a wide range of clean energy sources, renewables like wind and solar, efficient natural gas. And yes, we're going to have to examine how do we make clean coal and nuclear power work.<p>Now, in light of the ongoing events in Japan, I want to just take a minute to talk about nuclear power. Right now America gets about one-fifth of our electricity from nuclear energy. And it's important to recognize that nuclear energy doesn't emit carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. So those of us who are concerned about climate change, we've got to recognize that nuclear power, if it's safe, can make a significant contribution to the climate change question.<p>And I'm determined to ensure that it's safe. So in light of what's happened in Japan, I've requested a comprehensive safety review by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to make sure that all of our existing nuclear energy facilities are safe. And we're going to incorporate those conclusions and lessons from Japan in design and the building of the next generation of plants. But we can't simply take it off the table.<p>My administration is leading global discussions towards a new international framework in which all countries who are operating nuclear plants are making sure that they're not spreading dangerous nuclear materials and technology.<p>But more broadly, a clean energy standard can expand the scope of clean energy investments because what it does is it gives cutting-edge companies the certainty that they need to invest. Essentially, what it does is it says to companies, you know what, you will have a customer if you're producing clean energy. Utilities, they need to buy a certain amount of clean energy in their overall portfolio, and that means that innovators are willing to make those big capital investments.<p>And we've got to start now because--think about this--in the 1980s, America was home to more than 80 percent of the world's wind capacity, 90 percent of the world's solar capacity. We were the leaders in wind. We were the leaders in solar. We owned the clean energy economy in the eighties. Guess what. Today, China has the most wind capacity. Germany has the most solar capacity. Both invest more in clean energy than we do, even though we are a larger economy and a substantially larger user of energy. We've fallen behind on what is going to be the key to our future.<p>Other countries are now exporting technology we pioneered, and they're going after the jobs that come with it because they know that the countries that lead the 21st-century clean energy economy will be the countries that lead the 21st-century global economy. I want America to be that nation. I want America to win the future.<p>So a clean energy standard will help drive private investment in innovation. But I want to make this point. Government funding will still be critical. Over the past 2 years, the historic investments my administration has made in clean and renewable energy research and technology have helped private sector companies grow and hire hundreds of thousands of new workers.<p>I've visited gleaming new solar arrays that are among the largest in the world. I've tested an electric vehicle fresh off the assembly line. I mean, I didn't really test it; I was able to drive, like, 5 feet before Secret Service said to stop. [<i>Laughter</i>] I've toured factories that used to be shuttered, where they're now building advanced wind blades that are as long as 747s, and they're building the towers that support them. And I've seen the scientists that are searching for the next big breakthrough in energy. None of this would have happened without Government support.<p>I understand we've got a tight fiscal situation, so it's fair to ask how do we pay for Government's investment in energy. And as we debate our national priorities and our budget in Congress, we're going to have to make some tough choices. We're going to have to cut what we don't need to invest in what we do need.<p>Unfortunately, some folks want to cut critical investments in clean energy. They want to cut our research and development into new technologies. They're shortchanging the resources necessary even to promptly issue new permits for offshore drilling. These cuts would eliminate thousands of private sector jobs. It would terminate scientists and engineers. It would end fellowships for researchers, some who may be here at Georgetown, graduate students, and other talent that we desperately need to get into this area in the 21st century. That doesn't make sense.<p>We're already paying a price for our inaction. Every time we fill up at the pump, every time we lose a job or a business to countries that are investing more than we do in clean energy, when it comes to our air, our water, and the climate change that threatens the planet that you will inherit, we're already paying a price. These are costs that we are already bearing. And if we do nothing, the price will only go up.<p>So at moments like these, sacrificing these investments in research and development, in supporting clean energy technologies, that would weaken our energy economy and make us more dependent on oil. That's not a game plan to win the future. That's a vision to keep us mired in the past. I will not accept that outcome for the United States of America. We are not going to do that.<p>Let me close by speaking directly to the students here, the next generation who are going to be writing the next great chapter in the American story. The issue of energy independence is one that America has been talking about since before your parents were your age, since before you were born. And you also happen to go to a school [in a town]* that for a long time has suffered from a chronic unwillingness to come together and make tough choices. And so I forgive you for thinking that maybe there isn't much we can do to rise to this challenge. Maybe some of you are feeling kind of cynical or skeptical about whether we're actually going to solve this problem. But everything I have seen and experienced with your generation convinces me otherwise.<p>I think that precisely because you are coming of age at a time of such rapid and sometimes unsettling change, born into a world with fewer walls, educated in an era of constant information, tempered by war and economic turmoil, because that's the world in which you're coming of age, I think you believe as deeply as any of our previous generations that America can change and it can change for the better.<p>We need that. We need you to dream big. We need you to summon that same spirit of unbridled optimism and that bold willingness to tackle tough challenges and see those challenges through that led previous generations to rise to greatness: to save a democracy, to touch the Moon, to connect the world with our own science and our own imagination.<p>That's what America is capable of. That's what you have to push America to do, and it will be you that pushes it. That history of ours, of meeting challenges, that's your birthright. You understand that there's no problem out there that is not within our power to solve.<p>I don't want to leave this challenge for future Presidents. I don't want to leave it for my children. I don't want to leave it for your children. So yes, solving it will take time, and it will take effort. It will require our brightest scientists, our most creative companies. It will require all of us, Democrats, Republicans, and everybody in between, to do our part. But with confidence in America and in ourselves and in one another, I know this is a challenge that we will solve.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"76" "\"Thank you. Hello, everybody. Thank you so much. Everybody, please have a seat.<p>I am thrilled to be here, proud to be joined here today by two of our outstanding Cabinet Secretaries, Steven Chu and Ray LaHood. Where are Steven Chu and Ray? There they are over there. We're here today for a simple reason: Ray wasn't home when they tried to deliver a package yesterday--[<i>Laughter</i>]--so we thought we'd just grab it and be on our way. [<i>Laughter</i>] I've been working him too hard.<p>In addition to Steve and Ray, we also have the attorney general of Maryland, Doug Gansler, is here. And we've got one of the finest Senators in the United States Senate, from Maryland, Ben Cardin is in the house.<p>We actually didn't come here for--to grab a package. We're actually here to announce an exciting new partnership between the Federal Government and some of America's leading companies, a partnership that will help reduce our dependence on oil, that will protect our planet, and will spur economic growth.<p>I gave a speech about this earlier this week, and I laid out a blueprint that will put America on a path toward a clean energy future. I know a lot of folks have been feeling the pinch of higher gas prices lately, whether you're filling up your tank or you're running a business like UPS. And usually, it's times like these when everybody starts saying we should do something about our dependence on oil. And when prices go back down, we forget about it and we move on until the next crisis hits.<p>The point I made earlier this week is that we can't keep on doing that. That's not how we should conduct our energy policy in this country. We can't go from shock to trance, rushing the proposed action when gas prices rise and then hitting the snooze button when they go back down. We've got to have a steady, sustained, smart strategy. And at a time when we're addressing instability overseas, we know this is a national security issue, and it's a huge economic issue.<p>Nearly 2 years after one of the worst recessions in our history--certainly the worst one in our lifetimes--our economy is showing signs of real strength. Today we learned that we added 230,000 private sector jobs last month, and that's good news. That means more packages. [<i>Laughter</i>] Right? That makes 1.8 million private sector jobs created in the last 13 months. And the unemployment rate has now fallen a full point in the last 4 months. And the last time that happened was during the recovery in 1984, where we saw such a significant drop in the unemployment rate.<p>Now, despite that good news, everybody here knows we've got a lot of more work to do. There are still millions of Americans out there that are looking for a job that pays the bills. I know there's a lot going on in the world right now, and so the news has been captured by the images of the Middle East and what's happening--the tragedy to our friends in Japan.<p>And I'm focused on those issues, but you should know that keeping the economy going and making sure jobs are available is the first thing I think about when I wake up in the morning and it's the last thing I think about when I go to bed each night. And I will not be satisfied until every American who wants a good job can find one and every American gets a shot at the American Dream. That's what we're focused on. That's what we're fighting for.<p>So although we got good news today, we have to keep the momentum going. And making the transition to a clean energy economy will help us do that in two very important ways. First, it reduces the chance that our families, our businesses, and our economy will be held hostage to the whims of the oil market, will be held hostage to something that happens on the other side of the world. Second, investments in clean energy have the potential to create a whole--untold number of new jobs and new industries right here in the United States.<p>So for all these reasons, I set a new goal for America. When I was first elected to this office, America imported 11 million barrels of oil a day--11 million barrels. [By a little more than]* a decade from now, I want us to have cut that by one-third. That is achievable, it is necessary, it's good for our future, and we are going to get it done. I am confident we can get it done.<p>Now, to meet that goal, we're going to need to pursue a broad range of policies: new incentives for natural gas fleets, new research on advanced biofuels. And my hope is, is that members of both parties, Republicans and Democrats, will support these kinds of proposals. This shouldn't be a partisan issue, this is an American issue: making sure that we've got energy security and energy independence.<p>But one of the best ways to reduce our dependence on oil is by making our cars and trucks more energy efficient, because transportation accounts for more than 70 percent of America's oil consumption. And by the way, using energy-efficient cars and trucks can also make economic sense because transportation is one of the biggest costs for many businesses and certainly for many families. So energy-efficient cars and trucks won't just cut our dependence on oil, it can save us money day to day.<p>If we're serious about making the transition from gas guzzlers to hybrids, then we've got to show automakers and truck manufacturers that there's a real market for these incentives. They're not going to build them if they don't think anybody's going to buy them. We need to show them that if they manufacture fuel-efficient cars and trucks, people will buy them. We need to put our money where our mouth is.<p>And I'm proud to say that one group that's actually leading by example on this is the Federal Government. Right now the Government's fleet includes more than 600,000 vehicles, which means that we have the largest fleet in America. And that means we've got a lot of purchasing power. So what we're doing is we're using it to boost clean energy technologies. We've already doubled the number of Federal cars and trucks that are hybrids, and I'm directing our departments and our agencies to make sure a hundred percent of the vehicles they buy are fuel-efficient or clean energy cars and trucks by 2015. Not 50 percent, not 75 percent, a hundred percent of our vehicles.<p>So the Government can lead by example. That creates a market. That means they're manufacturing more of it. That means that unit cost may go down, which makes it cheaper for businesses and consumers.<p>But if we're going to upgrade all of America's fleets, then our businesses are going to need to step up as well. And that's why I am very proud of what companies like UPS, FedEx, AT&amp;T, Verizon, and PepsiCo are doing. Along with Secretaries Chu and LaHood, I just had a chance to see some of these fuel-efficient cars and trucks that they're adding to their fleets, including hybrids and all-electric vehicles manufactured right here in the United States of America by Ford and GM--right here in the U.S. of A. And as owners of some of our Nation's largest private fleets, these companies are leading the way when it comes to building clean fleets, and we need to make sure all our businesses are following their example.<p>So that's why we're launching a National Clean Fleets Partnership. If you're a business that needs to transport goods, then I'm challenging you to replace your old fleet with a clean energy fleet that's not only good for your bottom line, but good for our economy, good for our country, good for our planet. And if you accept this challenge and you join our Clean Fleets Partnership, we're going to make a number of tools available, from technical assistance to cutting-edge research and development, that will help you make the transition to a clean energy fleet. And Chu and LaHood will also come and wash your car or truck. [<i>Laughter</i>] Wasn't that part of the deal? Absolutely. [<i>Laughter</i>] A little Armor All--it's going to look good. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Just to give you a sense of the kind of difference this partnership can make, every single year millions of commercial vehicles travel America's roads and highways, burning nearly 4 billion gallons of fuel along the way--4 billion gallons. With this partnership, we'll help make sure those vehicles are energy efficient so we can cut the amount of pollution they pump into the air, cut the amount of gasoline they need to fill a tank, cut the amounts of oil America imports from abroad.<p>Now, this Clean Fleets Partnership is just part of a broader effort that we've been making over the last couple years to promote fuel-efficient vehicles and build a clean energy economy. Last year, after going about 30 years without raising fuel efficiency standards, we finally put in place a national fuel efficiency standard for cars and trucks. And as a result, our cars will get better gas mileage, and ultimately they're expected to save 1.8 billion barrels of oil. Our consumers will save money from fewer trips to the pump. Our automakers will build more innovative cars and trucks. And later this year, as we finalize the first-ever fuel standards for heavy-duty trucks, we'll announce the next round of fuel standards for cars that builds on what we've done.<p>Now, beyond raising fuel standards for our cars and trucks, we're also working to build the next generation of vehicles. I mean, it was wonderful seeing some of these trucks and cars that were back here, and I was getting the input from folks about how we can advance the technologies. Soon after I took office, we set a goal of having 1 million electric vehicles on our roads by 2015, which would make the United States the first country in the world to reach that milestone. And to help meet that goal, we need a $7,500 tax rebate that's available directly at the dealership for those who want to buy electric vehicles. And we should launch a new program to reward communities that make it as easy as possible for families and businesses to use electric vehicles.<p>And one of the things that I heard repeatedly, and some of the folks who are already driving some of these cars will tell you that--or these trucks will tell you--and that is, making sure that we've got stations, charging stations if we're talking about electric vehicles, making sure that we've got fueling stations if we're talking about natural gas conversion. That's critical. And we don't have the distribution platforms right now. That's something that we've really got to work on.<p>Meanwhile, we're also investing in the advanced batteries that can power these electric vehicles, investments that are already making a difference. You know, a couple of years ago, America produced less than 2 percent of the world's advanced batteries. These are the batteries that go into these hybrids and these electric cars. We produced less than 2 percent of them. Over the last few years, we've made investments in a homegrown American advanced battery industry. And partly because of the investments that we've made, we're going to be able to produce 40 percent of the world's advanced batteries. So we've helped jump-start a big new industry right here in the United States of America, and that's a smart investment.<p>So that's the kind of partnership between business and Government that's always made our economy strong, and I think there's a lesson in that. It's not the role of Government to be the engine of innovation and prosperity in America. That's the job of entrepreneurs and executives and the outstanding workers of the companies that are represented here. You're the ones who are really making innovation happen. But Government does have the ability to spark innovation, to support the research, the scientific discovery that has always led to breakthroughs and new products. And it's in our national interest to make these investments.<p>For example, we were just talking about some of these trucks. There is still work to be done to make the fueling faster, to bring down the price. And all of those things require some innovation and some new technologies so that in the end it's not only as cheap to run a truck like this or purchase a truck like this, but it's cheaper than a traditional engine. There's going to be more work to do on this, and historically, individual companies may not be able to make all those investments on their own. Government has to make those investments.<p>Now, this is tougher to do in light of the deficit that I inherited when I took office. We're all concerned about our debt. We're all concerned about our deficit. And that's why I've proposed some deep cuts in spending so we can live within our means and focus the--on the investments that are most likely to help grow our economy and create jobs: investments in education, investments in our infrastructure, investments in research and development, investments in clean energy technologies of the kind that I've talked about today. We've got to make those investments; otherwise, we're going to fall behind other countries. China's making those investments. Germany's making those investments. South Korea's making those investments. We can't afford to fall behind.<p>So the key issue here is, how do we pay for all this at a time when we've also got to shrink the deficit? Well, that means we've got to make some tough choices. We got to stop spending on things that we don't need to spend on things that we do. And right now there's a debate about all this going on in Washington as Congress puts together a budget for this year, and then we're going to have to put together a budget for next year.<p>So far, after a few weeks of negotiations between Democrats, Republicans, and my team at the White House, it appears that we're getting close to an agreement between the leaders of both parties on how much spending we should cut. There are still details and differences to work out. And what I've said is, neither Democrats or Republicans should get a hundred percent of what they want. They're going to have to compromise. They're going to have to figure this out.<p>Both sides are close, though, and we know that a compromise is within reach. And we also know that we can't afford not to have Congress work out these budgets and make sure that we're investing in the right things. If these budget negotiations break down, we could end up having to shut down the Government, just at a time when the economy is starting to recover.<p>That could jeopardize the economic recovery. It has an impact on everybody's bottom line. UPS, I know, delivers a lot of packages to the U.S. Government. You don't need a shutdown right now. Every business here could be impacted. We can't allow that to happen.<p>So given the encouraging news we received today on jobs, it would be the height of irresponsibility to halt our economic momentum because of the same old Washington politics. That's not what we need.<p>The American people, they don't want us to go to our respective corners and then just have the same battles we've been having for decades now. It can't be \\"my way or the highway.\\" They want their leaders to come together. And right now I believe we have a real opportunity to do just that, in the same way that we did back in December when we cut taxes for the American people in a bipartisan way.<p>So it's time to agree on a budget that makes us live within our means, while still investing in our future. That's how these businesses operate, and that's why they're successful. Businesses have gone through tough times during this recession and had to make some cutbacks on things that weren't needed. But that made those companies stronger. The same can be true for America as a whole. That's how we're going to keep our economy growing. That's how we're going to put our people back to work. That's how we're going to keep the American Dream alive for the next generation.<p>And so I just want to say to all of you, thank you for the extraordinary work you've done. Thank you for your help. We got to get busy. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.<p>Thank you.\" "
"77" "\"Hello, everybody. I'm speaking to you today from a UPS Customer Center in Landover, Maryland, where I came to talk about an issue that's affecting families and businesses just like this one: the rising price of gas and what we can do as a country to reduce our dependence on foreign oil.<p>This week, I released a blueprint for a secure energy future. It's a strategy to reduce the oil we import from around the world and to make our economy stronger at home. Part of this strategy involves increasing our oil exploration right here in America. In fact, our oil production last year reached its highest level since 2003, and we want to encourage more safe, responsible drilling where we can.<p>But the truth is, drilling alone is not a real strategy to replace our dependence on foreign oil. And that's because even though America uses 25 percent of the world's oil, we currently have only about 2 percent of the world's oil reserves. Even if we used every last drop of all the oil we have, it wouldn't be enough to meet our long-term energy needs. So real energy security can only come if we find ways to use less oil, if we invest in cleaner fuels and greater efficiency.<p>That's what we've been doing since I took office. For example, we secured an agreement from all the major auto companies to raise the fuel efficiency standards of their cars and trucks. So if you buy a new car, the better gas mileage is going to save you about $3,000. All together, this will save us about 1.8 billion barrels of oil as a country.<p>So we need to build on that progress. As we make our cars and trucks more efficient, we've got to harness new technologies to fuel our vehicles with everything from biofuels to natural gas to advanced batteries. And the good news is, these technologies aren't science fiction anymore. They exist today. Already American car companies are producing electric vehicles that use little or no gas. And innovators across America are testing new products that hold incredible promise not just for new vehicles, but for countless new jobs.<p>To help jump-start this market, the Federal Government has doubled the number of clean energy vehicles that we have in our fleet. In the next few years, we're going to switch the entire fleet over. And I'm here at UPS because it's not just the Government getting in on the action. Companies like UPS, FedEx, AT&amp;T, Verizon, and PepsiCo, firms with some of the largest fleets in the country, are switching to more efficient vehicles. And through our Clean Fleets Partnership, driven not by Government, but by business, more companies are going to be switching to electric and alternative vehicles too, not out of the goodness of their hearts, but because it's good for their bottom lines.<p>The goal is simple. When I was elected to this office, America imported 11 million barrels of oil a day. Through these and other steps, by a little more than a decade from now, we will have cut that by one third. And by doing so, we're going to make our economy less vulnerable to wild swings in oil prices, we're going to use cleaner sources of energy that don't imperil our climate, and we're going to spark new products and businesses all over the country by tapping America's greatest renewable resource: our ingenuity.<p>We know how important this is. This week, we learned that the economy added 230,000 private sector jobs last month. That makes 1.8 million private sector jobs created in the last 13 months. That's a good sign. But we have to keep up the momentum, and transitioning to a clean energy economy will help us do that. It will ensure that the United States of America is the home of the jobs and industries of tomorrow. That's how we'll win the future. That's how we'll leave our children an America that's more secure and prosperous than before.<p>Thanks, and have a great weekend.\" "
"78" "\"Good evening, everybody. I'm going to just have a few quick remarks.<p>We just had a productive meeting with Speaker Boehner, as well as Majority Leader Reid. We discussed the impasse that we're currently at with respect to the budget, and I thought the meetings were frank, they were constructive, and what they did was narrow the issues and clarify the issues that are still outstanding.<p>I remain confident that if we're serious about getting something done we should be able to complete a deal and get it passed and avert a shutdown. But it's going to require a sufficient sense of urgency from all parties involved. It means that people have to recognize that a Government shutdown has real consequences for real people.<p>There was a interview that was done tonight on one of the nightly news networks, a man from Kentucky named J.T. Henderson. He said he's counting on his tax rebate because his family has been scraping by, and he might not get it if the Government shuts down. So J.T. said if he could speak directly to all of us in Washington he'd tell us that all of this political grandstanding has effects as it trickles down to normal, everyday Americans.<p>I could not have said it better myself. A shutdown could have real effects on everyday Americans. That means that small-business owners who are counting on that loan to open their business, to make payroll, to expand, suddenly, they can't do it. It means folks who are potentially processing a mortgage, they may not be able to get it. It means that hundreds of thousands of workers across the country suddenly are without a paycheck. Their families are counting on them being able to go to work and do a good job.<p>There are ramifications all across this economy. And at a time when the economy is as--is still coming out of an extraordinarily deep recession, it would be inexcusable, given the relatively narrow differences when it comes to numbers between the two parties, that we can't get this done.<p>So my expectation is that folks are going to work through the night. In the morning I will check in with the respective staffs of the Speaker and the majority leader, as well as my team here. If we haven't made progress, we're going to go back at it again. And we're going to keep on pounding away at this thing because I'm absolutely convinced that we can get this done.<p>There is no reason why we should not be able to complete a deal. There is no reason why we should have a Government shutdown, unless we've made a decision that politics is more important than folks like J.T. Henderson.<p>That's not why we we're elected. That's not why we were sent here. And I want to meet the expectations of the American people in terms of delivering for them.<p>All right? Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"79" "\"Well, thank you. It's good to be in New York City. Let me begin by acknowledging some very, very special guests: Dr. Richardson, thank you; Charlie Rangel, for your outstanding work on behalf of your constituents; Mayor David Dinkins. Governor David Paterson is here; State Comptroller Tom DiNapoli--DiNapoli, excuse me; this is another one that's hard to pronounce--Stevie Wonder--[<i>Laughter</i>]; Martin Luther King III; all the Keepers of the Dream honorees with us tonight; and the National Action Network.<p>It is wonderful to be here as you celebrate your 20th anniversary. Some things have changed a lot since 1991. I told Reverend Al backstage, he's getting skinnier than me. [<i>Laughter</i>] He's getting skinnier than Spike. [<i>Laughter</i>] But he hasn't lost his sense of style. The other thing that hasn't changed is the National Action Network's commitment to fight injustice and inequality here in New York City and across America. And that's not only a testament to Reverend Sharpton, it's a testament to all of you who are here tonight. I want to commend you for the work that you've done over the last two decades to lift up not only the African American community, but the broader American family. That's what you're about.<p>The last time I came was in April of 2007, 4 months ago--4 years ago this month. Back then, I had fewer supporters. Most of you couldn't pronounce my name, so Tom, don't feel bad. [<i>Laughter</i>] I had a lot fewer gray hairs. I was looking at some pictures; I looked really young back then. [<i>Laughter</i>] I said that we were facing extraordinary challenges in this country, but that what was stopping us from solving them wasn't a lack of policies. It wasn't a lack of plans. What was stopping us was a broken politics, a broken politics in Washington, a politics that was all about the next election instead of the next generation, that was all about what we disagreed about instead of what we had in common, a politics that made us cynical about our ability to change this country.<p>And I said that if you stand with me and believe in what we can do together, if you do what civil rights groups like the National Action Network have always done, if you put your shoulder to the wheel of history, then we can move this country toward the promise of a better day. I told you at the time I wasn't a perfect person, I wouldn't be a perfect President, but what I could commit to was always telling you the truth, even when it was hard, and that I would spend each and every day thinking about you.<p>And because you made our campaign your own, because you believed in our ability to shape our own destiny, we won that chance to bring about real change. And I said on Inauguration night in Chicago that that was simply the end of the beginning and that now the real business started.<p>Because I didn't run, and so many of you didn't support me, just to win an election; we won the election so that we could then actually get moving on all the work that had been left undone. Even though we understood, of course, the magnitudes of the challenges we faced, we didn't fully realize until late in the game, probably in the last month of the campaign, that we would be facing the worst recession in generations, a recession that was leaving millions of Americans without a home, without a job, without hope for the future. And as Reverend Al said, some folks have amnesia about this.<p>Where are we 2 years later? Our economy has started to grow again. The recovery is gaining momentum. People are finally starting to get hired back. We had to make some tough choices in between. You remember when we decided we had to move to save the American auto industry and everybody said, that can't happen. And then 2 weeks ago, GM just announced that it's going to hire back every single worker that has been laid off, and every U.S. automaker is making a profit. But that wasn't popular. That wasn't popular.<p>A while back, I visited a small trucking business, and its owner Stephen Neal is one of our country's African American business leaders. And he told me that because of the uptick in our economy, he was buying new equipment and adding more workers. And that's what's happening all across America. In the first 3 months of this year, we've added nearly half a million private sector jobs, nearly 2 million jobs in the last 13 months.<p>So we're making progress, but we're not there yet. And I want you to know that so long as there are Americans who cannot find work, I will be fighting for jobs, and so long as the gap between the wealthiest few and everybody else keeps on growing, I will be fighting for opportunity. And I know you'll be right there alongside with me.<p>We are going to keep fighting until every family gets a shot at the American Dream. That's our north star. That's the first thing I think about when I wake up in the morning, that's the last thing I think about when I go to bed at night: the hopes and dreams of people who work hard every single day, look after their families, take care of their responsibilities, and just need a little bit of help to make it.<p>Now, there are Americans of all colors and creeds who are struggling to live out those dreams today. That's part of what our campaign was about, was reminding ourselves that everybody is in this together. Now, what's also true, though, is the unemployment rate for African Americans is almost double what it is for other groups. It's also true that those with the least have been sacrificing the most during this recession. What's also true is that even before the recession hit, too many communities were marked by structural inequalities in health and education and employment that made it profoundly difficult for too many people to get ahead.<p>You understood that. I understood that. That's part of the reason I ran for President, because I've seen the frustration and the wounded pride in the eyes of folks who've lost their jobs or a father who has to go home and tell his kids that we might not have enough this month, might be losing our apartment this month. I've heard the stories of struggling families who are doing everything right and still, at the end of the month, don't quite have enough to pay the bills. I did not start hearing those stories when I became President. Those are stories that led me to run for President in the first place.<p>As Reverend mentioned, I got my start tackling the problems of joblessness and hopelessness that afflict so many of our cities and rural communities. I got my start working to bring opportunity to neighborhoods that were full of boarded up houses and shuttered stores, fighting to keep kids off the street, fighting to get them into school, fighting to make sure that they went on to college, fighting to make real the promise of justice in our judicial system.<p>And these causes of justice and equality and opportunity, they aren't just what led me into politics, they're what led ordinary people to sit down at the front of the bus, to cross that bridge in Selma, to heed a King's call to perfect our Union. They're the heart of what makes us Americans. That's who we are. And because of your support, they're the causes that I've been carrying since I've been in the Oval Office.<p>With the help of folks at the grassroots, we passed historic health insurance reform that will not only extend coverage to 30 million more Americans and give Americans more affordable choices, but will narrow the cruel health disparities between African Americans of different backgrounds. That was because of your work.<p>We passed Wall Street reform that will protect consumers from the kind of predatory lending practices that helped cause this recession. We're rewarding work with an expanded earned-income tax credit. We're tackling poverty with Promise Neighborhoods that build on the great work of Geoffrey Canada up in Harlem. We're making sure our civil rights and antidiscrimination laws are enforced. And if you're interested in learning more, if you want to spread the word about what we're doing not just in the African American community, but all across the country, go to our web site and it will give you a long list of what we've done over the last 2 years, promises made and promises kept.<p>That's what we've tried to do over these past couple years: advance the causes that make us who we are. But we've still got more work to do. If we're serious about opening up opportunity and making sure America prospers in the 21st century, we're going to have to up our game as a nation. I was talking to Magic right before we came out. I was talking about the Bulls of course. [<i>Laughter</i>] He's still picking the Lakers. But he made the point, a young man, Derrick Rose, upped his game, worked hard, and is having an MVP season. Well, we have to do that in classrooms. We have to do that in the workplaces. We've got to do that in our communities and our neighborhoods. Our fathers got to up their games.<p>If we want to attract new jobs and new opportunities to our shores, we've got to make sure America can outcompete the rest of the world. That's what we mean when we say we got to win the future. It means we got to rebuild our crumbling transportation networks with high-speed rail, upgrade our communications networks with high-speed Internet. It means we're investing in cutting-edge research and technology like clean energy and, most of all, making sure we are giving every one of our children the best possible education. The best possible education is the single most important factor in determining whether they succeed, but it's also what will determine whether we succeed. It's the key to opportunity. It is the civil rights issue of our time.<p>I know education is important to everybody here, especially Reverend Al. In fact, a while back, he stopped by the White House to talk about education. He was joined by the great mayor of this city, Mike Bloomberg. He was also joined by Newt Gingrich. Newt--hmm. [<i>Laughter</i>] Newt said he and Reverend Sharpton were the original odd couple. That's an understatement. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But I welcomed them to the White House because I don't think there's anything odd about the two of them coming together around the importance of education. When there is an achievement gap between students of different races and backgrounds, that's not a Democratic problem, that's not a Republican problem, that is an American problem that we have to address. When too many of our schools are failing our children, too many of our kids are dropping out of school, that's not a Black or a White or a Brown problem, that is an American problem. We're going to have to solve that problem. We are all responsible for the education of all of our children.<p>That starts with parents making sure that we're doing right at home, staying engaged in our child's education, setting high expectation. Without parental responsibility, nothing else we do will matter. But we also know that each of us has a responsibility not just as parents, but as civic leaders, as Americans, to do a better job of educating our children.<p>And that's why 2 years ago, we started something called Race for the Top. We're saying to States, prove you are serious about improving education--not just for some kids, but for all kids--and if you do, we will show you the money. And for less than 1 percent of what our country as a whole spends on education each year, Race to the Top has led 40 States to raise their standards for teaching and learning and student achievement and developed plans for some of the schools that are underperforming the worst. And all this was done not in Washington, it was developed by Republican and Democratic Governors across the country.<p>We're going to have to take that same approach when it comes to fixing No Child Left Behind. Instead of measuring students based on whether they're above or below some arbitrary test, we need to make sure our students are graduating from high school ready to--for a career, ready for college. That's what we need to do. Instead of labeling our schools a failure one day and then throwing up our hands and walking away, we've got to refocus on the schools that need help the most. In the 21st century, it's not enough to just leave no child left behind, we've got to help every child get ahead. That's our goal: We've got to get every child on a path to academic excellence.<p>And we need to make sure that that path leads to a college degree. That's why we ended a system where we were subsidizing banks in the student loan program. They were taking billions of dollars out of the student loan program. We said, why don't we give that to the students directly? That would make sense. So we made college more affordable for millions of students. Millions of students across the country are now getting student loans that they weren't getting before and more loans than they were getting before. That's why we're making it easier to repay student loans, so kids don't graduate, like Michelle and I did, with massive loan payments each month. It was more than our mortgage for 10 years.<p>It's one of the things I try to remember--I try to remind people when they say, well, you're President now, you're out of touch. I said, listen, it was only a few years ago I was still paying off my student loans. [<i>Laughter</i>] And it's true, I don't pump gas now, but I remember what it was like pumping gas. [<i>Laughter</i>] I remember. I remember the end of the month. [<i>Laughter</i>] I remember that. We appreciate all of you buying the book--[<i>Laughter</i>]--Michelle and I. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's the college fund right there. [<i>Laughter</i>] That was not a given.<p>That's why we're reinvesting in Historically Black Colleges and Universities. That's why we are--[<i>Applause</i>]--that's why we're upgrading our community colleges that prepare so many working families to succeed in this economy. And by taking all these steps, I'm confident we are going to meet a goal that I set when I took office that I announced in my first State of the Union: By the end of this decade, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. That is something that we can achieve. That's something we can achieve.<p>That's how we can outeducate countries around the world. That's how we will outcompete. That's how we will win the future in the 21st century.<p>Now, one thing we won't be able to win is--if some of our people are falling behind, we will not win the future. The only way for America to prosper is for all Americans to prosper. We've seen that in the census that just came out. The face of America is changing. You can't get away with having a third of our children, half of our children not doing well. Not today, not in the 21st century. All of us--Black, White, Latino, Native American, Asian American, men, women, disabled, nondisabled--in America, we rise and fall together.<p>An America where the American Dream is within reach of everybody, that's what we've been fighting to build over the last 2 years. That's what the National Action Network has been fighting to build over the past two decades. I know that there are times where the work is frustrating. I know there are times where it is hard. There are times when change can seem painfully slow to come by. There are times where some of you may have said, \\"You know, I don't know what Obama is doing there.\\" There are times where you lose hope, times when folks in Washington focus on scoring points instead of solving problems. And some of you may just put up your hands and say, \\"Politics is too tough.\\"<p>But in those moments when we start asking ourselves if change is possible, you've got to remember what we've done together over the past few years. Remember all the children who will graduate from high school ready for college and beyond. Remember all the Americans who will no longer have to worry about going bankrupt because they got sick. Remember all the families who will no longer be exploited by insurance companies or a credit card company or a mortgage lender.<p>I'm not asking you to think about what we've already done so you can be satisfied with our progress. I know this isn't the National Satisfaction Network. This is the National Action Network. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I am asking you to draw inspiration from the fact that we know change is possible. I am living testament that change is possible. We know we have the ability to put our shoulders to the wheel of history and steer America towards the promise of a better day. We know that we stand on others' shoulders, and step by step, inch by inch, we make progress.<p>That's what we've been doing. And if you're as committed as I am to continuing to change this country for the better, if you feel the same determination that I do to tackle the problems that we haven't yet met, if you're still willing to believe in what we can do together, I am absolutely confident we will do what you've been doing for the last 20 years. We will build an America where the ideals of justice and equality and opportunity are alive and well, and we will reclaim the American Dream in our time.<p>So thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"80" "\"I just completed another meeting with Speaker Boehner and Leader Reid, and I wanted to report again to the American people that we made some additional progress this evening. I think the staffs of both the House and the Senate, as well as the White House staff, have been working very hard to try to narrow the differences. We made some progress today. Those differences have been narrowed. And so once again the staff is going to be working tonight around the clock in order to see if we can finally close a deal. <p>But there is still a few issues that are outstanding. They're difficult issues. They're important to both sides. And so I'm not yet prepared to express wild optimism. But I think we are further along today than we were yesterday.<p>I want to reiterate to people why this is so important. We're now less than 30 hours away from the Government shutting down. That means, first of all, 800,000 families, our neighbors, our friends, who are working hard all across the country in a whole variety of functions, they suddenly are not allowed to come to work. It also means that they're not getting a paycheck. That obviously has a tremendous impact. <p>You then have millions more people who end up being impacted because they're not getting the services from the Federal Government that are important to them. So small businesses aren't seeing their loans processed. Folks who want to get a mortgage through the FHA may not be able to get it, and obviously, that's not good as weak as this housing market is. You've got people who are trying to get a passport for a trip that they've been planning for a long time; they may not be able to do that. So millions more people will be significantly inconvenienced; in some ways, they may end up actually seeing money lost or opportunities lost because of a Government shutdown. <p>And then finally, there's going to be an effect on the economy overall. Earlier today one of our Nation's top economists said, and I'm quoting here: \\"The economic damage from a Government shutdown would mount very quickly, and the longer it dragged on, the greater the odds of a renewed recession.\\"<p>We've been working very hard over the last 2 years to get this economy back on its feet. We've now seen 13 months of job growth; a hundred--1.8 million new jobs. We had the best report--jobs report that we'd seen in a very long time just this past Friday. For us to go backwards because Washington couldn't get its act together is unacceptable.<p>So again, 800,000 Federal workers and their families impacted, millions of people who are reliant on Government services not getting those services, businesses, farmers, veterans, and finally, overall impact on the economy that could end up severely hampering our recovery and our ability to put people back to work.<p>That's what's at stake. That's why it's important to the American people. That's why I'm expecting that as a consequence of the good work that's done by our staffs tonight, that we can reach an agreement tomorrow. <p>But let me just point out one last thing. What I've said to the Speaker and what I've said to Harry Reid is because the machinery of the shutdown is necessarily starting to move, I expect an answer in the morning. And my hope is, is that I'll be able to announce to the American people sometime relatively early in the day that a shutdown has been averted, that a deal has been completed that has very meaningful cuts in a wide variety of categories that helps us move in the direction of living within our means, but preserves our investments in things like education and innovation, research, that are going to be important for our long-term competitiveness. <p>That's what I hope to be able to announce tomorrow. There's no certainty yet, but I expect an answer sometime early in the day.<p>All right. Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"81" "\"Good evening. Behind me, through the window, you can see the Washington Monument, visited each year by hundreds of thousands from around the world. The people who travel here come to learn about our history and to be inspired by the example of our democracy, a place where citizens of different backgrounds and beliefs can still come together as one Nation.<p>Tomorrow I'm pleased to announce that the Washington Monument, as well as the entire Federal Government, will be open for business. And that's because today Americans of different beliefs came together again.<p>In the final hours before our Government would have been forced to shut down, leaders in both parties reached an agreement that will allow our small businesses to get the loans they need, our families to get the mortgages they applied for, and hundreds of thousands of Americans to show up at work and take home their paychecks on time, including our brave men and women in uniform.<p>This agreement between Democrats and Republicans, on behalf of all Americans, is on a budget that invests in our future while making the largest annual spending cut in our history. Like any worthwhile compromise, both sides had to make tough decisions and give ground on issues that were important to them. And I certainly did that.<p>Some of the cuts we agreed to will be painful. Programs people rely on will be cut back. Needed infrastructure projects will be delayed. And I would not have made these cuts in better circumstances.<p>But beginning to live within our means is the only way to protect those investments that will help America compete for new jobs: investments in our kids' education and student loans, in clean energy and lifesaving medical research. We protected the investments we need to win the future.<p>At the same time, we also made sure that at the end of the day, this was a debate about spending cuts, not social issues like women's health and the protection of our air and water. These are important issues that deserve discussion, just not during a debate about our budget.<p>I want to think Speaker Boehner and Senator Reid for their leadership and their dedication during this process. A few months ago, I was able to sign a tax cut for American families because both parties worked through their differences and found common ground. Now the same cooperation will make possible the biggest annual spending cut in history, and it's my sincere hope that we can continue to come together as we face the many difficult challenges that lie ahead, from creating jobs and growing our economy to educating our children and reducing our deficit. That's what the American people expect us to do. That's why they sent us here.<p>A few days ago, I received a letter from a mother in Longmont, Colorado. Over the year, her son's eighth grade class saved up money and worked on projects so that next week they could take a class trip to Washington, DC. They even have an appointment to lay a wreath on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.<p>The mother wrote that for the last few days the kids in her son's class had been worried and upset that they might have to cancel their trip because of a shutdown. She asked those of us in Washington to get past our petty grievances and make things right. And she said: \\"Remember, the future of this country is not for us. It's for our children.\\"<p>Today we acted on behalf of our children's future. And next week, when 50 eighth graders from Colorado arrive in our Nation's Capital, I hope they get a chance to look up at the Washington Monument and feel the sense of pride and possibility that defines America, a land of many that has always found a way to move forward as one.<p>Thank you.\" "
"82" "\"Last night, after weeks of long and difficult negotiations over our national budget, leaders of both parties came together to avert a Government shutdown, cut spending, and invest in our future.<p>This is good news for the American people. It means that small businesses can get the loans they need, our families can get the mortgages they applied for, folks can visit our national museums and parks, and hundreds of thousands of Americans will get their paychecks on time, including our brave men and women in uniform.<p>This is an agreement to invest in our country's future while making the largest annual spending cut in our history. Like any compromise, this required everyone to give ground on issues that were important to them; I certainly did. Some of the cuts we agreed to will be painful. Programs people rely on will be cut back; needed infrastructure projects will be delayed. And I would not have made these cuts in better circumstances. But we also prevented this important debate from being overtaken by politics and unrelated disagreements on social issues. And beginning to live within our means is the only way to protect the investments that will help America compete for new jobs: investments in our kids' education and student loans, in clean energy and lifesaving medical research.<p>Reducing spending while still investing in the future is just common sense. That's what families do in tough times. They sacrifice where they can, even if it's hard, to afford what's really important.<p>A few months ago, I was able to sign a tax cut for American families because both parties worked through their differences and found common ground. Now, the same cooperation has made it possible for us to move forward with the biggest annual spending cut in history. And it's my sincere hope that we can continue to come together as we face the many difficult challenges that lie ahead, from creating jobs and growing our economy to educating our children and reducing our long-term deficits.<p>That's our responsibility. That's what the American people expect us to do, and it's what the American people deserve.\" "
"83" "\"Thank you very much. Well, as you can see, the Vice President and I are the warmup acts here today. [<i>Laughter</i>] Our role is to introduce our better halves. Actually, Michelle and Jill are, like, our better three-quarters or four-fifths. They're basically just all around better. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So thank you, Jill, for your introduction and sharing your personal experiences and stories and being able to describe how much this means to you personally; to the Vice President, the entire family, which, like so many others, has known both the pride, but also the worries and the fears when a loved one in uniform is serving in harm's way. <p>We are joined today by Members of Congress, by members of my Cabinet, Joint Chiefs, by leaders across the administration and just about every sector of American society. But most of all, we're joined by our servicemembers and their families, representing the finest military that the world has ever known. <p>And while the campaign that brings us all together is truly unique, it does reflect a spirit that's familiar to all of us, the spirit that has defined us as a people and as a nation for more than two centuries: Freedom is not free, simple words that we know are true. For 234 years, our freedom has been paid by the service and sacrifice of those who've stepped forward, raised their hand, and said, \\"Send me.\\" They put on a uniform. They swear an oath to protect and defend. And they carry titles that have commanded the respect of generations: soldiers, airmen, marine, sailor, coastguardsman. Our Nation endures because these men and women are willing to defend it with their very lives. And as a nation, it is our solemn duty and our moral obligation to serve these patriots as well as they serve us.<p>But we are here today because these Americans in uniform have never served alone: not at Lexington, not at Concord, not in Iraq, not in Afghanistan. Behind every American in uniform stands a wife, a husband, a mom, a dad, a son or a daughter, a sister or brother. These families--these remarkable families--are the force behind the Force. They too are the reason we've got the finest military in the world.<p>Whenever I'm with our troops overseas, when I ask them, \\"What can we do for you?\\" there's one thing they request more than anything else: \\"Take care of my family.\\" Take care of my family. Because when our troops are worried about their families back home, it's harder for them to focus on the mission overseas. The strength and the readiness of America's military depends on the strength and readiness of our military families. This is a matter of national security. It's not just the right thing to do, it also makes this country stronger. <p>And that's why over the past 2 years, we've made major investments to take care of our military families. Secretary Gates has been one of the leaders in this process: new housing and childcare for families, new schools for military kids, better health care for veterans, new educational opportunities for hundreds of thousands of veterans and their family members under the post-9/11 GI bill.<p>And that's why, as part of a landmark Presidential Study Directive, for the first time ever, the well-being of our military families is now a national priority--not just a Defense Department priority, not just a VA priority, it is a Federal Government priority. <p>Today my administration is working to implement nearly 50 specific commitments to improve the lives of military families, everything from protecting families from financial scams to improving education for military kids and spouses to stepping up our fight to end homelessness among veterans. And as Commander in Chief, I'm not going to be satisfied until we meet these commitments. Across this administration, we're going to keep doing everything in our power to give our military families the support and the respect that they deserve. <p>But as we've said all along, this can't be the work of Government alone. Something else has been true throughout our history: Our military and our military families can't be the only ones bearing the burden of our security. The United States of America is strongest--and as Americans, we are at our best--when we remember our obligations to each other; when we remember that the price of freedom cannot simply be paid by a select few; when we embrace our responsibilities to each other, especially those who serve and sacrifice in our name.<p>And that's why the extraordinary work that Michelle and Jill have been engaged in these past 2 years is so important. I remember how it began. It was during our campaign. Michelle was meeting with women all across the country, listening to their struggles, hearing their stories. And inevitably there were complaints about husbands and--[<i>Laughter</i>]--not doing enough around the house and--[<i>Laughter</i>]--being confused when you've got to brush the daughter's hair and get that ponytail right. [<i>Laughter</i>] So they were sharing notes. But in all these conversations, there was one group that just kept on capturing Michelle's heart, and that was military spouses. <p>And she decided right then and there, if I was given an opportunity to serve as President and she was given the opportunity to serve as First Lady, she would be their voice. And that's exactly what she and Jill have done.<p>You all see the events around the country--on the bases, in the communities, at the hospitals with our wounded warriors--where Michelle and Jill celebrate our military families--celebrate your families--and what we can do to support you better. But what you don't see is what happens when the cameras are off, how Michelle and Jill come back and they are inspired by what they saw and they use their platform to advocate on your behalf in every single agency.<p>So I want every military family to know that Michelle hears you, not just as a First Lady, not just as a fellow American, but as a wife and a daughter and a mom. She's standing up for you and your families not just today, in public events like this one, but every day. And the voice that she promised to be, that's what she's been out there doing, making sure that you're getting the support and appreciation that you and your families deserve.<p>And so it is my honor to introduce to you my extraordinary wife, America's extraordinary First Lady, Michelle Obama.\" "
"84" "\"Thank you very much. Please have a seat. Please have a seat, everyone.<p>It is wonderful to be back at GW. I want you to know that one of the reasons that I worked so hard with Democrats and Republicans to keep the Government open was so that I could show up here today. I wanted to make sure that all of you had one more excuse to skip class. [<i>Laughter</i>] You're welcome. <p>I want to give a special thanks to Steven Knapp, the president of GW. I just saw him; where is he? There he is right there.<p>I want to--we've got a lot of distinguished guests here, a couple of people I want to acknowledge. First of all, my outstanding Vice President, Joe Biden, is here. Our Secretary of the Treasury, Tim Geithner, is in the house. Jack Lew, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget; Gene Sperling, Chair of the National Economic Council, is here. Members of our bipartisan fiscal commission are here, including the two outstanding Chairs; Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson are here.<p>And we have a number of Members of Congress here today. I'm grateful for all of you taking the time to attend.<p>What we've been debating here in Washington over the last few weeks will affect the lives of the students here and families all across America in potentially profound ways. This debate over budgets and deficits is about more than just numbers on a page. It's about more than just cutting and spending. It's about the kind of future that we want. It's about the kind of country that we believe in. And that's what I want to spend some time talking about today.<p>From our first days as a nation, we have put our faith in free markets and free enterprise as the engine of America's wealth and prosperity. More than citizens of any other country, we are rugged individualists, a self-reliant people with a healthy skepticism of too much government.<p>But there's always been another thread running through our history: a belief that we're all connected and that there are some things we can only do together as a nation. We believe, in the words of our first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, that through government, we should do together what we cannot do as well for ourselves.<p>And so we've built a strong military to keep us secure and public schools and universities to educate our citizens. We've laid down railroads and highways to facilitate travel and commerce. We've supported the work of scientists and researchers whose discoveries have saved lives, unleashed repeated technological revolutions, and led to countless new jobs and entire new industries. Each of us has benefited from these investments, and we're a more prosperous country as a result.<p>Now, part of this American belief that we're all connected also expresses itself in a conviction that each one of us deserves some basic measure of security and dignity. We recognize that no matter how responsibly we live our lives, hard times or bad luck, a crippling illness or a layoff may strike any one of us. \\"There but for the grace of God go I,\\" we say to ourselves. And so we contribute to programs like Medicare and Social Security, which guarantee us health care and a measure of basic income after a lifetime of hard work; unemployment insurance, which protects us against unexpected job loss; and Medicaid, which provides care for millions of seniors in nursing homes, poor children, those with disabilities. We're a better country because of these commitments. I'll go further. We would not be a great country without those commitments.<p>Now, for much of the last century, our Nation found a way to afford these investments and priorities with the taxes paid by its citizens. As a country that values fairness, wealthier individuals have traditionally borne a greater share of this burden than the middle class or those less fortunate. Everybody pays, but the wealthier have borne a little more. This is not because we begrudge those who've done well; we rightly celebrate their success. Instead, it's a basic reflection of our belief that those who've benefited most from our way of life can afford to give back a little bit more. Moreover, this belief hasn't hindered the success of those at the top of the income scale. They continue to do better and better with each passing year.<p>Now, at certain times, particularly during war or recession, our Nation has had to borrow money to pay for some of our priorities. And as most families understand, a little credit card debt isn't going to hurt if it's temporary.<p>But as far back as the 1980s, America started amassing debt at more alarming levels, and our leaders began to realize that a larger challenge was on the horizon. They knew that eventually, the baby boom generation would retire, which meant a much bigger portion of our citizens would be relying on programs like Medicare, Social Security, and possibly Medicaid. Like parents with young children who know they have to start saving for the college years, America had to start borrowing less and saving more to prepare for the retirement of an entire generation.<p>To meet this challenge, our leaders came together three times during the 1990s to reduce our Nation's deficit--three times. They forged historic agreements that required tough decisions made by the first President Bush, then made by President Clinton, by Democratic Congresses and by a Republican Congress. All three agreements asked for shared responsibility and shared sacrifice. But they largely protected the middle class, they largely protected our commitment to seniors, they protected our key investments in our future.<p>As a result of these bipartisan efforts, America's finances were in great shape by the year 2000. We went from deficit to surplus. America was actually on track to becoming completely debt free, and we were prepared for the retirement of the baby boomers.<p>But after Democrats and Republicans committed to fiscal discipline during the 1990s, we lost our way in the decade that followed. We increased spending dramatically for two wars and an expensive prescription drug program, but we didn't pay for any of this new spending. Instead, we made the problem worse with trillions of dollars in unpaid-for tax cuts, tax cuts that went to every millionaire and billionaire in the country, tax cuts that will force us to borrow an average of $500 billion every year over the next decade.<p>To give you an idea of how much damage this caused to our Nation's checkbook, consider this: In the last decade, if we had simply found a way to pay for the tax cuts and the prescription drug benefit, our deficit would currently be at low historical levels in the coming years.<p>But that's not what happened. And so, by the time I took office, we once again found ourselves deeply in debt and unprepared for a baby boom retirement that is now starting to take place. When I took office, our projected deficit, annually, was more than $1 trillion. On top of that, we faced a terrible financial crisis and a recession that, like most recessions, led us to temporarily borrow even more.<p>In this case, we took a series of emergency steps that saved millions of jobs, kept credit flowing, and provided working families extra money in their pocket. It was absolutely the right thing to do, but these steps were expensive and added to our deficits in the short term.<p>So that's how our fiscal challenge was created. That's how we got here. And now that our economic recovery is gaining strength, Democrats and Republicans must come together and restore the fiscal responsibility that served us so well in the 1990s. We have to live within our means. We have to reduce our deficit, and we have to get back on a path that will allow us to pay down our debt. And we have to do it in a way that protects the recovery, protects the investments we need to grow, creates jobs, and helps us win the future.<p>Now, before I get into how we can achieve this goal, some of you, particularly the younger people here--you don't qualify, Joe. [<i>Laughter</i>] Some of you might be wondering, \\"Why is this so important? Why does this matter to me?\\"<p>Well, here's why. Even after our economy recovers, our Government will still be on track to spend more money than it takes in throughout this decade and beyond. That means we'll have to keep borrowing more from countries like China. That means more of your tax dollars each year will go towards paying off the interest on all the loans that we keep taking out. By the end of this decade, the interest that we owe on our debt could rise to nearly $1 trillion. Think about that. That's the interest--just the interest payments.<p>Then, as the baby boomers start to retire in greater numbers and health care costs continue to rise, the situation will get even worse. By 2025, the amount of taxes we currently pay will only be enough to finance our health care programs--Medicare and Medicaid, Social Security, and the interest we owe on our debt. That's it. Every other national priority, education, transportation, even our national security, will have to be paid for with borrowed money.<p>Now ultimately, all this rising debt will cost us jobs and damage our economy. It will prevent us from making the investments we need to win the future. We won't be able to afford good schools, new research, or the repair of roads, all the things that create new jobs and businesses here in America. Businesses will be less likely to invest and open shop in a country that seems unwilling or unable to balance its books. And if our creditors start worrying that we may be unable to pay back our debts, that could drive up interest rates for everybody who borrows money, making it harder for businesses to expand and hire or families to take out a mortgage.<p>Here's the good news: That doesn't have to be our future. That doesn't have to be the country that we leave our children. We can solve this problem. We came together as Democrats and Republicans to meet this challenge before; we can do it again.<p>But that starts by being honest about what's causing our deficit. You see, most Americans tend to dislike Government spending in the abstract, but like the stuff that it buys. Most of us, regardless of party affiliation, believe that we should have a strong military and a strong defense. Most Americans believe we should invest in education and medical research. Most Americans think we should protect commitments like Social Security and Medicare. And without even looking at a poll, my finely honed political instincts tell me that almost nobody believes they should be paying higher taxes. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So because all this spending is popular with both Republicans and Democrats alike and because nobody wants to pay higher taxes, politicians are often eager to feed the impression that solving the problem is just a matter of eliminating waste and abuse. You'll hear that phrase a lot. \\"We just need to eliminate waste and abuse.\\" The implication is that tackling the deficit issue won't require tough choices. Or politicians suggest that we can somehow close our entire deficit by eliminating things like foreign aid, even though foreign aid makes up about 1 percent of our entire Federal budget.<p>So here's the truth. Around two-thirds of our budget--two-thirds--is spent on Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, and national security. Two-thirds. Programs like unemployment insurance, student loans, veterans' benefits, and tax credits for working families take up another 20 percent. What's left, after interest on the debt, is just 12 percent for everything else. That's 12 percent for all of our national priorities. Education, clean energy, medical research, transportation, our national parks, food safety, keeping our air and water clean, you name it--all of that accounts for 12 percent of our budget.<p>Now, up till now, the debate here in Washington, the cuts proposed by a lot of folks in Washington, have focused exclusively on that 12 percent. But cuts to that 12 percent alone won't solve the problem. So any serious plan to tackle our deficit will require us to put everything on the table and take on excess spending wherever it exists in the budget.<p>A serious plan doesn't require us to balance our budget overnight. In fact, economists think that with the economy just starting to grow again, we need a phased-in approach. But it does require tough decisions and support from our leaders in both parties now. Above all, it will require us to choose a vision of the America we want to see 5 years, 10 years, 20 years down the road.<p>Now, to their credit, one vision has been presented and championed by Republicans in the House of Representatives and embraced by several of their party's Presidential candidates. It's a plan that aims to reduce our deficit by $4 trillion over the next 10 years, and one that addresses the challenge of Medicare and Medicaid in the years after that.<p>These are both worthy goals. They're worthy goals for us to achieve. But the way this plan achieves those goals would lead to a fundamentally different America than the one we've known, certainly in my lifetime. In fact, I think it would be fundamentally different than what we've known throughout our history.<p>A 70-percent cut in clean energy, a 25-percent cut in education, a 30-percent cut in transportation, cuts in college Pell grants that will grow to more than $1,000 per year, that's the proposal. These aren't the kind of cuts you make when you're trying to get rid of some waste or find extra savings in the budget. These aren't the kinds of cuts that the fiscal commission proposed. These are the kinds of cuts that tell us we can't afford the America that I believe in and I think you believe in.<p>I believe it paints a vision of our future that is deeply pessimistic. It's a vision that says if our roads crumble and our bridges collapse, we can't afford to fix them. If there are bright young Americans who have the drive and the will but not the money to go to college, we can't afford to send them.<p>Go to China and you'll see businesses opening research labs and solar facilities. South Korean children are outpacing our kids in math and science. They're scrambling to figure out how they put more money into education. Brazil is investing billions in new infrastructure and can run half their cars not on high-priced gasoline, but on biofuels. And yet we are presented with a vision that says: The American people, the United States of America, the greatest nation on Earth, can't afford any of this.<p>It's a vision that says America can't afford to keep the promise we've made to care for our seniors. It says that 10 years from now, if you're a 65-year-old who's eligible for Medicare, you should have to pay nearly $6,400 more than you would today. It says instead of guaranteed health care, you will get a voucher. And if that voucher isn't worth enough to buy the insurance that's available in the open marketplace, well, tough luck, you're on your own. Put simply, it ends Medicare as we know it.<p>It's a vision that says up to 50 million Americans have to lose their health insurance in order for us to reduce the deficit. Who are these 50 million Americans? Many are somebody's grandparents--may be one of yours--who wouldn't be able to afford nursing home care without Medicaid. Many are poor children. Some are middle class families who have children with autism or Down's syndrome. Some of these kids with disabilities are--the disabilities are so severe that they require 24-hour care. These are the Americans we'd be telling to fend for themselves.<p>And worst of all, this is a vision that says even though Americans can't afford to invest in education at current levels or clean energy, even though we can't afford to maintain our commitment on Medicare and Medicaid, we can somehow afford more than $1 trillion in new tax breaks for the wealthy. Think about that.<p>In the last decade, the average income of the bottom 90 percent of all working Americans actually declined. Meanwhile, the top 1 percent saw their income rise by an average of more than a quarter of a million dollars each. That's who needs to pay less taxes?<p>They want to give people like me a $200,000 tax cut that's paid for by asking 33 seniors each to pay $6,000 more in health costs. That's not right. And it's not going to happen as long as I'm President.<p>This vision is less about reducing the deficit than it is about changing the basic social compact in America. Ronald Reagan's own budget Director said there's nothing \\"serious\\" or \\"courageous\\" about this plan. There's nothing serious about a plan that claims to reduce the deficit by spending a trillion dollars on tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires. And I don't think there's anything courageous about asking for sacrifice from those who can least afford it and don't have any clout on Capitol Hill. That's not a vision of the America I know.<p>The America I know is generous and compassionate. It's a land of opportunity and optimism. Yes, we take responsibility for ourselves, but we also take responsibility for each other, for the country we want and the future that we share. We're a nation that built a railroad across a continent and brought light to communities shrouded in darkness. We sent a generation to college on the GI bill, and we saved millions of seniors from poverty with Social Security and Medicare. We have led the world in scientific research and technological breakthroughs that have transformed millions of lives. That's who we are. This is the America that I know. We don't have to choose between a future of spiraling debt and one where we forfeit our investment in our people and our country.<p>To meet our fiscal challenge, we will need to make reforms. We will all need to make sacrifices. But we do not have to sacrifice the America we believe in. And as long as I'm President, we won't.<p>So today I'm proposing a more balanced approach to achieve $4 trillion in deficit reduction over 12 years. It's an approach that borrows from the recommendations of the bipartisan fiscal commission that I appointed last year, and it builds on the roughly $1 trillion in deficit reduction I already proposed in my 2012 budget. It's an approach that puts every kind of spending on the table, but one that protects the middle class, our promise to seniors, and our investments in the future.<p>The first step in our approach is to keep annual domestic spending low by building on the savings that both parties agreed to last week. That step alone will save us about $750 billion over 12 years. We will make the tough cuts necessary to achieve these savings, including in programs that I care deeply about, but I will not sacrifice the core investments that we need to grow and create jobs. We will invest in medical research. We will invest in clean energy technology. We will invest in new roads and airports and broadband access. We will invest in education. We will invest in job training. We will do what we need to do to compete, and we will win the future.<p>The second step in our approach is to find additional savings in our defense budget. Now, as Commander in Chief, I have no greater responsibility than protecting our national security, and I will never accept cuts that compromise our ability to defend our homeland or America's interests around the world. But as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Admiral Mullen, has said, the greatest long-term threat to America's national security is America's debt. So just as we must find more savings in domestic programs, we must do the same in defense. And we can do that while still keeping ourselves safe.<p>Over the last 2 years, Secretary Bob Gates has courageously taken on wasteful spending, saving $400 billion in current and future spending. I believe we can do that again. We need to not only eliminate waste and improve efficiency and effectiveness, but we're going to have to conduct a fundamental review of America's missions, capabilities, and our role in a changing world. I intend to work with Secretary Gates and the Joint Chiefs on this review, and I will make specific decisions about spending after it's complete.<p>The third step in our approach is to further reduce health care spending in our budget. Now, here, the difference with the House Republican plan could not be clearer. Their plan essentially lowers the Government's health care bills by asking seniors and poor families to pay them instead. Our approach lowers the Government's health care bills by reducing the cost of health care itself.<p>Already, the reforms we passed in the health care law will reduce our deficit by $1 trillion. My approach would build on these reforms. We will reduce wasteful subsidies and erroneous payments. We will cut spending on prescription drugs by using Medicare's purchasing power to drive greater efficiency and speed generic brands of medicine onto the market. We will work with Governors of both parties to demand more efficiency and accountability from Medicaid.<p>We will change the way we pay for health care, not by the procedure or the number of days spent in a hospital, but with new incentives for doctors and hospitals to prevent injuries and improve results. And we will slow the growth of Medicare costs by strengthening an independent commission of doctors, nurses, medical experts, and consumers who will look at all the evidence and recommend the best ways to reduce unnecessary spending while protecting access to the services that seniors need.<p>Now, we believe the reforms we've proposed to strengthen Medicare and Medicaid will enable us to keep these commitments to our citizens while saving us $500 billion by 2023 and an additional $1 trillion in the decade after that. But if we're wrong, and Medicare costs rise faster than we expect, then this approach will give the independent commission the authority to make additional savings by further improving Medicare.<p>But let me be absolutely clear: I will preserve these health care programs as a promise we make to each other in this society. I will not allow Medicare to become a voucher program that leaves seniors at the mercy of the insurance industry with a shrinking benefit to pay for rising costs. I will not tell families with children who have disabilities that they have to fend for themselves. We will reform these programs, but we will not abandon the fundamental commitment this country has kept for generations.<p>That includes, by the way, our commitment to Social Security. While Social Security is not the cause of our deficit, it faces real, long-term challenges in a country that's growing older. As I said in the State of the Union, both parties should work together now to strengthen Social Security for future generations. But we have to do it without putting at risk current retirees or the most vulnerable or people with disabilities, without slashing benefits for future generations, and without subjecting Americans' guaranteed retirement income to the whims of the stock market. And it can be done.<p>The fourth step in our approach is to reduce spending in the Tax Code, so-called tax expenditures. In December, I agreed to extend the tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans because it was the only way I could prevent a tax hike on middle class Americans. But we cannot afford $1 trillion worth of tax cuts for every millionaire and billionaire in our society. We can't afford it. And I refuse to renew them again.<p>Beyond that, the Tax Code is also loaded up with spending on things like itemized deductions. And while I agree with the goals of many of these deductions, from homeownership to charitable giving, we can't ignore the fact that they provide millionaires an average tax break of $75,000 but do nothing for the typical middle class family that doesn't itemize. So my budget calls for limiting itemized deductions for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans, a reform that would reduce the deficit by $320 billion over 10 years.<p>But to reduce the deficit, I believe we should go further. And that's why I'm calling on Congress to reform our individual Tax Code so that it is fair and simple, so that the amount of taxes you pay isn't determined by what kind of accountant you can afford.<p>I believe reform should protect the middle class, promote economic growth, and build on the fiscal commission's model of reducing tax expenditures so that there's enough savings to both lower rates and lower the deficit. And as I called for in the State of the Union, we should reform our corporate Tax Code as well, to make our businesses and our economy more competitive.<p>So this is my approach to reduce the deficit by $4 trillion over the next 12 years. It's an approach that achieves about $2 trillion in spending cuts across the budget. It will lower our interest payments on the debt by $1 trillion. It calls for tax reform to cut about $1 trillion in tax expenditures, spending in the Tax Code. And it achieves these goals while protecting the middle class, protecting our commitment to seniors, and protecting our investments in the future.<p>Now, in the coming years, if the recovery speeds up and our economy grows faster than our current projections, we can make even greater progress than I've pledged here. But just to hold Washington, and to hold me, accountable and make sure that the debt burden continues to decline, my plan includes a debt fail-safe. If, by 2014, our debt is not projected to fall as a share of the economy, if we haven't hit our targets, if Congress has failed to act, then my plan will require us to come together and make up the additional savings with more spending cuts and more spending reductions in the Tax Code. That should be an incentive for us to act boldly now, instead of kicking our problems further down the road.<p>So this is our vision for America; this is my vision for America: a vision where we live within our means while still investing in our future, where everyone makes sacrifices but no one bears all the burden, where we provide a basic measure of security for our citizens and we provide rising opportunity for our children.<p>There will be those who vigorously disagree with my approach. I can guarantee that as well. [<i>Laughter</i>] Some will argue we should not even consider ever, ever raising taxes, even if only on the wealthiest Americans. It's just an article of faith to them. I say that at a time when the tax burden on the wealthy is at its lowest level in half a century, the most fortunate among us can afford to pay a little more. I don't need another tax cut. Warren Buffett doesn't need another tax cut. Not if we have to pay for it by making seniors pay more for Medicare or by cutting kids from Head Start or by taking away college scholarships that I wouldn't be here without and that some of you would not be here without.<p>And here's the thing: I believe that most wealthy Americans would agree with me. They want to give back to their country, a country that's done so much for them. It's just Washington hasn't asked them to.<p>Others will say that we shouldn't even talk about cutting spending until the economy is fully recovered. These are mostly folks in my party. I'm sympathetic to this view, which is one of the reasons I supported the payroll tax cuts we passed in December. It's also why we have to use a scalpel and not a machete to reduce the deficit so that we can keep making the investments that create jobs. But doing nothing on the deficit is just not an option. Our debt has grown so large that we could do real damage to the economy if we don't begin a process now to get our fiscal house in order.<p>Finally, there are those who believe we shouldn't make any reforms to Medicare, Medicaid, or Social Security, out of fear that any talk of change to these programs will immediately usher in the sort of steps that the House Republicans have proposed. And I understand those fears. But I guarantee that if we don't make any changes at all, we won't be able to keep our commitment to a retiring generation that will live longer and will face higher health care costs than those who came before.<p>Indeed, to those in my own party, I say that if we truly believe in a progressive vision of our society, we have an obligation to prove that we can afford our commitments. If we believe the Government can make a difference in people's lives, we have the obligation to prove that it works by making Government smarter and leaner and more effective.<p>Of course, there are those who simply say there's no way we can come together at all and agree on a solution to this challenge. They'll say the politics of this city are just too broken, the choices are just too hard, the parties are just too far apart. And after a few years on this job, I have some sympathy for this view. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But I also know that we've come together before and met big challenges. Ronald Reagan and Tip O'Neill came together to save Social Security for future generations. The first President Bush and a Democratic Congress came together to reduce the deficit. President Clinton and a Republican Congress battled each other ferociously, disagreed on just about everything, but they still found a way to balance the budget. And in the last few months, both parties have come together to pass historic tax relief and spending cuts.<p>And I know there are Republicans and Democrats in Congress who want to see a balanced approach to deficit reduction. And even those Republicans I disagree with most strongly, I believe are sincere about wanting to do right by their country. We may disagree on our visions, but I truly believe they want to do the right thing.<p>So I believe we can, and must, come together again. This morning I met with Democratic and Republican leaders in Congress to discuss the approach that I laid out today. And in early May, the Vice President will begin regular meetings with leaders in both parties with the aim of reaching a final agreement on a plan to reduce the deficit and get it done by the end of June.<p>I don't expect the details in any final agreement to look exactly like the approach I laid out today. This is a democracy; that's not how things work. I'm eager to hear other ideas from all ends of the political spectrum. And though I'm sure the criticism of what I've said here today will be fierce in some quarters, and my critique of the House Republican approach has been strong, Americans deserve and will demand that we all make an effort to bridge our differences and find common ground.<p>This larger debate that we're having--this larger debate about the size and the role of Government--it has been with us since our founding days. And during moments of great challenge and change, like the one that we're living through now, the debate gets sharper and it gets more vigorous. That's not a bad thing. In fact, it's a good thing. As a country that prizes both our individual freedom and our obligations to one another, this is one of the most important debates that we can have.<p>But no matter what we argue, no matter where we stand, we've always held certain beliefs as Americans. We believe that in order to preserve our own freedoms and pursue our own happiness, we can't just think about ourselves. We have to think about the country that made these liberties possible. We have to think about our fellow citizens with whom we share a community. And we have to think about what's required to preserve the American Dream for future generations.<p>This sense of responsibility to each other and to our country, this isn't a partisan feeling. This isn't a Democratic or a Republican idea; it's patriotism.<p>The other day I received a letter from a man in Florida. He started off by telling me he didn't vote for me and he hasn't always agreed with me. But even though he's worried about our economy and the state of our politics, here's what he said. He said: \\"I still believe. I believe in that great country that my grandfather told me about. I believe that somewhere lost in this quagmire of petty bickering on every news station, the American Dream is still alive. . . . We need to use our dollars here rebuilding, refurbishing, and restoring all that our ancestors struggled to create and maintain. . . . We as a people must do this together, no matter the color of the state one comes from or the side of the aisle one might sit on.\\"<p>\\"I still believe.\\" I still believe as well. And I know that if we can come together and uphold our responsibilities to one another and to this larger enterprise that is America, we will keep the dream of our founding alive in our time, and we will pass it on to our children. We will pass on to our children a country that we believe in.<p>Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"85" "\"Yesterday I laid out a plan to cut $4 trillion from our deficit. It is a balanced plan that asks for shared sacrifice in order to provide shared opportunity for all Americans. And I'm very pleased today to have Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson, the chairs of my fiscal commission, because, very frankly, it is the framework that they developed that helps to shape my thinking on these issues.<p>As they pointed out in their bipartisan effort, it is important that we put everything on the table. We've got to take some tough decisions when it comes to domestic spending. We've got to look at everything, including our security spending, in order to achieve the goal that we need. <p>It's important that we look at our Tax Code and find a way to work together to not only simplify and make the tax system fairer, but also that we use it as a tool to help us achieve our deficit targets.<p>And it's also important--and I think these gentlemen share the view--that we can't exempt anybody from these efforts, that it's not appropriate for us to ask for sacrifices from everybody except for the 2 percent of Americans who are doing best, but rather, we should ask everybody to participate in this effort to get our fiscal house in order.<p>So my main purpose here today is to once again thank them for their outstanding work, but more importantly, to solicit their ideas in terms of how we move forward. No matter how we may disagree between parties, no matter how much we have spent time debating the issues, at some point, we're going to have to come together as Americans. And yesterday I brought together the leaders of both Chambers, leaders of both parties, to discuss with them how we could start moving rapidly to get some of these major issues resolved.<p>And I'm pleased that Vice President Biden is going to be heading up that effort, but we're going to need the help of citizens who served this country in extraordinary ways in the past and are continuing to do so in their spare time. I'm looking forward to having them as partners in order to get this done.<p>So thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"86" "\"This week, I laid out my plan for our fiscal future. It's a balanced plan that reduces spending and brings down the deficit, putting America back on track toward paying down our debt.<p>We know why this challenge is so critical. If we don't act, a rising tide of borrowing will damage our economy, costing us jobs and risking our future prosperity by sticking our children with the bill.<p>At the same time, we have to take a balanced approach to reducing our deficit, an approach that protects the middle class, our commitments to seniors, and job-creating investments in things like education and clean energy. What's required is an approach that draws support from both parties and one that's based on the values of shared responsibility and shared prosperity.<p>Now, one plan put forward by some Republicans in the House of Representatives aims to reduce our deficit by $4 trillion over the next 10 years. But while I think their goal is worthy, I believe their vision is wrong for America.<p>It's a vision that says at a time when other nations are hustling to outcompete us for the jobs and businesses of tomorrow, we have to make drastic cuts in education, infrastructure, and clean energy, the very investments we need to win that competition and get those good jobs.<p>It's a vision that says in order to reduce the deficit, we have to end Medicare as we know it and make cuts to Medicaid that would leave millions of seniors, poor children, and Americans with disabilities without the care they need.<p>But even as this plan proposes these drastic cuts, it would also give $1 trillion in tax breaks to the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans, an extra $200,000 for every millionaire and billionaire in the country.<p>I don't think that's right. I don't think it's right to ask seniors to pay thousands more for health care or ask students to postpone college just so we don't have to ask those who have prospered so much in this land of opportunity to give back a little more.<p>To restore fiscal responsibility, we all need to share in the sacrifice, but we don't have to sacrifice the America we believe in.<p>That's why I've proposed a balanced approach that matches that $4 trillion in deficit reduction. It's an approach that combs the entire budget for savings and asks everyone to do their part. And I've called on Democrats and Republicans to join me in this effort, to put aside their differences to help America meet this challenge. That's how we've balanced our budget before, and it's how we'll succeed again.<p>We'll build on the savings we made from last week's bipartisan budget agreement while protecting the job-creating investments that are critical to our future. <p>We'll find additional savings in our defense budget. Over the last 2 years, the Secretary of Defense has taken on wasteful spending that does nothing to protect our troops or our Nation, saving $400 billion in current and future spending. I believe we can do that again.<p>We'll reduce health care spending and strengthen Medicare and Medicaid through commonsense reforms that will get rid of wasteful subsidies and increase in efficiency.<p>We'll reduce spending in our Tax Code with tax reform that's fair and simple so that the amount of taxes you pay doesn't depend on how clever an accountant you can afford. And we should end the tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans too, because people like me don't need another tax cut.<p>So that's my approach to reduce the deficit by $4 trillion over the next 12 years while protecting the middle class, keeping our promise to seniors, and securing our investments in our future. I hope you'll check it out for yourself on whitehouse.gov. And while you're there, you can also find what we're calling the taxpayer receipt. For the first time ever, there's a way for you to see exactly how and where your tax dollars are spent and what's really at stake in this debate.<p>Going forward, Democrats and Republicans in Washington, we'll have our differences, some of them strong. But you expect us to bridge those differences. You expect us to work together and get this done. And I believe we can. I believe we can live within our means and live up to the values we share as Americans. And in the weeks to come, I'll work with anyone who's willing to get it done.<p>Thanks for listening, and have a great weekend.\" "
"87" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. Well, everybody, please be seated. Welcome to the White House, and congratulations on winning the Commander in Chief Trophy.<p>For the first time in 8 long years, this trophy is going back to Colorado Springs. Today we're honored to be joined by the Superintendent of the Air Force Academy, Lieutenant General Michael Gould, and the Air Force Chief of Staff, General Norton Schwartz. Thank you both for being here. Very much appreciate it.<p>Most of all, though, I want to congratulate the cadets who are standing behind me. Until this year, no one on this team knew what it felt like to beat Army, to beat Navy, to visit the White House, and to earn football bragging rights over the other branches. Now you know the feeling. They also know what it feels like not just to be a good service academy team, but to be a good team, period. Put up 350 rushing yards against Oklahoma, finished 9-4 after what Coach Calhoun called the toughest schedule a service academy ever played, and to cap it all off, to win in a bowl game against Georgia Tech. That's impressive. Georgia Tech has three times as many students.<p>Of course, I hear the victory that was sweetest of all was finally beating that Navy team. I'm told that as soon as the final whistle blew, the loudspeakers started blasting Etta James singing \\"At Last.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] The entire cadet wing--usually some of the most disciplined young men and women you'll ever see--just rushed the field and sang the alma mater with the team.<p>So this is a group that has a lot to be proud of. But obviously, the most impressive thing about these young men, the thing that sets them apart, is that being a football player isn't what defines them. They're airmen first. And more important than any bowl game or trophy is the commitment that they've made to serve this country.<p>That's why last summer, when almost every other Division I team was working out and running through drills together, these players were scattered around the world learning the skills they needed long after they take off their jerseys and hang up their helmets.<p>Quarterback Tim Jefferson was at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware learning about C-17s. Tight end Josh Freeman was stationed in Japan. Cornerback Reggie Rembert was getting up every morning at 3 a.m. to take summer classes, command a squadron of 127 freshman cadets, and spend whatever time he had left organizing 7-on-7 practices for players that were still in town.<p>And sometimes, being away from their teammates meant that players had to come up with some creative ways to get in shape. Quarterbacks had to find people to throw to. Receivers had to find people to throw to them. The conditions weren't always ideal. But as Coach Calhoun, a former Falcon himself, said, \\"The good ones will find a way.\\"<p>This team found a way. And now that the season's over, these seniors will have to adjust to a very different life as they become part of the finest military that the world has ever known. It won't always be easy. I've heard linemen like Tyler Schonsheck had to drop 40 or 50 pounds in order to fit in an ejection seat for pilot training this summer. Where is this guy? [<i>Laughter</i>] Yeah. Yeah, that's a big guy.<p>But cadets know that what's expected of them is to do whatever it takes. And I know that the camaraderie, the work ethic, the brotherhood that all of you have built as part of this team will serve you well as you defend freedom around the world. As President, I have no greater honor, no greater responsibility than serving as your Commander in Chief. And as all of you begin your service to our Nation, I want you to know that we are going to do everything in our power to help you succeed and help you come home safe. You all make us incredibly proud.<p>So again, congratulations, and God bless you.<p><i>Head Coach Troy Calhoun.</i> Thank you again, Mr. President; for everybody in attendance here today.<p>And undoubtedly, these are absolutely remarkable young people, and with the accolades the President covered, they're on the field quite, quite impressive. And yet their greatest achievements, their greatest deeds, their greatest quality of work will begin 37 days from now when these young men graduate from the United States Air Force Academy and have an opportunity to be a part of the finest team there is, and that is to lead, to be an officer for the United States of America.<p>And, Mr. President, at this time, we have a couple of young men that want to share a couple of gifts with you, sir. So first of all, Mr. Jared Tew, our starting fullback.<p><i>The President.</i> That's it.<p><i>Cadet Jared Tew.</i> Mr. President, we'd like to present you with a official Air Force football with your name on it and the scores of both the Army and Navy game. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> There you go. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Cadet Reggie Rembert.</i> Also, sir, we'd like to present you with an official Obama jersey. We were going to go with number one because there's no number one on the Air Force Falcon football team, because there's only one \\"one\\" in our hearts, and that's the Air Force One. Also we were going to go with 44, but Navy did that last year, so we don't--we didn't want to go with that. [<i>Laughter</i>] So we wanted to be a little bit more personal, so we gave the President--Mr. President, we gave him number 23 because he's actually worn this and played a sport in this number.<p><i>The President.</i> My old number, before Michael Jordan, by the way. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Cadet Rembert.</i> Yes, sir.<p><i>The President.</i> Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. Enjoy this wonderful day. Thank you. Let's get a good picture here.\" "
"88" "\"<i>The President.</i>Thank you very much. Thank you. Please, please have a seat. Well, it is absolutely wonderful to be here with all of you today. I see so many good friends all around the room.<p>Before I begin, I want to acknowledge one particular member of my administration who I'm extraordinarily proud of and does not get much credit, and that is USAID Administrator Dr. Raj Shah, who is doing great work with faith leaders. Where's Raj? Where is he? There he is right there. Raj is doing great work with faith leaders on our Feed the Future global hunger program, as well as on a host of other issues. We could not be prouder of the work that he's doing. I also want to acknowledge Congressman Mike McIntyre and his wife Dee. Mike--[<i>Applause</i>]--as some of you know, obviously, North Carolina was ravaged by storms this past weekend, and our thoughts and prayers are with all the families who have been affected down there. I know that Mike will be helping those communities rebuild after the devastation. <p>To all the faith leaders and the distinguished guests that are here today, welcome to our second annual--I'm going to make it annual. [<i>Laughter</i>] Why not? Second Easter prayer breakfast. The Easter egg roll, that's well established. [<i>Laughter</i>] The prayer breakfast we started last year, in part because it gave me a good excuse to bring together people who have been such extraordinary influences in my life and such great friends. And it gives me a chance to meet and make some new friends here in the White House. <p>I wanted to host this breakfast for a simple reason, because as busy as we are, as many tasks as pile up, during this season, we are reminded that there's something about the resurrection of our Savior Jesus Christ that puts everything else in perspective. <p>We all live in the hustle and bustle of our work. And everybody in this room has weighty responsibilities, from leading churches and denominations to helping to administer important Government programs to shaping our culture in various ways. And I admit that my plate has been full as well. [<i>Laughter</i>] The inbox keeps on accumulating. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But then comes Holy Week: the triumph of Palm Sunday, the humility of Jesus washing the disciples' feet, his slow march up that hill, and the pain and the scorn and the shame of the cross. <p>And we're reminded that in that moment, he took on the sins of the world--past, present, and future--and he extended to us that unfathomable gift of grace and salvation through his death and resurrection. <p>In the words of the Book Isaiah: \\"But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed.\\"<p>This magnificent grace, this expansive grace, this \\"Amazing Grace\\" calls me to reflect, and it calls me to pray. It calls me to ask God for forgiveness for the times that I've not shown grace to others, those times that I've fallen short. It calls me to praise God for the gift of our son--His Son and our Savior.<p>And that's why we have this breakfast. Because in the middle of these critical national debates, in the middle of our busy lives, we must always make sure that we are keeping things in perspective. Children help do that. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Amen. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>The President. A strong spouse helps do that.<p><i>Audience members.</i> Amen.<p><i>The President</i>. But nothing beats Scripture and the reminder of the Eternal.<p>So I'm honored that all of you have come here this Holy Week to join me in a spirit of prayer, and I pray that our time here this morning will strengthen us, both individually as believers and as Americans. And with that, let me introduce my good friend, Bishop Vashti McKenzie, for our opening prayer.<p><i>[At this point, Bishop Vashti M. McKenzie, presiding bishop of the 13th Episcopal District of the African Methodist Episcopal Church, came to the podium.]</i><p><i>Bishop McKenzie</i>. Thank you so much.<p><i>The President</i>. I just had to make a quick point. You notice that these days, prayers are on an iPad. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is a hi-tech bishop here.<p><i>[Bishop McKenzie then offered a prayer.]</i>\" "
"89" "\"This is a time of year when people get together with family and friends to observe Passover and to celebrate Easter. It's a chance to give thanks for our blessings and reaffirm our faith, while spending time with the people we love. We all know how important that is, especially in hard times. And that's what a lot of people are facing these days.<p>Even though the economy is growing again and we've seen businesses adding jobs over the past year, many are still looking for work. And even if you haven't faced a job loss, it's still not easy out there. Your paycheck isn't getting bigger, while the cost of everything from college for your kids to gas for your car keeps going up. That's something on a lot of people's minds right now with gas prices at $4 a gallon. It's just another burden when things were already pretty tough.<p>Now, whenever gas prices shoot up, like clockwork, you see politicians racing to the cameras, waving three-point plans for $2 gas. You see people trying to grab headlines or score a few points. The truth is, there is no silver bullet that can bring down gas prices right away.<p>But there are a few things we can do. This includes safe and responsible production of oil at home, which we are pursuing. In fact, last year, American oil production reached its highest level since 2003. On Thursday, my Attorney General also launched a task force with just one job: rooting out cases of fraud or manipulation in the oil markets that might affect gas prices, including any illegal activity by traders and speculators. We're going to make sure that no one is taking advantage of the American people for their own short-term gain. And another step we need to take is to finally end the $4 billion in taxpayer subsidies we give to the oil and gas companies each year. That's $4 billion of your money going to these companies when they're making record profits and you're paying near-record prices at the pump. It has to stop.<p>Instead of subsidizing yesterday's energy sources, we need to invest in tomorrow's. We need to invest in clean, renewable energy. That's the long-term answer that we need. That's the key to helping families at the pump and reducing our dependence on foreign oil. We can see that promise already. Thanks to a historic agreement we secured with all the major auto companies, we're raising the fuel economy of cars and trucks in America, using hybrid technology and other advances. As a result, if you buy a new car in the next few years, the better gas mileage is going to save you about $3,000 at the pump.<p>But we need to do more. We need to harness the potential I've seen in promising startups and innovative clean energy companies across America. And that's at the heart of a debate we're having right now in Washington about the budget.<p>Both Democrats and Republicans believe we need to reduce the deficit. That's where we agree. The question we're debating is how do we do it. I've proposed a balanced approach that cuts spending while still investing in things like education and clean energy that are so critical to creating jobs and opportunities for the middle class. It's a simple idea: We need to live within our means while at the same time investing in our future.<p>That's why I so strongly disagree with a proposal in Congress that cuts our investments in clean energy by 70 percent. Yes, we've got to get rid of wasteful spending, and make no mistake, we're going through every line of the budget scouring for savings. But we can do that without sacrificing our future. We can do that while still investing in the technologies that will create jobs and allow the United States to lead the world in new industries. That's how we'll not only reduce the deficit, but also lower our dependence on foreign oil, grow our economy, and leave our children a safer planet. And that's what our mission has to be.<p>Thanks for listening, and have a wonderful Easter weekend.\" "
"90" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. I hope all of you had a wonderful Easter. I hope everybody is having a great time here. Welcome to the White House.<p>In addition to our outstanding Easter Bunny----<p><i>Audience member</i>. [<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President</i>. Hi!<p>I want to introduce somebody who is doing extraordinary work not only helping military families, not only making sure that everybody is getting up and going, but is also keeping me in line, the First Lady of the United States, Michelle Obama.\" "
"91" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. Now, let me just comment, first of all, on the fact that I can't get the networks to break in on all kinds of other discussions--[<i>Laughter</i>]. I was just back there listening to Chuck [Chuck Todd, NBC News]. He was saying, \\"It's amazing that he's not going to be talking about national security.\\" I would not have the networks breaking in if I was talking about that, Chuck, and you know it.<p><i>Q. </i> Wrong channel. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Right. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>The--as many of you have been briefed, we provided additional information today about the site of my birth. Now, this issue has been going on for 2, 2 1/2 years now. I think it started during the campaign. And I have to say that over the last 2 1/2 years, I have watched with bemusement, I've been puzzled at the degree to which this thing just kept on going. We've had every official in Hawaii, Democrat and Republican, every news outlet that has investigated this, confirm that, yes, in fact, I was born in Hawaii, August 4, 1961, in Kapiolani Hospital.<p>We've posted the certification that is given by the State of Hawaii on the Internet for everybody to see. People have provided affidavits that they, in fact, have seen this birth certificate. And yet this thing just keeps on going.<p>Now, normally, I would not comment on something like this, because obviously, there's a lot of stuff swirling in the press at any given day, and I've got other things to do. But 2 weeks ago, when the Republican House had put forward a budget that will have huge consequences potentially to the country, and when I gave a speech about my budget and how I felt that we needed to invest in education andinfrastructure and making sure that we had a strong safety net for our seniors even as we were closing the deficit, during that entire week the dominant news story wasn't about these huge, monumental choices that we're going to have to make as a nation. It was about my birth certificate. And that was true on most of the news outlets that were represented here.<p>And so I just want to make a larger point here. We've got some enormous challenges out there. There are a lot of folks out there who are still looking for work. Everybody is still suffering under high gas prices. We're going to have to make a series of very difficult decisions about how we invest in our future, but also get a hold of our deficit and our debt, how do we do that in a balanced way.<p>And this is going to generate huge and serious debates, important debates. And there are going to be some fierce disagreements, and that's good. That's how democracy is supposed to work. And I am confident that the American people and America's political leaders can come together in a bipartisan way and solve these problems. We always have.<p>But we're not going to be able to do it if we are distracted. We're not going to be able to do it if we spend time vilifying each other. We're not going to be able to do it if we just make stuff up and pretend that facts are not facts. We're not going to be able to solve our problems if we get distracted by sideshows and carnival barkers.<p>We live in a serious time right now, and we have the potential to deal with the issues that we confront in a way that will make our kids and our grandkids and our great-grandkids proud. And I have every confidence that America in the 21st century is going to be able to come out on top just like we always have. But we're going to have to get serious to do it.<p>I know that there's going to be a segment of people for which, no matter what we put out, this issue will not be put to rest. But I'm speaking to the vast majority of the American people, as well as to the press. We do not have time for this kind of silliness. We've got better stuff to do. I've got better stuff to do. We've got big problems to solve. And I'm confident we can solve them, but we're going to have to focus on them, not on this.<p>Thanks very much, everybody.\" "
"92" "\"<i>The President</i>. Well, Michelle and I want to express, first of all, our deepest condolences to not just the city of Tuscaloosa, but the State of Alabama and all the other States that have been affected by this unbelievable storm. We just took a tour, and I've got to say, I've never seen devastation like this. It is heartbreaking. We were just talking to some residents here who were lucky enough to escape alive, but have lost everything. They mentioned that their neighbors had lost two of their grandchildren in the process.<p>What you're seeing here is the consequence of just a few minutes of this extraordinarily powerful storm sweeping through this community. And as the Governor was mentioning, Tuscaloosa typically gets a tornado during the season, but this is something that I don't think anybody has seen before.<p>In addition to keeping all the families who've been affected in our thoughts and prayers, obviously our biggest priority now is to help this community recover. I want to thank Mayor Maddox for his extraordinary leadership. Chief Burgess, I know, is having to deal with a lot of difficulties. One of the challenges that the mayor was explaining is, is that the assets of the city--a fire station that we passed on the way in, police resources, emergency resources--those too have been affected.<p>Fortunately, the Governor has done an extraordinary job with his team in making sure that the resources of the State are mobilized and have been brought in here. I'm very pleased that we've got a FEMA Director in Craig Fugate who is as experienced as anybody in responding to disasters even of this magnitude. And we've already provided the disaster designations that are required to make sure that the maximum Federal help comes here as quickly as possible. <p>Craig is working with the teams on the ground to make sure that we are seamlessly coordinating between the State, local, and Federal governments. And I want to just make a commitment to the communities here that we are going to do everything we can to help these communities rebuild.<p>We can't bring those who have been lost back. They're alongside God at this point. We can help, maybe a little bit, with the families dealing with the grief of having a loved one lost. But the property damage, which is obviously extensive, that's something that we can do something about. <p>And so we're going to do everything we can to partner with you, Mr. Mayor, with you, Governor. As the Governor was pointing out, this community was hit as bad as any place, but there are communities all across Alabama and all across this region that have been affected, and we're going to be making that same commitment to make sure that we're doing whatever we can to make sure that people are okay. <p><i>[At this point, Governor Robert J. Bentley of Alabama waved away a wasp flying around the President.]</i><p>That bee likes you. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Gov. Bentley</i>. [<i>inaudible</i>]--that's a wasp.<p><i>The President</i>. It's a--okay.<p><i>Gov. Bentley</i>. Well, now, you stand still.<p>The President. Okay, you got it. There you go.<p><i>Gov. Bentley. </i>I got him. I got him. I got him off of you.<p><i>Sen. Richard C. Shelby. </i>No, he got him away. He ran him away. You didn't get him.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Where's the Secret Service when you need them? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President</i>. Yes, exactly. [<i>Laughter</i>] Finally, let me just say this. As you walk around, we were just talking to three young people over there, college students here at the University of Alabama who are volunteering now to help clean up. One of the young ladies there, she actually lived in this apartment, wasn't here at the time the storm happened. <p>What you're struck by is people's resilience and the way that the community has come together. And obviously, that's testimony to the leadership of the Governor and the mayor, but it's also inherent as part of the American spirit. We go through hard times, but no matter how hard we may be tested, we maintain our faith and we look to each other to make sure that we're supporting each other and helping each other. I'm sure that that spirit is going to continue until this city is all the way back.<p>So, Mr. Mayor--he was pointing out that there's a lot of national media down here now, and the mayor expressed the concern that perhaps the media will move on in a day or a week or a month and that folks will forget what's happened here. And I want to assure him that the American people all across the country are with him and his community, and we're going to make sure that you're not forgotten and that we do everything we can to make sure that we rebuild. <p>So with that, Governor, would you like to say a few words?<p><i>Gov. Bentley. </i>I would. And, Mr. President, I would like to personally thank you and Mrs. Obama for coming and visiting Alabama because you know as you fly over this--and I did yesterday--as you fly over it from the air, it does not do it justice until you're here on the ground. And I just want you to know how much I appreciate that. <p>We asked for--we've mobilized the State. We declared a state of emergency early on, even before the first tornadoes hit, and then we mobilized our National Guard the first day. We then asked the President for aid, and we asked him to expedite that, and they have done that. And I just want you to know how much I appreciate that, Mr. President, because all these people appreciate that so much.<p>We have eight counties across the State that have been hit by major tornadoes. This probably is the worst one, but we have others. As you go across the State, you see the same evidence of tornadoes all across the State.<p>And so there are people that are hurting. We have now 210 confirmed deaths in Alabama. We have 1,700 injured. We have a number of people missing at the present time. We're going to continue to work in a rescue-type mode, but we're now more in a recovery mode. <p><i>[The President waved away a wasp flying around Gov. Bentley.]</i><p>Thank you, Mr. President. [<i>Laughter</i>] If you'll keep him off of me----<p><i>The President</i>. I'm going to keep my eye on you. We're looking out for each other. That's----<p><i>Gov. Bentley. </i>I appreciate that.Yes, sir. Yes, sir. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But I am--let me say I am so proud of our first-responders in this State. They have done an outstanding job. Our mayors, our county commissioners, our police, our firemen, they have all just done such a fantastic job. Our EMA people, they have just--we have got a great team. They've all worked together. And now we have the Federal Government helping us. And you know, that just shows that when locals and State and Federal Government works together, we can get things accomplished, and that's what we're going to do.<p>And so, Mr. President, welcome to Alabama, but not under these circumstances. We want you to come back and maybe go to a football game over here at a later day and when things are better. But thank you for your help.<p>The President. I will gladly, gladly come back.<p><i>Gov. Bentley. </i>Thank you, sir.<p><i>The President</i>. Mr. Mayor, if you'd like to say a few words.<p><i>Mayor Walter Maddox of Tuscaloosa. </i>Mr. President, Governor, Mrs. Obama, thank you for coming today. The last 36 hours have been probably the most trying time in this community's history. But you're going to see a new story being written here in Tuscaloosa. And in the years to come these chapters are going to be fueled with hope and opportunity.<p>Since this tragedy began, I've been using Romans 12:12 when Paul wrote under persecution, \\"Rejoice in our confident hope.\\" Well, today, Mr. President, your visit here has brought a confident hope to this community. And in the days, weeks, and months to come, we're going to be a story that you're going to be very proud of and you can talk about across this land.<p>Thank you again for coming today.<p><i>The President</i>. Well, thank you for your leadership. And two last points I want to make. First of all, we've got our congressional delegation here, and I am absolutely confident that they will make sure that the resources are available to help rebuild.<p>To all the local officials who are here, I know that they've been personally affected, but I know that they're going to provide the leadership in this community, working with the mayor and the Governor to do what is needed.<p>And finally, I think the mayor said something very profound as we were driving over here. He said, what's amazing is when something like this happens, folks forget all their petty differences. Politics, differences of religion or race, all that fades away when we are confronted with the awesome power of nature. And we're reminded that all we have is each other. <p>And so, hopefully, that spirit continues and grows. If nothing else comes out of this tragedy, let's hope that that's one of the things that comes out. <p>So thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"93" "\"<i>The President</i>. Thank you, Miami Dade! Thank you. Please, everyone, be seated.<p>Hafeeza, thank you for that wonderful introduction. To Dr. Padron, Dr. Vicente, to the board of trustees, the faculty, parents, family, friends, and most important, the class of 2011: Congratulations! Congratulations on reaching this day, and thank you for allowing me the profound honor of being a part of it.<p>And thank you for my first honorary associate degree. [<i>Laughter</i>] You know, one of the perks of this job is that degrees come free these days. [<i>Laughter</i>] Not that it impresses anybody at home. Now Michelle just says, \\"Hey, Doctor, go take that dog for a walk.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>It is such a thrill to be at one of the largest, most diverse institutions of higher learning in America, one that just this week was named one of the top community colleges in the Nation. More than 170,000 students study across your 8 campuses. You come from 181 countries, represented by the flags that just marched across this stage. You speak 94 languages. About 90 percent of you are minorities. And because more than 90 percent of you find a job in your field of study, it's fitting that your motto is \\"Opportunity changes everything.\\"<p>As someone who's only here because of the chances my education gave me, I couldn't agree more. Opportunity changes everything. America will only be as strong in this new century as the opportunities that we provide you, the opportunities that we provide all our young people--Latino, Black, White, Asian, Native American, everybody. America will only be as strong as our pursuit of scientific research and our leadership in technology and innovation. And I believe that community colleges like this one are critical pathways to the middle class that equip students with the skills and the education necessary to compete and win in this 21st-century economy. And that's why I've made community colleges a centerpiece of my education agenda, along with helping more students afford college. I couldn't be prouder of the work we've done in community colleges. And your accomplishment today is vital to America reclaiming the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020. So I am proud of you. I am proud of you.<p>I know that for many of you, reaching this day wasn't easy.<p><i>Audience members</i>. No.<p><i>The President</i>. See? I got some amens out there. <p>Perhaps you're the first in your family to go to college. Some of you have had to overcome big obstacles, defeat your own doubts, prove yourself to everyone who ever believed that you couldn't make it because of what you look like or where you came from. And of course, for so many of you, this day represents the fulfillment of your family's dreams when you were born. This is their achievement as well, so give it up for your parents and your grandparents, your cousins and your uncles and your aunties. This is their day too. This is their day too.<p>See, the diploma you're about to receive stands for something more than the investment you made in yourselves. It's the result of an investment made by generations before you, an investment in that radical yet simple idea that America is a place--the place--where you can make it if you try. That's the ideal that has made this country; that's the idea that's represented by that one flag that all of you cheered for. That's what has made us a shining light to the world.<p>And preserving this idea, keeping the American Dream alive from one generation to the next--that's never been an easy task. It's an even greater test in times of rapid change. And all of you are graduating at a moment when change is coming faster than ever before. We're emerging from an economic downturn like we haven't seen since the 1930s. Massive shifts in technology have shifted profoundly what our economy looks like. Massive shifts abroad geopolitically have swift and dramatic impacts not only overseas, but also here at home, from markets on Wall Street to wallets on Main Street. Just as advances in technology have the power to make our lives better, they also force us to compete with other nations like never before. Tackling big challenges like terrorism and climate change require sustained national effort, and yet too often, our politics seems as broken, as divided as ever.<p>So I know that for many of you, it's an intimidating time to be marching out into the world. Everything seems so unsettled. The future may seem unclear. But as you make your way in this ever-changing world, you should take comfort in knowing that as a country, we've navigated tougher times before. We've sailed stormier seas. You know, earlier today, I spent some time in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. And some of you have seen what happened there as a consequence of the tornadoes that struck. Now, the mayor and I visited a community where the devastation from this storm was simply heartbreaking--entire homes and blocks just gone, wiped away. Some families lost everything. Some families lost family. <p>But what was striking is the way that damaged community has come together, how they've rallied around one another. The mayor there, young man doing wonderful work, Mayor Maddox, he put it best. He told me that when disasters like this strike, all our grievances seem to go away. All our differences don't seem to matter. All our political disagreements seem so petty. We help each other, we support one another, as one country, as one people. <p>That's the American spirit. No matter how hard we are tested, we look to our faith and our faith in one another. No matter what the challenge, we've always carried the American Dream forward. That's been true throughout our history. <p>When bombs fell on Pearl Harbor, when an Iron Curtain fell over Europe, when the threat of nuclear war loomed just 90 miles from this city, when a brilliant September morning was darkened by terror, in none of those instances did we falter. We endured. We carried the dream forward.<p>We've gone through periods of great economic turmoil, from an economy where most people worked on farms to one where most people worked in factories, to now one fueled by information and technology. Through it all, we've persevered, we've adapted, we've prospered. Workers found their voice and the right to organize for fair wages and safe working conditions. We carried forward. <p>When waves of Irish and Italian immigrants were derided as criminals and outcasts, when Catholics were discriminated against or Jews had to succumb to quotas or Muslims were blamed for society's ills, when Blacks were treated as second-class citizens and marriages like my own parents' were illegal in much of the country, we didn't stop. We didn't accept inequality. We fought. We overcame. We carried the dream forward.<p>We have carried this dream forward through times when our politics seemed broken. This is not the first time where it looked like politicians were going crazy. [<i>Laughter</i>] In heated debates over our founding, some warned independence would doom America to \\"a scene of bloody discord and desolation for ages.\\" That was the warning about independence. One of our greatest Presidents, Thomas Jefferson, was labeled an \\"infidel\\" and a \\"howling atheist\\" with \\"fangs.\\" Think about that. Even I haven't gotten that one yet. [<i>Laughter</i>] Lincoln, FDR, they were both vilified in their own times as tyrants, power hungry, bent on destroying democracy. And of course, this State has seen its fair share of tightly contested elections. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And we've made it through those moments. None of it was easy. A lot of it was messy. Sometimes there was violence. Sometimes it took years, even decades, for us to find our way through. But here's the thing: We made it through. We made it through because in each of those moments, we made a choice. <p>Rather than turn inward and wall off America from the rest of the world, we've chosen to stand up forcefully for the ideals and the rights we believe are universal for all men and women. <p>Rather than settle for an America where everybody is left to fend for themselves, where we think only about our own short-term needs instead of the country that we're leaving to our children, we have chosen to build a nation where everybody has a shot at opportunity, where everyone can succeed. We've chosen to invest in our people and in their future, building public schools, sending a generation to college on the GI bill, laying highways and railroads, building ports all across the country. <p>Rather than turn on each other in times of cultural upheaval, we've chosen to march, to organize, to sit in, to turn out, to petition our Government for women's rights and voting rights and civil rights, even in the face of fierce resistance, because we are Americans, and no matter who we are or what we look like, we believe that in this country, all are equal, all are free. <p>Rather than give in to the voices suggesting we set our sights lower, downsize our dreams, or settle for something less, we've chosen again and again to make America bigger, bolder, more diverse, more generous, more hopeful.<p>Because throughout our history, what has distinguished us from all other nations is not just our wealth, it's not just our power. It's been our deep commitment to individual freedom and personal responsibility, but also our unshakeable commitment to one another, a recognition that we share a future, that we rise or fall together, that we are part of a common enterprise that is greater, somehow, than the sum of its parts.<p>So yes, class of 2011, change will be a constant in your lives. And that can be scary. That can be hard. And sometimes, you'll be tempted to turn inward, to say, \\"What's good enough for me is good enough.\\" Sometimes, you'll be tempted to turn on one another, to say, \\"My problems are the fault of those who don't look like me or sound like me.\\" Sometimes, you'll be tempted to give in to those voices that warn: \\"Too hard. Don't try. No, you can't.\\"<p>But I have faith you will reject those voices. I have faith you will reject those impulses. Your generation was born into a world with fewer walls, a world educated in an era of information, tempered by war and economic turmoil. And as our globe has grown smaller and more connected, you've shed the heavy weights of earlier generations. Your generation has grown up more accepting and tolerant of people for who they are, regardless of race or gender or religious belief, regardless of creed or sexual orientation. That's how you've grown up. You see our diversity as a strength, not a weakness. And I believe those life experiences have fortified you, as earlier generations were fortified, to meet the tests of our time. Everything I have seen of your generation has shown me that you believe as deeply as any previous generation that America can always change for the better.<p>Class of 2011, you and your generation are now responsible for our future. I'm only going to be President a little bit longer. You are going to be leaders for many years to come. You will have to make choices to keep our dream alive for the next generation, choices about whether we'll stack the deck against workers and the middle class or whether we make sure America remains a place where if you work hard, you can get ahead. You're going to have to make a choice about whether we'll say we can't afford to educate our young people and send them to college or whether we continue to be a country that makes investments that are necessary to keep those young people competitive in this new century. It will be up to you to choose whether we'll remain vulnerable to swings in oil prices or whether we invest in the clean energy that can break our dependence on oil and protect our planet. It will be your choice as to whether we break our promise to seniors and the poor and the disabled and tell them to fend for themselves or whether we keep strengthening our social safety net and our health care system.<p>And it will be up to you whether we'll turn on one another or whether we stay true to our values of fairness and opportunity, understanding that we are a nation of immigrants, immigrants that built this country into an economic powerhouse and a beacon of hope around the world.<p>I know this last issue generates some passion. I know that several young people here have recently identified themselves as undocumented. Some were brought here as young children and discovered the truth only as adults. And they've put their futures on the line in hopes it will spur the rest of us to live up to our most cherished values.<p>I strongly believe we should fix our broken immigration system, fix it so that it meets our 21st-century economic and security needs. And I want to work with Democrats and Republicans, yes, to protect our borders and enforce our laws and address the status of millions of undocumented workers. And I will keep fighting alongside many of you to make the \\"DREAM Act\\" the law of the land.<p>Like all of this country's movements towards justice, it will be difficult and it will take time. I know some here wish that I could just bypass Congress and change the law myself. But that's not how democracy works. See, democracy is hard. But it's right.<p>Changing our laws means doing the hard work of changing minds and changing votes, one by one. And I am convinced we can change the laws, because we should all be able to agree that it makes no sense to expel talented young people from our country. They grew up as Americans. They pledge allegiance to our flag. And if they are trying to serve in our military or earn a degree, they are contributing to our future, and we welcome those contributions.<p>We didn't raise the Statue of Liberty with its back to the world, we raised it with its light to the world. Whether your ancestors came here on the <i>Mayflower</i> or a slave ship, whether they signed in at Ellis Island or they crossed the Rio Grande, we are one people. We need one another. Our patriotism is not rooted in ethnicity, but in a shared belief of the enduring and permanent promise of this country.<p>That's the promise redeemed by your graduation today. That's the promise that drew so many of you to this college and your parents to this country. And that's the promise that drew my own father here.<p>I didn't know him well, my father, and he lived a troubled life. But I know that when he was around your age, he dreamed of something more than his lot in life. He dreamed of that magical place; he dreamed of coming to study in America.<p>And when I was around your age, I traveled back to his home country of Kenya for the first time to learn his story. And I went to a tiny village called Alego, where his stepmother still lives in the house where he grew up, and I visited his grave. And I asked her if there was anything left for me to know him by. And she opened a trunk, and she took out a stack of letters. This is a elderly woman who doesn't read or write, but she had saved these letters, more than 30 of them, written in his hand and addressed to colleges and universities all across America.<p>They weren't that different from the letters that I wrote when I was trying to get into college or the ones that you wrote when you were hoping to come here. They were written in the simple, sometimes awkward, sometimes grammatically incorrect, unmistakably hopeful voice of somebody who is just desperate for a chance, just desperate to live his unlikely dream.<p>And somebody at the University of Hawaii, halfway around the world, chose to gave him that chance. And because that person gave a young man a chance, he met a young woman from Kansas; they had a son in the land where all things are possible. <p>And one of my earliest memories from growing up in Hawaii is of sitting on my grandfather's shoulders to see the astronauts from one of the Apollo space missions come ashore after a successful splashdown. You remember that no matter how young you are as a child. It's one of those unforgettable moments when you first realize the miracle that is what this country is capable of. And I remember waving a little American flag on top of my grandfather's shoulders, thinking about those astronauts and thinking about space. <p>And today, on this day, more than 40 years later, I took my daughters to the Kennedy Space Center. And even though we didn't get to see the Space Shuttle <i>Endeavour</i> launch, we met some of the astronauts, and we toured the Space Shuttle <i>Atlantis</i>. And looking at my daughters, I thought of how things come full circle. I thought of all that we've achieved as a nation since I was their age, a little Brown boy sitting on my grandfather's shoulders, and I thought about all I want us to achieve by the time they have children of their own.<p>That's my proof that the idea of America endures. That's my evidence that our brave endeavor on this Earth continues. And every single day I walk into the Oval Office, and for all the days of my life, I will always remember that in no other nation on Earth could my story be possible, could your stories be possible. That is something I celebrate. That is something that drives every decision I make. <p>So what I ask of you, graduates, as you walk out of here today is this: Pursue success. Do not falter. When you make it, pull somebody else up. Preserve our dream. Remember your life is richer when people around you have a shot at opportunity as well. Strive to widen that circle of possibility. Strive to forge that big, generous, optimistic vision of America that we inherited. Strive to carry that dream forward to future generations.<p>Thank you. Congratulations. May God bless you. May God bless the United States of America.\" "
"94" "\"After the worst recession since the Great Depression, our economy is growing again, and we've gained almost 2 million private sector jobs over the last 13 months. But I also know that a lot of folks aren't feeling as positive as some of those statistics might suggest. It's still too hard to find a job. And even if you have a job, chances are, you're having a tougher time paying the rising costs of everything from groceries to gas. In some places, gas is now more than four bucks a gallon, meaning that you could be paying upwards of 50 or 60 dollars to fill up your tank.<p>Of course, while rising gas prices mean real pain for our families at the pump, they also mean bigger profits for oil companies. This week, the largest oil companies announced that they'd made more than $25 billion in the first few months of 2011, up about 30 percent from last year.<p>Now, I don't have any problem with any company or industry being rewarded for their success. The incentive of healthy profits is what fuels entrepreneurialism and helps drive our economy forward. But I do have a problem with unwarranted taxpayer subsidies that we've been handing out to oil and gas companies to the tune of $4 billion a year. When oil companies are making huge profits already and you're struggling at the pump and we're scouring the Federal budget for spending we can afford to do without, these tax giveaways aren't right, they aren't smart, and we need to end them.<p>That's why earlier this week, I renewed my call to Congress to stop subsidizing the oil and gas industries. Understand, I'm not opposed to producing oil. I believe that if we're serious about meeting our energy challenge, we need to operate on all cylinders, and that means pursuing a broad range of energy policies, including safe and responsible oil production here at home. In fact, last year, America's oil production reached its highest level since 2003.<p>But I also believe that instead of subsidizing yesterday's energy, we should invest in tomorrow's. And that's what we've been doing. Already, we've seen how the investments we're making in clean energy can lead to new jobs and new businesses. I've seen some of them myself: small businesses that are making the most of solar and wind power and energy-efficient technologies, big companies that are making fuel-efficient cars and trucks part of their vehicle fleets. And to promote these kinds of vehicles, we implemented historic new fuel economy standards, which could save you as much as $3,000 at the pump.<p>Now, I know that in this tough fiscal environment, it's tempting for some in Washington to want to cut our investments in clean energy. And I absolutely agree that the only way we'll be able to afford the things we need is if we cut the things we don't and live within our means. But I refuse to cut things like clean energy that will help America win the future by growing our economy and creating good-paying jobs, that will help make America more secure, and that will help clean up our planet in the process. An investment in clean energy today is an investment in a better tomorrow, and I think that's an investment worth making.<p>Thanks for listening, and have a great weekend.\" "
"95" "\"All right, everybody, please have a seat.<p>My fellow Americans--[<i>laughter</i>]--mahalo! [<i>Laughter</i>] It is wonderful to be here at the White House Correspondents' dinner. What a week. As some of you heard, the State of Hawaii released my official, long-form birth certificate. <p>Hopefully, this puts all doubts to rest. But just in case there are any lingering questions, tonight I'm prepared to go a step further. Tonight, for the first time, I am releasing my official birth video. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now, I warn you. [<i>Laughter</i>] No one has seen this footage in 50 years, not even me. But let's take a look.<p><i>[At this point, a video featuring clips of Disney's \\"The Lion King\\" was shown.] </i><p>Oh, well. Back to square one. I want to make clear to the FOX News table: That was a joke. [<i>Laughter</i>] That was not my real birth video. That was a children's cartoon. Call Disney if you don't believe me. [<i>Laughter</i>] They have the original long-form version. <p>Anyway, it's good to be back with so many esteemed guests: celebrities, Senators, journalists, essential Government employees--[<i>laughter</i>]--nonessential Government employees. You know who you are. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I am very much looking forward to hearing Seth Meyers tonight. He's a young, fresh face who can do no wrong in the eyes of his fans. Seth, enjoy it while it lasts. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Yes, I think it is fair to say that when it comes to my Presidency, the honeymoon is over. [<i>Laughter</i>] For example, some people now suggest that I'm too professorial. And I'd like to address that head on, by assigning all of you some reading that will help you draw your own conclusions. [<i>Laughter</i>] Others say that I'm arrogant. But I've found a really great self-help tool for this: my poll numbers. <p>I've even let down my key core constituency: movie stars. Just the other day, Matt Damon--I love Matt Damon, love the guy--Matt Damon said he was disappointed in my performance. Well, Matt, I just saw \\"The Adjustment Bureau,\\" so--[<i>Laughter</i>]--right back at you, buddy. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Of course, there's someone who I can always count on for support, my wonderful wife Michelle. We made a terrific team at the Easter egg roll this week. I'd give out bags of candy to the kids, and she'd snatch them right back out of their little hands--[<i>Laughter</i>]--snatched them. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And where is the National Public Radio table? [<i>Applause</i>] You guys are still here? [<i>Laughter</i>] That's good. I couldn't remember where we landed on that. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, I know you were a little tense when the GOP tried to cut your funding, but personally, I was looking forward to new programming like \\"No Things Considered\\"--[<i>Laughter</i>]--or \\"Wait, Wait . . . Don't Fund Me!\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Of course, the deficit is a serious issue. That's why Paul Ryan couldn't be here tonight. His budget has no room for laughter. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Michele Bachmann is here, though, I understand, and she is thinking about running for President, which is weird because I hear she was born in Canada. [<i>Laughter</i>] Yes, Michele, this is how it starts. [<i>Laughter</i>] Just letting you know. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Tim Pawlenty--he seems all-American, but have you heard his real middle name, Tim \\"Hosni\\" Pawlenty? [<i>Laughter</i>] What a shame. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>My buddy, our outstanding Ambassador, Jon Huntsman, is with us. Now, there's something you might not know about Jon. He didn't learn to speak Chinese to go there. Oh, no. He learned English to come here. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And then there's a vicious rumor floating around that I think could really hurt Mitt Romney. I heard he passed universal health care when he was Governor of Massachusetts. [<i>Laughter</i>] Someone should get to the bottom of that. <p>And I know just the guy to do it; Donald Trump is here tonight! [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, I know that he's taken some flak lately, but no one is happier, no one is prouder to put this birth certificate matter to rest than the Donald. [<i>Laughter</i>] And that's because he can finally get back to focusing on the issues that matter, like, did we fake the Moon landing? What really happened in Roswell? [<i>Laughter</i>] And where are Biggie and Tupac? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But all kidding aside, obviously, we all know about your credentials and breadth of experience. [<i>Laughter</i>] For example--no, seriously, just recently, in an episode of \\"Celebrity Apprentice\\"--[<i>Laughter</i>]--at the steakhouse, the men's cooking team did not impress the judges from Omaha Steaks. And there was a lot of blame to go around. But you, Mr. Trump, recognized that the real problem was a lack of leadership. And so ultimately, you didn't blame Lil Jon or Meat Loaf--[<i>Laughter</i>]--you fired Gary Busey. [<i>Laughter</i>] And these are the kind of decisions that would keep me up at night. Well handled, sir. [<i>Laughter</i>] Well handled. <p>Say what you will about Mr. Trump, he certainly would bring some change to the White House. Let's see what we've got up there. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>[An image of the White House with a sign reading \\"Trump White House Resort and Casino\\" was shown.]</i><p>So yes, this has been quite a year in politics, but also in the movies. Many people, for instance, were inspired by \\"The King's Speech.\\" It's a wonderful film. Well, some of you may not know this, but there's now a sequel in the works that touches close to home. And because this is a Hollywood crowd, tonight I can offer a sneak peek. So can we show the trailer, please?<p><i>[A parody video was shown.]</i><p>Coming to a theater near you.<p>Let me close on a serious note. We are having a good time, but as has been true for the last several years, we have incredible young men and women who are serving in uniform overseas in the most extraordinary of circumstances. And we are reminded of their courage and their valor. <p>We also need to remember our neighbors in Alabama and across the South that have been devastated by terrible storms from last week. Michelle and I were down there yesterday, and we've spent a lot of time with some of the folks who have been affected. The devastation is unimaginable and is heartbreaking, and it's going to be a long road back. And so we need to keep those Americans in our thoughts and in our prayers. But we also need to stand with them in the hard months and perhaps years to come. <p>I intend to make sure that the Federal Government does that. And I've got faith that the journalists in this room will do their part for the people who have been affected by this disaster, by reporting on their progress and letting the rest of America know when they will need more help. Those are stories that need telling. And that's what all of you do best, whether it's rushing to the site of a devastating storm in Alabama or braving danger to cover a revolution in the Middle East.<p>You know, in the last months, we've seen journalists threatened, arrested, beaten, attacked, and in some cases even killed simply for doing their best to bring us the story, to give people a voice, and to hold leaders accountable. And through it all, we've seen daring men and women risk their lives for the simple idea that no one should be silenced and everyone deserves to know the truth.<p>That's what you do. At your best, that's what journalism is. That's the principle that you uphold. It is always important, but it's especially important in times of challenge, like the moment that America and the world is facing now.<p>So I thank you for your service and the contributions that you make. And I want to close by recognizing not only your service, but also to remember those that have been lost as a consequence of the extraordinary reporting that they've done over recent weeks. They help, too, to defend our freedoms and allow democracy to flourish. <p>God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"96" "\"Good evening. Tonight I can report to the American people and to the world that the United States has conducted an operation that killed Usama bin Laden, the leader of Al Qaida and a terrorist who's responsible for the murder of thousands of innocent men, women, and children.<p>It was nearly 10 years ago that a bright September day was darkened by the worst attack on the American people in our history. The images of 9/11 are seared into our national memory: hijacked planes cutting through a cloudless September sky; the Twin Towers collapsing to the ground; black smoke billowing up from the Pentagon; the wreckage of Flight 93 in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where the actions of heroic citizens saved even more heartbreak and destruction. <p>And yet we know that the worst images are those that were unseen to the world: the empty seat at the dinner table; children who were forced to grow up without their mother or their father; parents who would never know the feeling of their child's embrace; nearly 3,000 citizens taken from us, leaving a gaping hole in our hearts. <p>On September 11, 2001, in our time of grief, the American people came together. We offered our neighbors a hand, and we offered the wounded our blood. We reaffirmed our ties to each other and our love of community and country. On that day, no matter where we came from, what God we prayed to, or what race or ethnicity we were, we were united as one American family. <p>We were also united in our resolve to protect our Nation and to bring those who committed this vicious attack to justice. We quickly learned that the 9/11 attacks were carried out by Al Qaida, an organization headed by Usama bin Laden, which had openly declared war on the United States and was committed to killing innocents in our country and around the globe. And so we went to war against Al Qaida to protect our citizens, our friends, and our allies. <p>Over the last 10 years, thanks to the tireless and heroic work of our military and our counterterrorism professionals, we've made great strides in that effort. We've disrupted terrorist attacks and strengthened our homeland defense. In Afghanistan, we removed the Taliban Government, which had given bin Laden and Al Qaida safe haven and support. And around the globe, we worked with our friends and allies to capture or kill scores of Al Qaida terrorists, including several who were a part of the 9/11 plot.<p>Yet Usama bin Laden avoided capture and escaped across the Afghan border into Pakistan. Meanwhile, Al Qaida continued to operate from along that border and operate through its affiliates across the world.<p>And so shortly after taking office, I directed Leon Panetta, the Director of the CIA, to make the killing or capture of bin Laden the top priority of our war against Al Qaida, even as we continued our broader efforts to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat his network. <p>Then, last August, after years of painstaking work by our intelligence community, I was briefed on a possible lead to bin Laden. It was far from certain, and it took many months to run this thread to ground. I met repeatedly with my national security team as we developed more information about the possibility that we had located bin Laden hiding within a compound deep inside Pakistan. And finally, last week, I determined that we had enough intelligence to take action and authorized an operation to get Usama bin Laden and bring him to justice.<p>Today, at my direction, the United States launched a targeted operation against that compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan. A small team of Americans carried out the operation with extraordinary courage and capability. No Americans were harmed. They took care to avoid civilian casualties. After a firefight, they killed Usama bin Laden and took custody of his body.<p>For over two decades, bin Laden has been Al Qaida's leader and symbol and has continued to plot attacks against our country and our friends and allies. The death of bin Laden marks the most significant achievement to date in our Nation's effort to defeat Al Qaida. <p>Yet his death does not mark the end of our effort. There's no doubt that Al Qaida will continue to pursue attacks against us. We must--and we will--remain vigilant at home and abroad. <p>As we do, we must also reaffirm that the United States is not and never will be at war with Islam. I've made clear, just as President Bush did shortly after 9/11, that our war is not against Islam. Bin Laden was not a Muslim leader, he was a mass murderer of Muslims. Indeed, Al Qaida has slaughtered scores of Muslims in many countries, including our own. So his demise should be welcomed by all who believe in peace and human dignity. <p>Over the years, I've repeatedly made clear that we would take action within Pakistan if we knew where bin Laden was. That is what we've done. But it's important to note that our counterterrorism cooperation with Pakistan helped lead us to bin Laden and the compound where he was hiding. Indeed, bin Laden had declared war against Pakistan as well and ordered attacks against the Pakistani people.<p>Tonight I called President Zardari, and my team has also spoken with their Pakistani counterparts. They agree that this is a good and historic day for both of our nations. And going forward, it is essential that Pakistan continue to join us in the fight against Al Qaida and its affiliates.<p>The American people did not choose this fight. It came to our shores and started with the senseless slaughter of our citizens. After nearly 10 years of service, struggle, and sacrifice, we know well the costs of war. These efforts weigh on me every time I, as Commander in Chief, have to sign a letter to a family that has lost a loved one or look into the eyes of a servicemember who's been gravely wounded. <p>So Americans understand the costs of war. Yet as a country, we will never tolerate our security being threatened nor stand idly by when our people have been killed. We will be relentless in defense of our citizens and our friends and allies. We will be true to the values that make us who we are. And on nights like this one, we can say to those families who have lost loved ones to Al Qaida's terror: Justice has been done. <p>Tonight we give thanks to the countless intelligence and counterterrorism professionals who've worked tirelessly to achieve this outcome. The American people do not see their work nor know their names, but tonight they feel the satisfaction of their work and the result of their pursuit of justice. <p>We give thanks for the men who carried out this operation, for they exemplify the professionalism, patriotism, and unparalleled courage of those who serve our country. And they are part of a generation that has borne the heaviest share of the burden since that September day. <p>Finally, let me say to the families who lost loved ones on 9/11 that we have never forgotten your loss nor wavered in our commitment to see that we do whatever it takes to prevent another attack on our shores. <p>And tonight let us think back to the sense of unity that prevailed on 9/11. I know that it has, at times, frayed. Yet today's achievement is a testament to the greatness of our country and the determination of the American people. <p>The cause of securing our country is not complete. But tonight we are once again reminded that America can do whatever we set our mind to. That is the story of our history, whether it's the pursuit of prosperity for our people or the struggle for equality for all our citizens, our commitment to stand up for our values abroad, and our sacrifices to make the world a safer place. <p>Let us remember that we can do these things not just because of wealth or power, but because of who we are: one Nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. <p>Thank you. May God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"97" "\"The President. Good morning, everybody. Please be seated. On behalf of Michelle and myself, welcome to the White House. To our many guests from Hawaii, aloha. And thank you, Chaplain Carver, for that wonderful invocation.<p>I think we can all agree, this is a good day for America. Our country has kept its commitment to see that justice is done. The world is safer; it is a better place because of the death of Usama bin Laden.<p>Today we are reminded that, as a nation, there's nothing we can't do when we put our shoulders to the wheel, when we work together, when we remember the sense of unity that defines us as Americans. And we've seen that spirit, that patriotism, in the crowds that have gathered here outside the White House, at Ground Zero in New York, and across the country: people holding candles, waving the flag, singing the national anthem. People proud to live in the United States of America.<p>And we're reminded that we are fortunate to have Americans who dedicate their lives to protecting ours. They volunteer, they train, they endure separation from their families. They take extraordinary risks so that we can be safe. They get the job done. We may not always know their names. We may not always know their stories. But they are there, every day, on the frontlines of freedom. And we are truly blessed.<p>I do want to acknowledge before we begin the ceremony two individuals who have been critical as part of my team who are here today. First of all, I think somebody who will go down as one of the finest Secretaries of Defense in our history, Secretary Bob Gates, who is here. And sitting beside him, someone who served with incredible valor on behalf of this country and is now somebody who I think will go down as one of the greatest Secretaries of Veterans Affairs in our history, Eric Shinseki.<p>Now, I have to say that, as Commander in Chief, I could not be prouder of our men and women in uniform. That is true now, in today's wars. It has been true in all of our wars. And it is why we are here today.<p>Long ago, a poet of the First World War wrote of the sacrifice of young soldiers in war:<blockquote>They shall not grow old, as we that are left grow old:<br>Age shall not weary them, nor the years condemn.<br>At the going down of the sun and in the morning,<br>We will remember them.</blockquote><p>Today we are joined by two American families who, six decades ago, gave our Nation one of their own: Private First Class Henry Svehla and Private First Class Anthony Kaho'ohanohano.<p>They did not grow old. These two soldiers made the ultimate sacrifice when they were just 19 and 21 years old. Age did not weary them. In the hearts of their families, they remain forever young, loving sons, protective brothers, hometown kids who stood tall in America's hometown--in America's uniform.<p>Today we remember them. And we honor them with the highest military decoration that our Nation can bestow, the Medal of Honor. In so doing, we also honor their families, who remind us that it is our extraordinary military families who also bear the heavy burden of war.<p>We are joined by Members of Congress who are here. We are very grateful for you. We are also joined by leaders from the Army and our Armed Forces, including Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mike Mullen and the Vice Chairman, General Jim \\"Hoss\\" Cartwright. Where--where--there they are, right there.<p>And this is not in the script, but let me just acknowledge that without the leadership of Bob Gates, Mike Mullen, Hoss Cartwright, today and yesterday would not have happened. And their steadiness and leadership has been extraordinary. I could not be prouder of them, and I am so grateful that they've been part of our team, so--[<i>Applause</i>].<p>I especially want to welcome some of those who fought so bravely 60 years ago, our inspiring Korean veterans--Korean war veterans who have made the trip here. And I also want to acknowledge those who are welcoming two more American heroes into the ranks, members of the Medal of Honor Society. Thank you so much for your presence.<p>This past November, I paid a visit to South Korea, a visit that coincided with the 60th anniversary of the start of the Korean war, as well as November 11, Veterans Day. And I was privileged to spend part of the day with our troops and with dozens of veterans of the Korean war, members of a generation who, in the words of their memorial here in Washington, fought for \\"a country they never knew and a people they never met.\\"<p>It was a generation that included Private First Class Anthony Kaho'ohanohano. Tony grew up in Hawaii, in Maui. He learned early that we have a duty to others from his father, a dedicated police officer, and his mother, who devoted herself to their nine children. Tony was a tall guy. He loved Hawaii, swimming in the ocean, playing basketball--sounds like my kind of guy. [<i>Laughter</i>] His siblings remember him as the big brother, quiet but strong, who took care of them, stood up for them in the neighborhood, and who would treat them to ice cream.<p>Tony's loyalty to family was matched by his love of country, even though Hawaii wasn't even a State yet. By September 1951, the Korean war had been raging for more than a year, and Tony was part of the 17th Infantry Regiment, 7th Infantry Division, which had been fighting for strategic hills that could shape the course of the war.<p>His squad was near a village called Chupa-ri when they came under ferocious attack. With the enemy advancing, with his men outnumbered, Tony made a decision. He ordered his squad to fall back and seek cover. And then Tony did something else. He stayed behind. Machine gun in hand, he laid down fire so his men could get to safety. He was one American soldier, alone, against an approaching army.<p>When Tony was wounded in the shoulder, he fought on. He threw grenade after grenade. When his weapon ran out of ammunition, he grabbed another. And when he ran out of ammo, he reached for the only thing left, a shovel. That's when the enemy overran his position. And in those final moments, the combat was hand to hand.<p>It was that bravery, that courage, of a single soldier that inspired his men to regroup, to rally, and to drive the enemy back. And when they finally reached Tony's position, the measure of his valor became clear. After firing so many bullets, the barrel of his machine gun was literally bent. But Tony had stood his ground. He had saved the lives of his men.<p>After his death, Tony was awarded the Army's second highest award for valor, the Distinguished Service Cross. But his family felt he deserved more. And so did Senator and World War II vet Danny Akaka. We're honored that Senator Akaka has joined us, as well as Mazie Hirono. And obviously, we are extraordinarily grateful that we're joined by another Senator and a Medal of Honor recipient, Dan Inouye. Thank you so much for your presence.<p>Now, Hawaii is a small State, but the Kaho'ohanohanos are a very big family. In fact, I went to high school with one of their cousins, Whitey. Tell Whitey I said, \\"How's it?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>This is a remarkable family. Service defines them. Tony's father and all six sons served in the military. Another member of the family has served in Afghanistan. Nearly 30 members of the family have traveled from Hawaii to be here, including Tony's sister Elaine and brother Eugene.<p>For the sacrifice that your family endured, for the service that your family has rendered, thank you so much. <i>Mahalo nui loa</i>.<p>I would ask that you all join me in welcoming Tony's nephew George, who worked for so many years to get his uncle the honor that he deserved. George.<p><i>[At this point, Maj. Reginald McClam, USMC, Marine Corps Aide to the President, read the citation, and the President presented the medal.]</i><p><i>The President</i>. About the time that Tony was inspiring his men, another young soldier was joining up with the 7th Infantry Division in Korea: Private First Class Henry Svehla. He grew up in New Jersey. He loved fishing on the Jersey shore. He was one of six kids and the youngest son, but the one who seemed to take care of everybody else.<p>His sister Dorothy remembers how their mom would be in the kitchen, at the end of a long day, trying to cook dinner for six kids. Henry, a teenager, would walk in, grab his mother's hand, and dance her around the kitchen. \\"If anybody needed him,\\" said Dorothy, \\"Henry was there.\\"<p>And he was there for America, in Korea, as the war neared its third and final year. Henry knew the dangers. And in one of his last letters home, he wrote, \\"I may not return.\\"<p>That June of 1952, the heat was unbearable. The monsoon rains and mosquitoes were relentless. But the 7th Infantry Division pushed on, probing enemy lines, fighting bunker by bunker, hill by hill. And as Henry and his company neared the top of one hill, the rocky slopes seemed to explode with enemy fire. His unit started to falter, and that's when Henry made his move.<p>He stood up, he looked ahead, and he charged forward into a hail of bullets. Those who were there describe how he kept firing his weapon, kept hurling grenades, and how--even after being wounded in the face--he refused medical attention and kept leading the charge.<p>That's when an enemy grenade landed among his men. Every human instinct, every impulse, would tell a person to turn away. But at that critical moment, Henry Svehla did the opposite. He threw himself on that grenade. And with his sacrifice, he saved the lives of his fellow soldiers.<p>Henry Svehla's body has never been recovered. That's a wound in the heart of his family that has never been fully healed. It's also a reminder that, as a nation, we must never forget those who didn't come home, are missing in action, who were taken prisoner of war. And we must never stop trying to bring them back to their families.<p>Henry was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross, but his family believed that he had earned this Nation's highest military honor. They contacted their Congressman and his staff, who made it their mission. And we thank Representative Bill Pascrell for making this day possible.<p>Henry's parents and brother did not live to see this day, but two of his sisters, Dorothy and Sylvia, are with us. Dorothy, Sylvia, you remind us that behind every American who wears our Nation's uniform stands a family who serves with them. And behind every American who lays down their life for our country is a family who mourns them and honors them for the rest of their lives. Every day, for nearly 60 years, you have lived the poet's words:<para-indent>At the going down of the sun and in the morning,<para-indent>We will remember them.<p>And so I want to conclude today by inviting everyone to join me in welcoming Henry's sister Dorothy to the stage for the presentation of the medal.<p><i>[Maj. Reginald McClam, USMC, Marine Corps Aide to the President, read the citation, and the President presented the medal.]</i><p><i>The President</i>. Let's give both families a big round of applause for Anthony and for Henry.<p><i>[Maj. Gen. Douglas L. Carver, USA, Army Chief of Chaplains, then read a prayer.]</i><p><i>Audience members</i>. Amen.<p><i>The President</i>. Thank you so much, everyone. Please enjoy the reception.<p>And again, to the families, we could not be prouder of Anthony and Henry. We are grateful for their sacrifice. We are grateful for your sacrifice. You have made this country safer. Tony and Henry stand as a model of courage and patriotism.<p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you, everyone.\" "
"98" "\"Thank you, everyone. Please--thank you. Everybody, please have a seat. Good evening, all of you. On behalf of Michelle and myself, I just want to welcome everybody to the White House. We scheduled this dinner a few weeks ago because I thought it would be a good opportunity for leaders of both parties and their spouses to spend some time together outside of politics. And tonight seems like an especially fitting occasion to do this.<p>Obviously, we've all had disagreements and differences in the past. I suspect we'll have them again in the future. But last night, as Americans learned that the United States had carried out an operation that resulted in the capture and death of Usama bin Laden, we--[<i>Applause</i>]--goodness, thank you. You know, I think we experienced the same sense of unity that prevailed on 9/11. We were reminded again that there is a pride in what this Nation stands for and what we can achieve, that runs far deeper than party, far deeper than politics. <p>I want to again recognize the heroes who carried out this incredibly dangerous mission, as well as all the military and counterterrorism professionals who made the mission possible. I also want to thank the Members of Congress from both parties who have given extraordinary support to our military and our intelligence officials. Without your support, they could not do what they do. <p>I know that that unity that we felt on 9/11 has frayed a little bit over the years, and I have no illusions about the difficulties of the debates that we'll have to be engaged in, in the weeks and months to come. But I also know there have been several moments like this during the course of this year that have brought us together as an American family, whether it was the tragedy in Tucson, or most recently, our unified response to the terrible storms that have taken place in the South. <p>Last night was one of those moments. And so tonight it is my fervent hope that we can harness some of that unity and some of that pride to confront the many challenges that we still face. But to all of you here tonight, we are joyful that you could join us. And please have a little bit of fun. All right?<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"99" "\"The President. Thank you, everybody. Please, have a seat. Please, have a seat.<p>What a beautiful day, a wonderful day to celebrate teachers and teaching. I am honored to welcome this group of outstanding teachers behind me to the White House. They are the best of the best. And even though we can never really thank teachers enough, today is a chance to offer them a small token of our appreciation for the difference they make in the lives of our children and the future of our country.<p>I want to start by acknowledging somebody who I think will end up being one of the greatest Secretaries of Education we've ever had, who could not be more passionate about making sure that our young people get a great start in life, and that's Arne Duncan. Give him a big round of applause. <p>I am very proud that we've got some wonderful Members of Congress who are here from the great State of Maryland, who I think are pretty proud of you. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>As I've said before, it's not just the winners of the Super Bowl who deserve to be celebrated. And that's why I also want to welcome the teams from the National Science Bowl who are here with us today. Where are they? There you are, right back there. Good to see you. Secretary Chu told me that you all did a great job this year. So congratulations.<p>And finally, I want to congratulate our State and national Teachers of the Year.<p>Now, I'm not sure if you can tell, but it's been a while since I was in school. [<i>Laughter</i>] I haven't had to ask for a hall pass in a few years. I think it is important to note--this is off script, but the Teacher of the Year from Hawaii--where is she?--wave--teaches at the first school I ever went to, Noelani School up in Manoa in Hawaii. So I thought that was pretty cool. [<i>Laughter</i>] I went there in first grade. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's a wonderful school. <p>But even after all this time, I still remember the special teachers that touched my life. And we all do. We remember the way they challenged us, the way they made us feel, how they pushed us, the encouragement that they gave us, the values that they taught us, the way they helped us to understand the world and analyze it and ask questions. They helped us become the people that we are today.<p>For me, one of those people was my fifth grade teacher, Ms. Mabel Hefty. When I walked into Ms. Hefty's classroom for the first time, I was a new kid who had been living overseas for a few years, had a funny name nobody could pronounce. But she didn't let me withdraw into myself. She helped me believe that I had something special to say. She made me feel special. She reinforced the sense of empathy and thoughtfulness that my mother and my grandparents had tried hard to instill in me, and that's a lesson that I still carry with me as President.<p>Ms. Hefty is no longer with us, but I often think about her and how much of a difference she made in my life. And everybody's got a story like that, about that teacher who made the extra effort to shape our lives in important ways.<p>What people, I think, don't realize is just how much work and how much sacrifice it takes to make that connection. My sister is a teacher, and so I've had the occasion of just watching her preparing lesson plans and then going out of their--her way to call that student who she thinks has potential but is slipping away, and working with parents who maybe don't know how to support their kids. And it's tiring work, but how incredibly gratifying it must be.<p>Because in the end, the most effective teachers are the ones who are constantly striving to get better and help their students get better: those teachers who stay up late grading papers; the teachers who give up their afternoons and free periods to give that student a little bit of extra one-on-one help and spend evenings and weekends developing lesson plans and activities that don't just teach the material, but make it come alive; and the teachers who see the potential in students even when the students themselves don't see that potential.<p>And the teacher standing next to me, Michelle Shearer, I think, is an example of that kind of teacher. Michelle teaches AP chemistry at Urbana High School in Maryland. Before that, she taught chemistry and math at the Maryland School for the Deaf. That's, in fact, how I just learned she got into teaching, was initially volunteering, working with deaf students. <p>Michelle's specialty is taking students who are normally underrepresented in science--minorities, women, students with disabilities, even students who say equations and formulas are just not their thing--and helping them discover the scientist within.<p>At the Maryland School for the Deaf, AP--Michelle taught AP chemistry for the first time in the school's 135-year history, explaining concepts like kinetics and electrochemistry using only her hands. When she suggested her students also sign up for AP calculus, she was met with some questioning looks. \\"Why?\\" one student asked. And she said, \\"Because you can,\\" she signed back. And for the next 2 years, she spent her planning period teaching calculus, probability, and statistics to students who never would have had the opportunity to take those classes otherwise.<p>When Michelle moved to Urbana in 2006, 11 students were enrolled in AP chemistry. This year, there are 92. Some of her former students have gone on to become science and math teachers themselves, applying the techniques they learned in the classroom to make a tough subject manageable and fun. One student wrote, \\"You have not only shown me how to be the best chemistry student I can be, but also the best person I can be.\\"<p>I should also mention, by the way, that Michelle's husband is an AP physics teacher and her dad and mom, who are here, your dad taught----<p><i>Michelle M. Shearer</i>. Chemistry. He was a chemist.<p><i>The President</i>. ----chemistry. He was a chemist. So--and her mom was a music teacher. So she had a little bit of a jump on this whole teaching thing--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and this whole science thing. But what an incredible testament when a student tells you not only you made chemistry interesting, but you made them a better person. <p>America will only be as strong in this century as the education that we provide our students. And at a time when our success as a nation depends on our ability to outeducate other countries, we desperately need more Michelles out there. <p>And that's why we've set a goal of preparing 100,000 new teachers in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math over the next decade, fields that will give students the skills they need to compete with their peers anywhere in the world. And to help those teachers succeed, I've called on Congress to move quickly to fix No Child Left Behind in a way that makes it less punitive, more focused, more flexible. That means doing a better job of preparing teachers, doing a better job of measuring their success in the classroom, helping them improve in providing professional development, and then holding them accountable. Because if we truly believe in the importance of teachers, then we've got to help teachers become more effective.<p>In the words of one of my favorite poets, William Butler Yeats, \\"Education is not the filling of a pail, but the lighting of a fire.\\" The teachers here today and thousands like them are surrounded every day by young people who will shape our future. But it takes a special person to recognize that. It takes a special person to light that fire, to raise our children's expectations for themselves, and never give up on them no matter how challenging it might be. <p>All of us are here because at some point, somebody did that for us. And so today we are honored to recognize these outstanding men and women and all the teachers like them who have always had--and will continue to have--such an important impact on our lives. <p>So with that, I would like to present Michelle with her apple.<p><i>[At this point, the President presented the Teacher of the Year award to Ms. Shearer, who then made brief remarks.]</i><p><i>The President</i>. The--[<i>Applause</i>]--I think you can see why Michelle is Teacher of the Year. I think I'm going to send her up to Congress to give them a pep talk. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Thank you, everybody. This ends the ceremony, but again, we are so grateful to Michelle, but we are also grateful to all the Teachers of the Year. Give them one more big round of applause. <p>Thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"100" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. Good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to the White House. Thank you, Tammy, for the kind introduction, but more importantly, for your extraordinary service to our country in Iraq, in Illinois, and now as Assistant Secretary of the VA, where you're a champion for your fellow wounded warriors. God bless you. We are so thankful for Tammy Duckworth. Give her a big round of applause.<p>I was proud to kick off this Soldier Ride 2 years ago. I'm just as thrilled to be kicking it off today. I'm pleased that we're joined by a number of Members of Congress here. The Sun is coming out just as we start. We're also joined by the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and one of my top advisers over the last several years--I couldn't be more grateful to him--General Jim \\"Hoss\\" Cartwright. Please give him a big round of applause.<p>Now, this is one of the most inspiring events that we do at the White House. We're joined by folks from every service. We've got Army. We've got some Navy folks. We've got Air Force. You know we've got some Marines. And we've got some Coast Guard. And just as importantly, we are joined by those who serve and sacrifice alongside you, and that is all our outstanding military families.<p>Now, you've all got your gear on. You're on your bikes. You all look pretty sharp.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Thank you, sir.<p>The President. Thank you. [<i>Laughter</i>] You're ready to go. So I'm not going to hold you back too long here with a long speech. But it is important to remember what this day is about.<p>Today is a reminder, as Michelle and Jill Biden have already said, that every American, every single person in this country, can do something to support our remarkable troops and their families. Everybody can do something.<p>So 7 years ago, a bartender from Long Island had the same idea. He wasn't from a military family. He had never served in the military. But he knew that he owed our military something. He was just an ordinary American who was grateful for the service of all those who wear the uniform. And he said, \\"I just wanted to give something back.\\"<p>So he jumped on his bike and rode across the country, over 5,000 miles, to raise funds and awareness for our wounded warriors. Today there are Soldier Rides all across America giving our wounded warriors the confidence and support they need to recover. That's the difference a single person can make. Today we want to thank Chris Carney and everyone from the Wounded Warrior Project for reminding us of our obligations to each other as Americans. Give them a big round of applause.<p>And today is also a tribute to all of you, a generation that has written your own extraordinary chapter in the American story. Our Nation has been at war now for nearly 10 years. Tour after tour, year after year, you've done your duty. You've met every challenge, from the deserts of Iraq to the mountains of Afghanistan. You've risked everything. And you've carried in your hearts the memory of fallen heroes who gave everything.<p>You've earned your place among the greatest of generation of Americans. And we saw that again this past weekend when, thanks to the courage and precision of our forces, the terrorists who started this war and who took so many innocent lives learned that America does not forget; America will ensure that justice is done.<p>Of course, for our riders here today, coming home from war marked the beginning of another battle: the battle to recover, to stand again, to walk again, to relearn, in some cases, the simple things that are the true pleasures of life--dancing with your spouse or holding your children. In many ways, this might have been the toughest battle they've ever fought.<p>But I want all of you to know something. You inspire me. You inspire everybody here. Michelle and I treasure the moments that we've had with some of you and your families.<p>Corporal Nickolas Edinger is here. Where's Nickolas? Right there, right in the middle. He was one of our special guests when Michelle and I hosted a recent dinner for military leaders at the White House. He was serving in Afghanistan when an IED blast cost him one of his legs. But he's here today as part of his journey to recovery. And I want to just welcome Nickolas back.<p>Private First Class Corey Kent, where's Corey? Corey is right there. I met Corey during one of my visits to Walter Reed last year. And it was my honor to pin a Purple Heart on him. He's lost both legs. But he's working hard to recover, and he's here today, ready to ride. So, Corey, you are an inspiration.<p>Ted Wade is here. Ted, where are you? Right there. After sustaining multiple injuries in Iraq, Ted's doctors did not think he would survive. But he persevered. He pulled through. And I was honored that Ted and his wife Sarah joined us last year when I signed legislation for veterans and caregivers. I'm pleased that Ted and Sarah are back with us again today because I can report that starting next week, our veterans, wounded warriors, and caregivers can start applying for the support that you need and deserve. We are going to get this done, and we're very proud of that.<p>Now, Sarah once said of Ted, \\"Just like he needed a team in the military to accomplish the mission, he needs a team at home for the longer war.\\" And so I say to all of you today, we're going to keep building that team that you need for recovery. We're determined to take care of you as well as you've taken care of us.<p>So to all the riders here today, I want to say, as your Commander in Chief and as an American, thank you. We are grateful for you. You represent the very best in America. And in your fight to recover and in the ride that you're about to begin, we see the values and virtues that make our country great.<p>We may take a hit. We may endure great loss. But we are a strong and resilient people. We push on. We persevere. We're confident in our cause. And we know that, like generations of Americans before us, we will emerge stronger than before.<p>So God bless you all. God bless the United States of America. And with that, let's get this thing started. I think I've got a horn.<p>All right. Are you all ready? You look ready. One, two, three.<p><i>[At this point, the President sounded the horn to begin the Soldier Ride.]</i>\" "
"101" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. <i>Gracias</i>. <i>Buenas noches</i>. <i>Bienvenidos</i>. Welcome to the Cinco de Mayo at the White House.<p>Nothing ruins a good fiesta like a long speech from a politician. [<i>Laughter</i>] So I'm going to keep it short.<p><i>The First Lady.</i> Keep it short. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Keep it short. I just want to acknowledge a few proud Latinos and friends of Latinos who are here with us tonight. A great friend to me and to the United States, Ambassador Arturo Sarukhan is here from Mexico with his lovely wife Veronica. Interior Secretary Ken Salazar is in the house. Labor Secretary Hilda Solis is here. Several Members of Congress have made the trek tonight. And everybody please join me in wishing a <i>feliz cumpleanos</i> to the chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Charlie Gonzalez. Happy birthday, Charlie.<p>We are also joined by Hispanic Americans serving at every level of my administration, some who've contributed to a new web site that we launched this week: whitehouse.gov/hispanic. So check out the web site. And welcome to all of you who are serving on the commission to explore the creation of a new national museum of the American Latino. Today they presented me with their final report to Congress, and I'm grateful for their hard work, and hopefully, we will see that museum become a reality. So we're very grateful to them.<p>Finally, I want to thank my band, the United States Marine Band. And we are looking forward to hearing Javier Cortes spin some of his records, and he has done great work, so I know that he's going to keep this party lively this evening.<p>But this is really a day for commemorating our shared heritage--our shared heritage, Mexicans and Americans. It's a day for remembering that America is a richer, stronger, more vibrant place thanks to the contributions of Mexican Americans to the life of this Nation, contributions in commerce, culture, in language and literature, in faith, and obviously in food. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I asked Michelle the other day, I said, \\"What's your favorite food?\\" Because we were sitting around with the girls. She said, \\"Oh, Mexican food.\\" That's--[<i>Applause</i>]. You do not want to be between Michelle and a tamale. [<i>Laughter</i>] It is true. It's true. But she's moving, though, so she can afford to have as many tamales as she wants. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>It is also a day for honoring the service of the many Mexican Americans who serve proudly in our country's uniform, and we are grateful to them.<p>And it's a day we commit ourselves to advancing the aspirations of all Latinos and reaffirm the ideals that we share as Americans. That means improving the education that we provide to our children, strengthening the social safety net that we build for our seniors and the poor and the sick, living up to our values as a nation of immigrants that built this country into the economic powerhouse that it is and the beacon of hope that it is around the world.<p>I've talked to you in recent weeks about this immigration issue. I strongly believe that we've got to fix this broken system so that it meets the needs of our 21st-century economy and our security needs. I want to work with Republicans and Democrats to protect our borders, to enforce our laws, and also to address the status of millions of undocumented workers. I want to sign the \\"DREAM Act\\" into law. This is not going to be easy. It's going to require bipartisan support. I'm going to need your help. We've got to keep doing the hard work of changing minds and changing hearts and changing votes, one at a time. But all of you are going to be out there, and you're going to have to help make this happen.<p>Let me just wrap up by saying this. Last week, I had the honor of traveling down to Florida and delivering the commencement address at Miami Dade College. And Dr. Eduardo Padron is here. There he is over there. And I want to brag on him a little bit because he's actually a graduate of the school.<p>This is a school with more than 170,000 students who come from 181 different countries, speak 94 different languages. The graduates were so excited. They were so proud. They spent a good portion of the ceremony dancing and doing the wave. [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, you know, there were Cubanos there. There were Haitians. There were Puertorriquenos. I mean everybody was there. [<i>Laughter</i>] Everybody was there, and everybody could dance. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And they were excited not just to finally get their exams out of the way, but because they finally knew what it was to achieve a dream. Many of them were the first in their families ever to graduate from college, and they overcame obstacles and defeated their own doubts to finish. And a lot of their parents, they're crying, and they could only dream of such a day as was happening there.<p>And by the way, Miami Dade is rated one of the top community colleges in the Nation. And as the ceremony--the formal ceremony finally began, the dancing quieted down a little bit. The students in the campus ROTC took turns marching the flags of the countries where--of origin for each of the graduating students. So you had 181 countries. And the students would stand up and cheer after--when the Haitian flag went by or the Colombian flag went by or--you name it, right. Everybody was getting up and cheering.<p>Some flags received a lot of cheers--[<i>Laughter</i>]--Mexico, Guatemala. And then there were--then there was, like, the Ukrainian flag and--[<i>Laughter</i>]--the Canadian flag, Estonia, and there were just a couple--[<i>Laughter</i>]. But, I mean, they were proud, but it was just not as many people. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But there was one flag that every single student and spectator cheered loudly and proudly for, and that was when the American flag came through--the American flag. So it was a wonderful reminder: We have--all come from different backgrounds, we have different beliefs, we have sometimes petty and sometimes not-so-petty political differences, but we all share a set of ideals. We all have a common future. We're the heirs to mothers and fathers and grandparents, great-grandparents, who struggled and sacrificed to forge and realize the American Dream.<p>And that fills us with the collective responsibility to leave an even bigger and bolder, more generous, more compassionate nation for our children. That's what drives me each day. That's what inspires Michelle. I know that's what drives many of you.<p>So I am thrilled to have you here today, where we celebrate your incredible heritage, but we also celebrate the incredible heritage of this great country of ours.<p>God bless you. <i>Feliz Cinco de Mayo. Muchas gracias.</i> Thank you.\" "
"102" "\"<i>The President.</i> Well, listen, everybody, the--I'm not here to make a long speech. I am here basically to shake your hands and just to say how proud I am of all of you.<p>Obviously, we had an important day on Sunday. The reason what--it was important, was because it sent a signal around the world that we have never forgotten the extraordinary sacrifices that were made on September 11. We've never forgotten the tragedy. We've never forgotten the loss of life. We've never forgotten the courage that was shown by the NYPD, by the firefighters, by the first-responders.<p>My understanding is all of you were there that day. And I know you'll never forget. I know it's hard to fill the hole that occurred as a consequence of you losing folks who you had worked with for so long. But what, hopefully, this weekend does is it says we keep them in our hearts, we haven't forgotten, we said what we're--we did what we said we were going to do, and that America, even in the midst of tragedy, will come together--across the years, across politics, across party, across administrations--to make sure that justice is done.<p>And so since that time I know a lot of you have probably comforted loved ones of those who were lost. And a lot of you have probably looked after kids who grew up without a parent. And a lot of you continue to do extraordinary--extraordinarily courageous acts without a lot of fanfare. What we did on Sunday was directly connected to what you do every single day. And I know I speak for the military teams and the intelligence teams that helped get bin Laden in saying that we know the sacrifices and courage that you show as well, and that you are part of the team that helped us achieve our goal, but also help us keep our citizens safe each and every day.<p>So I couldn't be prouder of all of you. I couldn't be more grateful to you. And I hope that you know that the country will continue to stand behind you going forward, because there are still going to be threats out there and you're still going to be called on to take courageous actions and to remain vigilant, but you're going to have the entire country behind you when you do.<p>All right? God bless you.<p>I very much appreciate the fact that Mayor Giuliani is here, because obviously we remember his leadership and courage on that day as well. And it's a testimony that we may have our differences, politically, in ordinary times, but when it comes to keeping this country safe, we are first and foremost Americans.<p>Thank you, Mr. Mayor.<p><i>Former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York City.</i> Thank you very much.<p><i>Audience member. </i>Thank you, sir.<p><i>The President.</i> Thank you, sir. Appreciate you.<p>All right, thank you.\" "
"103" "\"Well, listen, the main reason I came here is because I heard the food's pretty good. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But to the commissioner, to Mayor Giuliani--who obviously performed heroic acts almost 10 years ago--but most of all, to all of you, I wanted to just come up here to thank you.<p>This is a symbolic site of the extraordinary sacrifice that was made on that terrible day almost 10 years ago. Obviously, we can't bring back the friends that were lost, and I know that each and every one of you not only grieve for them, but have also, over the last 10 years, dealt with their family, their children, tried to give them comfort, tried to give them support.<p>Well, what happened on Sunday because of the courage of our military and the outstanding work of our intelligence sent a message around the world, but also sent a message here back home, that when we say we will never forget, we mean what we say. And our commitment to making sure that justice is done was something that transcended politics, transcended party; it didn't matter which administration was in, it didn't matter who was in charge, we were going to make sure that the perpetrators of that horrible act, that they received justice.<p>So it's some comfort, I hope, to all of you to know that when those guys took those extraordinary risks going into Pakistan, that they were doing it in part because of the sacrifices that were made in this State. They were doing it in the name of your brothers that were lost.<p>And finally, let me just say that although 9/11 obviously was a high-water mark of courage for the New York Fire Department and a symbol of the sacrifice, you guys are making sacrifices every single day. It doesn't get as much notoriety, it doesn't get as much attention, but every time you run into a burning building, every time that you are saving lives, you're making a difference. And that's part of what makes this city great, and that's part of what makes this country great.<p>So I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart and on behalf of the American people for the sacrifices that you make every single day. And I just want to let you know that you're always going to have a President and an administration who's got your back the way you've got the backs of the people of New York over these last many years.<p>So God bless you. God bless the United States of America.<p>And with that, I'm going to try some of that food. All right? Appreciate you. Thank you.\" "
"104" "\"Thank you, everybody. Good to see you. Thank you so much. Please have a seat. It is good to be back in Indianapolis. I--hello, Hoosiers! Sorry about the Pacers. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm sorry, Mr. Mayor. [<i>Laughter</i>] Give the mayor a big round of applause. He's doing a great job.<p>Along with the mayor, we've got Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood in the house. Ray--[<i>Applause</i>]. We've got your own Member of Congress, Andre Carson, here. And I want to thank Larry Dewey and everybody here at Allison for their extraordinary hospitality.<p>It is wonderful to be here. I just had a chance to see the hybrid systems that you're working on here at the plant. I love seeing high-tech machinery like this. I stand there, and people explain it to me, and I pretend like I know what they're talking about. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it looked outstanding. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>What you're doing here at Allison Transmission is really important. Today, there are more than 3,800 buses using hybrid technology all over the world, buses that have already saved 15 million gallons of fuel. And pretty soon you'll be expanding this technology to trucks as well. And that means we'll have even more vehicles who are using even less oil. That means more jobs here at Allison. Last month, you added 50 jobs at this company, and I hear that you plan to add another 200 over the next 2 years. So we are very proud of that. We are very happy about that.<p>This is where the American economy is rebuilding, where we are regaining our footing. We just went through one of the worst recessions in our history, worst in our lifetimes, the worst since the Great Depression. But this economic momentum that's taking place here at Allison is taking place all across the country. Today we found out that we added another 268,000 private sector jobs in April. So that means over the last 14 months, just in a little bit over a year, we've added more than 2 million jobs in the private sector.<p>Now, we've made this progress at a time when our economy has been facing some serious headwinds, and I don't need to tell you about that. We've got high gas prices that have been eating away at your paychecks. And that is a headwind that we've got to confront. You've got the earthquake in Japan that has had an effect on manufacturing here. So there are always going to be some ups and downs like these as we come out of a recession. And there will undoubtedly be some more challenges ahead.<p>But the fact is that we are still making progress, and that proves how resilient the American economy is and how resilient the American worker is and that we can take a hit and we can keep on going forward. That's exactly what we're doing.<p>Now, despite the good work that's being done in Allison, obviously, here in Indiana and all across the country, there's still some folks who are struggling. And a lot of people are thinking, where are those new jobs going to come from that pay well, have good benefits, can support a family? And how do we finally reduce our dependence on oil so that we're not hostage to high gas prices all the time?<p>The reason I'm here today is because the answers to these questions are right here at Allison, right here in these vehicles, right here in these transmissions. This is where the jobs of the future are at. We're going to have a lot of jobs in the service sector because we're a mature economy, but America's economy is always going to rely on outstanding manufacturing, where we make stuff, where we're not just buying stuff overseas, but we're making stuff here and we're selling it to somebody else. And that's what Allison is all about.<p>This is also where a clean energy economy is being built. This is the kind of company that will make sure that America remains the most prosperous nation in the world. See, other countries understand this. We're in a competition all around the world, and other countries--Germany, China, South Korea--they know that clean energy technology is what is going to help spur job creation and economic growth for years to come.<p>And that's why we've got to make sure that we win that competition. I don't want the new breakthrough technologies and the new manufacturing taking place in China and India. I want all those new jobs right here in Indiana, right here in the United States of America, with American workers, American know-how, American ingenuity.<p>And that's also how we're going to get gas prices under control. Now, I confess, it's been a while since I filled up. [<i>Laughter</i>] Secret Service doesn't let me, you know, fill up my motorcade. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it hasn't been that long ago since I watched those numbers scroll up, and I know how tough it is. If you've got to drive to work and you may not be able to afford buying a new car, so you've got that old beater that gets you 8 miles a gallon, it's tough. It is a huge strain on a lot of people.<p>But if we can transition to new technologies, that's what's going to make a difference over the long term. That's how we're going to meet the goal that I've set of reducing the amount of oil that we import by one-third by the middle of the next decade. We can hit that target. We can hit that target.<p>Now, in the short term, we still need to do everything we can to encourage safe and responsible oil production here at home. In fact, last year, American oil production reached its highest level since 2003. So I want everybody to remember that if people ask--because sometimes I get letters from constituents who say, why aren't we just drilling more here? We're actually producing more oil here than ever. But the challenge is, we've only got about 2 to 3 percent of the world's oil reserves, and we use 25 percent of the world's oil. So we can't just drill our way out of the problem.<p>If we're serious about meeting our energy challenge, we're going to have to do more than drill. And that's why the real solution is clean, homegrown energy. The real solution is advanced biofuels, and there's a lot of good biofuel work being done here in Indiana. It means that we've got to have natural gas vehicles. We've got a lot of natural gas that can be produced here in the United States of America. It means making our cars and trucks more energy efficient, because if we use less oil, that reduces demand, that brings the price down, and you will see the impact at the pump. That's what's going to make a difference, and that's why what you're doing here is so important.<p>Now, it turns out, even though that they don't let me go to the gas pump, I do have a lot of cars under my jurisdiction as President. The Federal fleet is enormous, and we've already doubled the number of hybrids in the Federal fleet. And I'm directing every agency to make sure that 100 percent of our cars and trucks are fuel-efficient or clean energy vehicles by 2015. So you're going to have a customer, hopefully, in the United States Government, because we want to make sure that we are making clean, fuel-efficient cars and trucks.<p>We've also launched private sector partnerships with companies like FedEx, UPS, utility companies. A lot of these companies that have trucks and delivery trucks that are used in urban areas with a lot of stops and starts are perfect for the technology that you're building. So we're forming partnerships to make sure that you've got more customers.<p>And to spur the production of fuel-efficient cars and trucks across the country, we've reached an historic agreement with every major auto company. Thanks to the leadership of Ray LaHood, they're ramping up the fuel economy of their cars and trucks. And that will not only save 1.8 billion barrels of oil, it's going to save you, the average driver, about $3,000 at the pump as cars increasingly get better gas mileage.<p>And this July, we're finalizing new fuel efficiency standards for heavy-duty trucks for the first time in our history. And that could actually end up saving us--we were talking about this the other day--it could end up saving us something like 500 billion barrels of oil, huge amounts of oil, because heavy trucks use so much.<p>We're also promoting clean energy technologies in other ways, from investing in hybrid systems like the one Allison is developing for commercial trucks to championing vehicles that run on clean-burning natural gas to spurring the creation of next-generation batteries for electric vehicles.<p>You know, a few years ago, America only produced 2 percent of the world's advanced batteries. Those are the batteries that are going into these new electric cars. Because of the investments that we made in the first 2 years that I was in office, we're on track to produce 40 percent of the advanced batteries. That is going to be a huge boon to American manufacturing. That's an example of a big new industry that we can create right here in the United States of America.<p>And to make sure we're not only investing in clean energy technologies, but encouraging people to use these new technologies, I've proposed a $7,500 tax rebate for electric vehicles. So if you do have that old beater that you need to get rid of and you decide that you're going to buy a new car, choosing an electric car, you can actually get a huge rebate that will save you money at the gas pump, but is also going to save money on your tax returns. And that will make a big difference.<p>We should reward also communities that are making it easier for folks to use electric vehicles and leading the way when it comes to clean energy. And that's the kind of leadership that Indianapolis is showing. You're installing natural gas pumps around town, and you're taking other steps to promote clean energy. And I hope cities and towns across this country follow in your example.<p>Of course, these investments in clean energy do cost some money, and we're going to need to way--find a way to pay for them. Part of the cost can be made up by putting an end to the unwarranted subsidies that we are giving oil companies right now through the Tax Code. I want everybody to listen here. Oil companies over the last 5 years--through a recession, through ups and downs--the top five oil companies, their profits have ranged between 75 billion and 125 billion. That's with a \\"b\\"--not million, billion. And yet they still have a tax loophole that is costing taxpayers $4 billion every year. Now, if you're already paying them at the pump, we don't need to pay them through the Tax Code. We do not need to do it. Especially at a time when we're scouring every part of the budget to try to figure out how we bring down our deficit and our debt.<p>Now, if we're honest with ourselves, we'll admit that even if we end these taxpayer subsidies, we're still going to have more work to do in getting control of our deficit and debt. And I know that in this difficult fiscal climate, it may be tempting for some people to say, let's stop investing in hybrid technology, let's stop investing in basic research, let's stop investing in the infrastructure that's needed to make sure that we can transition to new forms of transportation. That's the temptation. But I profoundly disagree with that approach.<p>If we're going to win the future, we've got to cut out the things we don't need, but still make investments in the things that we do. That's what you do at home. If somebody in your family loses a job, if your hours get cut, what do you do? You may stop going out to a restaurant to eat. You may decide we're going to put off buying that new furniture or taking that vacation. But you're not going to stop fixing the boiler or the hole in the roof. You're not going to stop making sure that you got enough money to help your kids go to school. Those are the things--that's like your seed corn. You don't eat that.<p>The same is true for the Federal Government. We can't cut investments in clean energy that are going to help us outinnovate and outcompete and help America win the future. We're not going to stop making investments that allow plants like this one to find the new ways of doing business in the future.<p>I want to make sure the Federal Government is right here with you as a partner with you as you move forward, and we can do it and still get control of our debt and our deficit if we do it smart.<p>For nearly 100 years, this company has made its way forward, through ups and through downs, making advances that have transformed everything from buses to planes to tanks. Jim Allison actually helped start the Indy 500 back in 1909, not just to race cars, but to test new race car components. And that same spirit of innovation and ingenuity is what I've seen in the workers that I talked to today.<p>And that's why I'm so confident in this country. That's why I'm so optimistic about our economic future, because I believe in all of you. I believe in the American worker, and I believe in American business. For all the challenges we face, this country is still home to the most entrepreneurial, most industrious, most determined people on the planet. There is nothing we cannot do so long as we put our mind to it, so long as we keep our eyes on the prize.<p>And I'm going to keep on working with you to make sure we do that so long as I have privilege of being President of the United States.<p>Thank you, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"105" "\"<i>The President.</i>Hello, Fort Campbell! Hundred and First Airborne Division (Air Assault), hello!<p>General Colt, thank you for that great introduction. It was great because it was brief. [<i>Laughter</i>] More importantly, thank you for the extraordinary leadership that you've shown here at one of the largest Army bases in America.<p>And let me just say, I make a lot of decisions; one of the earliest and best decisions I made was choosing one of the finest Vice Presidents in our history, Joe Biden, right here.<p>Chaplain Miller, thank you for the beautiful invocation.<p>I want to thank General Colt for welcoming me here today, along with your great command sergeant major, Wayne St. Louis. Where is he? The Quartet and 101st Division Band. All these troopers behind me, you look great. [<i>Applause</i>] You noticed they kind of hesitated. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>We got a lot of folks in the house. We've got military police and medical personnel. We've got the Green Berets of the 5th Special Forces Group. I think we've got a few Air Force here.<p><i>Audience member.</i> [<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President.</i>Oh--[<i>Laughter</i>]. Well, we thought we did. There we go--okay. Come on. And of course, the legendary Screaming Eagles. And although they're not in the audience, I want to acknowledge the 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment--the Night Stalkers--for their extraordinary service.<p>Now, I've got to say, some of you are starting to look a little familiar, because last December, when we were at Bagram, I was out there to thank you for your service, especially during the holidays. And we had a great rally, a big crowd. It seemed like everybody was there from the 101st.<p>And since then, I know we've had quite a few homecomings: the Rakkasans, Destiny, Strike, Bastogne, and some of the Division Headquarters--the Gladiators. On behalf of a grateful nation, welcome home.<p>Of course, our thoughts and prayers are with General Campbell, Command Sergeant Major Schroeder, and all of the Screaming Eagles and troops that are still risking their lives in theater. And I'm so pleased that Ann Campbell and Marla Schroeder and some of the inspiring military spouses are here. Where are they at? Right over there. We are grateful to you. God bless you. There they are. Thank you so much. This happens to be Military Spouse Appreciation Day, and we honor your service as well.<p>Now, I didn't come here to make a really long speech. I know you're hearing that. [<i>Laughter</i>] He's all, like, yes, it's hot! [<i>Laughter</i>] What I really wanted to do was come down and shake some hands. I came here for a simple reason: to say thank you on behalf of America. This has been an historic week in the life of our Nation. Thanks to the incredible skill and courage of countless individuals--intelligence, military--over many years, the terrorist leader who struck our Nation on 9/11 will never threaten America again.<p>Yesterday I traveled to New York City and, along with some of the 9/11 families, laid a wreath at Ground Zero in memory of their loved ones. I met with the first-responders--the firefighters, the police officers, the Port Authority officers--who lost so many of their own when they rushed into those burning towers. I promised that our Nation will never forget those we lost that dark September day.<p>And today, here at Fort Campbell, I had the privilege of meeting the extraordinary special ops folks who honored that promise. It was a chance for me to say on behalf of all Americans and people around the world, \\"Job well done.\\" Job well done.<p>They're America's quiet professionals, because success demands secrecy. But I will say this. Like all of you, they could have chosen a life of ease. But like you, they volunteered. They chose to serve in a time of war, knowing they could be sent into harm's way. They trained for years. They're battle hardened. They practiced tirelessly for this mission. And when I gave the order, they were ready.<p>Now, in recent days, the whole world has learned just how ready they were. These Americans deserve credit for one of the greatest intelligence and military operations in our Nation's history. But so does every person who wears America's uniform, the finest military the world has ever known. And that includes all of you, men and women of the 101st.<p>You've been on the frontlines of this fight for nearly 10 years. You were there in those early days, driving the Taliban from power, pushing Al Qaida out of its safe havens. Over time, as the insurgency grew, you went back for, in some cases, a second time, a third time, a fourth time.<p>When the decision was made to go into Iraq, you were there too, making the longest air assault in history, defeating a vicious insurgency, ultimately giving Iraqis the chance to secure their democracy. And you've been at the forefront of our new strategy in Afghanistan.<p>Sending you--more of you--into harm's way was the toughest decision that I've made as Commander in Chief. I don't make it lightly. Every time I visit Walter Reed, every time I visit Bethesda, I'm reminded of the wages of war. But I made that decision because I know that this mission was vital to the security of the Nation that we all love.<p>And I know it hasn't been easy for you, and it hasn't, certainly, been easy for your families. Since 9/11, no base has deployed more often, and few bases have sacrificed more than you. We see it in our heroic wounded warriors, fighting every day to recover and who deserve the absolute best care in the world. We see it in the mental and emotional toll that's been taken, in some cases, some good people, good soldiers who've taken their own lives. So we're going to keep saying to anybody who is hurting out there, don't give up. You're not alone. Your country needs you. We're here for you to keep you strong.<p>And most of all, we see the price of this war in the 125 soldiers from Fort Campbell who've made the ultimate sacrifice during this deployment to Afghanistan. And every memorial ceremony, every Eagle Remembrance, is a solemn reminder of the heavy burdens of war, but also the values of loyalty and duty and honor that have defined your lives.<p>So here's what each of you must know: Because of your service, because of your sacrifices, we're making progress in Afghanistan. In some of the toughest parts of the country, General Campbell and the 101st are taking insurgents and their leaders off the battlefield and helping Afghans reclaim their communities.<p>Across Afghanistan, we've broken the Taliban's momentum. In key regions, we've seized the momentum, pushing them out of their strongholds. We're building the capacity of Afghans, partnering with communities and police and security forces, which are growing stronger.<p>And most of all, we're making progress in our major goal, our central goal in Pakistan and Afghanistan, and that is disrupting and dismantling--and we are going to ultimately defeat--Al Qaida. We have cut off their head, and we will ultimately defeat them.<p>Even before this week's operation, we've put Al Qaida's leadership under more pressure than at any time since 9/11, on both sides of the border. So the bottom line is this: Our strategy is working, and there's no greater evidence of that than justice finally being delivered to Usama bin Laden.<p>But I don't want to fool you. This continues to be a very tough fight. You know that. But because of this progress, we're moving into a new phase. In the coming months, we'll start transferring responsibility for security to Afghan forces. Starting this summer, we'll begin reducing American forces. As we transition, we'll build a long-term partnership with the Afghan people so that Al Qaida can never again threaten America from that country.<p>And as your Commander in Chief, I'm confident that we're going to succeed in this mission. The reason I'm confident is because in you I see the strength of America's military and because in recent days, we've all seen the resilience of the American spirit.<p>Now, this week I received a letter from a girl in New Jersey named Payton Wall. She wrote to me on Monday after the news that bin Laden had been killed, and she explained to me how she still remembers that September morning almost 10 years ago. She was only 4 years old. Her father Glen was trapped inside the World Trade Center. And so in those final, frantic moments, knowing he might not make it, he called home. And Payton remembers watching her mom sobbing as she spoke to her husband and then passed the phone to Payton. And in words that were hard to hear, but which she's never forgotten, she said, he said to her, \\"I love you Payton, and I will always be watching over you.\\"<p>So yesterday Payton, her mom, and her sister Avery joined me at Ground Zero. And now Payton is 14. These past 10 years have been tough for her. In her letter, she said, \\"Ever since my father died, I lost a part of me that can never be replaced.\\" And she describes her childhood as a \\"little girl struggling to shine through all the darkness in her life.\\"<p>But every year, more and more, Payton is shining through. She's playing a lot of sports, including lacrosse and track, just like her dad. She's doing well in school. She's mentoring younger students. She's looking ahead to high school in the fall. And so yesterday she was with us, a strong, confident young woman honoring her father's memory, even as she set her sights on the future.<p>And for her and for all of us, this week has been a reminder of what we're about as a people. It's easy to forget sometimes, especially in times of hardship, times of uncertainty. We're coming out of the worst recession since the Great Depression, haven't fully recovered from that. We've made enormous sacrifices in two wars. But the essence of America, the values that have defined us for more than 200 years, they don't just endure, they are stronger than ever.<p>We're still the America that does the hard things, that does the great things. We're the nation that always dared to dream. We're the nation that's willing to take risks: revolutionaries breaking free from an empire, pioneers heading west to settle new frontiers, innovators building railways and laying the highways and putting a man on the surface of the Moon.<p>We are the nation--and you're the division--that parachuted behind enemy lines on D-day, freeing a continent, liberating concentration camps. We're the nation that, all those years ago, sent your division to a high school in Arkansas so that nine Black students could get an education--that was you--because we believed that all men are created equal, that everyone deserves a chance to realize their God-given potential.<p>We're the nation that has faced tough times before, tougher times than these. But when our Union frayed, when the Depression came, when our harbor was bombed, when our country was attacked on that September day, when disaster strikes like that tornado that just ripped through this region, we do not falter. We don't turn back. We pick ourselves up, and we get on with the hard task of keeping our country strong and safe.<p>See, there's nothing we can't do together, 101st, when we remember who we are, and that is the United States of America. When we remember that, no problem is too hard and no challenge is too great.<p>And that is why I am so confident that with your brave service, America's greatest days are still to come.<p>God bless you. God bless the 101st, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"106" "\"Hi. I'm speaking with you today from the Allison Transmission plant at Indianapolis, Indiana. I came here because this is a place where American workers are doing some big and impressive things.<p>The hybrid technology they manufacture here already powers nearly 4,000 buses all over the world, buses that have already saved 15 million gallons of fuel. Soon, they'll expand this new technology to trucks as well. That means more vehicles using less oil, and that means jobs, more than 200 new workers at this plant alone.<p>That's important because even as the economy is growing after one of the worst recessions in our history, even as we've added more than 2 million new private sector jobs over the past 14 months, I still meet and hear from Americans struggling to get out of their own personal recessions.<p>A lot of folks out there are still looking for work. And many folks who do have jobs are finding that their paychecks aren't keeping up with the rising costs of everything from tuition to groceries to gas prices. In fact, in a lot of places across the country, like here in Indiana, gas has reached an alltime high.<p>So although our economy hasn't been the focus of the news this week, not a day that goes by that I'm not focused on your jobs, your hopes, and your dreams. And that's why I came here to Allison Transmission.<p>The clean energy jobs at this plant are the jobs of the future, jobs that pay well right here in America. And in the years ahead, it's clean energy companies like this one that will keep our economy growing, create new jobs, and make sure America remains the most prosperous nation in the world.<p>Allison Transmission is also part of the ultimate solution to high gas prices. We know there are no quick fixes to this problem. In the short term, we're doing everything we can to boost safe and responsible oil production here at home. In fact, last year, American oil production reached its highest level since 2003.<p>But over the long term, the only way we can avoid being held hostage to the ups and downs of oil prices is if we reduce our dependence on oil. That means investing in clean, alternative sources of energy, like advanced biofuels and natural gas. And that means making cars and trucks and buses that use less oil.<p>Other countries know this, and they're going all in to invest in clean energy technologies and clean energy jobs. I don't want other countries to win the competition for these technologies and these jobs. I want America to win that competition. I want America to win the future.<p>Now, I know that in a tough fiscal climate like the one we're in, it's tempting for some to try and cut back on our investments in clean energy. And I absolutely agree that the only way we'll be able to afford the things we need is by cutting the things we don't and living within our means. But I refuse to cut investments like clean energy that will help us outinnovate and outcompete the rest of the world. I refuse to cut investments that are making it possible for plants like this one to grow and add jobs across America.<p>We can do this. I don't just believe that because I see it happening in plants like this. I believe that because I believe in the Americans that are making it happen in places like this. I'm optimistic about our economic future, because for all the challenges we face, America is still home to the most entrepreneurial, most industrious, most determined people on Earth. There's nothing we can't accomplish when we set our minds to it. And that's what we'll keep doing as long as I have the privilege of being your President.<p>Thanks, and have a great weekend.\" "
"107" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, El Paso! Well, it is wonderful, wonderful to be back with all of you in the Lone Star State. Everything is bigger in Texas.<p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you!<p><i>The President.</i> I love you back! Even the welcomes are bigger. So, in appreciation, I wanted to give a big policy speech outside on a really hot day. [<i>Laughter</i>] Those of you who are still wearing your jackets, feel free to take them off. I hope everybody is wearing sunscreen. Now----<p><i>Audience member.</i> We live here.<p><i>The President.</i> ----you say you live here? You don't need it, huh? [<i>Laughter</i>] Well, it is a great honor to be here. And I want to express my appreciation to all of you for taking the time to come out today.<p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you!<p><i>The President.</i> Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you.<p>You know, about a week ago, I delivered a commencement address at Miami Dade community college, which is one of the most diverse schools in the Nation. The graduates were proud that their class could claim heritage from 181 countries around the world--181 countries.<p>Many of the students were immigrants themselves, coming to America with little more than the dream of their parents and the clothes on their back. A handful had discovered only in adolescence or adulthood that they were undocumented. But they worked hard and they gave it their all, and so they earned those diplomas.<p>And at the ceremony, 181 flags, one for every nation that was represented, was marched across the stage. And each one was applauded by the graduates and the relatives with ties to those countries. So when the Haitian flag went by, all the Haitian kids--Haitian American kids yelled--shouted out. And when the Guatemalan flag went by, all the kids of Guatemalan heritage shouted out. And when the Ukrainian flag went by, I think one kid shouted out. [<i>Laughter</i>] This was down in Miami. [<i>Laughter</i>] If it had been in Chicago, there would have been more.<p>But then, the last flag, the American flag, came into view, and everyone in the room erupted in applause. Everybody cheered. So yes, their parents and grandparents, some of the graduates themselves, had come from every corner of the globe. But it was here that they had found opportunity. It was here that they had a chance to contribute to the nation that is their home.<p>And it was a reminder of a simple idea, as old as America itself: E pluribus unum. Out of many, one. We define ourselves as a nation of immigrants, a nation that welcomes those willing to embrace America's ideals and America's precepts. That's why millions of people, ancestors to most of us, braved hardship and great risk to come here so they could be free to work and worship and start a business and live their lives in peace and prosperity: the Asian immigrants who made their way to California's Angel Island, the German and Scandinavians who settled across the Midwest, the waves of Irish and Italian and Polish and Russian and Jewish immigrants who leaned against the railing to catch their first glimpse of the Statue of Liberty.<p>This flow of immigrants has helped make this country stronger and more prosperous. We can point to the genius of Einstein, the designs of I.M. Pei, the stories of Isaac Asimov, the entire industries that were forged by Andrew Carnegie.<p>And then when I think about immigration, I think about the naturalization ceremonies that we've held at the White House for members of our military. Nothing could be more inspiring. Even though they were not yet citizens when they joined our military, these men and women signed up to serve.<p>We did one event at the White House, and a young man named Granger Michael from Papua New Guinea, a marine who had been deployed to Iraq three times, was there. And you know what he said about becoming an American citizen? He said: \\"I might as well. I love this country already.\\" That's all he said. Marines aren't big on speeches. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Another was a woman named Perla Ramos who was born and raised in Mexico and came to the United States shortly after 9/11 and joined the Navy. And she said, \\"I take pride in our flag and the history we write day by day.\\"<p>That's the promise of this country, that anyone can write the next chapter in our story. It doesn't matter where you come from, it doesn't matter--[<i>Applause</i>]--where you come from, it doesn't matter what you look like, it doesn't matter what faith you worship. What matters is that you believe in the ideals on which we were founded, that you believe that all of us are created equal, endowed by our Creator with certain inalienable rights. All of us deserve our freedoms and our pursuit of happiness. In embracing America, you can become American. That is what makes this country great. That enriches all of us.<p>And yet, at the same time, we're here at the border today--[<i>Applause</i>]--we're here at the border because we also recognize that being a nation of laws goes hand in hand with being a nation of immigrants. This too is our heritage. This too is important. And the truth is, we've often wrestled with the politics of who is and who isn't allowed to come into this country. This debate is not new.<p>At times, there has been fear and resentment directed towards newcomers, especially in hard economic times. And because these issues touch deeply on what we believe, touch deeply on our convictions about who we are as a people, about what it means to be an American, these debates often elicit strong emotions.<p>That's one reason it's been so difficult to reform our broken immigration system. When an issue is this complex, when it raises such strong feelings, it's easier for politicians to defer the problem until the next election. And there's always a next election.<p>So we've seen a lot of blame and a lot of politics and a lot of ugly rhetoric around immigration. And we've seen good faith efforts from leaders of both parties. By the way, I just noticed, those of you who have chairs, if you want to sit down, feel free. There's no rule about having to stand when I'm----<p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you!<p><i>The President.</i> But we've seen leaders of both parties who try to work on this issue, but then their efforts fell prey to the usual Washington games. And all the while, we've seen the mounting consequences of decades of inaction.<p>Today, there are an estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants here in the United States. Some crossed the border illegally. Others avoid immigration laws by overstaying their visas. Regardless of how they came, the overwhelming majority of these folks are just trying to earn a living and provide for their families.<p>But we have to acknowledge they've broken the rules. They've cut in front of the line. And what is also true is that the presence of so many illegal immigrants makes a mockery of all those who are trying to immigrate legally.<p>Also, because undocumented immigrants live in the shadows, where they're vulnerable to unscrupulous businesses that skirt taxes and pay workers less than the minimum wage or cut corners with health and safety laws, this puts companies who follow the rules and Americans who rightly demand the minimum wage or overtime or just a safe place to work, it puts those businesses at a disadvantage.<p>Think about it. Over the past decade, even before the recession hit, middle class families were struggling to get by as the costs went up for everything, from health care to college tuition to groceries to gas. Their incomes didn't go up with those prices. We're seeing it again right now with gas prices.<p>So one way to strengthen the middle class in America is to reform the immigration system so that there is no longer a massive underground economy that exploits a cheap source of labor while depressing wages for everybody else. I want incomes for middle class families to rise again. I want prosperity in this country to be widely shared. I want everybody to be able to reach that American Dream. And that's why immigration reform is an economic imperative. It's an economic imperative.<p>And reform will also help to make America more competitive in the global economy. Today, we provide students from around the world with visas to get engineering and computer science degrees at our top universities.<p>But then our laws discourage them from using those skills to start a business or a new industry here in the United States. Instead of training entrepreneurs to stay here, we train them to create jobs for our competition. That makes no sense. In a global marketplace, we need all the talent we can attract, all the talent we can get to stay here to start businesses, not just to benefit those individuals, but because their contribution will benefit all Americans.<p>Look at Intel, look at Google, look at Yahoo!, look at eBay. All those great American companies, all the jobs they've created, everything that has helped us take leadership in the high-tech industry, every one of those was founded by, guess who, an immigrant.<p>So we don't want the next Intel or the next Google to be created in China or India. We want those companies and jobs to take root here. Bill Gates gets this. He knows a little something about the high-tech industry. He said, \\"The United States will find it far more difficult to maintain its competitive edge if it excludes those who are able and willing to help us compete.\\"<p>So immigration is not just the right thing to do, it's smart for our economy. It's smart for our economy. And it's for this reason that businesses all across America are demanding that Washington finally meet its responsibilities to solve the immigration problem. Everybody recognizes the system is broken. The question is, will we finally summon the political will to do something about it? And that's why we're here at the border today.<p>And I want to say I am joined today by an outstanding Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Janet Napolitano, who's been working tirelessly on this issue. Our Commissioner who's working diligently on border issues, Alan Bersin, is there, and we appreciate him--Bersin.<p>So they're doing outstanding work. And in recent years, among one of the greatest impediments to reform were questions about border security. And these were legitimate concerns. What was true was a lack of manpower and a lack of resources at the border, combined with the pull of jobs and ill-considered enforcement once folks were in the country.<p>All this contributed to a growing number of undocumented people living in the United States. And these concerns helped unravel a bipartisan coalition that we had forged back when I was in the United States Senate. So in the years since, \\"borders first, borders first,\\" that's become the common refrain, even among those who were previously supportive of comprehensive immigration reform.<p>But over the last 2 years, thanks to the outstanding work of Janet and Alan and everybody who's down here working at the border, we've answered those concerns. Under their leadership, we have strengthened border security beyond what many believed was possible. They wanted more agents at the border. Well, we now have more boots on the ground on the Southwest border than at any time in our history.<p>The Border Patrol has 20,000 agents, more than twice as many as there were in 2004. It's a buildup that began under President Bush and that we've continued, and I had a chance to meet some of these outstanding agents and actually saw some of them on horseback who looked pretty tough. [<i>Laughter</i>] So we put the agents here.<p>Then they wanted a fence. Well, the fence is now basically complete. Then we've gone further. We tripled the number of intelligence analysts working at the border. I've deployed unmanned aerial vehicles to patrol the skies from Texas to California. We have forged a partnership with Mexico to fight the transnational criminal organizations that have affected both of our countries. And for the first time we're screening 100 percent of southbound rail shipments to seize guns and money going south even as we go after drugs that are coming north.<p>So here's the point. I want everybody to listen carefully to this. We have gone above and beyond what was requested by the very Republicans who said they supported broader reform as long as we got serious about enforcement. All the stuff they asked for, we've done. But even though we've answered these concerns, I've got to say, I suspect there are still going to be some who are trying to move the goal posts on us one more time.<p>You know, they said we needed to triple the Border Patrol. Or now they're going to say we need to quadruple the Border Patrol. Or they'll want a higher fence. Maybe they'll need a moat. [<i>Laughter</i>] Maybe they want alligators in the moat. [<i>Laughter</i>] They'll never be satisfied. And I understand. That's politics.<p>But the truth is, the measures we've put in place are getting results. Over the past 2 1/2 years, we've seized 31 percent more drugs, 75 percent more currency, 64 percent more weapons than ever before. And even as we have stepped up patrols, apprehensions along the border have been cut by nearly 40 percent from 2 years ago. That means far fewer people are attempting to cross the border illegally.<p>And also, despite a lot of breathless reports that have tagged places like El Paso as dangerous, violent crime in Southwest border counties has dropped by a third. El Paso and other cities and towns along this border are consistently among the safest in the Nation. Of course, we shouldn't accept any violence or crime. And we've always got more work to do. But this progress is important, and it's not getting reported on.<p>And we're also going beyond the border. Beyond the border, we're going after employers who knowingly exploit people and break the law. And we are deporting those who are here illegally. And that's a tough issue. It's a source of controversy.<p>But I want to emphasize we're not doing it haphazardly. We're focusing our limited resources and people on violent offenders and people convicted of crimes, not just families, not just folks who are looking to scrape together an income. And as a result, we've increased the removal of criminals by 70 percent.<p>That's not to ignore the real human toll of a broken immigration system. Even as we recognize that enforcing the law is necessary, we don't relish the pain that it causes in the lives of people who are just trying to get by and get caught up in the system.<p>And as long as the current laws are on the books, it's not just hardened felons who are subject to removal, but sometimes families who are just trying to earn a living or bright, eager students or decent people with the best of intentions.<p>And sometimes, when I talk to immigration advocates, they wish I could just bypass Congress and change the law myself. But that's not how a democracy works. What we really need to do is to keep up the fight to pass genuine, comprehensive reform. That is the ultimate solution to this problem. That's what I'm committed to doing.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Yes, we can! Yes, we can! Yes, we can!<p><i>The President.</i> Yes, we can. We can do it.<p>Audience members. Yes, we can! Yes, we can! Yes, we can!<p><i>The President</i>. The most significant step we can now take to secure the borders is to fix the system as a whole so that fewer people have the incentive to enter illegally in search of work in the first place. This would allow agents to focus on the worst threats on both of our--both sides of our borders, from drug traffickers to those who would come here to commit acts of violence or terror. That's where our focus should be.<p>So, El Paso, the question is whether those in Congress who previously walked away in the name of enforcement are now ready to come back to the table and finish the work that we've started. We've got to put the politics aside. And if we do, I'm confident we can find common ground.<p>Washington is lagging behind the country on this. There is already a growing coalition of leaders across America who don't always see eye to eye, but are coming together on this issue. They see the harmful consequences of a broken immigration system for their businesses and for their communities, and they understand why we need to act.<p>There are Democrats and Republicans, people like former Republican Senator Mel Martinez, former Bush administration Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, leaders like Mayor Michael Bloomberg of New York, evangelical ministers like Leith Anderson and Bill Hybels, police chiefs from across the Nation, educators, advocates, labor unions, chambers of commerce, small-business owners, Fortune 500 CEOs.<p>I mean, one CEO had this to say about reform: \\"American ingenuity is a product of the openness and diversity of this society. Immigrants have made America great as the world leader in business, in science, higher education, and innovation.\\" You know who that leader was? Rupert Murdoch, who owns FOX News and is an immigrant himself. I don't know if you're familiar with Rupert Murdoch's views, but let's just say he doesn't have an Obama sticker on his car. [<i>Laughter</i>] But he agrees with me on this.<p>So there is a consensus around fixing what's broken. And now we need Congress to catch up. Now we need to come together around reform that reflects our values as a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants, reform that demands that everybody take responsibility. So what would comprehensive reform look like?<p>First, we know that Government has a threshold responsibility to secure our borders and enforce the law. And that's what Janet and all her folks are doing. That's what they're doing.<p>Second, businesses have to be held accountable if they exploit undocumented workers.<p>Third, those who are here illegally, they have a responsibility as well. So they broke the law, and that means they've got to pay their taxes, they've got to pay a fine, they've got to learn English. And they've got to undergo background checks and a lengthy process before they get in line for legalization. That's not too much to ask.<p>And fourth, stopping illegal immigration also depends on reforming our outdated system of legal immigration. We should make it easier for the best and the brightest to not only stay here, but also to start businesses and create jobs here. In recent years, a full 25 percent of high-tech startups in the U.S. were founded by immigrants. That led to 200,000 jobs here in America. I'm glad those jobs are here. I want to see more of them created in this country. We need to provide them the chance.<p>We need to provide our farms a legal way to hire workers that they rely on and a path for those workers to earn legal status. And our laws should respect families following the rules, reuniting them more quickly instead of splitting them apart.<p>Today, the immigration system not only tolerates those who break the rules, but it punishes folks who follow the rules. While applications--while applicants wait for approvals, for example, they're often forbidden from visiting the United States. Even husbands and wives may have to spend years apart. Parents can't see their children. I don't believe the United States of America should be in the business of separating families. That's not right. That's not who we are. We can do better than that.<p>And we should stop punishing innocent young people for the actions of their parents. We should stop denying them the chance to earn an education or serve in the military. And that's why we need to pass the \\"DREAM Act.\\" Now, we passed the \\"DREAM Act\\" through the House last year when Democrats were in control. But even though it received a majority of votes in the Senate, it was blocked when several Republicans who had previously supported the \\"DREAM Act\\" voted no.<p>That was a tremendous disappointment to get so close and then see politics get in the way. And as I gave that commencement at Miami Dade, it broke my heart knowing that a number of those promising, bright students, young people who worked so hard and who speak about what's best in America, are at risk of facing the agony of deportation. These are kids who grew up in this country. They love this country. They know no other place to call home. The idea that we'd punish them is cruel. It makes no sense. We're a better nation than that.<p>So we're going to keep fighting for the \\"DREAM Act.\\" We're going to keep up the fight for reform. And that's where you come in. I'm going to do my part to lead a constructive and civil debate on these issues. And we've already had a series of meetings about this at the White House in recent weeks. We've got leaders here and around the country helping to move the debate forward.<p>But this change ultimately has to be driven by you, the American people. You've got to help push for comprehensive reform, and you've got to identify what steps we can take right now--like the \\"DREAM Act,\\" like visa reform--areas where we can find common ground among Democrats and Republicans and begin to fix what's broken.<p>So I'm asking you to add your voices to this debate. You can sign up to help at whitehouse.gov. We need Washington to know that there is a movement for reform that's gathering strength from coast to coast. That's how we'll get this done. That's how we can ensure that in the years ahead we are welcoming the talents of all who can contribute to this country and that we're living up to the basic American idea that you can make it here if you try.<p>That's the idea that gave hope to Jose Hernandez. Is Jose here? Where's--Jose is right over there. I want you to hear--I want you to think about this story. Jose's parents were migrant farm workers. And so growing up he was too. He was born in California, though he could have just as easily been born on the other side of the border if it had been a different time of year, because his family moved around with the seasons. So two of his siblings were actually born in Mexico.<p>So they traveled a lot, and Jose joined his parents picking cucumbers and strawberries. And he missed part of school when they returned to Mexico each winter. Jose didn't learn English until he was 12 years old. But you know what, Jose was good at math and he liked math. And the nice thing is that math was the same in every school, and it's the same in Spanish as it is in English.<p>So Jose studied, and he studied hard. And one day, he's standing in the fields, collecting sugar beets, and he heard on a transistor radio that a man named Franklin Chang-Diaz--a man with a surname like his--was going to be an astronaut for NASA. So Jose decided--right there in the field, he decided, \\"Well, I could be an astronaut too.\\"<p>So Jose kept on studying, and he graduated high school. And he kept on studying, and he earned an engineering degree. And he kept on studying, and he earned a graduate degree. And he kept on working hard, and he ended up at a national laboratory, helping to develop a new kind of digital medical imaging system.<p>And a few years later, he found himself more than 100 miles above the surface of the Earth, staring out of the window of the shuttle <i>Discovery</i>, and he was remembering the boy in the California fields with that crazy dream that in America everything is possible.<p>Think about that, El Paso. That's the American Dream right there. That's what we're fighting for. We are fighting for every boy and every girl like Jose with a dream and potential that's just waiting to be tapped. We are fighting to unlock that promise and all that holds not just for their futures, but for America's future. That's why we're going to get this done. And that's why I'm going to need your help.<p>Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"108" "\"Hello, everybody. Please have a seat. Welcome to the White House. I am going to be brief because on a night like tonight my job is to get out of the way and let the professionals do their job.<p>I do want to start by thanking our extraordinary performers for taking time out of their busy schedules to be with us. I also want to recognize the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities for putting on this event and for everything they do to support the arts.<p>The power of poetry is that everybody experiences it differently. There are no rules for what makes a great poem. Understanding it isn't just about metaphor or meter. Instead, a great poem is one that resonates with us, that challenges us, and that teaches us something about ourselves and the world that we live in. As Rita Dove says, \\"If [poetry] doesn't affect you on some level that cannot be explained in words, then the poem hasn't done its job.\\" Also known as, it don't mean a thing if--[<i>Laughter</i>]--it ain't got that swing. That's a little ad-lib there. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>For thousands of years, people have been drawn to poetry in a very personal way, including me. In the spirit of full disclosure, I actually submitted a couple of poems to my college literary magazine, and you will be pleased to know that I will not be reading them tonight. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But as a nation built on freedom of expression, poets have always played an important role in telling our American story.<p>It was after the bombing of Fort McHenry during the War of 1812 that a young lawyer named Francis Scott Key penned the poem that would become our national anthem. The Statue of Liberty has always welcomed the \\"huddled masses yearning to breathe free.\\" Soldiers going off to fight in World War II were giving--given books of poetry for comfort and inspiration. And whenever our Nation has faced a great tragedy, whether it was the loss of a civil rights leader, the crew of a space shuttle, or the thousands of Americans that were lost on a clear September day, we've turned to poetry when we can't find quite the right words to express what we're feeling.<p>So tonight we continue that tradition by hearing from some of our greatest, as well as some of our newest, poets. Billy Collins, who is here with us, calls poetry \\"the oldest form of travel writing\\" because it takes us to places we can only imagine. So in that spirit, I'd like everyone to sit back, or sit on the edge of your seats, and enjoy the journey.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"109" "\"Thank you so much. Well, good morning. This is just an extraordinary gathering. I have to say to Reverend Cortes and all the other organizers of this prayer breakfast, I think it's getting bigger, huh? I think this thing is growing.<p>I just want to thank Reverend Cortes. I just got a extraordinary gift, a bilingual Bible. It is beautiful. I was told this will help improve my Spanish. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I said, \\"I'll pray on it.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Amen.<p>To all the clergy, lay leaders, administration officials, and distinguished guests who are here today, it is an extraordinary pleasure to join you. We've had a number of prayer breakfasts over the past several months, and I've got to say, there is no more inspiring way to begin a day than by praying with fellow believers. And so I'm grateful to all of you to give me this opportunity.<p>I also know that these past few days have not only been a time of prayer and a time of reflection for all of you, they've also been a time to lend your voices to the causes that you're passionate about. And I want you to know that I'm listening. When you lend your voice to the cause of creating jobs and opening opportunity for all communities, I hear you. When you lend your voice to the cause of educating all of our children, not just some, to succeed in the 21st century, I'm listening. And when you lend your voice to the cause of immigration reform, I am listening.<p>As some of you probably heard, I flew down to El Paso a couple of days ago to give a speech on this topic. And what I said in that speech was that we define ourselves as a nation of immigrants, as a nation that's open to anyone who's willing to embrace America's precepts and America's ideals. That's why so many men and women have braved hardship and great risk to come here, picking up and leaving behind the world that they knew, carrying nothing but the hope that here in America, their children might live a better life.<p>Our heritage as a nation of immigrants is part of what has always made America strong. \\"Out of many, one\\"--that is our creed. And we are also a nation of laws--a nation of immigrants and a nation of laws. And what I went down to El Paso to say is that we are enforcing our laws and we're securing our borders. In fact, we have more manpower down at the Southwest border than at any time in our history.<p>And so what we need to do going forward is to address some of the broader problems in our immigration system. And that means changing minds and changing votes, one at a time. I know there are some folks who wish I could just bypass Congress. [<i>Laughter</i>] I can't. But what I can do is sign a law. What you can do is champion a law. What we can do together is make comprehensive immigration reform the law of the land. That's what we can do.<p>Comprehensive reform is not only an economic imperative or a security imperative, it's also a moral imperative. It's a moral imperative when kids are being denied the chance to go to college or serve their military because of the actions of their parents. It's a moral imperative when millions of people live in the shadows and are made vulnerable to unscrupulous businesses or with nowhere to turn if they are wronged. It's a moral imperative when simply enforcing the law may mean inflicting pain on families who are just trying to do the right thing by their children.<p>So yes, immigration reform is a moral imperative, and so it's worth seeking greater understanding from our faith. As it is written in the Book of Deuteronomy, \\"Love ye therefore the stranger: for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt.\\" To me, that verse is a call to show empathy to our brothers and our sisters, to try and recognize ourselves in one another.<p>And it's especially important that we try to do that when it comes to immigration, because this is a subject that can expose raw feelings and feed our fears of change. It can be tempting to think that those coming to America today are somehow different from us. And we need to not have amnesia about how we populated this country. What this verse reminds us to do is to look at that migrant farmer and see our own grandfather disembarking at Ellis Island or Angel Island in San Francisco Bay and to look at that young mother, newly arrived in this country, and see our own grandmothers leaving Italy or Ireland or Eastern Europe in search of something better.<p>That sense of connection, that sense of empathy, that moral compass, that conviction of what is right, is what led the National Association of Evangelicals to shoot short films to help people grasp the challenges facing immigrants. It's what led the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops to launch a Justice for Immigrants campaign and the Interfaith Immigration Coalition to advocate across religious lines. It's what led all the Latino pastors at the Hispanic Prayer Breakfast to come together around reform.<p>Ultimately, that's how change will come. At critical junctures throughout our history, it's often been men and women of faith who've helped to move this country forward. It was our--in our Episcopal churches of Boston that our earliest patriots planned our Revolution. It was in the Baptist churches of Montgomery and Selma that the civil rights movement was born. And it's in the Catholic and Evangelical and mainline churches of our Southwest and across our entire continent that a new movement for immigration reform is taking shape today.<p>So I'll keep doing my part. I'll keep pushing and working with Congress. But the only way we are going to get this done is by building a widespread movement for reform. That's why I'm asking you to keep preaching and persuading your congregations and communities. That's why I'm asking you to keep on activating, getting involved, mobilizing. That's why we all need to keep praying. I'm asking you to help us recognize ourselves in one another. And if you can do that, I'm absolutely confident that we will not only make sure America remains true to its heritage as a nation of immigrants and a nation of laws, but we'll make sure we remain true to our founding ideals and that we build a beloved community here on this Earth.<p>God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much.\" "
"110" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you so much. Thank you, everybody. Please, everybody have a seat.<p>Thank you, Joe, not just for being a great Vice President, but being one of law enforcement's best friends and strongest advocates over the years. I think they've gotten even more love from you than the railroads--[<i>laughter</i>]--and that's hard to do.<p>I look forward to this event every single year. I can't tell you how much I appreciate the efforts of law enforcement officials nationwide, not just because I've got several around me 24 hours a day. I have had the special honor of meeting police officers and law enforcement officials in all 50 States. Last week, I had the special honor of visiting with the men and women of New York City's First Precinct, which was the first to respond on 9/11 and serves the area encompassing Ground Zero.<p>And what I told them is the same thing that I'll tell all of the law enforcement professionals here today: Thank you. We appreciate your service. You have our support. We're grateful for the sacrifices you and your families make, and my administration is committed to making sure that you get what you need.<p>Some of the public servants helping us do that today are here: Our excellent Secretary of Homeland Security, Janet Napolitano; our Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, Gil Kerlikowske, is here--[applause]--a longtime police officer who also served as police chief in four different cities.<p>I'd also like to say that today I am seeking a 2-year extension for FBI Director Bob Mueller. And in his 10 years at the FBI, Bob has set the gold standard for leading the Bureau. He's improved the working relationship with local law enforcement across the country. And I hope that Democrats, led by Judiciary Chairman Pat Leahy, who's here, as well as Republicans in Congress will join together in extending that leadership for the sake of our Nation's safety and security.<p>We've also got several elected officials here today, and I'm grateful for their service and their support of law enforcement. And obviously, I want to welcome the leaders of the National Association of Police Organizations, including your president, Tom Nee, and your executive director, William Johnson.<p>And most importantly, congratulations to the 30 officers, sheriffs, detectives, investigators, agents who are behind me, our Nation's TOP COPS, right here.<p><i>Audience members.</i> [<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> We've got the Montana crew hollering. [<i>Laughter</i>] That was Missoula, right? [<i>Applause</i>] There you go, Missoula.<p>I know the families are bursting with pride for your loved ones' accomplishments, but your love and support has had a lot to do with those accomplishments. So again, we are grateful to you.<p>This is the third year I've had the honor of welcoming America's TOP COPS to the White House. It's kind of like the Heisman Trophy presentation for law enforcement. But I just spent a little time with these men and women inside, and I can tell you with certainty, they carry themselves with such humility. They don't say to themselves: \\"This is it. This year I made TOP COP. I'm going to train, put in long hours, and go to Washington and stand with the President.\\" That's not why they do what they do every single day.<p>None of them put together a PR package for our consideration. Some of them are still recovering from gunshot wounds suffered in the line of duty. Some have heavy hearts for partners who've been lost, and they commit themselves to their memory. And all would put forward others in their units who they would say are just as brave or just as dedicated or just as capable or just as deserving of this recognition.<p>But, you know, a moment came when their actions earned recognition. It wasn't talk, it was what they did. They didn't know it that morning as they pinned on a badge or strapped on a vest or holstered a weapon. But that day, something would happen that would make them worthy of this honor, whether it was a random act of bravery or a successful outcome that was the results of months or even years of painstaking and dangerous police work.<p>The men and women we honor today have responded with courage under withering fire to defend the innocent. They've skillfully rescued women and children from armed gang members and have saved the life of a shooting victim when there wasn't time for paramedics to arrive. They've carried out a dangerous and deadly sting operation to get drugs off the streets. They've burst into a white-hot building to save paralyzed senior citizens whose beds were engulfed in flames. They've doggedly pursued an 18-year-old cold case until justice was done. And they've investigated last year's attempted Times Square bombing, successfully extracting a full confession and a wealth of actionable intelligence leading to arrests that have made this country safer.<p>Think about the strong stuff that takes. Think about the character it takes to refuse to close the books on a case forgotten by all but the victims' families, the coolness it takes to talk down an armed and hostile criminal, the courage it takes to run into flames or press forward through a hail of bullets when every natural instinct would say: Stop. Think about yourself. Survive.<p>They'll be the first to say that they've been trained to do it. Some of them will argue they're not heroes. They'll tell you a badge doesn't bestow courage, that special training or physical strength doesn't make you braver, that heroism isn't something made evident only after the chaos of a firefight. I think when you talk to most of these guys, they'll say heroism lies just as much in the action of their fellow officers and the hearts of the fellow citizens they've sworn to protect.<p>And it's true, heroism is all around us, inside of all of us, just waiting to be summoned. But I tell you what, when gunshots ring out and fires burn hot, when injustice goes unanswered and innocent people cry out for help, it's one thing to talk about courage, it's another thing to respond swiftly, decisively, heroically, with little regard for yourself and complete regard for your fellow man.<p>And these are the men and women who actually responded. These are America's TOP COPS, who protect and who serve, who walk the beat, who answer the call and do the dangerous and difficult work of forging a safer, stronger America, block by block and neighborhood by neighborhood.<p>So each of you deserves this moment in the sun, and it is sunny. [<i>Laughter</i>] Because tomorrow we know that you and your fellow first-responders will be back on your diligent duty, looking out for us, looking out for one another, looking back at times with fallen partners, determined to make sure that their extraordinary sacrifices were not in vain. And we will be standing behind you, as one Nation and one people, proud of your actions, awed by your courage, and grateful for your service on our behalves.<p>So to all of you and to all who wear the badge, thank you for keeping us safe. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. We're going to knock down this podium, and let's take a picture with America's TOP COPS.\" "
"111" "\"Recently, there have been signs that the economy is picking up steam. Last month, we saw the strongest job growth in 5 years and have added more than three-quarters of a million private sector jobs in just 3 months. But there are still too many Americans who are either looking for work or struggling to pay the bills and make the mortgage. Paychecks aren't getting any bigger, but the cost of everything from groceries to college tuition keeps on rising.<p>Without a doubt, one of the biggest burdens over the last few months has been the price of gasoline. In many places, gas is now more than $4 a gallon, meaning that you could be paying more than $60 to fill up your tank. These spikes in gas prices are often temporary, and while there are no quick fixes to the problem, there are a few steps we should take that make good sense.<p>First, we should make sure that no one is taking advantage of consumers at the pump. That's why we've launched a task force led by the Attorney General that has one job: rooting out cases of fraud or manipulation in the markets that might affect gas prices, including any illegal activity by traders and speculators.<p>Second, we should increase safe and responsible oil production here at home. Last year, America's oil production reached its highest level since 2003. But I believe that we should continue to expand oil production in America, even as we increase safety and environmental standards.<p>To do this, I'm directing the Department of Interior to conduct annual lease sales in Alaska's National Petroleum Reserve, while respecting sensitive areas, and to speed up the evaluation of oil and gas resources in the Mid- and South Atlantic. We plan to lease new areas in the Gulf of Mexico as well and work to create new incentives for industry to develop their unused leases both on and offshore.<p>We're also taking steps to give companies time to meet higher safety standards when it comes to exploration and drilling. That's why my administration is extending drilling leases in areas of the Gulf that were impacted by the temporary moratorium, as well as certain areas off the coast of Alaska. And to streamline that permitting process, I'm establishing a new team to coordinate work on Alaska drilling permits.<p>Finally, the third step we should take is to eliminate the taxpayer subsidies we give to oil and gas companies. In the last few months, the biggest oil companies made about $4 billion in profits each week. And yet they get $4 billion in taxpayer subsidies each year. Four billion dollars at a time when Americans can barely fill up their tanks. Four billion dollars at a time when we're trying to reduce our deficit.<p>This isn't fair; it makes no sense. Before I was President, the CEOs of these companies even admitted that the tax subsidies made no sense. Well, next week, there's a vote in Congress to end these oil company giveaways once and for all. And I hope Democrats and Republicans come together and get this done.<p>The American people shouldn't be subsidizing oil companies at a time when they're making near-record profits. As a nation, we should be investing in the clean, renewable sources of energy that are the ultimate solution to high gas prices. That's why we're investing in clean energy technology, helping businesses that manufacture solar panels and wind turbines, and making sure that our cars and trucks can go further on a tank of gas, a step that could save families as much as $3,000 at the pump.<p>These are investments worth making, investments that will save us money, reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and protect the health and safety of our planet. That's an energy policy for the future, and it's what I'll be fighting for in the weeks and months to come.<p>Thanks.\" "
"112" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello everybody. It's good to see you guys. Hello, hello. So how's everybody doing? You guys doing good? How's everybody doing? You're all kind of excited about graduating, huh? Well, listen, I just had a chance to meet your principal and these two outstanding classmates of yours, and I just want to say how inspired we were. We were inspired by the video you sent. We're inspired by the stories you told. We're inspired by how you've turned this school around. Now, obviously, a lot of that has to do with your outstanding principal, and we are proud of her.<p>She says you guys know how old she is. How old is she?<p><i>Students.</i> Twenty-five!<p><i>The President.</i> Twenty-five. She started when she was 7, as a child prodigy--[<i>Laughter</i>]--teaching high school at 7 years old. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Obviously, it has a lot to do with great teachers, but this is mainly your day and your success, because a lot of you--and I'm going to talk about this at the commencement--a lot of you had to struggle to get here. Most of you weren't born with a silver spoon in your mouth. But what you've shown is determination. What you've shown is character. What you've shown is a willingness to work hard and the ability to steer clear of folks that were trying to send you down the wrong path. And so as a consequence, you've now become role models for all the young people coming up behind you. You've become an inspiration to the city and the State of Tennessee and the country.<p>So I just wanted you all to know, you inspire me. That's why I'm here. I could not be prouder of what you do. But I've still got some big, big expectations for you, so don't think just because you graduate from high school that that's it. You've got a lot more work to do, because I expect all of you to be leaders in this community and communities all across the country. And this is just the beginning. This is not the end. All right?<p>So God bless you guys. I'm so excited to be here.\" "
"113" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody! Welcome. Please, have a seat. Have a seat. Welcome to the White House, and congratulations to the Huskies on being the best college basketball team in the land. <p>Before we start, I want to acknowledge a big Huskies fan that's in the house: Senator Joe Lieberman is here. I know he is proud of this team. <p>I have to be honest, this is a bittersweet day for me. [<i>Laughter</i>] On the one hand, I get to congratulate a great team and a great coach on winning the national championship. On the other hand, I'm reminded once again that my bracket was a bust. [<i>Laughter</i>] I did not pick UConn to win it all. That was a big mistake. [<i>Laughter</i>] I was just mentioning to Coach that it was because Andy Katz of ESPN told me there's no way UConn was winning. [<i>Laughter</i>] I did have these guys going to the Elite Eight, and I was doing pretty well in my pool at the beginning of the tournament, and then things completely fell apart.<p>But I was not alone. Let's face it, this was a tough year for a lot of brackets because teams like this one shocked the world. So next time you guys decide to reel off 11 straight wins, please let me know ahead of time. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Because the truth is, UConn's perfect run through the Big East and the NCAA tournament was a surprise to everybody but themselves and Coach. These guys knew they had something special. And even though they finished the regular season tied for ninth in the Big East, even though there were some rough spots during the season, these players just put their heads down, they worked hard, and they focused on winning the games that counted. <p>They succeeded because everybody knew that they had a role to play. There was, of course, Coach Calhoun, who now joins John Wooden, Adolph Rupp, and Mike Krzyzewski and Bobby Knight as the only coaches ever to win three national championships. That's pretty good company there, Coach. <p>There's Shabazz Napier, who sang and danced and talked his way through a incredible freshman season. [<i>Laughter</i>] If he's making rabbit ears behind me or anything like that, please stop him. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>At the other end of the spectrum there's Jeremy Lamb. He's sort of the anti-Shabazz. [<i>Laughter</i>] He's quiet. [<i>Laughter</i>] But he lets his play do the talking and exploded to average 15 points a game during the postseason. <p>And then there's Kemba Walker, who--[<i>Applause</i>]--this is a guy who wanted to go to UConn so badly in high school that he recruited them--never afraid to take a last shot, a player who will go down in history as one of the greatest ever to wear the Huskies uniform, and a player who always lived by his dad's advice that \\"it's not the size of the person, it's the size of the heart.\\"<p>So if you put all that together--young team, long-shot odds and then a postseason run, and the Kemba show--that was a pretty inspiring season. <p>I want to thank all the players, all the coaches who held the basketball clinic earlier this afternoon and inspiring some future stars here from DC. I think you made their year. And I want to thank everybody who is involved in the UConn family, because obviously, this has been a great program for many, many years, Coach. And I know that you could not do it without all the folks who are represented here today: assistant coaches, trainers, folks in the athletic department, everybody who has been so supportive of this outstanding, outstanding program.<p>So congratulations to all of you. Hopefully, we will see you again soon. You got a bunch of freshmen, so I don't see why these guys couldn't go on a pretty good run here. But we couldn't be prouder of them, and I know that the great State of Connecticut couldn't be prouder of them as well. <p>So congratulations. <p><i>Coach James C. Calhoun</i>. Well, thank you, Mr. President. As you know, Kemba was waiting for you--when you were up in the air, he was down on the ground, because--unfortunately, he actually was up in the air stuck at LaGuardia Airport for 3 hours. But he did want that one-on-one game with you.<p><i>The President.</i> I'm ready. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Coach Calhoun</i>. Does he have enough game, you think?<p><i>The President.</i> As long as he's wearing street shoes and a suit. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Coach Calhoun</i>. I like a guy with edges. [<i>Laughter</i>] President and folks, I just want to say it's a thrill for us to be here representing the State of Connecticut, certainly the University of Connecticut. Joe Lieberman was there a long time ago before we started going to the White House occasionally.<p><i>The President.</i> It was a really long time ago. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Coach Calhoun</i>. Matter of fact--no, we'll get into that at another time. But it's been a thrill. This year was reminding me in many, many ways, between my wife and myself, rooting you on. We stopped with the team at the Lincoln Memorial, and I know how much you admired Lincoln.<p>I was telling our kids just when great things happen, like--I happened to be buying some bookmarkers for the kids that you might recognize.<p><i>The President.</i> Absolutely.<p>Coach Calhoun. And I said simply that people like Lincoln and Martin Luther King and so on, maybe our President, were speeding along in the process of being something special that he truly is. And I believe that and feel that way.<p>This basketball team, by the way, was kind of an underdog, much as you were. And who would have thought, 15 years ago--who would have thought maybe 9 months ago we would be here. <p>But you know what? Yes, we can. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>The President.</i> Yes, we can. I like that. <p>Coach Calhoun. And like you, Mr. President, yes, we did. We did because we cared. We cared as a family. We cared about each other. We accepted our roles. We accepted who we are and did anything possible to be the best we possibly can become. I watched your rise--magnificent. I've watched their rise, and it's been one of the most emotional seasons of my entire life.<p>I'm proud of what you've done, certainly, and I'm certainly proud of my kids. And I just thank you very much for having us here. And I want to especially congratulate you, because last night I knew you were pretty excited to watch the Chicago Bulls. Am I correct?<p><i>The President.</i> I was. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Coach Calhoun</i>. That was an easy call.<p><i>The President.</i> What do you think? Some of you guys may want to look at the Bulls organization. They could use a shooter. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Coach Calhoun</i>. But once again, thank you for everything, Mr. President.<p><i>The President.</i> Thank you so much.<p><i>Coach Calhoun</i>. We really appreciate having you here, and you're an inspiration to so many young people, definitely a lot of the people I've coached. And I just want to say that you make us all feel proud about our country and certainly feel proud when you interject athletics and education, because it's very important to us. <p><i>The President.</i> Thank you so much. <p><i>Coach Calhoun</i>. And I've got someone special to bring up now, Kemba Walker. Kemba, come on. <p><i>Guard Kemba Walker</i>. I just want to say--I want to thank everybody for coming out. I have one question for the President. I wanted to ask you, can you teach me that walk?<p>The President. That walk? [<i>Laughter</i>] That's a special Presidential walk--[<i>laughter</i>]--so--but maybe in a few years. You look pretty good behind the podium, I got to say. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Mr. Walker</i>. I'm looking forward to that. [<i>Laughter</i>] But on behalf of the team, we all just--we want to give you this jersey.<p><i>[At this point, the President was presented with a team jersey.]</i><p><i>The President.</i> All right. Oh, man, that's outstanding. Thank you. That's a good-looking jersey there. <p>Absolutely. There you go. Fantastic. <p>All right, we're going to strike the podium and get a good picture with the whole crew.\" "
"114" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you very much, everybody. Everybody, please have a seat. Thank you, Chris. Hello, Memphis. Congratulations to the class of 2011!<p>Now, I will admit, being President is a great job. [<i>Laughter</i>] I have a very nice plane. [<i>Laughter</i>] I have a theme song. [<i>Laughter</i>] But what I enjoy most is having a chance to come to a school like Booker T. Washington High School and share this day with its graduates. So I could not be more pleased to be here.<p>We've got some wonderful guests who are here as well, and I just want to make mention of them very quickly. First of all, the Governor of Tennessee, Bill Haslam, is here. Please give him a big round of applause. Three outstanding members of the Tennessee congressional delegation, all of whom care deeply about education: Senator Bob Corker, Senator Lamar Alexander, and Congressman Steve Cohen is here. You've got one of Memphis's own, former Congressman Harold Ford, Jr., is in the house. And the mayor of Memphis, A.C. Wharton, is here. Please give him a big round of applause.<p>I am so proud of each and every one of you.<p><i>Student.</i> Thank you!<p><i>The President.</i> You're welcome. You made it, and not just through high school. You made it past Principal Kiner. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, I've spent a little bit of time with her now, and you can tell she is not messing around. [<i>Laughter</i>] I've only been in Memphis a couple hours, but I'm pretty sure that if she told me to do something, I'd do it. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Then I had the chance to meet her mom and her daughter Amber a little while back, and we took a picture. It turns out, Amber actually goes to another high school. She was worried that the boys would be afraid to talk to her if her mom was lurking in the hallways--[<i>Laughter</i>]--which is why my next job will be principal at Sasha and Malia's high school. [<i>Laughter</i>] And then I'll be president of their college. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Let me also say to Alexis and Vashti, I heard that you were a little nervous about speaking today, but now I'm a little nervous speaking after you because you both did terrific jobs. We've had some great performances by Shalonda and Tecia and Paula and the jazz band. Give them a big round of applause.<p>Last but not least, I want to recognize all the people who helped you to reach this milestone: the parents, the grandparents, the aunts, the uncles, the sisters, the brothers, the friends, the neighbors who have loved you and stood behind you every step of the way. Congratulations, family.<p>And I want to acknowledge the devoted teachers and administrators at Booker T. Washington, who believed in you, who kept the heat on you, and have never treated teaching as a job, but rather as a calling.<p>Now, every commencement is a day of celebration. I was just telling somebody backstage, I just love commencements. I get all choked up at commencements. So I can tell you already right now, I will cry at my children's commencement. I cry at other people's commencements. [<i>Laughter</i>] But this one is especially hopeful. This one's especially hopeful because some people say that schools like BTW just aren't supposed to succeed in America. You'll hear them say: \\"The streets are too rough in those neighborhoods. The schools are too broken. The kids don't stand a chance.\\"<p>We are here today because every single one of you stood tall and said, \\"Yes, we can.\\" Yes, we can learn. Yes, we can succeed. You decided you would not be defined by where you come from, but by where you want to go, by what you want to achieve, by the dreams you hope to fulfill.<p>Just a couple of years ago, this was a school where only about half the students made it to graduation. For a long time, just a handful headed to college each year. But at Booker T. Washington, you changed all that.<p>You created special academies for ninth graders to start students off on the right track. You made it possible for kids to take AP classes and earn college credits. You even had a team take part in robotics competition so students can learn with their hands by building and creating. And you didn't just create a new curriculum, you created a new culture, a culture that prizes hard work and discipline, a culture that shows every student here that they matter and that their teachers believe in them. As Principal Kiner says, \\"The kids have to know that you care before they care what you know.\\"<p>And because you created this culture of caring and learning, today we're standing with a very different Booker T. Washington High School. Today this is a place where more than four out of five students are earning a diploma, a place where 70 percent of the graduates will continue their education, where many will be the very first in their families to go to college.<p>Today Booker T. Washington is a place that has proven why we can't accept excuses--any excuses--when it comes to education. In the United States of America, we should never accept anything less than the best that our children have to offer.<p>As your teacher Steve McKinney--where's Steve at? There he is--a.k.a. Big Mac. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I see why they call you Big Mac. [<i>Laughter</i>] As Mr. McKinney said in the local paper, \\"We need everyone to broaden their ideas about what is possible. We need parents, politicians, and the media to see how success is possible, how success is happening every day.\\"<p>So that's why I came here today. Because if success can happen here at Booker T. Washington, it can happen anywhere in Memphis. And if it can happen in Memphis, it can happen anywhere in Tennessee. And if it can happen anywhere in Tennessee, it can happen all across America.<p>So ever since I became President, my administration has been working hard to make sure that we build on the progress that's taking place in schools like this. We've got to encourage the kind of change that's led not by politicians, not by Washington, DC, but by teachers and principals and parents and entire communities, by ordinary people standing up and demanding a better future for their children.<p>We have more work to do so that every child can fulfill his or her God-given potential. And here in Tennessee, we've been seeing great progress. Tennessee has been a leader, one of the first winners of the nationwide Race to the Top that we've launched to reward the kind of results you're getting here at Booker T. Washington.<p>And understand, this isn't just an issue for me. I'm standing here as President because of the education that I received. As Chris said, my father left my family when I was 2 years old. And I was raised by a single mom, and sometimes she struggled to provide for me and my sister. But my mother, my grandparents, they pushed me to excel. They refused to let me make excuses. And they kept pushing me, especially on those rare occasions where I'd slack off or get into trouble. They weren't that rare, actually. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm sure nobody here has done anything like that. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I'm so blessed that they kept pushing, I'm so lucky that my teachers kept pushing because education made all the difference in my life. The same is true for Michelle; education made such a difference in her life. And Michelle's dad was a city worker, had multiple sclerosis, had to wake up every day, and it took him a couple hours just to get ready for work. But he went to work every day. Her mom was a secretary, went to work every day, and kept on pushing her just like my folks pushed me.<p>That's what's made a difference in our lives. And it's going to make an even greater difference in your lives, not just for your own success, but for the success of the United States of America. Because we live in a new world now. Used to be that you didn't have to have an education. If you were willing to work hard, you could go to a factory somewhere and get a job. Those times are passed. Believe it or not, when you go out there looking for a job, you're not just competing against people in Nashville or Atlanta, you're competing against young people in Beijing and Mumbai. That's some tough competition. Those kids are hungry. They're working hard. And you'll need to be prepared for it.<p>And as a country, we need all of our young people to be ready. We can't just have some young people successful. We've got to have every young person contributing, earning those high school diplomas and then earning those college diplomas or getting certified in a trade or a profession. We can't succeed without it.<p>Through education, you can also better yourselves in other ways. You learn how to learn, how to think critically and find solutions to unexpected challenges. I remember, we used to ask our teachers, \\"Why am I going to need algebra?\\" Well, you may not have to solve for <i>x</i> to get a good job or to be a good parent, but you will need to think through tough problems. You'll need to think on your feet. You'll need to know how to gather facts and evaluate information. So, math teachers, you can tell your students that the President says they need algebra. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Education also teaches you the value of discipline, that the greatest rewards come not from instant gratification, but from sustained effort and from hard work. This is a lesson that's especially true today, in a culture that prizes flash over substance, that tells us that the goal in life is to be entertained, that says you can be famous just for being famous. I mean, you get on a reality show, don't know what you've done, suddenly, you're famous. But that's not going to lead to lasting, sustained achievement.<p>And finally, with the right education, both at home and at school, you can learn how to be a better human being. For when you read a great story or you learn about an important moment in history, it helps you imagine what it would be like to walk in somebody else's shoes, to know their struggles. The success of our economy will depend on your skills, but the success of our community will depend on your ability to follow the Golden Rule, to treat others as you would like to be treated.<p>We've seen how important this is even in the past few weeks as communities here in Memphis and all across the South have come together to deal with floodwaters and to help each other in the aftermath of terrible tornadoes.<p>All of these qualities--empathy, discipline, the capacity to solve problems, the capacity to think critically--these skills don't just change how the world sees us, they change how we see ourselves. They allow each of us to seek out new horizons and new opportunities with confidence, with the knowledge that we're ready, that we can face obstacles and challenges and unexpected setbacks. That's the power of your education. That's the power of the diploma that you receive today.<p>And this is something that Booker T. Washington himself understood. Think about it. He entered this world a slave on a Southern plantation. But he would leave this world as the leader of a growing civil rights movement and the president of the world-famous Tuskegee Institute.<p>Booker T. Washington believed that change and equality would be won in the classroom. So he convinced folks to help him buy farmland. Once he had the land, he needed a school. So he assigned his first students to actually build the chairs and the desks and even a couple of the classrooms. You thought your teachers were tough.<p>Booker T. Washington ran a tight ship. He'd ride the train to Tuskegee and scare some of the new students. This is before YouTube and TMZ, so the kids didn't recognize him. [<i>Laughter</i>] He'd walk up to them and say: \\"Oh, you're heading to Tuskegee. I heard the work there is hard. I heard they give the students too much to do. I hear the food is terrible. You probably won't last 3 months.\\" But the students would reply, they weren't afraid of hard work. They were going to complete their studies no matter what Booker T. Washington threw at them. And in that way, he prepared them, because life will throw some things at you.<p>The truth is, not a single one of the graduates here today has had it easy. Not a single one of you had anything handed to you on a silver platter. You had to work for it. You had to earn it. Most of all, you had to believe in yourselves.<p>I think of Chris's stories and what he's faced in his life: lost his father to violence at the age of 4, had a childhood illness that could have been debilitating. But somehow, he knew in his heart that he could take a different path.<p>I think of all the graduates here who had to leave their homes when their apartments were torn down, but who took two buses each morning to come back to Booker T. Washington.<p>I think of Eron Jackson. Where is Eron? Eron's known a lot of setbacks in her young life. There was a period when she lashed out and she got into trouble and she made mistakes. And when she first came to Booker T. Washington, she struggled. Is that right? There are plenty of people out there who would have counted Eron out, a lot of people who would have thought of her as another statistic. But that's not how the teachers here at Booker T. Washington saw her. And that's not how Eron came to see herself. So she kept coming back to school, and she didn't give up, and she didn't quit. And in time, became--she became a great student.<p>And she remembered what Principal Kiner told her: \\"You can't let the past get you down. You have to let it motivate you.\\" And so now here Eron is, graduating. She's going to keep studying to get her barber's certificate so she can cut hair and save for college. She's working toward her dream to becoming a lawyer. She's got a bright future.<p>Everybody here has got a unique story like that to tell. Each of you knows what it took for you to get here. But in reaching this milestone, there is a common lesson shared by every graduate in this hall, and Chris said it himself in a recent interview: \\"It's not where you are or what you are. It's who you are.\\"<p>Yes, you're from South Memphis. Yes, you've always been underdogs. Nobody has handed you a thing. But that also means that whatever you accomplish in your life, you will have earned it. Whatever rewards and joys you reap, you'll appreciate them that much more because they will have come through your own sweat and tears, products of your own effort and your own talents. You've shown more grit and determination in your childhoods than a lot of adults ever will. That's who you are.<p>So, class of 2011, the hard road does not end here. Your journey has just begun. Your diploma is not a free pass. It won't protect you against every setback or challenge or mistake. You'll make some, I promise. You're going to have to keep working hard. You're going to have to keep pushing yourselves. And you'll find yourselves sometime in situations where folks have had an easier time, they're a little bit ahead of you, and you're going to have to work harder than they are. And you may be frustrated by that.<p>But if you do push yourselves, if you build on what you've already accomplished here, then I couldn't be more confident about your futures. I'm hopeful and I'm excited about what all of you can achieve. And I know that armed with the skills and experience and the love that you've gained at Booker T. Washington High School, you're ready to make your mark on the world.<p>So thank you. Thanks for inspiring me. God bless you. God bless the United States.\" "
"115" "\"Hello, everybody. Good afternoon. Welcome to the White House. <p>I am going to be very brief, but I do want to start by recognizing a few people. First of all, a great friend of mine, one of the driving forces behind the creation of this month, and somebody who happens to be the new chair of the DNC, Debbie Wasserman Schultz is here. I want to thank--did somebody say, \\"Stand up!\\" to Debbie? Come on, that's--[<i>laughter</i>]--that's all right. There's a lot of fight in that little package. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I want to thank Ambassador Michael Oren for being here and doing fine work representing our great friend, the State of Israel. Jewish Americans have always stood up for freedom and democracy around the world, and that includes our unshakeable support and commitment to the security of the State of Israel. <p>I want to thank the Maccabeats for their outstanding performance. They just did an outstanding number for me. It was very brief. [<i>Laughter</i>] It said, \\"Four more years.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] It was good. I really liked it. So thank you. <p>We've got more than a few Members of Congress here, and I just want to say thank you to all of them for everything that they do working with us to help advance not only freedom and prosperity here in the United States, but around the world. <p>Finally, we're honored to be joined by Justices Breyer and Ginsburg, and a dear friend of mine and an inspiration to the world, the great Elie Wiesel is here, so--[<i>Applause</i>]. <p>This month is a chance for Americans of every faith to appreciate the contributions of the Jewish people throughout our history, often in the face of unspeakable discrimination and adversity. For hundreds of years, Jewish Americans have fought heroically in battle and inspired us to pursue peace. They've built our cities, cured our sick. They've paved the way in the sciences and the law, in our politics and in the arts. They remain our leaders, our teachers, our neighbors, and our friends.<p>Not bad for a band of believers who have been tested from the moment that they came together and professed their faith. The Jewish people have always persevered. And that's why today is about celebrating the people in this room, the thousands who came before, the generations who will shape the future of our country and the future of the world.<p>So I hope that everybody enjoys themselves. I encourage you to take a look at some of the exhibits that are set up here in the hallway. And I am grateful for all of your friendships.<p>Thank you.\" "
"116" "\"<i>The President.</i> Well, good afternoon, everyone. Distinguished guests, Governor Malloy and Congressman Courtney, families, friends, and most of all--well, let's try it this way: Cadets, what class is this?<p><i>Cadets.</i> Class of 2011! <p><i>The President.</i> Okay, I just wanted to make sure.<p>It is a great honor to be with you as we commission the newest ensigns in the United States Coast Guard. And, cadets, let me say--and I know your families will agree--you all look fantastic. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Thank you, Secretary Napolitano, for your introduction, but more importantly, your outstanding leadership in keeping our homeland secure and, along with Admiral Papp, keeping our Coast Guard strong.<p>And to Admiral Burhoe and Academy faculty and staff, thank you for building these outstanding young men and women into \\"inspiring leaders of character\\" who are \\"prepared to serve their country.\\" And, Admiral Burhoe, as you prepare to retire in the coming days, I just want to thank you and your wife Betsy for 34 years of distinguished service to our country. We are grateful.<p>I have to say, by the way, he looks a little too young to retire. So--[<i>Laughter</i>]--you don't want him roaming around the house. Make sure he's doing something. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Although my understanding is she's not here today, I also want to acknowledge your next Superintendent, Admiral Sandra Stosz. She will become the first woman ever to lead one of our Nation's military academies. That's an incredible tribute to her, but also a tribute to the opportunities that the Coast Guard affords women of talent and commitment, including the class of 2011, which has one of the largest numbers of women cadets in the history of this Academy.<p>But, cadets, today is your day. But it's also a testament to those who supported you every step of your journey. When you chose this life of service, your families backed you up. When you thought you couldn't go on, they bucked you up. I suspect, when things got a little tight in the money department, they coughed it up. [<i>Laughter</i>] So, cadets, you are here because of them, and I ask you in joining me in honoring your remarkable families.<p>I have to say, it is a personal pleasure to be here, because since the day I took office, the United States Coast Guard has played a special role in my Presidency and with my family. I've seen the Coast Guard's precision when some of you--the class of 2011--marched in the parade during my Inauguration. You looked pretty good on that day too. [<i>Laughter</i>] It was a little colder that day, if you recall. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I've seen your devotion to duty all along the Gulf Coast, when the Coast Guard, including members of this class, worked day and night, tirelessly, as you led the largest environmental cleanup in our Nation's history.<p>I've seen your pride, when I was in, of all places, Afghanistan. I was in Bagram, thanking our troops for their service. And I was giving a shout-out to every service: Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines. And then, way in the back of the crowd, a voice shouted out, \\"And Coast Guard!\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] There was no ocean in sight. [<i>Laughter</i>] Not a body of water visible anywhere. [<i>Laughter</i>] But the Coast Guard was there, serving with honor, as you have in every major conflict that our Nation has ever fought.<p>In fact, I see the professionalism of the Coast Guard every day in the officers and enlisted personnel who serve with us at the White House. And they include Admiral Stephen Rochon, who wore the uniform for 36 years, then became the Chief Usher at the White House, responsible for keeping us running smooth, day in, day out. His grandson Patrick is graduating today, and I'm told that Patrick's classmates have a bet on whether his grandfather can still fit in his old uniform. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Well, Admiral Rochon is here. I want to thank him for his outstanding service to our family and our Nation. And by the way, the uniform still fits, so we're proud of him.<p>I'd add that my Michelle is inspired by the Coast Guard as well. Last summer, Michelle had the honor of becoming the first First Lady to sponsor a Coast Guard cutter, the <i>Stratton</i>. And she was deeply moved by the story of Dorothy Stratton and the SPARS that she led in World War II. At the christening, Michelle was also very relieved that the bottle actually broke. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I know that she is so grateful to be part of the life of that Coast Guard cutter and its crew.<p>Cadets, this is the heritage, this is the tradition that you will carry forward. And I know that you will do so with the same sense of purpose, the same sense of patriotism that have defined your days at this Academy.<p>You excelled physically, especially that first Swab Summer. Your upperclassmen--your cadre--were kind enough to let you carry all those heavy bags and logs--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and rafts over your head until your arms were numb. They treated you to the pleasure of relentless questioning and memorization and recitations. And as a reward for your endurance, they gave you the gift of Sea Trials. [<i>Laughter</i>] But you survived.<p>You excelled intellectually. Among your ranks is Cadet Melissa McCafferty. She is a recipient of the Truman Scholarship, making the Coast Guard Academy one of the only schools ever to win that prestigious scholarship 3 years in a row--3 years in a row.<p>Where's Melissa? Let me embarrass you in front of everybody. [<i>Laughter</i>] There you are, right over there. Congratulations.<p>I'm also told that the class of 2011 has earned the highest GPA of any class in the history of this Academy. So these are not just pretty faces here. [<i>Laughter</i>] Well done.<p>You've excelled professionally, pulling together and succeeding together during your training, serving in dozens of countries on six continents, aboard cutters saving lives on the high seas, joining maritime exercises with our foreign partners, keeping illegal drugs from reaching our streets.<p>Through it all, you've embraced \\"the liking for the sea and its lore.\\" That includes a liking and respect for one another. You come from every station in life, every corner of our country, including my home State of Hawaii. In fact, I'm told that Cadet Jennifer Proctor comes from my old high school, Punahou in Honolulu. Where is she? Jennifer? Come on. Howzit? Right on.<p>This Academy welcomes cadets from all over the world, including two dedicated young men in your class from the Marshall Islands and Romania. And I want to thank President Zedkaia of the Marshall Islands, as well as King George Tupou from Tonga, who is here. They are two of America's closest partners among the Pacific Island nations. Their citizens serve bravely alongside our forces, including in Afghanistan. And we are very, very grateful. So thank you so much for your presence.<p>And, cadets, you have excelled ethically. \\"Who lives here reveres honor, honors duty.\\" You know those words well. They set the highest standards of conduct and integrity for all who pass through Chase Hall. Your presence here today and the new boards that your loved ones and mentors will place upon your shoulders signify that you have met these highest of standards.<p>Now, despite your impressive achievements, I'm told that over these 4 years you've also earned a reputation as a class that always had to wait. [<i>Laughter</i>] That includes waiting longer than any other first-year class in Academy history for the privileges that you had earned. I've kept you waiting as well. [<i>Laughter</i>] So in keeping with longstanding tradition--[<i>Laughter</i>]--I hereby absolve all cadets serving restrictions for minor offenses. The superintendent reminded me, that's \\"minor\\" offenses. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So, cadets, today is a celebration of your success. But it's also a day of expectation, because soon you will report to flight school, sectors, and shore commands or begin your sea duty aboard cutters.<p>Your Nation has great expectations as well. We've made an enormous investment to build you into the leaders that you are. Yes, the Coast Guard may be the smallest of our services, and you will be tasked with vast responsibilities, protecting thousands of miles of coast, securing hundreds of ports, patrolling millions of miles of ocean. But I'm absolutely confident that you will meet these obligations. For in you we see the same spirit that has made your service \\"Always Ready\\" for more than two centuries.<p>In you we see the same courage of the coastguardsmen who defended our young Nation when we didn't have a Navy, who preserved our Union, who fought back at Pearl Harbor, who landed our boats on the beaches of Normandy, and who patrolled the rivers of Vietnam.<p>In you we see the readiness that has made the Coast Guard one of our Nation's first-responders, leading the evacuation of lower Manhattan on 9/11 and often being the very first Americans on the scene, from the earthquake in Haiti to the oil spill in the Gulf.<p>In you we see the same compassion that has led coastguardsmen to pull stranded Americans from the rooftops during Katrina, save desperate migrants clinging to rafts in the Caribbean, and even today, as the Coast Guard rescues Americans from the surging Mississippi.<p>And while we can never predict what the future may hold, we know that the complex missions asked of our Coast Guard have never been more important. Around the world, we need you to partner with other nations to secure their ports, protect the vital shipping lanes of the Persian Gulf, combat piracy off the Horn of Africa, and help train foreign partners from the Americas to Africa to Asia. Here at home, we need you to stop those smugglers and protect our oceans and prevent terrorists from slipping deadly weapons into our ports.<p>Indeed, every American can be proud of our brave military and intelligence personnel who made sure that the terrorist leader who attacked us on 9/11 will never threaten America again. But the hard work of protecting our country, the hard work goes on, securing our homeland and guarding our shores. We will never waver in the defense of this country that we love.<p>None of these missions will be easy, and none are without risk. Etched among the headstones of Arlington and in seaside memorials overlooking the oceans are the names of Coast Guard men and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice for our Nation. This is the life and the risk that you have chosen to accept.<p>As your Commander in Chief, I want you to know that your Nation will do everything in our power to help you succeed. That's why we're investing in the new ships and national security cutters and aircraft that you need to get the job done. It's why we're adding new inspectors and investigators and support personnel to keep pace with today's missions.<p>And because my wife Michelle has met with so many Coast Guard spouses and children and heard about the challenges that they face as military families, we've made it a priority to improve Coast Guard housing and childcare. We need to take care of your families as well as they take care of you.<p>Ultimately, though, it won't be the advanced technologies, the additional budget that determines your success. It won't be the cutters that you command that give you the edge when the seas are swelling and a life is on the line. Your lives in service will be defined by something else, something inside of you, invisible to the eye, but obvious for all to see. The arc of your careers, like the course of our country, will be shaped by the values that have kept us strong for more than 200 years.<p>You see, as Americans, we've always fixed our eyes on the future, setting our sights on what lies beyond the horizon. We haven't always known exactly how to get there. We haven't always known every shoal that lies ahead. But we are sure of our destination, and so we've charted our course toward that \\"more perfect Union.\\"<p>We haven't always been the biggest or strongest of nations. There have been moments in our history when others have counted us out or predicted the demise of our improbable American experiment. But what the naysayers and doubters have never understood is that our American journey has always been propelled by a spirit and strength that sets us apart.<p>Like any good crew, we welcome the talents and skills of all people, no matter where you come from, no matter what you look like. With every generation, we renew our country with the drive and dynamism that says, here in America, anything is possible.<p>And when tough times inevitably come, when war and economic hardship threaten to blow us off course, we do what Americans have always done. We remember our moral compass, that we are citizens with obligations to each other, that we all have responsibilities, that we're all in this together, that we rise and fall as one, that we are the United States of America. And so we pull together. We each do our part, knowing that we have navigated rough seas before and we will do so again.<p>We Americans are an optimistic people. We know that even the darkest storms pass. We know that a brighter day beckons, that, yes, tomorrow can be a better day. For through two centuries of challenge and change, we have never lost sight of our guiding stars: the liberty, the justice, the opportunity that we seek for ourselves, and the universal freedoms and rights that we stand for around the world.<p>So, cadets, if we remember this, if you stay true to the lessons you've learned here on the Thames, if we hold fast to what keeps us strong and unique among nations, then I am confident that future historians will look back on this moment and say that when we faced the test of our time. We stood our watch, we did our duty, we continued our American journey, and we passed our country, safer and stronger, to the next generation.<p>So congratulations, class of 2011. <i>Semper Paratus</i>. And God bless the United States of America.\" "
"117" "\"Thank you. Please have a seat. Thank you very much. I want to begin by thanking Hillary Clinton, who has traveled so much these last 6 months that she is approaching a new landmark: 1 million frequent-flier miles. [<i>Laughter</i>] I count on Hillary every single day, and I believe that she will go down as one of the finest Secretaries of State in our Nation's history.<p>The State Department is a fitting venue to mark a new chapter in American diplomacy. For 6 months, we have witnessed an extraordinary change taking place in the Middle East and North Africa. Square by square, town by town, country by country, the people have risen up to demand their basic human rights. Two leaders have stepped aside. More may follow. And though these countries may be a great distance from our shores, we know that our own future is bound to this region by the forces of economics and security, by history and by faith.<p>Today I want to talk about this change, the forces that are driving it, and how we can respond in a way that advances our values and strengthens our security.<p>Now, already, we've done much to shift our foreign policy following a decade defined by two costly conflicts. After years of war in Iraq, we've removed 100,000 American troops and ended our combat mission there. In Afghanistan, we've broken the Taliban's momentum, and this July we will begin to bring our troops home and continue a transition to Afghan lead. And after years of war against Al Qaida and its affiliates, we have dealt Al Qaida a huge blow by killing its leader, Usama bin Laden.<p>Bin Laden was no martyr. He was a mass murderer who offered a message of hate: an insistence that Muslims had to take up arms against the West and that violence against men, women, and children was the only path to change. He rejected democracy and individual rights for Muslims in favor of violent extremism. His agenda focused on what he could destroy, not what he could build.<p>Bin Laden and his murderous vision won some adherents. But even before his death, Al Qaida was losing its struggle for relevance as the overwhelming majority of people saw that the slaughter of innocents did not answer their cries for a better life. By the time we found bin Laden, Al Qaida's agenda had come to be seen by the vast majority of the region as a dead end, and the people of the Middle East and North Africa had taken their future into their own hands.<p>That story of self-determination began 6 months ago in Tunisia. On December 17, a young vendor named Mohammed Bouazizi was devastated when a police officer confiscated his cart. This was not unique. It's the same kind of humiliation that takes place every day in many parts of the world: the relentless tyranny of governments that deny their citizens dignity. Only this time, something different happened. After local officials refused to hear his complaints, this young man, who had never been particularly active in politics, went to the headquarters of the provincial government, doused himself in fuel, and lit himself on fire.<p>There are times in the course of history when the actions of ordinary citizens spark movements for change because they speak to a longing for freedom that has been building up for years. In America, think of the defiance of those patriots in Boston who refused to pay taxes to a king or the dignity of Rosa Parks as she sat courageously in her seat. So it was in Tunisia, as that vendor's act of desperation tapped into the frustration felt throughout the country. Hundreds of protesters took to the streets, then thousands. And in the face of batons and sometimes bullets, they refused to go home, day after day, week after week, until a dictator of more than two decades finally left power.<p>The story of this revolution, and the ones that followed, should not have come as a surprise. The nations of the Middle East and North Africa won their independence long ago, but in too many places their people did not. In too many countries, power has been concentrated in the hands of a few. In too many countries, a citizen like that young vendor had nowhere to turn: no honest judiciary to hear his case, no independent media to give him voice, no credible political party to represent his views, no free and fair election where he could choose his leader.<p>And this lack of self-determination--the chance to make your life what you will--has applied to the region's economy as well. Yes, some nations are blessed with wealth in oil and gas, and that has led to pockets of prosperity. But in a global economy based on knowledge, based on innovation, no development strategy can be based solely upon what comes out of the ground. Nor can people reach their potential when you cannot start a business without paying a bribe.<p>In the face of these challenges, too many leaders in the region tried to direct their people's grievances elsewhere. The West was blamed as the source of all ills, a half-century after the end of colonialism. Antagonism toward Israel became the only acceptable outlet for political expression. Divisions of tribe, ethnicity, and religious sect were manipulated as a means of holding on to power or taking it away from somebody else.<p>But the events of the past 6 months show us that strategies of repression and strategies of diversion will not work anymore. Satellite television and the Internet provide a window into the wider world, a world of astonishing progress in places like India and Indonesia and Brazil. Cell phones and social networks allow young people to connect and organize like never before. And so a new generation has emerged, and their voices tell us that change cannot be denied.<p>In Cairo, we heard the voice of the young mother who said, \\"It's like I can finally breathe fresh air for the first time.\\" In Sanaa, we heard the students who chanted, \\"The night must come to an end.\\" In Benghazi, we heard the engineer who said, \\"Our words are free now. It's a feeling you can't explain.\\" In Damascus, we heard the young man who said, \\"After the first yelling, the first shout, you feel dignity.\\"<p>Those shouts of human dignity are being heard across the region. And through the moral force of nonviolence, the people of the region have achieved more change in 6 months than terrorists have accomplished in decades.<p>Of course, change of this magnitude does not come easily. In our day and age, a time of 24-hour news cycles and constant communication, people expect the transformation of the region to be resolved in a matter of weeks. But it will be years before this story reaches its end. Along the way, there will be good days and there will bad days. In some places, change will be swift; in others, gradual. And as we've already seen, calls for change may give way, in some cases, to fierce contests for power.<p>The question before us is what role America will play as this story unfolds. For decades, the United States has pursued a set of core interests in the region: countering terrorism and stopping the spread of nuclear weapons, securing the free flow of commerce and safe-guarding the security of the region, standing up for Israel's security and pursuing Arab-Israeli peace.<p>We will continue to do these things, with the firm belief that America's interests are not hostile to people's hopes, they're essential to them. We believe that no one benefits from a nuclear arms race in the region or Al Qaida's brutal attacks. We believe people everywhere would see their economies crippled by a cut-off in energy supplies. As we did in the Gulf war, we will not tolerate aggression across borders, and we will keep our commitments to friends and partners.<p>Yet we must acknowledge that a strategy based solely upon the narrow pursuit of these interests will not fill an empty stomach or allow someone to speak their mind. Moreover, failure to speak to the broader aspirations of ordinary people will only feed the suspicion that has festered for years that the United States pursues our interests at their expense. Given that this mistrust runs both ways, as Americans have been seared by hostage-taking and violent rhetoric and terrorist attacks that have killed thousands of our citizens, a failure to change our approach threatens a deepening spiral of division between the United States and the Arab world.<p>And that's why, 2 years ago in Cairo, I began to broaden our engagement based upon mutual interests and mutual respect. I believed then, and I believe now, that we have a stake not just in the stability of nations, but in the self-determination of individuals. The status quo is not sustainable. Societies held together by fear and repression may offer the illusion of stability for a time, but they are built upon fault lines that will eventually tear asunder.<p>So we face a historic opportunity. We have the chance to show that America values the dignity of the street vendor in Tunisia more than the raw power of the dictator. There must be no doubt that the United States of America welcomes change that advances self-determination and opportunity. Yes, there will be perils that accompany this moment of promise. But after decades of accepting the world as it is in the region, we have a chance to pursue the world as it should be.<p>Of course, as we do, we must proceed with a sense of humility. It's not America that put people into the streets of Tunis or Cairo, it was the people themselves who launched these movements, and it's the people themselves that must ultimately determine their outcome.<p>Not every country will follow our particular form of representative democracy, and there will be times when our short-term interests don't align perfectly with our long-term vision for the region. But we can, and we will, speak out for a set of core principles, principles that have guided our response to the events over the past 6 months.<p>The United States opposes the use of violence and repression against the people of the region.<p>The United States supports a set of universal rights. And these rights include free speech, the freedom of peaceful assembly, the freedom of religion, equality for men and women under the rule of law, and the right to choose your own leaders, whether you live in Baghdad or Damascus, Sanaa or Tehran.<p>And we support political and economic reform in the Middle East and North Africa that can meet the legitimate aspirations of ordinary people throughout the region.<p>Our support for these principles is not a secondary interest. Today I want to make it clear that it is a top priority that must be translated into concrete actions and supported by all of the diplomatic, economic, and strategic tools at our disposal.<p>Let me be specific. First, it will be the policy of the United States to promote reform across the region and to support transitions to democracy. That effort begins in Egypt and Tunisia, where the stakes are high, as Tunisia was at the vanguard of this democratic wave and Egypt is both a longstanding partner and the Arab world's largest nation. Both nations can set a strong example through free and fair elections, a vibrant civil society, accountable and effective democratic institutions, and responsible regional leadership. But our support must also extend to nations where transitions have yet to take place.<p>Unfortunately, in too many countries, calls for change have thus far been answered by violence. The most extreme example is Libya, where Muammar Qadhafi launched a war against his own people, promising to hunt them down like rats. As I said when the United States joined an international coalition to intervene, we cannot prevent every injustice perpetrated by a regime against its people, and we have learned from our experience in Iraq just how costly and difficult it is to try to impose regime change by force, no matter how well intentioned it may be.<p>But in Libya, we saw the prospect of imminent massacre. We had a mandate for action and heard the Libyan people's call for help. Had we not acted along with our NATO allies and regional coalition partners, thousands would have been killed. The message would have been clear: Keep power by killing as many people as it takes. Now time is working against Qadhafi. He does not have control over his country. The opposition has organized a legitimate and credible interim council. And when Qadhafi inevitably leaves or is forced from power, decades of provocation will come to an end and the transition to a democratic Libya can proceed.<p>While Libya has faced violence on the greatest scale, it's not the only place where leaders have turned to repression to remain in power. Most recently, the Syrian regime has chosen the path of murder and the mass arrests of its citizens. The United States has condemned these actions, and working with the international community, we have stepped up our sanctions on the Syrian regime, including sanctions announced yesterday on President Asad and those around him.<p>The Syrian people have shown their courage in demanding a transition to democracy. President Asad now has a choice: He can lead that transition or get out of the way. The Syrian Government must stop shooting demonstrators and allow peaceful protests. It must release political prisoners and stop unjust arrests. It must allow human rights monitors to have access to cities like Dara'a and start a serious dialogue to advance a democratic transition. Otherwise, President Asad and his regime will continue to be challenged from within and will continue to be isolated abroad.<p>So far, Syria has followed its Iranian ally, seeking assistance from Tehran in the tactics of suppression. And this speaks to the hypocrisy of the Iranian regime, which says it stands for the rights of protesters abroad, yet represses its own people at home. Let's remember that the first peaceful protests in the region were in the streets of Tehran, where the Government brutalized women and men and threw innocent people into jail. We still hear the chants echo from the rooftops of Tehran. The image of a young woman dying in the streets is still seared in our memory. And we will continue to insist that the Iranian people deserve their universal rights and a government that does not smother their aspirations.<p>Now, our opposition to Iran's intolerance and Iran's repressive measures, as well as its illicit nuclear program and its support of terror, is well known. But if America is to be credible, we must acknowledge that at times our friends in the region have not all reacted to the demands for consistent change--with change that's consistent with the principles that I've outlined today. That's true in Yemen, where President Salih needs to follow through on his commitment to transfer power. And that's true today in Bahrain. <p>Bahrain is a longstanding partner, and we are committed to its security. We recognize that Iran has tried to take advantage of the turmoil there and that the Bahraini Government has a legitimate interest in the rule of law.<p>Nevertheless, we have insisted both publicly and privately that mass arrests and brute force are at odds with the universal rights of Bahrain's citizens, and we will--and such steps will not make legitimate calls for reform go away. The only way forward is for the Government and opposition to engage in a dialogue, and you can't have a real dialogue when parts of the peaceful opposition are in jail. The Government must create the conditions for dialogue, and the opposition must participate to forge a just future for all Bahrainis.<p>Indeed, one of the broader lessons to be drawn from this period is that sectarian divides need not lead to conflict. In Iraq, we see the promise of a multiethnic, multisectarian democracy. The Iraqi people have rejected the perils of political violence in favor of a democratic process, even as they've taken full responsibility for their own security. Of course, like all new democracies, they will face setbacks. But Iraq is poised to play a key role in the region if it continues its peaceful progress. And as they do, we will be proud to stand with them as a steadfast partner.<p>So in the months ahead, America must use all our influence to encourage reform in the region. Even as we acknowledge that each country is different, we need to speak honestly about the principles that we believe in, with friend and foe alike. Our message is simple: If you take the risks that reform entails, you will have the full support of the United States.<p>We must also build on our efforts to broaden our engagement beyond elites, so that we reach the people who will shape the future, particularly young people. We will continue to make good on the commitments that I made in Cairo to build networks of entrepreneurs and expand exchanges in education, to foster cooperation in science and technology and combat disease. Across the region, we intend to provide assistance to civil society, including those that may not be officially sanctioned and who speak uncomfortable truths. And we will use the technology to connect with and listen to the voices of the people.<p>For the fact is, real reform does not come at the ballot box alone. Through our efforts, we must support those basic rights to speak your mind and access information. We will support open access to the Internet and the right of journalists to be heard, whether it's a big news organization or a lone blogger. In the 21st century, information is power, the truth cannot be hidden, and the legitimacy of governments will ultimately depend on active and informed citizens.<p>Such open discourse is important even if what is said does not square with our worldview. Let me be clear: America respects the right of all peaceful and law-abiding voices to be heard, even if we disagree with them. And sometimes we profoundly disagree with them.<p>We look forward to working with all who embrace genuine and inclusive democracy. What we will oppose is an attempt by any group to restrict the rights of others and to hold power through coercion and not consent. Because democracy depends not only on elections, but also strong and accountable institutions and the respect for the rights of minorities.<p>Such tolerance is particularly important when it comes to religion. In Tahrir Square, we heard Egyptians from all walks of life chant, \\"Muslims, Christians, we are one.\\" America will work to see that this spirit prevails, that all faiths are respected, and that bridges are built among them. In a region that was the birthplace of three world religions, intolerance can lead only to suffering and stagnation. And for this season of change to succeed, Coptic Christians must have the right to worship freely in Cairo, just as Shi'a must never have their mosques destroyed in Bahrain.<p>What is true for religious minorities is also true when it comes to the rights of women. History shows that countries are more prosperous and more peaceful when women are empowered. And that's why we will continue to insist that universal rights apply to women as well as men: by focusing assistance on child and maternal health, by helping women to teach or start a business, by standing up for the right of women to have their voices heard and to run for office. The region will never reach its full potential when more than half of its population is prevented from achieving their full potential.<p>Now, even as we promote political reform, even as we promote human rights in the region, our efforts can't stop there. So the second way that we must support positive change in the region is through our efforts to advance economic development for nations that are transitioning to democracy.<p>After all, politics alone has not put protesters into the streets. The tipping point for so many people is the more constant concern of putting food on the table and providing for a family. Too many people in the region wake up with few expectations other than making it through the day, perhaps hoping that their luck will change. Throughout the region, many young people have a solid education, but closed economies leave them unable to find a job. Entrepreneurs are brimming with ideas, but corruption leaves them unable to profit from those ideas.<p>The greatest untapped resource in the Middle East and North Africa is the talent of its people. In the recent protests, we see that talent on display, as people harness technology to move the world. It's no coincidence that one of the leaders of Tahrir Square was an executive for Google. That energy now needs to be channeled, in country after country, so that economic growth can solidify the accomplishments of the street. For just as democratic revolutions can be triggered by a lack of individual opportunity, successful democratic transitions depend upon an expansion of growth and broad-based prosperity.<p>So drawing from what we've learned around the world, we think it's important to focus on trade, not just aid, on investment, not just assistance. The goal must be a model in which protectionism gives way to openness, the reins of commerce pass from the few to the many, and the economy generates jobs for the young. America's support for democracy will therefore be based on ensuring financial stability, promoting reform, and integrating competitive markets with each other and the global economy. And we're going to start with Tunisia and Egypt.<p>First, we've asked the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund to present a plan at next week's G-8 summit for what needs to be done to stabilize and modernize the economies of Tunisia and Egypt. Together, we must help them recover from the disruptions of their democratic upheaval and support the governments that will be elected later this year. And we are urging other countries to help Egypt and Tunisia meet its near-term financial needs.<p>Second, we do not want a democratic Egypt to be saddled by the debts of its past. So we will relieve a democratic Egypt of up to $1 billion in debt and work with our Egyptian partners to invest these resources to foster growth and entrepreneurship. We will help Egypt regain access to markets by guaranteeing $1 billion in borrowing that is needed to finance infrastructure and job creation. And we will help newly democratic governments recover assets that were stolen.<p>Third, we're working with Congress to create enterprise funds to invest in Tunisia and Egypt. And these will be modeled on funds that supported the transitions in Eastern Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall. OPIC will soon launch a $2 billion facility to support private investment across the region. And we will work with the allies to refocus the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development so that it provides the same support for democratic transitions and economic modernization in the Middle East and North Africa as it has in Europe.<p>Fourth, the United States will launch a comprehensive trade and investment partnership initiative in the Middle East and North Africa. If you take out oil exports, this entire region of over 400 million people exports roughly the same amount as Switzerland. So we will work with the EU to facilitate more trade within the region, build on existing agreements to promote integration with U.S. and European markets, and open the door for those countries who adopt high standards of reform and trade liberalization to construct a regional trade arrangement. And just as EU membership served as an incentive for reform in Europe, so should the vision of a modern and prosperous economy create a powerful force for reform in the Middle East and North Africa.<p>Prosperity also requires tearing down walls that stand in the way of progress: the corruption of elites who steal from their people, the redtape that stops an idea from becoming a business, the patronage that distributes wealth based on tribe or sect. We will help governments meet international obligations and invest efforts at anticorruption by working with parliamentarians who are developing reforms and activists who use technology to increase transparency and hold government accountable. <p>Politics and human rights, economic reform. Let me conclude by talking about another cornerstone of our approach to the region, and that relates to the pursuit of peace.<p>For decades, the conflict between Israelis and Arabs has cast a shadow over the region. For Israelis, it has meant living with the fear that their children could be blown up on a bus or by rockets fired at their homes, as well as the pain of knowing that other children in the region are taught to hate them. For Palestinians, it has meant suffering the humiliation of occupation and never living in a nation of their own. Moreover, this conflict has come with a larger cost to the Middle East, as it impedes partnerships that could bring greater security and prosperity and empowerment to ordinary people.<p>For over 2 years, my administration has worked with the parties and the international community to end this conflict, building on decades of work by previous administrations. Yet expectations have gone unmet. Israeli settlement activity continues. Palestinians have walked away from talks. The world looks at a conflict that has grinded on and on and on and sees nothing but stalemate. Indeed, there are those who argue that with all the change and uncertainty in the region, it is simply not possible to move forward now.<p>I disagree. At a time when the people of the Middle East and North Africa are casting off the burdens of the past, the drive for a lasting peace that ends the conflict and resolves all claims is more urgent than ever. That's certainly true for the two parties involved.<p>For the Palestinians, efforts to delegitimize Israel will end in failure. Symbolic actions to isolate Israel at the United Nations in September won't create an independent state. Palestinian leaders will not achieve peace or prosperity if Hamas insists on a path of terror and rejection. And Palestinians will never realize their independence by denying the right of Israel to exist.<p>As for Israel, our friendship is rooted deeply in a shared history and shared values. Our commitment to Israel's security is unshakeable. And we will stand against attempts to single it out for criticism in international forums. But precisely because of our friendship, it's important that we tell the truth: The status quo is unsustainable, and Israel too must act boldly to advance a lasting peace.<p>The fact is, a growing number of Palestinians live west of the Jordan River. Technology will make it harder for Israel to defend itself. A region undergoing profound change will lead to populism in which millions of people--not just one or two leaders--must believe peace is possible. The international community is tired of an endless process that never produces an outcome. The dream of a Jewish and democratic state cannot be fulfilled with permanent occupation.<p>Now, ultimately, it is up to the Israelis and Palestinians to take action. No peace can be imposed upon them, not by the United States, not by anybody else. But endless delay won't make the problem go away. What America and the international community can do is to state frankly what everyone knows: A lasting peace will involve two states for two peoples--Israel as a Jewish state and the homeland for the Jewish people and the state of Palestine as the homeland for the Palestinian people--each state enjoying self-determination, mutual recognition, and peace.<p>So while the core issues of the conflict must be negotiated, the basis of those negotiations is clear: a viable Palestine, a secure Israel. The United States believes that negotiations should result in two states, with permanent Palestinian borders with Israel, Jordan, and Egypt, and permanent Israeli borders with Palestine. We believe the borders of Israel and Palestine should be based on the 1967 lines with mutually agreed swaps, so that secure and recognized borders are established for both states. The Palestinian people must have the right to govern themselves and reach their full potential in a sovereign and contiguous state.<p>As for security, every state has the right to self-defense, and Israel must be able to defend itself, by itself, against any threat. Provisions must also be robust enough to prevent a resurgence of terrorism, to stop the infiltration of weapons, and to provide effective border security. The full and phased withdrawal of Israeli military forces should be coordinated with the assumption of Palestinian security responsibility in a sovereign, nonmilitarized state. And the duration of this transition period must be agreed, and the effectiveness of security arrangements must be demonstrated.<p>These principles provide a foundation for negotiations. Palestinians should know the territorial outlines of their state; Israelis should know that their basic security concerns will be met. I'm aware that these steps alone will not resolve the conflict, because two wrenching and emotional issues will remain: the future of Jerusalem and the fate of Palestinian refugees. But moving forward now on the basis of territory and security provides a foundation to resolve those two issues in a way that is just and fair and that respects the rights and aspirations of both Israelis and Palestinians.<p>Now, let me say this: Recognizing that negotiations need to begin with the issues of territory and security does not mean that it will be easy to come back to the table. In particular, the recent announcement of an agreement between Fatah and Hamas raises profound and legitimate questions for Israel: How can one negotiate with a party that has shown itself unwilling to recognize your right to exist? And in the weeks and months to come, Palestinian leaders will have to provide a credible answer to that question. Meanwhile, the United States, our Quartet partners, and the Arab States will need to continue every effort to get beyond the current impasse.<p>I recognize how hard this will be. Suspicion and hostility has been passed on for generations, and at times, it has hardened. But I'm convinced that the majority of Israelis and Palestinians would rather look to the future than be trapped in the past. We see that spirit in the Israeli father whose son was killed by Hamas, who helped start an organization that brought together Israelis and Palestinians who had lost loved ones. That father said, \\"I gradually realized that the only hope for progress was to recognize the face of the conflict.\\" We see it in the actions of a Palestinian who lost three daughters to Israeli shells in Gaza. \\"I have the right to feel angry,\\" he said. \\"So many people were expecting me to hate. My answer to them is, I shall not hate. Let us hope,\\" he said, \\"for tomorrow.\\"<p>That is the choice that must be made--not simply in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, but across the entire region--a choice between hate and hope, between the shackles of the past and the promise of the future. It's a choice that must be made by leaders and by the people, and it's a choice that will define the future of a region that served as the cradle of civilization and a crucible of strife.<p>For all the challenges that lie ahead, we see many reasons to be hopeful. In Egypt, we see it in the efforts of young people who led protests. In Syria, we see it in the courage of those who brave bullets while chanting, \\"Peaceful, peaceful.\\" In Benghazi, a city threatened with destruction, we see it in the courthouse square where people gather to celebrate the freedoms that they had never known. Across the region, those rights that we take for granted are being claimed with joy by those who are prying lose the grip of an iron fist.<p>For the American people, the scenes of upheaval in the region may be unsettling, but the forces driving it are not unfamiliar. Our own nation was founded through a rebellion against an empire. Our people fought a painful civil war that extended freedom and dignity to those who were enslaved. And I would not be standing here today unless past generations turned to the moral force of nonviolence as a way to perfect our Union, organizing, marching, protesting peacefully together to make real those words that declared our Nation: \\"We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal.\\"<p>Those words must guide our response to the change that is transforming the Middle East and North Africa, words which tell us that repression will fail and that tyrants will fall and that every man and woman is endowed with certain inalienable rights.<p>It will not be easy. There's no straight line to progress, and hardship always accompanies a season of hope. But the United States of America was founded on the belief that people should govern themselves. And now we cannot hesitate to stand squarely on the side of those who are reaching for their rights, knowing that their success will bring about a world that is more peaceful, more stable, and more just.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"118" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody! Hello, hello, hello! It is good to be with all of you. First of all, how about the outstanding new chair of the DNC, Debbie Wasserman Schultz? Give it up for her. We've got a couple of other outstanding Members of Congress who are here: Senator Kirsten Gillibrand is here, and Representative Donna Edwards is in the house.<p>Now, I was a little confused when they told me I was coming here to address the Women's Leadership Forum, because I address a women's leadership forum every night at dinner. [<i>Laughter</i>] I just left a women's leadership forum. [<i>Laughter</i>] I have Michelle, Malia, Sasha, my mother-in-law. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's just me and Bo--[<i>Laughter</i>]--trying to get a word in edgewise. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Audience member</i>. We're going to let you talk.<p>The President. Oh--that's a change. [<i>Laughter</i>] The last time I spoke to the Women's Leadership Forum was back in 2008. And a lot has changed since then. I'm a little grayer. [<i>Laughter</i>] Back then, we were in the middle of the worst recession since the Great Depression, a recession that would ultimately cost us 8 million jobs. Today, we've got a recovery that's taken hold. Our economy has now been growing for the past five quarters. We've created over 2 million private sector jobs in the last 14 months, more than three-quarters of a million private sector jobs in the last 3 months alone. Each of the Big Three automakers are now making a profit for the first time in years.<p>So obviously, the economy as a whole has an enormous impact on women and everything that women are doing to hold families together during extraordinarily rough times. But we've done a few other things. Along the way, we appointed two more women on the Supreme Court, including the first Latina on the Supreme Court. We launched a competition called Race to the Top that's being touted all across the country for bringing about changes people couldn't imagine at the local level in schools, and it's also helping to recruit more women into the math and science professions, which we think is absolutely critical.<p>We finally passed health care reform to make sure that health care is affordable and available for every single American in the United States. And as part of reform, insurance companies will cover preventive care like mammograms with no out-of-pocket costs. And it will be illegal to charge women more than men just because of their gender.<p>So we're making some progress, but we've still got a long way to go. For all the strides that we've made, women still hold fewer than 20 percent of the seats in Congress, which explains something. [<i>Laughter</i>] Women still only make up 3 percent of the Fortune 500 CEOs. Women are still earning only about 77 cents for every dollar that a man is earning. That's why the first bill that I signed into law was the Lilly Ledbetter bill, to make sure that women get an equal day's pay for an equal day's work. That's not too much to ask.<p>I was disappointed when another important bill to help end pay disparities, the \\"Paycheck Fairness Act,\\" failed by just two votes when not a single Republican would vote for it in the Senate. So I'm going to keep on fighting to pass that piece of legislation.<p>Because SBA loans are three to five times as likely to go to women and minority business owners as conventional loans, we've invested in the SBA. And Karen Mills, our SBA Administrator, is doing an outstanding job. We are making sure that women entrepreneurs have the support they need not only to start a business, but to expand a business and create new jobs across America in the process.<p>Because about one in five women will be sexually assaulted in college, Vice President Joe Biden is working with our Adviser on Violence Against Women, Lynn Rosenthal, to help make sure our universities are fulfilling their obligation under Federal law to stop the scourge of sexual assault on college campuses across America.<p>We created the White House Council on Women and Girls, led by our very own Valerie Jarrett. We created the Office of Global Women's Issues at the State Department, led by Ambassador Melanne Verveer, to make sure our administration is focused on the issues that are facing women and girls here and around the world.<p>Overseas, we lifted the global gag rule that restricted women's access to family planning. We're making important investments in child and maternal health. And we are working to stem the unspeakable cruelties that are being perpetrated against girls and women in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.<p>When it comes to our budget, we need to live within our means, and we've got to cut what we don't need so that we can afford to do the things that we have to do to grow our economy. But what I told the House Republicans during the budget fight is that I'm not willing to defund Planned Parenthood. I'm not willing to sacrifice basic health care and lifesaving preventive care for millions of women.<p>Now, the cause of women aren't just important to me as President, they are personal. I saw my grandmother hit a glass ceiling at the bank where she worked for years. She could have been the best bank president they ever had, but she never got that chance. I saw how Michelle was made to balance work and family when she was a vice president at a hospital. As a father, I want to make sure that my daughters and all of our daughters have the chance to be anything that they want. That's the America that we believe in. That's the America we're fighting for.<p>So to all of you who are activists in your communities, in your neighborhoods, in your work places, I want to say thank you for everything that you've already done to help advance the cause of justice and equality and prosperity and fairness. But I also want to underscore that we are not close to being finished. We are not close to being finished. Back in 2008, on that night in Grant Park, I told everybody, this is not the end, this is the beginning. And I warned everybody we were going to have a steep hill to climb. Change is never easy. And change certainly is not easy in a democracy because people argue, people have different points of view. That's part of what makes a democracy vital and healthy.<p>But we've made enormous strides over the last 2 1/2 years. And that shouldn't be a cause for complacency, but it should give us enormous confidence that we can make even more changes over the next 5 1/2 years. As long as each and every one of you continue to be involved, continue to be engaged, continue to speak out, I promise I will be right there with you, every step of the way.<p>God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"119" "\"Well, thank you, Leon, and thank you, Jim. When I chose Leon Panetta as Director of the CIA, I said he was going to be a strong advocate for this Agency and would strengthen your capabilities to meet the threats of our time. And when I chose Jim Clapper as Director of National Intelligence, I charged him with making sure that our intelligence community works as one integrated team. That's exactly what these two leaders have done, along with all of you.<p>So, Jim and Leon, thank you for your remarkable leadership, not just in recent weeks, but during the entirety of your tenure. You have done a great job.<p>This is my third visit here to Langley as President, and each of these visits has marked another milestone in our mission to protect the American people and keep our country safe.<p>On my first visit, just months after taking office, I stood here and I said that this Agency and our entire intelligence community is fundamental to America's national security. I said that I believed that your best days were still to come, and I pledged that you would have my full support to carry out your critical work.<p>Soon after that visit, I called Leon into the Oval Office, and I directed him to make the killing or capture of Usama bin Laden the top priority in our war to defeat Al Qaida. And he came back here, and you guys, who had already been working so hard on this issue, redoubled your efforts. And that was true all across the intelligence community.<p>My second visit, a year later, came under more somber circumstances. We gathered to pay tribute to seven American patriots who gave their lives in this fight at a remote post in Afghanistan. As has already been mentioned, their stars now grace this Memorial Wall. And through our grief and our tears, we resolved that their sacrifice would be our summons to carry on their work, to complete this mission, to win this war.<p>Today I've returned just to say thank you on behalf of all Americans and people around the world because you carried on. You stayed focused on your mission. You honored the memory of your fallen colleagues. And in helping to locate and take down Usama bin Laden, you made it possible for us to achieve the most significant victory yet in our war to defeat Al Qaida.<p>I just met with some of the outstanding leaders and teams from across the community who worked so long and so hard to make that raid a success. And I'm pleased today that we're joined by representatives from all of our intelligence agencies and that folks are watching this live back at all of those agencies, because this truly was a team effort. That's not always the case in Washington. [<i>Laughter</i>] But all of you work together every single day.<p>This is one of the few times when all these leaders and organizations have the occasion to appear together publicly. And so I thank all of you for coming, because I think it's so important for the American people to see all of you here today.<p>Part of the challenge of intelligence work is, by necessity, your work has to remain secret. I know that carries a heavy burden. You're often the first ones to get the blame when things go wrong, and you're always the last ones to get the credit when things go right. So when things do go right, and they do more often than the world will ever know, we ought to celebrate your success.<p>That's why I came here. I wanted every single one of you to know, whether you work at the CIA or across the community, at every step of our effort to take out bin Laden, the work you did and the quality of the intelligence that you provided made the critical difference: to me, to our team on those helicopters, to our Nation.<p>After I directed that getting bin Laden be your--the priority, you hunkered down even more, building on years of painstaking work, pulling together, in some cases, the slenderest of intelligence streams, running those threads to ground until you found that courier and you tracked him to that compound. And when I was briefed last summer, you had built the strongest intelligence case against--in terms of where bin Laden was since Tora Bora.<p>In the months that followed, including all those meetings in the Situation Room, we did what sound intelligence demands: We pushed for more collection, we pushed for more evidence, we questioned our assumptions. You strengthened your analysis. You didn't bite your tongue and try to spin the ball, but you gave it to me straight each and every time.<p>And we did something really remarkable in Washington: We kept it a secret. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's how it should be.<p>Of course, when the time came to actually make the decision, we didn't know for sure that bin Laden was there. The evidence was circumstantial, and the risks, especially to the lives of our special operations forces, were huge. And I knew that the consequences of failure could be enormous. But I made the decision that I did because I had absolute confidence in the skill of our military personnel and I had confidence in you. I put my bet on you. And now the whole world knows that that faith in you was justified.<p>So just as impressive as what you did was how you did it. It was a tribute to your perseverance, your relentless focus and determination over many years. For the fight against Al Qaida did not begin on 9/11. Among you are veterans who've been pursuing these murderers for many years, even before they attacked our Embassies in Africa and struck the <i>Cole</i> in Yemen. Among you are young men and women for whom 9/11 was a call to service. This fight has defined your generation. And on this wall are stars honoring all your colleagues and friends, more than a dozen who have given their lives in the fight against Al Qaida and its violent allies.<p>As the years wore on, others began to think that this terrorist might never be brought to justice. But you never quit. You never gave up. You pulled together across this Agency and across the community.<p>No one piece of information and no one agency made this possible. You did it together: CIA, National Security Agency, National Reconnaissance Office, the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, everyone at ODNI and the National Counterterrorism Center, folks across the Government, civilian and military, so many of you here today.<p>And that's exactly how our intelligence community is supposed to work, using every capability--human, technical--collecting, analyzing, sharing, integrating intelligence, and then acting on it.<p>That's what made this one of the greatest intelligence successes in American history, and that's why intelligence professionals are going to study and be inspired by your achievement for generations to come.<p>But make no mistake: This is not over. Because we not only took out the symbol and operational leader of Al Qaida, we walked off with his files--[<i>Laughter</i>]--the largest treasure trove of intelligence ever seized from a terrorist leader--many of you now are working around the clock. You didn't have much time to celebrate. We've got to analyze and evaluate and exploit this mountain of intelligence.<p>So today, every terrorist in the Al Qaida network should be watching their back, because we're going to review every video, we are going to examine every photo, we're going to read every one of those millions of pages, we're going to pursue every lead. We are going to go wherever it takes us. We're going to finish the job. We are going to defeat Al Qaida.<p>Even as we stay focused on this mission, we need you to stay nimble and flexible to meet the full range of threats to our security, from plots against our homeland to nations seeking weapons of mass destruction to transnational threats such as cybercriminals and narcotraffickers.<p>So I'm going to keep relying on you for your intelligence, the analysis that comes across my desk every single day. And 300-plus [million]* Americans are counting on you to stay a step ahead of our adversaries and to keep our country safe.<p>I have never been more proud or more confident in you than I am today, not just because this extraordinary success, but because it reminds us of who we are as a people and as a nation. You reminded us that when we Americans set our mind to something, when we are focused and when we are working together, when we're not worried about who's getting the credit and when we stay true to our values, even if it takes years, there is nothing we cannot do.<p>That's why I still believe in what I said my first visit here 2 years ago: Your greatest days are still to come. And if any of you doubt what this means, I wish I could have taken some of you on the trip I made to New York City, where we laid a wreath at Ground Zero, and I had a chance to meet firefighters who had lost an entire shift; police officers who had lost their comrades; a young woman, 14 years old, who had written to me because her last memory of her father was talking to him on the phone while her mother wept beside her, right before they watched the tower go down.<p>And she and other members of families of 9/11 victims talked about what this meant. And it meant that their suffering had not been forgotten and that the American community stands with them, that we stand with each other.<p>So most of you will never get headlines for the work that you do. You won't get ticker-tape parades. But as you go about your work with incredible diligence and dedication every single day, I hope all of you understand how important it is, how grateful I am, and that you have the thanks of a grateful nation.<p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"120" "\"This week, I went to Memphis, Tennessee, where I spoke to the graduating class of Booker T. Washington High School. Graduations are always happy occasions, but this commencement was especially hopeful because of just how much the kids at Booker T. Washington High School had overcome.<p>This is a school in the middle of a tough neighborhood in South Memphis. There's a lot of crime; there's a lot of poverty. And just a few years ago, only about half of the students at the school graduated. Just a handful went off to college each year.<p>But folks came together to change all that. Under the leadership of a dynamic principal and devoted teachers, they started special academies for ninth graders, because they found that that's when a lot of kids were lost. They made it possible for students to take AP classes or vocational courses. Most importantly, they didn't just change the curriculum; they created a culture that prizes hard work and discipline and that shows every student that they matter.<p>Today, four out of five students at the school earn a diploma. Seventy percent continue their education, many the first in their families to go to college. So Booker T. Washington High School is no longer a story about what's gone wrong in education. It's a story about how we can set it right.<p>We need to encourage this kind of change all across America. We need to reward the reforms that are driven not by Washington, but by principals and teachers and parents. That's how we'll make progress in education, not from the top down, but from the bottom up. And that's the guiding principle of the Race to the Top competition my administration started 2 years ago.<p>The idea is simple: If States show that they're serious about reform, we'll show them the money. And it's already making a difference throughout the country. In Tennessee, where I met those students, they've launched an innovative residency program so that new teachers can be mentored by veteran educators. In Oregon, Michigan, and elsewhere, grants are supporting the work of teachers who are lengthening the school day, offering more specialized classes, and making the changes necessary to improve struggling schools.<p>Our challenge now is to allow all 50 States to benefit from the success of Race to the Top. We need to promote reform that gets results, while encouraging communities to figure out what's best for their kids. That's why it's so important that Congress replace No Child Left Behind this year, so schools have that flexibility. Reform just can't wait.<p>And if anyone doubts this, they ought to head to Booker T. Washington High. They ought to meet the inspiring young people who overcame so much and worked so hard to earn their diplomas in a school that believed in their promise and gave them the opportunity to succeed. We need to give every child in America that chance. That's why education reform matters.<p>Thanks for listening, and have a great weekend.\" "
"121" "\"The President. Good morning. Thank you very much. Please have a seat. Thank you. What a remarkable, remarkable crowd. Thank you, Rosy, for your very kind introduction. I did not know you play basketball. [<i>Laughter</i>] I will take your word for it. [<i>Laughter</i>] Rosy, thank you for your many years of friendship. Back in Chicago, when I was just getting started in national politics, I reached out to a lot of people for advice and counsel, and Rosy was one of the very first. When I made my first visit to Israel, after entering the Senate, Rosy, you were at my side every step of that profound journey through the Holy Land. So I want to thank you for your enduring friendship, your leadership, and for your warm introduction today.<p>I also want to thank David Victor, Howard Kohr, and all the board of directors. And let me say that it is wonderful to look out and see so many great friends, including a very large delegation from Chicago: Alan Solow, Howard Green. Thank you all.<p>I want to thank the Members of Congress who are joining you today, who do so much to sustain the bonds between the United States and Israel, including Eric Cantor, Steny Hoyer, and the tireless leader I was proud to appoint as the new chair of the DNC, Debbie Wasserman Schultz.<p>We're joined by Israel's representative to the United States, Ambassador Michael Oren. And we're joined by one of my top advisers on Israel and the Middle East for the past 4 years and who I know is going to be an outstanding Ambassador to Israel, Dan Shapiro. Dan has always been a close and trusted adviser and friend, and I know that he will do a terrific job.<p>And at a time when so many young people around the world are standing up and making their voices heard, I also want to acknowledge all the college students from across the country who are here today. No one has a greater stake in the outcome of events that are unfolding today than your generation, and it's inspiring to see you devote your time and energy to help shape that future.<p>Now, I'm not here to subject you to a long policy speech. I gave one on Thursday in which I said that the United States sees the historic changes sweeping the Middle East and North Africa as a moment of great challenge, but also a moment of opportunity for greater peace and security for the entire region, including the State of Israel.<p>On Friday, I was joined at the White House by Prime Minister Netanyahu, and we reaffirmed that fundamental truth that has guided our Presidents and Prime Ministers for more than 60 years: that even while we may at times disagree, as friends sometimes will, the bonds between the United States and Israel are unbreakable, and the commitment of the United States to the security of Israel is ironclad.<p>A strong and secure Israel is in the national security interest of the United States not simply because we share strategic interests, although we do both seek a region where families and children can live free from the threat of violence. It's not simply because we face common dangers, although there can be no denying that terrorism and the spread of nuclear weapons are grave threats to both our nations.<p>America's commitment to Israel's security flows from a deeper place, and that's the values we share. As two people who struggled to win our freedom against overwhelming odds, we understand that preserving the security for which our forefathers and foremothers fought must be the work of every generation. As two vibrant democracies, we recognize that the liberties and freedoms we cherish must be constantly nurtured. And as the Nation that recognized the State of Israel moments after its independence, we have a profound commitment to its survival as a strong, secure homeland for the Jewish people.<p>We also know how difficult that search for security can be, especially for a small nation like Israel living in a very tough neighborhood. I've seen it firsthand. When I touched my hand against the Western Wall and placed my prayer between its ancient stones, I thought of all the centuries that the children of Israel had longed to return to their ancient homeland. When I went to Sderot and saw the daily struggle to survive in the eyes of an 8-year-old boy who lost his leg to a Hamas rocket and when I walked among the Hall of Names at Yad Vashem, I was reminded of the existential fear of Israelis when a modern dictator seeks nuclear weapons and threatens to wipe Israel off the face of the map--face of the Earth.<p>Because we understand the challenges Israel faces, I and my administration have made the security of Israel a priority. It's why we've increased cooperation between our militaries to unprecedented levels. It's why we're making our most advanced technologies available to our Israeli allies. It's why, despite tough fiscal times, we've increased foreign military financing to record levels. And that includes additional support, beyond regular military aid, for the Iron Dome antirocket system, a powerful example of American-Israeli cooperation, which has already intercepted rockets from Gaza and helped saved Israeli lives. So make no mistake: We will maintain Israel's qualitative military edge.<p>You also see our commitment to our shared security in our determination to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. Here in the United States, we've imposed the toughest sanctions ever on the Iranian regime. And at the United Nations, under our leadership, we've secured the most comprehensive international sanctions on the regime, which have been joined by allies and partners around the world. Today, Iran is virtually cut off from large parts of the international financial system, and we're going to keep up the pressure. So let me be absolutely clear: We remain committed to preventing Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons.<p>Its illicit nuclear program is just one challenge that Iran poses. As I said on Thursday, the Iranian Government has shown its hypocrisy by claiming to support the rights of protesters while treating its own people with brutality. Moreover, Iran continues to support terrorism across the region, including providing weapons and funds to terrorist organizations. So we will continue to work to prevent these actions, and we will stand up to groups like Hizballah, who exercise political assassination and seek to impose their will through rockets and car bombs.<p>You also see our commitment to Israel's security in our steadfast opposition to any attempt to delegitimize the State of Israel. As I said at the United Nations last year, \\"Israel's existence must not be a subject for debate,\\" and \\"efforts to chip away at Israel's legitimacy will only be met by the unshakeable opposition of the United States.\\"<p>So when the Durban Review Conference advanced anti-Israel sentiment, we withdrew. In the wake of the Goldstone report, we stood up strongly for Israel's right to defend itself. When an effort was made to insert the United Nations into matters that should be resolved through direct negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians, we vetoed it.<p>And so in both word and deed, we have been unwavering in our support of Israel's security. And it is precisely because of our commitment to Israel's long-term security that we have worked to advance peace between Israelis and Palestinians.<p>Now, I have said repeatedly that core issues can only be negotiated in direct talks between the parties. And I indicated on Thursday that the recent agreement between Fatah and Hamas poses an enormous obstacle to peace. No country can be expected to negotiate with a terrorist organization sworn to its destruction. And we will continue to demand that Hamas accept the basic responsibilities of peace, including recognizing Israel's right to exist and rejecting violence and adhering to all existing agreements. And we once again call on Hamas to release Gilad Shalit, who has been kept from his family for 5 long years.<p>And yet no matter how hard it may be to start meaningful negotiations under current circumstances, we must acknowledge that a failure to try is not an option. The status quo is unsustainable. And that is why on Thursday, I stated publicly the principles that the United States believes can provide a foundation for negotiations toward an agreement to end the conflict and all claims, the broad outlines of which have been known for many years and have been the template for discussions between the United States, Israel, and the Palestinians since at least the Clinton administration.<p>I know that stating these principles--on the issues of territory and security--generated some controversy over the past few days. [<i>Laughter</i>] I wasn't surprised. I know very well that the easy thing to do, particularly for a President preparing for reelection, is to avoid any controversy. I don't need Rahm to tell me that. Don't need Axelrod to tell me that. But I said to Prime Minister Netanyahu, I believe that the current situation in the Middle East does not allow for procrastination. I also believe that real friends talk openly and honestly with one another. So I want to share with you some of what I said to the Prime Minister.<p>Here are the facts we all must confront. First, the number of Palestinians living west of the Jordan River is growing rapidly and fundamentally reshaping the demographic realities of both Israel and the Palestinian Territories. This will make it harder and harder, without a peace deal, to maintain Israel as both a Jewish state and a democratic state.<p>Second, technology will make it harder for Israel to defend itself in the absence of a genuine peace.<p>Third, a new generation of Arabs is reshaping the region. A just and lasting peace can no longer be forged with one or two Arab leaders. Going forward, millions of Arab citizens have to see that peace is possible for that peace to be sustained.<p>And just as the context has changed in the Middle East, so too has it been changing in the international community over the last several years. There's a reason why the Palestinians are pursuing their interests at the United Nations. They recognize that there is an impatience with the peace process, or the absence of one, not just in the Arab World--in Latin America, in Asia, and in Europe. And that impatience is growing, and it's already manifesting itself in capitals around the world.<p>And those are the facts. I firmly believe, and I repeated on Thursday, that peace cannot be imposed on the parties to the conflict. No vote at the United Nations will ever create an independent Palestinian state. And the United States will stand up against efforts to single Israel out at the United Nations or in any international forum. Israel's legitimacy is not a matter for debate. That is my commitment; that is my pledge to all of you.<p>Moreover, we know that peace demands a partner, which is why I said that Israel cannot be expected to negotiate with Palestinians who do not recognize its right to exist. And we will hold the Palestinians accountable for their actions and for their rhetoric.<p>But the march to isolate Israel internationally and the impulse of the Palestinians to abandon negotiations will continue to gain momentum in the absence of a credible peace process and alternative. And for us to have leverage with the Palestinians, to have leverage with the Arab States, and with the international community, the basis for negotiations has to hold out the prospect of success. And so in advance of a 5-day trip to Europe in which the Middle East will be a topic of acute interest, I chose to speak about what peace will require.<p>There was nothing particularly original in my proposal. This basic framework for negotiations has long been the basis for discussions among the parties, including previous U.S. administrations. Since questions have been raised, let me repeat what I actually said on Thursday, not what I was reported to have said.<p>I said that the United States believes that negotiations should result in two states, with permanent Palestinian borders with Israel, Jordan, and Egypt and permanent Israeli borders with Palestine. The borders of Israel and Palestine should be based on the 1967 lines with mutually agreed swaps so that secure and recognized borders are established for both states. The Palestinian people must have the right to govern themselves and reach their potential in a sovereign and contiguous state.<p>As for security, every state has the right to self-defense, and Israel must be able to defend itself, by itself, against any threat. Provisions must also be robust enough to prevent a resurgence of terrorism, to stop the infiltration of weapons, and to provide effective border security. And a full and phased withdrawal of Israeli military forces should be coordinated with the assumption of Palestinian security responsibility in a sovereign and nonmilitarized state. And the duration of this transition period must be agreed, and the effectiveness of security arrangements must be demonstrated.<p>Now, that is what I said. And it was my reference to the 1967 lines with mutually agreed swaps that received the lion's share of the attention----<p><i>Audience member.</i> [<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President.</i>----including just now. And since my position has been misrepresented several times, let me reaffirm what \\"1967 lines with mutually agreed swaps\\" means.<p>By definition, it means that the parties themselves--Israelis and Palestinians--will negotiate a border that is different than the one that existed on June 4, 1967. That's what mutually agreed-upon swaps means. It is a well-known formula to all who have worked on this issue for a generation. It allows the parties themselves to account for the changes that have taken place over the last 44 years. It allows the parties themselves to take account of those changes, including the new demographic realities on the ground, and the needs of both sides. The ultimate goal is two states for two people: Israel as a Jewish state and the homeland for the Jewish people and the state of Palestine as the homeland for the Palestinian people, each state enjoying self-determination, mutual recognition, and peace.<p>If there is a controversy, then, it's not based in substance. What I did on Thursday was to say publicly what has long been acknowledged privately. I've done so because we can't afford to wait another decade or another two decades or another three decades to achieve peace. The world is moving too fast. [<i>Applause</i>] The world is moving too fast. The extraordinary challenges facing Israel will only grow. Delay will undermine Israel's security and the peace that the Israeli people deserve.<p>Now, I know that some of you will disagree with this assessment. I respect that. And as fellow Americans and friends of Israel, I know we can have this discussion.<p>Ultimately, it is the right and the responsibility of the Israeli Government to make the hard choices that are necessary to protect a Jewish and democratic state for which so many generations have sacrificed. And as a friend of Israel, I'm committed to doing our part to see that this goal is realized. And I will call not just on Israel, but on the Palestinians, on the Arab States, and the international community to join us in this effort, because the burden of making hard choices must not be Israel's alone.<p>But even as we do all that's necessary to ensure Israel's security, even as we are clear eyed about the difficult challenges before us, and even as we pledge to stand by Israel through whatever tough days lie ahead, I hope we do not give up on that vision of peace. For if history teaches us anything, if the story of Israel teaches us anything, it is that with courage and resolve, progress is possible. Peace is possible.<p>The Talmud teaches us that \\"so long as a person still has life, they should never abandon faith.\\" And that lesson seems especially fitting today.<p>For so long as there are those across the Middle East and beyond who are standing up for the legitimate rights and freedoms which have been denied by their governments, the United States will never abandon our support for those rights that are universal.<p>And so long as there are those who long for a better future, we will never abandon our pursuit of a just and lasting peace that ends this conflict with two states living side by side in peace and security. This is not idealism; it is not naivete. It is a hardheaded recognition that a genuine peace is the only path that will ultimately provide for a peaceful Palestine as the homeland of the Palestinian people and a Jewish State of Israel as the homeland of the Jewish people. That is my goal, and I look forward to continuing to work with AIPAC to achieve that goal.<p>Thank you. God bless you. God bless Israel, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"122" "\"The President. Thank you! Hello, Dublin! Hello, Ireland! My name is Barack Obama--[applause]--of the Moneygall Obamas. And I've come home to find the apostrophe that we lost somewhere along the way. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Audience member.</i> I've got it here!<p><i>The President.</i> Now--is that where it is? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Some wise Irish man or woman once said that broken Irish is better than clever English. So here goes: <i>Ta athas orm a bheith in Eirinn</i>--I am happy to be in Ireland! I'm happy to be with so many <i>a chairde</i>.<p>I want to thank my extraordinary hosts--first of all, Taoiseach Kenny, his lovely wife Fionnuala, President McAleese, and her husband Martin--for welcoming me earlier today. Thank you, Lord Mayor Gerry Breen and the Garda for allowing me to crash this celebration.<p>Let me also express my condolences on the recent passing of former Taoiseach Garret FitzGerald, someone who believed in the power of education, someone who believed in the potential of youth, most of all, someone who believed in the potential of peace and who lived to see that peace realized.<p>And most of all, thank you to the citizens of Dublin and the people of Ireland for the warm and generous hospitality that you've shown me and Michelle. It certainly feels like 100,000 welcomes. We feel very much at home. I feel even more at home after that pint that I had. [<i>Laughter</i>] Feel even warmer. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>In return, let me offer the hearty greetings of tens of millions of Irish Americans who proudly trace their heritage to this small island. They say hello.<p>Now, I knew that I had some roots across the Atlantic, but until recently, I could not unequivocally claim that I was one of those Irish Americans. But now, if you believe the Corrigan Brothers, there's no one more Irish than me. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So I want to thank the genealogists who traced my family tree.<p><i>Audience member.</i> [<i>inaudible</i>]--right here!<p><i>The President.</i> Right here? Thank you. It turns out that people take a lot of interest in you when you're running for President. [<i>Laughter</i>] They look into your past. They check out your place of birth. [<i>Laughter</i>] Things like that. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, I do wish somebody had provided me all this evidence earlier because it would have come in handy back when I was first running in my hometown of Chicago. Because Chicago is the Irish capital of the Midwest, a city where it was once said you could stand on 79th Street and hear the brogue of every county in Ireland.<p>So naturally, a politician like me craved a slot in the St. Patrick's Day parade. The problem was not many people knew me or could even pronounce my name. I told them it was a Gaelic name. They didn't believe me. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So one year, a few volunteers and I did make it into the parade, but we were literally the last marchers. After 2 hours, finally it was our turn. And while we rode the route and we smiled and we waved, the city workers were right behind us cleaning up the garbage. [<i>Laughter</i>] It was a little depressing. But I'll bet those parade organizers are watching TV today and feeling kind of bad, because this is a pretty good parade right here.<p><i>Audience member.</i> Go Bulls!<p><i>President Obama.</i> Go Bulls! I like that. [<i>Laughter</i>] We got some Bulls fans here.<p>Now, of course, an American doesn't really require Irish blood to understand that ours is a proud, enduring, centuries-old relationship, that we are bound by history and friendship and shared values. And that's why I've come here today, as an American President, to reaffirm those bonds of affection.<p>Earlier today Michelle and I visited Moneygall, where we saw my ancestral home and dropped by the local pub. And we received a very warm welcome from all the people there, including my long-lost eighth cousin Henry. [<i>Laughter</i>] Henry now is affectionately known as Henry VIII. [<i>Laughter</i>] And it was remarkable to see the small town where a young shoemaker named Falmouth Kearney, my great-great-great-grandfather, my grandfather's grandfather, lived his early life. And I was shown the records from the parish recording his birth. And we saw the home where he lived.<p>And he left during the Great Hunger, as so many Irish did, to seek a new life in the New World. He traveled by ship to New York, where he entered himself into the records as a laborer. He married an American girl from Ohio. They settled in the Midwest. They started a family.<p>It's a familiar story because it's one lived and cherished by Americans of all backgrounds. It's integral to our national identity. It's who we are: a nation of immigrants from all around the world.<p>But standing there in Moneygall, I couldn't help but think how heartbreaking it must have been for that great-great-great-grandfather of mine and so many others to part, to watch Donegal coasts and Dingle cliffs recede, to leave behind all they knew in hopes that something better lay over the horizon.<p>When people like Falmouth boarded those ships, they often did so with no family, no friends, no money, nothing to sustain their journey but faith: faith in the Almighty, faith in the idea of America, faith that it was a place where you could be prosperous, you could be free, you could think and talk and worship as you pleased, a place where you could make it if you tried.<p>And as they worked and struggled and sacrificed and sometimes experienced great discrimination to build that better life for the next generation, they passed on that faith to their children and to their children's children, an inheritance that their great-great-great-grandchildren like me still carry with them. We call it the America Dream.<p>It's the dream that Falmouth Kearney was attracted to when he went to America. It's the dream that drew my own father to America from a small village in Africa. It's a dream that we've carried forward, sometimes through stormy waters, sometimes at great cost, for more than two centuries. And for my own sake, I'm grateful they made those journeys because if they hadn't, you'd be listening to somebody else speak right now. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And for America's sake, we're grateful so many others from this land took that chance as well. After all, never has a nation so small inspired so much in another.<p>Irish signatures are on our founding documents. Irish blood was spilled on our battlefields. Irish sweat built our great cities. Our spirit is eternally refreshed by Irish story and Irish song, our public life by the humor and heart and dedication of servants with names like Kennedy and Reagan, O'Neill and Moynihan. So you could say there's always been a little green behind the red, white, and blue.<p>When the father of our country, George Washington, needed an army, it was the fierce fighting of your sons that caused the British official to lament, \\"We have lost America through the Irish.\\" And as George Washington said himself: \\"When our friendless standards were first unfurled, who were the strangers who first mustered around our staff? And when it reeled in the light, who more brilliantly sustained it than Erin's generous sons?\\"<p>When we strove to blot out the stain of slavery and advance the rights of man, we found common cause with your struggles against oppression. Frederick Douglass, an escaped slave and our great abolitionist, forged an unlikely friendship right here in Dublin with your great liberator, Daniel O'Connell. His time here, Frederick Douglass said, defined him not as a color, but as a man. And it strengthened the nonviolent campaign he would return home to wage.<p>Recently, some of their descendents met here in Dublin to commemorate and continue that friendship between Douglass and O'Connell.<p>When Abraham Lincoln struggled to preserve our young Union, more than 100,000 Irish and Irish Americans joined the cause, with units like the Irish Brigade charging into battle, green flags with gold harp waving alongside our Star-Spangled Banner.<p>When depression gripped America, Ireland sent tens of thousands of packages of shamrocks to cheer up its countrymen, saying, \\"May the message of Erin's shamrocks bring joy to those away.\\"<p>And when an Iron Curtain fell across this continent and our way of life was challenged, it was our first Irish President--our first Catholic President--John F. Kennedy, who made us believe 50 years ago this week that mankind could do something big and bold and ambitious as walk on the Moon. He made us dream again.<p>That is the story of America and Ireland. That's the tale of our brawn and our blood, side by side, in making and remaking a nation, pulling it westward, pulling it skyward, moving it forward again and again and again. And that is our task again today.<p>I think we all realize that both of our nations have faced great trials in recent years, including recessions so severe that many of our people are still trying to fight their way out. And naturally, our concern turns to our families, our friends, and our neighbors. And some in this enormous audience are thinking about their own prospects and their own futures. Those of us who are parents wonder what it will mean for our children and young people like so many who are here today. Will you see the same progress we've seen since we were your age? Will you inherit futures as big and as bright as the ones that we inherited? Will you--will your dreams remain alive in our time?<p>This nation has faced those questions before: when your land couldn't feed those who tilled it, when the boats leaving these shores held some of your brightest minds, when brother fought against brother. Yours is a history frequently marked by the greatest of trials and the deepest of sorrow. But yours is also a history of proud and defiant endurance; of a nation that kept alive the flame of knowledge in dark ages, that overcame occupation and outlived fallow fields, that triumphed over its troubles; of a resilient people who built--beat all the odds.<p>And, Ireland, as trying as these times are, I know our future is still as big and as bright as our children expect it to be. I know that because I know it is precisely in times like these--in times of great challenge, in times of great change--when we remember who we truly are. We're peoples, the Irish and Americans, who never stop imagining a brighter future, even in bitter times. We're people who make that future happen through hard work and through sacrifice, through investing in those things that matter most, like family and community.<p>We remember, in the words made famous by one of your greatest poets, that \\"in dreams begin responsibility.\\"<p>This is a nation that met that responsibility by choosing, like your ancestors did, to keep alight the flame of knowledge and invest in a world-class education for your young people. And today, Ireland's youth and those who've come back to build a new Ireland are now among the best educated, most entrepreneurial in the world. And I see those young people here today, and I know that Ireland will succeed.<p>This is a nation that met its responsibilities by choosing to apply the lessons of your own past to assume a heavier burden of responsibility on the world stage. And today, a people who once knew the pain of an empty stomach now feed those who hunger abroad. Ireland is working hand in hand with the United States to make sure that hungry mouths are fed around the world, because we remember those times. We know what crippling poverty can be like, and we want to make sure that we're helping others.<p>You're a people who modernized and can now stand up for those who can't yet stand up for themselves. And this is a nation that met its responsibilities and inspired the entire world by choosing to see past the scars of violence and mistrust to forge a lasting peace on this island.<p>When President Clinton said at this very spot 15 years ago, \\"Waging peace is risky,\\" I think those who were involved understood the risks they were taking. But you, the Irish people, persevered. And you cast your votes and you made your voices heard for that peace. And you responded heroically when it was challenged. And you did it, as President McAleese has written, \\"For all the apparent intractability of our problems, the irrepressible human impulse to love kept nagging and nudging us towards reconciliation.\\"<p>Whenever peace is challenged, you will have to sustain that irrepressible impulse. And America will stand by you--always. America will stand by you always in your pursuit of peace.<p>And, Ireland, you need to understand that you've already so surpassed the world's highest hopes that what was notable about the Northern Ireland elections 2 weeks ago was that they came and went without much attention. It's not because the world has forgotten. It's because this once unlikely dream has become that most extraordinary of things: It has become real. A dream has turned to reality because of the work of this nation.<p>In dreams begin responsibility. And embracing that responsibility, working toward it, overcoming the cynics and the naysayers and those who say, \\"You can't,\\" that's what makes dreams real. That's what Falmouth Kearney did when he got on that boat, and that's what so many generations of Irish men and women have done here in this spectacular country. That is something we can point to and show our children, Irish and American alike. That is something we can teach them as they grow up together in a new century, side by side, as it has been since our beginnings.<p>This little country that inspires the biggest things, your best days are still ahead. Our greatest triumphs, in America and Ireland alike, are still to come. And, Ireland, if anyone ever says otherwise, if anybody ever tells you that your problems are too big or your challenges are too great, that we can't do something, that we shouldn't even try, think about all that we've done together. Remember that whatever hardships the winter may bring, springtime is always just around the corner. And if they keep on arguing with you, just respond with a simple creed: <i>Is feidir linn</i>. Yes, we can. Yes, we can. <i>Is feidir linn</i>.<p>For all you've contributed to the character of the United States of America and the spirit of the world, thank you. And may God bless the eternal friendship between our two great nations.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you, Dublin. Thank you, Ireland.\" "
"123" "\"Good morning, everybody. Before our day starts here in England, I wanted to say a few words about the devastating storms that we've seen in Missouri, in Minnesota, and across the Midwest.<p>Like all Americans, we have been monitoring what's been taking place very closely and have been heartbroken by the images that we've seen in Joplin, Missouri, in particular. The devastation is comparable and may end up exceeding some of the devastation that we saw in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, just a few weeks ago.<p>So far, we know that over 100 people lost their lives, others remain missing, and hundreds more are injured. And obviously, our thoughts and prayers are with the families who are suffering at this moment. And all we can do is let them know that all of America cares deeply about them and that we are going to do absolutely everything we can to make sure that they recover.<p>These storms often strike without warning, as we saw a little further south over the last couple of weeks. And it's going to be important for us to make sure that we are sustaining our efforts at rebuilding after the news cameras leave. We can make sure that the families and communities upended by these storms have everything they need to pull through. And in that regard, Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano as well as I have spoken with Missouri Governor Jay Nixon. We've offered him not only our condolences, but we've told him that we will give him every ounce of resources that the Federal Government may have that we can bring to bear on this situation.<p>At my direction, FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate and Deputy Administrator Rich Serino have traveled to Missouri to make sure our Federal Government is working hand in hand with State and local officials to give them the help that they need. And on Sunday, I myself will travel to Missouri to talk with folks who've been affected, to talk to local officials about our response effort, and hopefully, to pray with folks and give them whatever assurance and comfort I can that the entire country is going to be behind them.<p>Now, these storms that came this weekend obviously compounded what has already been an extraordinary storm season throughout the Midwest and in the South. We understand that there are more storms that are forecast today. So the thing I think I want to emphasize more than anything else: It is critical that Americans in affected areas heed storm warnings and take the lead of your local officials.<p>I know that a lot of people are wondering how they'll get through the coming days or months or even years. But I want everybody in Joplin, everybody in Missouri, everybody in Minnesota, everybody across the Midwest, to know that we are here for you. The American people are by your side. We're going to stay there until every home is repaired, until every neighborhood is rebuilt, until every business is back on its feet. That's my commitment, and that's the American people's commitment.<p>Thanks very much.\" "
"124" "\"<i>Queen Elizabeth II</i>. Mr. President, I am delighted to welcome you and Mrs. Obama to London. Prince Philip and I are so glad that you are visiting the United Kingdom again.<p>We have fond memories of our first meeting during the G-20 conference in London in 2009. It also gave me much pleasure to welcome Mrs. Obama and your two daughters here almost 2 years ago.<p>Your visit to this country inevitably reminds us of our shared history, our common language, and our strong intellectual and cultural links. It also reminds us that your country twice came to the rescue of the free and democratic world when it was facing military disaster. On each occasion, after the end of those destructive wars, the generosity of the United States made a massive contribution to our economic recovery.<p>Today, the United States remains our most important ally, and our two nations contribute to the security and prosperity of our peoples and of the world through shared national interests.<p>But our relationship goes far beyond our military and diplomatic ties. In your Inaugural Address, you spoke to the American people of the values that lay at the heart of your Nation's success--honesty and hard work, courage and fair play, tolerance and curiosity, loyalty and patriotism--and of the sturdy alliances and enduring convictions with which your Nation had met past challenges and would meet future ones too.<p>If I may say so, these values underscore much of the life of the United Kingdom also. Together with our alliance, they continue to guide our actions as we confront the challenges of a changing world.<p>It is unfortunate that there are so many troubles facing the world today. But we are encouraged that in most respects, our two countries see these problems in the same light. For this reason, we have been able to act together in fields as varied as science, research, and higher education, to find solutions or to at least make progress towards tackling so many of the social and economic difficulties that confront nations in all parts of the globe.<p>Entertainment may not be so obviously an example of our close ties, but it forms part of the lives of a great many of our people. Over the years, we have enjoyed some of America's most spectacular musical productions and any number of what we call films, which you might prefer to call movies. [<i>Laughter</i>] In return, British films and theatrical productions have achieved considerable success in your country. This exchange of people and projects has enlarged and invigorated our common language, although I think you will agree, we do not always use it in quite the same way. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Mr. President, I firmly believe that the strength of our links and many shared interests will continue to ensure that when the United States and the United Kingdom stand together, our people and other people of good will around the world will be more secure and can become more prosperous.<p>Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to celebrate the tried, tested, and yes, special relationship between our two countries. I, therefore, ask you now to join me in raising your glasses to the continued health, happiness, and prosperity of the people of the United States of America, and especially to the health of President and Mrs. Obama.<p><i>[At this point, a toast was offered, and the band played the American national anthem.]</i><p><i>President Obama</i>. Your Majesty, thank you for your extraordinarily generous remarks, for the invitation you extended for our first state visit in Europe, and for the warm friendship that you've shown both Michelle and myself on both of our visits to Buckingham Palace.<p>I bring warm greetings from tens of millions of Americans who claim British ancestry, including me, through my mother's family. I bring warm greetings from Malia and Sasha, who adored you even before you let them ride on a carriage on the palace grounds. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Prime Minister Cameron, Mrs. Cameron, and distinguished guests, it is a great honor to join you again in this great country as we reaffirm the enduring bonds between our two nations and reinforce this special relationship.<p>I must say, though, this dinner is a humbling reminder of the fleeting nature of Presidencies and Prime Ministerships. Your Majesty's reign has spanned about a dozen of each, and counting. That makes you both a living witness to the power of our alliance and a chief source of its resilience.<p>Our alliance is a commitment that speaks to who we are. As Winston Churchill said on a visit to the United States, \\"Above all, among the English-speaking peoples, there must be the union of hearts based upon convictions and common ideals.\\"<p>While our challenges have changed since Churchill's time, when we fought together to preserve our very democracies, our adherence to those values have not. Our relationship rests on common language, common history, common adherence to the rule of law, the rights of men and women--the very ideals born in this nation. And yet our relationship never rests.<p>As we approach the 10th anniversary of 9/11, I'm particularly grateful for the solidarity that the United Kingdom has shown to America over the past decade. From that day to this, you have been our closest partner in the struggle to protect our people from terrorist attacks and violent extremism around the world, despite very heavy sacrifices here. And allow me to pay tribute to the contributions of your military forces, which have stood shoulder to shoulder with us for decades.<p>And as we confront the challenges of the 21st century together, we can have confidence in the partnership that our two countries share, based on the rock-solid foundation built during Queen Elizabeth's lifetime of extraordinary service to her nation and to the world.<p>Ladies and gentlemen, please stand with me and raise your glasses as I propose a toast: To Her Majesty the Queen----<p><i>[The band began to play the British national anthem.]</i><p>----for the vitality of the special relationship between our peoples, and in the words of Shakespeare, \\"To this blessed plot, this Earth, this realm, this England.\\"<p>To the Queen.<p><i>Queen Elizabeth II</i>. That's very kind.\" "
"125" "\"Thank you very much. My Lord Chancellor, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Prime Minister, my Lords, and Members of the House of Commons: I have known few greater honors than the opportunity to address the mother of parliaments at Westminster Hall. I am told that the last three speakers here have been the Pope, Her Majesty the Queen, and Nelson Mandela, which is either a very high bar or the beginning of a very funny joke. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I come here today to reaffirm one of the oldest, one of the strongest alliances the world has ever known. It's long been said that the United States and the United Kingdom share a special relationship. And since we also share an especially active press corps, that relationship is often analyzed and overanalyzed for the slightest hint of stress or strain.<p>Of course, all relationships have their ups and downs. Admittedly, ours got off on the wrong foot with a small scrape about tea and taxes. [<i>Laughter</i>] There may also have been some hurt feelings when the White House was set on fire during the War of 1812. [<i>Laughter</i>] But fortunately, it's been smooth sailing ever since.<p>The reason for this close friendship doesn't just have to do with our shared history, our shared heritage, our ties of language and culture, or even the strong partnership between our governments. Our relationship is special because of the values and beliefs that have united our people through the ages.<p>Centuries ago, when kings, emperors, and warlords reigned over much of the world, it was the English who first spelled out the rights and liberties of man in the Magna Carta. It was here, in this very hall, where the rule of law first developed, courts were established, disputes were settled, and citizens came to petition their leaders.<p>Over time, the people of this nation waged a long and sometimes bloody struggle to expand and secure their freedom from the Crown. Propelled by the ideals of the Enlightenment, they would ultimately forge an English Bill of Rights and invest the power to govern in an elected parliament that's gathered here today.<p>What began on this island would inspire millions throughout the continent of Europe and across the world. But perhaps no one drew greater inspiration from these notions of freedom than your rabble-rousing colonists on the other side of the Atlantic. As Winston Churchill said, the \\". . . Magna Carta, the Bill of Rights, habeas corpus, trial by jury, and English common law find their most famous expression in the American Declaration of Independence.\\"<p>For both of our nations, living up to the ideals enshrined in these founding documents has sometimes been difficult, has always been a work in progress. The path has never been perfect. But through the struggles of slaves and immigrants, women and ethnic minorities, former colonies and persecuted religions, we have learned better than most that the longing for freedom and human dignity is not English or American or Western, it is universal, and it beats in every heart. Perhaps that's why there are few nations that stand firmer, speak louder, and fight harder to defend democratic values around the world than the United States and the United Kingdom.<p>We are the allies who landed at Omaha and Gold, who sacrificed side by side to free a continent from the march of tyranny and help prosperity flourish from the ruins of war. And with the founding of NATO, a British idea, we joined a transatlantic alliance that has ensured our security for over half a century.<p>Together with our allies, we forged a lasting peace from a cold war. When the Iron Curtain lifted, we expanded our alliance to include the nations of Central and Eastern Europe and built new bridges to Russia and the former states of the Soviet Union. And when there was strife in the Balkans, we worked together to keep the peace.<p>Today, after a difficult decade that began with war and ended in recession, our nations have arrived at a pivotal moment once more. A global economy that once stood on the brink of depression is now stable and recovering. After years of conflict, the United States has removed 100,000 troops from Iraq, the United Kingdom has removed its forces, and our combat mission there has ended. In Afghanistan, we've broken the Taliban's momentum and will soon begin a transition to Afghan lead. And nearly 10 years after 9/11, we have disrupted terrorist networks and dealt Al Qaida a huge blow by killing its leader, Usama bin Laden.<p>Together, we have met great challenges. But as we enter this new chapter in our shared history, profound challenges stretch out before us. In a world where the prosperity of all nations is now inextricably linked, a new era of cooperation is required to ensure the growth and stability of the global economy. As new threats spread across borders and oceans, we must dismantle terrorist networks and stop the spread of nuclear weapons, confront climate change and combat famine and disease. And as a revolution races through the streets of the Middle East and North Africa, the entire world has a stake in the aspirations of a generation that longs to determine its own destiny.<p>These challenges come at a time when the international order has already been reshaped for a new century. Countries like China, India, and Brazil are growing by leaps and bounds. We should welcome this development, for it has lifted hundreds of millions from poverty around the globe and created new markets and opportunities for our own nations.<p>And yet, as this rapid change has taken place, it's become fashionable in some quarters to question whether the rise of these nations will accompany the decline of American and European influence around the world. Perhaps, the argument goes, these nations represent the future, and the time for our leadership has passed.<p>That argument is wrong. The time for our leadership is now. It was the United States and the United Kingdom and our democratic allies that shaped a world in which new nations could emerge and individuals could thrive. And even as more nations take on the responsibilities of global leadership, our alliance will remain indispensable to the goal of a century that is more peaceful, more prosperous, and more just.<p>At a time when threats and challenges require nations to work in concert with one another, we remain the greatest catalysts for global action. In an era defined by the rapid flow of commerce and information, it is our free market tradition, our openness, fortified by our commitment to basic security for our citizens, that offers the best chance of prosperity that is both strong and shared. As millions are still denied their basic human rights because of who they are or what they believe or the kind of government that they live under, we are the nations most willing to stand up for the values of tolerance and self-determination that lead to peace and dignity.<p>Now, this doesn't mean we can afford to stand still. The nature of our leadership will need to change with the times. As I said the first time I came to London as President, for the G-20 summit, the days are gone when Roosevelt and Churchill could sit in a room and solve the world's problems over a glass of brandy, although I'm sure that Prime Minister Cameron would agree that some days we could both use a stiff drink. [<i>Laughter</i>] In this century, our joint leadership will require building new partnerships, adapting to new circumstances, and remaking ourselves to meet the demands of a new era.<p>That begins with our economic leadership.<p>Adam Smith's central insight remains true today: There is no greater generator of wealth and innovation than a system of free enterprise that unleashes the full potential of individual men and women. That's what led to the Industrial Revolution that began in the factories of Manchester. That is what led to the dawn of the Information Age that arose from the office parks of Silicon Valley. That's why countries like China, India, and Brazil are growing so rapidly, because in fits and starts, they are moving toward market-based principles that the United States and the United Kingdom have always embraced.<p>In other words, we live in a global economy that is largely of our own making. And today, the competition for the best jobs and industries favors countries that are free thinking and forward looking, countries with the most creative and innovative and entrepreneurial citizens.<p>That gives nations like the United States and the United Kingdom an inherent advantage. For from Newton and Darwin to Edison and Einstein, from Alan Turing to Steve Jobs, we have led the world in our commitment to science and cutting-edge research, the discovery of new medicines and technologies. We educate our citizens and train our workers in the best colleges and universities on Earth. But to maintain this advantage in a world that's more competitive than ever, we will have to redouble our investments in science and engineering, and renew our national commitments to educating our workforces.<p>We've also been reminded in the last few years that markets can sometimes fail. In the last century, both our nations put in place regulatory frameworks to deal with such market failures, safeguards to protect the banking system after the Great Depression, for example, regulations that were established to prevent the pollution of our air and water during the 1970s.<p>But in today's economy, such threats of market failure can no longer be contained within the borders of any one country. Market failures can go global and go viral and demand international responses.<p>A financial crisis that began on Wall Street infected nearly every continent, which is why we must keep working through forums like the G-20 to put in place global rules of the road to prevent future excesses and abuse. No country can hide from the dangers of carbon pollution, which is why we must build on what was achieved at Copenhagen and Cancun to leave our children a planet that is safer and cleaner.<p>Moreover, even when the free market works as it should, both our countries recognize that no matter how responsibly we live in our lives, hard times or bad luck, a crippling illness or a layoff may strike any one of us. And so part of our common tradition has expressed itself in a conviction that every citizen deserves a basic measure of security: health care if you get sick, unemployment insurance if you lose your job, a dignified retirement after a lifetime of hard work. That commitment to our citizens has also been the reason for our leadership in the world.<p>And now, having come through a terrible recession, our challenge is to meet these obligations while ensuring that we're not consuming, and hence consumed, with a level of debt that could sap the strength and vitality of our economies. And that will require difficult choices and it will require different paths for both of our countries. But we have faced such challenges before and have always been able to balance the need for fiscal responsibility with the responsibilities we have to one another.<p>And I believe we can do this again. As we do, the successes and failures of our own past can serve as an example for emerging economies, that it's possible to grow without polluting, that lasting prosperity comes not from what a nation consumes, but from what it produces and from the investments it makes in its people and its infrastructure.<p>And just as we must lead on behalf of the prosperity of our citizens, so we must safeguard their security. Our two nations know what it is to confront evil in the world. Hitler's armies would not have stopped their killing had we not fought them on the beaches and on the landing grounds, in the fields and on the streets. We must never forget that there was nothing inevitable about our victory in that terrible war. It was won through the courage and character of our people.<p>Precisely because we are willing to bear its burden, we know well the cost of war. And that is why we built an alliance that was strong enough to defend this continent while deterring our enemies. At its core, NATO is rooted in the simple concept of article 5: that no NATO nation will have to fend on its own, that allies will stand by one another always. And for six decades, NATO has been the most successful alliance in human history.<p>Today, we confront a different enemy. Terrorists have taken the lives of our citizens in New York and in London. And while Al Qaida seeks a religious war with the West, we must remember that they have killed thousands of Muslims--men, women, and children--around the globe. Our nations are not and will never be at war with Islam. Our fight is focused on defeating Al Qaida and its extremist allies. In that effort, we will not relent, as Usama bin Laden and his followers have learned. And as we fight an enemy that respects no law of war, we will continue to hold ourselves to a higher standard by living up to the values, the rule of law and due process that we so ardently defend.<p>For almost a decade, Afghanistan has been a central front of these efforts. Throughout those years, you, the British people, have been a stalwart ally, along with so many others who fight by our side.<p>Together, let us pay tribute to all of our men and women who have served and sacrificed over the last several years, for they are part of an unbroken line of heroes who have borne the heaviest burden for the freedoms that we enjoy. Because of them, we have broken the Taliban's momentum. Because of them, we have built the capacity of Afghan security forces. And because of them, we are now preparing to turn a corner in Afghanistan by transitioning to Afghan lead. And during this transition, we will pursue a lasting peace with those who break free of Al Qaida and respect the Afghan Constitution and lay down arms. And we will ensure that Afghanistan is never a safe haven for terror, but is instead a country that is strong, sovereign, and able to stand on its own two feet.<p>Indeed, our efforts in this young century have led us to a new concept for NATO that will give us the capabilities needed to meet new threats, threats like terrorism and piracy, cyber attacks, and ballistic missiles. But a revitalized NATO will continue to hew to that original vision of its founders, allowing us to rally collective action for the defense of our people, while building upon the broader belief of Roosevelt and Churchill that all nations have both rights and responsibilities and all nations share a common interest in an international architecture that maintains the peace.<p>We also share a common interest in stopping the spread of nuclear weapons. Across the globe, nations are locking down nuclear materials so they never fall into the wrong hands, because of our leadership. From North Korea to Iran, we've sent a message that those who flaunt their obligations will face consequences, which is why America and the European Union just recently strengthened our sanctions on Iran, in large part because of the leadership of the United Kingdom and the United States. And while we hold others to account, we will meet our own obligations under the Non-Proliferation Treaty and strive for a world without nuclear weapons.<p>We share a common interest in resolving conflicts that prolong human suffering and threaten to tear whole regions asunder. In Sudan, after years of war and thousands of deaths, we call on both north and south to pull back from the brink of violence and choose the path of peace. And in the Middle East, we stand united in our support for a secure Israel and a sovereign Palestine.<p>And we share a common interest in development that advances dignity and security. To succeed, we must cast aside the impulse to look at impoverished parts of the globe as a place for charity. Instead, we should empower the same forces that have allowed our own people to thrive; we should help the hungry to feed themselves, the doctors who care for the sick. We should support countries that confront corruption and allow their people to innovate. And we should advance the truth that nations prosper when they allow women and girls to reach their full potential.<p>We do these things because we believe not simply in the rights of nations, we believe in the rights of citizens. That is the beacon that guided us through our fight against fascism and our twilight struggle against communism. And today, that idea is being put to the test in the Middle East and North Africa. In country after country, people are mobilizing to free themselves from the grip of an iron fist. And while these movements for change are just 6 months old, we have seen them play out before, from Eastern Europe to the Americas, from South Africa to Southeast Asia.<p>History tells us that democracy is not easy. It will be years before these revolutions reach their conclusion, and there will be difficult days along the way. Power rarely gives up without a fight, particularly in places where there are divisions of tribe and divisions of sect. We also know that populism can take dangerous turns, from the extremism of those who would use democracy to deny minority rights, to the nationalism that left so many scars on this continent in the 20th century.<p>But make no mistake: What we saw, what we are seeing in Tehran, in Tunis, in Tahrir Square, is a longing for the same freedoms that we take for granted here at home. It was a rejection of the notion that people in certain parts of the world don't want to be free or need to have democracy imposed upon them. It was a rebuke to the worldview of Al Qaida, which smothers the rights of individuals and would thereby subject them to perpetual poverty and violence.<p>Let there be no doubt: The United States and United Kingdom stand squarely on the side of those who long to be free. And now we must show that we will back up those words with deeds. That means investing in the future of those nations that transition to democracy, starting with Tunisia and Egypt, by deepening ties of trade and commerce, by helping them demonstrate that freedom brings prosperity. And that means standing up for universal rights, by sanctioning those who pursue repression, strengthening civil society, supporting the rights of minorities.<p>We do this knowing that the West must overcome suspicion and mistrust among many in the Middle East and North Africa, a mistrust that is rooted in a difficult past. For years, we've faced charges of hypocrisy from those who do not enjoy the freedoms that they hear us espouse. And so to them, we must squarely acknowledge that, yes, we have enduring interests in the region: to fight terror, sometimes with partners who may not be perfect; to protect against disruptions of the world's energy supply. But we must also insist that we reject as false the choice between our interests and our ideals, between stability and democracy. For our idealism is rooted in the realities of history: that repression offers only the false promise of stability, that societies are more successful when their citizens are free, and that democracies are the closest allies we have.<p>It is that truth that guides our action in Libya. It would have been easy at the outset of the crackdown in Libya to say that none of this was our business, that a nation's sovereignty is more important than the slaughter of civilians within its borders. That argument carries weight with some. But we are different. We embrace a broader responsibility. And while we cannot stop every injustice, there are circumstances that cut through our caution, when a leader is threatening to massacre his people and the international community is calling for action. That's why we stopped a massacre in Libya. And we will not relent until the people of Libya are protected and the shadow of tyranny is lifted.<p>We will proceed with humility and the knowledge that we cannot dictate every outcome abroad. Ultimately, freedom must be won by the people themselves, not imposed from without. But we can and must stand with those who so struggle. Because we have always believed that the future of our children and grandchildren will be better if other people's children and grandchildren are more prosperous and more free, from the beaches of Normandy to the Balkans to Benghazi. That is our interests and our ideals. And if we fail to meet that responsibility, who would take our place, and what kind of world would we pass on?<p>Our action, our leadership, is essential to the cause of human dignity. And so we must act, and lead, with confidence in our ideals and an abiding faith in the character of our people, who sent us all here today.<p>For there is one final quality that I believe makes the United States and the United Kingdom indispensable to this moment in history, and that is, how we define ourselves as nations.<p>Unlike most countries in the world, we do not define citizenship based on race or ethnicity. Being American or British is not about belonging to a certain group, it's about believing in a certain set of ideals: the rights of individuals, the rule of law. That is why we hold incredible diversity within our borders. That's why there are people around the world right now who believe that if they come to America, if they come to New York, if they come to London, if they work hard, they can pledge allegiance to our flag and call themselves Americans; if they come to England, they can make a new life for themselves and can sing \\"God Save the Queen\\" just like any other citizen.<p>Yes, our diversity can lead to tension. And throughout our history there have been heated debates about immigration and assimilation in both of our countries. But even as these debates can be difficult, we fundamentally recognize that our patchwork heritage is an enormous strength; that in a world which will only grow smaller and more interconnected, the example of our two nations says it is possible for people to be united by their ideals, instead of divided by their differences; that it's possible for hearts to change and old hatreds to pass; that it's possible for the sons and daughters of former colonies to sit here as Members of this great Parliament, and for the grandson of a Kenyan who served as a cook in the British Army to stand before you as President of the United States.<p>That is what defines us. That is why the young men and women in the streets of Damascus and Cairo still reach for the rights our citizens enjoy, even if they sometimes differ with our policies. As two of the most powerful nations in the history of the world, we must always remember that the true source of our influence hasn't just been the size of our economies or the reach of our militaries or the land that we've claimed. It has been the values that we must never waver in defending around the world, the idea that all beings are endowed by our Creator with certain rights that cannot be denied.<p>That is what forged our bond in the fire of war, a bond made manifest by the friendship between two of our greatest leaders. Churchill and Roosevelt had their differences. They were keen observers of each other's blind spots and shortcomings, if not always their own, and they were hardheaded about their ability to remake the world. But what joined the fates of these two men at that particular moment in history was not simply a shared interest in victory on the battlefield. It was a shared belief in the ultimate triumph of human freedom and human dignity, a conviction that we have a say in how this story ends.<p>This conviction lives on in their people today. The challenges we face are great. The work before us is hard. But we have come through a difficult decade, and whenever the tests and trials ahead may seem too big or too many, let us turn to their example and the words that Churchill spoke on the day that Europe was freed:<blockquote>In the long years to come, not only will the people of this island but . . . the world, wherever the bird of freedom chirps in [the] human heart, look back to what we've done, and they will say \\"do not despair, do not yield . . . march straight forward.\\"</blockquote><p>With courage and purpose, with humility and with hope, with faith in the promise of tomorrow, let us march straight forward together, enduring allies in the cause of a world that is more peaceful, more prosperous, and more just.<p>Thank you very much.\" "
"126" "\"<i>The President</i>. Obviously, the scene speaks for itself. When we were in Tuscaloosa a few weeks ago, I talked about how I had not seen devastation like that in my lifetime. You come here to Joplin, and it is just as heartbreaking and in some ways even more devastating.<p>I want to thank the outstanding work that Governor Nixon, the mayor, all the congressional delegation, as well as the first lady have done--and the Red Cross--in helping people to respond. But obviously, it is going to take years to build back. And we mourn the loss of life. We're going to be going to a memorial service and try to help comfort the families and let them know that we're praying for them and thinking about them.<p>We had a chance to meet some of the folks who lived in this community, and just harrowing stories, but also miraculous stories. Met an 85-year-old gentleman who has a--still has a lawn service, who explained how he had just gotten his chicken potpie out, and the storm started coming, and he went into the closet and came out without a scratch. And so there are good stories to tell and happy stories to tell here, but obviously, there's been a lot of hardship as well.<p>The main thing I just want to communicate to the people of Joplin is, this is just not your tragedy. This is a national tragedy, and that means there will be a national response. Craig Fugate, who's probably been the busiest man in the Federal Government over this last few months, has been on the ground since just the day after this happened. And he's helping to coordinate with an outstanding team of State and local officials. We're going to do everything we can to continue whatever search and rescue remains. We are doing everything we can to make sure that folks get the shelter that they need, the support that they need.<p>We're working with the Governor to make sure that we cut through any redtape that's necessary with respect to rebuilding here. And then we're just going to have a tough, long slog. But what I've been telling every family that I've met here is, we're going to be here long after the cameras leave; we are not going to stop until Joplin's fully back on its feet.<p>So to all the volunteers who are helping out--one of the things that's been incredible is to see how many people from out of State have driven from as far away as Texas, nearby Illinois, people just coming here to volunteer, firefighters, ordinary citizens. It's an example of what the American spirit's all about. And that gives us a lot of encouragement at a time when obviously people are going through a lot of hardship.<p>So thank you again, Governor----<p><i>Governor Jeremiah W. \\"Jay\\" Nixon of Missouri</i>. Thank you, Mr. President.<p><i>The President</i>. ----for the great work. Would you like to say a few words?<p><i>Gov. Nixon</i>. Just that we've been out--I've been here every day, trying to work early to late, trying to back up the local officials--what they needed--try to coordinate the Federal response, try to make sure we green-light the necessity to move forward.<p>Today is a day of remembrance, as we move here to the memorial service. The loss not only of life, not only of injuries, property, are significant. It's going to take a higher power to keep the strength of this community resolved to get this done. And we're confident that it will happen.<p>We're especially appreciative, Mr. President, you focusing your attention right here, the entire world's attention right here, to help us in ways that will make a lasting difference to this community. God bless you, my friend.<p><i>The President</i>. Thank you.<p>And one last point I want to make. Obviously, in the rebuilding process, there are a lot of families who are thankful that they're okay, but they've been displaced. It's not just their homes: Many of them lost any means of transportation; the school's been destroyed. And so for all Americans to take a little bit of time out and make a contribution to the American Red Cross or other charitable organizations that are active here in Joplin, that can make an enormous difference. Even if it's just $5, $10, whatever you've got to spare. Because one of the things that's striking about this, and I felt the same way when I was down in Alabama: This can happen to anybody. The difference between you being in the path of this twister, and a few blocks away, you being okay, is a very slim, slim margin. And so we've all got to put together because here but for the grace of God go I.<p>All right? Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"127" "\"<i>The President</i>. Thank you so much. Please, please be seated.<p><i>Audience member</i>. I love you, Obama!<p><i>The President</i>. Oh, I love Joplin! <p><i>Audience member</i>. We love you more!<p><i>The President.</i> I love Joplin.<p><i>Audience member</i>. [<i>inaudible</i>]<p><i>The President</i>. We love Joplin.<p>Thank you, Governor, for that powerful message, but more importantly, for being here with and for your people every step of the way.<p>We are grateful to you, to Reverend Gariss. Father Monaghan, I'm so glad you got in that tub. [<i>Laughter</i>] To Reverend Brown for that incredibly powerful message.<p>To Senator Claire McCaskill, who's been here, and Congressman Billy Long; Mayor Woolston; to Craig Fugate--it doesn't get a lot of attention, but he heads up FEMA, our emergency response at the Federal level. He's been going from Tuscaloosa to Joplin and everywhere in between tirelessly doing outstanding work. We're grateful for him. Gail McGovern, the president of the national Red Cross, which has contributed mightily to the rebuilding efforts here.<p>Most of all, to the family and friends of all those who've been lost and all those who've been affected.<p>Today we gather to celebrate the lives of those we've lost to the storms here in Joplin and across the Midwest, to keep in our prayers those still missing, to mourn with their families, to stand together during this time of pain and trial.<p>And as Reverend Brown alluded to, the question that weighs on us at a time like this is, why? Why our town? Why our home? Why my son or husband or wife or sister or friend? Why?<p>We do not have the capacity to answer. We can't know when a terrible storm will strike or where or the severity of the devastation that it may cause. We can't know why we're tested with the loss of a loved one or the loss of a home where we've lived a lifetime.<p>These things are beyond our power to control. But that does not mean we are powerless in the face of adversity. How we respond when the storm strikes is up to us. How we live in the aftermath of tragedy and heartache, that's within our control. And it's in these moments, through our actions, that we often see the glimpse of what makes life worth living in the first place.<p>In the last week, that's what Joplin has not just taught Missouri, not just taught America, but has taught the world. I was overseas in the aftermath of the storm and had world leaders coming up to me saying, let the people of Joplin know we are with them, we're thinking about them, we love them.<p>Because the world saw how Joplin responded. A university turned itself into a makeshift hospital. Some of you used your pickup trucks as ambulances, carrying the injured on doors that served as stretchers. Your restaurants have rushed food to people in need. Businesses have filled trucks with donations. You've waited in line for hours to donate blood to people you know, but also to people you've never met. And in all this, you have lived the words of Scripture:<blockquote>We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed;<br>we are perplexed, but not in despair;<br>Persecuted, but not forsaken;<br>cast down, but not destroyed;</blockquote><p>As the Governor said, you have shown the world what it means to love thy neighbor. You've banded together. You've come to each other's aid. You've demonstrated a simple truth: that amid heartbreak and tragedy, no one is a stranger. Everybody is a brother. Everybody is a sister. We can all love one another.<p>As you move forward in the days ahead, I know that rebuilding what you've lost won't be easy. I just walked through some of the neighborhoods that have been affected, and you look out at the landscape, and there have to be moments where you just say, where to begin? How to start? There are going to be moments where, after the shock has worn off, you feel alone. But there's no doubt in my mind what the people of this community can do. There's no doubt in my mind that Joplin will rebuild. And as President, I can promise you, your country will be there with you every single step of the way. [<i>Applause</i>] We will be with you every step of the way. We're not going anywhere. The cameras may leave, the spotlight may shift, but we will be with you every step of the way until Joplin is restored and this community is back on its feet. We're not going anywhere.<p>That is not just my promise, that's America's promise. It's a promise I make here in Joplin; it's a promise I made down in Tuscaloosa or in any of the communities that have been hit by these devastating storms over the last few weeks.<p>Now, there have been countless acts of kindness and selflessness in recent days. We've already heard the record of some of that. But perhaps none are as inspiring as what took place when the storm was bearing down on Joplin, threatening an entire community with utter destruction. And in the face of winds that showed no mercy, no regard for human life, that did not discriminate by race or faith or background, it was ordinary people, swiftly tested, who said, \\"I'm willing to die right now so that someone else might live.\\"<p>It was the husband who threw himself over his wife as their house came apart around them. It was the mother who shielded her young son.<p>It was Dean Wells, a husband and father who loved to sing and whistle in his church choir. Dean was working a shift at the Home Depot, managing the electrical department, when the siren rang out. He sprang into action, moving people to safety. Over and over again, he went back for others, until a wall came down on top of him. In the end, most of the building was destroyed, but not where Dean had directed his coworkers and his customers.<p>There was a young man named Christopher Lucas who was 26 years old, father of two daughters, third daughter on the way. Just like any other night, Christopher was doing his job as manager on duty at Pizza Hut. And then he heard the storm coming.<p>It was then when this former sailor quickly ushered everybody into the walk-in freezer. The only problem was, the freezer door wouldn't stay closed from the inside. So as the tornado bore down on this small storefront on Range Line Road, Christopher left the freezer to find a rope or a cord or anything to hold the door shut. He made it back just in time, tying a piece of bungee cord to the handle outside, wrapping the other end around his arm, holding the door closed with all his might. And Christopher held it as long as he could, until he was pulled away by the incredible force of the storm. He died saving more than a dozen people in that freezer.<p>You see, there are heroes all around us, all the time. They walk by us on the sidewalk, and they sit next to us in class. They pass us in the aisle wearing an orange apron. They come to our table at a restaurant and ask us what we'd like to order.<p>Just as we can't know why tragedy strikes in the first place, we may never fully understand where these men and women find the courage and strength to do what they did. What we do know is that in a split-second moment, where there's little time for internal reflection or debate, the actions of these individuals were driven by love: love for a family member, love for a friend, or just love for a fellow human being.<p>That's good to know. In a world that can be cruel and selfish, it's this knowledge--the knowledge that we are inclined to love one another, that we're inclined to do good, to be good--that causes us to take heart. We see with fresh eyes what's precious and so fragile and so important to us. We put aside our petty grievances and our minor disagreements. We see ourselves in the hopes and hardships of others. And in the stories of people like Dean and people like Christopher, we remember that each of us contains reserves of resolve and compassion. There are heroes all around us, all the time.<p>And so, in the wake of this tragedy, let us live up to their example, to make each day count, to live with the sense of mutual regard, to live with that same compassion that they demonstrated in their final hours. We are called by them to do everything we can to be worthy of the chance that we've been given to carry on.<p>I understand that at a memorial yesterday for Dean, his wife decided to play a recording of Dean whistling a song he loved, \\"Amazing Grace.\\" The lyrics are a fitting tribute to what Joplin has been through:<blockquote>Through many dangers, toils, and snares<br>I have already come;<br>'Tis grace that brought me safe thus far<br>And grace will lead me home . . .<br>Yea, when this flesh and heart shall fail,<br>And mortal life shall cease,<br>I shall possess, within the veil,<br>A life of joy and peace.</blockquote><p>May those we've lost know peace, and may grace guide the people of Joplin home. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"128" "\"Please be seated.<p>Thank you, Secretary Gates, and thank you for your extraordinary service to our Nation. I think that Bob Gates will go down as one of our finest Secretaries of Defense in our history, and it's been an honor to serve with him.<p>I also want to say a word about Admiral Mullen. On a day when we are announcing his successor as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and as he looks forward to a well-deserved retirement later this year, Admiral Mullen, on behalf of all Americans, we want to say thank you for your four decades of service to this great country. We want to thank Deborah Mullen as well for her extraordinary service. To Major General Karl Horst, the commanding general of our Military District of Washington; Mrs. Nancy Horst; Mr. Patrick Hallinan, the Superintendent of Arlington National Cemetery, as well as his lovely wife Doreen; and to Chaplain Steve Berry, thank you for your extraordinary service.<p>It is a great privilege to return here to our national sanctuary, this most hallowed ground, to commemorate Memorial Day with all of you: with Americans who've come to pay their respects, with members of our military and their families, with veterans whose service we will never forget and always honor, and with Gold Star families whose loved ones rest all around us in eternal peace.<p>To those of you who mourn the loss of a loved one today, my heart goes out to you. I love my daughters more than anything in the world, and I cannot imagine losing them. I can't imagine losing a sister, brother, or parent at war. The grief so many of you carry in your hearts is a grief I cannot fully know.<p>This day is about you and the fallen heroes that you loved. And it's a day that has meaning for all Americans, including me. It's one of my highest honors, it is my most solemn responsibility as President to serve as Commander in Chief of one of the finest fighting forces the world has ever known. And it's a responsibility that carries a special weight on this day; that carries a special weight each time I meet with our Gold Star families and I see the pride in their eyes, but also the tears of pain that will never fully go away; each time I sit down at my desk and sign a condolence letter to the family of the fallen.<p>Sometimes, a family will write me back and tell me about their daughter or son that they've lost, or a friend will write me a letter about what their battle buddy meant to them. I received one such letter from an Army veteran named Paul Tarbox after I visited Arlington a couple of years ago. Paul saw a photograph of me walking through section 60, where the heroes who fell in Iraq and Afghanistan lay, by a headstone marking the final resting place of Staff Sergeant Joe Phaneuf.<p>Joe, he told me, was a friend of his, one of the best men he'd ever known, the kind of guy who could have the entire barracks in laughter, who was always there to lend a hand, from being a volunteer coach to helping build a playground. It was a moving letter, and Paul closed it with a few words about the hallowed cemetery where we are gathered here today. He wrote, \\"The venerable warriors that slumber there knew full well the risks that are associated with military service and felt pride in defending our democracy.\\" \\"The true lesson of Arlington,\\" he continued, is that \\"each headstone is that of a patriot. Each headstone shares a story. Thank you for letting me share with you the story about my friend Joe.\\"<p>Staff Sergeant Joe Phaneuf was a patriot, like all the venerable warriors who lay here and across this country and around the globe. Each of them adds honor to what it means to be a soldier, sailor, airman, marine, and coastguardsman. Each is a link in an unbroken chain that stretches back to the earliest days of our Republic. And on this day, we memorialize them all.<p>We memorialize our first patriots--blacksmiths and farmers, slaves and freedmen--who never knew the independence they won with their lives. We memorialize the armies of men--and women disguised as men--Black and White, who fell in apple orchards and cornfields in a war that saved our Union. We memorialize those who gave their lives on the battlefields of our times--from Normandy to Manila, Inchon to Khe Sanh, Baghdad to Helmand--and in jungles, deserts, and city streets around the world.<p>What bonds this chain together across the generations, this chain of honor and sacrifice, is not only a common cause, our country's cause, but also a spirit captured in a Book of Isaiah, a familiar verse, mailed to me by the Gold Star parents of Second Lieutenant Mike McGahan: \\"When I heard the voice of the Lord saying, 'Whom shall I send, and who will go for us?' And I said, 'Here I am. Send me!' \\"<p>That's what we memorialize today. That spirit that says: \\"Send me, no matter the mission. Send me, no matter the risk. Send me, no matter how great the sacrifice I am called to make.\\" The patriots we memorialize today sacrificed not only all they had, but all they would ever know. They gave of themselves until they had nothing more to give. It's natural, when we lose someone we care about, to ask why it had to be them. Why my son, why my sister, why my friend, why not me?<p>These are questions that cannot be answered by us. But on this day, we remember that it is on our behalf that they gave our lives--they gave their lives. We remember that it is their courage, their unselfishness, their devotion to duty that has sustained this country through all its trials and will sustain us through all the trials to come. We remember that the blessings we enjoy as Americans came at a dear cost, that our very presence here today, as free people in a free society, bears testimony to their enduring legacy.<p>Our Nation owes a debt to its fallen heroes that we can never fully repay. But we can honor their sacrifice, and we must. We must honor it in our own lives by holding their memories close to our hearts and heeding the example they set. And we must honor it as a nation by keeping our sacred trust with all who wear America's uniform, and the families who love them, by never giving up the search for those who've gone missing under our country's flag or are held as prisoners of war, by serving our patriots as well as they serve us, from the moment they enter the military to the moment they leave it, to the moment they are laid to rest.<p>That is how we can honor the sacrifice of those we've lost. That is our obligation to America's guardians, guardians like Travis Manion. The son of a marine, Travis aspired to follow in his father's footsteps and was accepted by the U.S. Naval Academy. His roommate at the Academy was Brendan Looney, a star athlete and born leader from a military family, just like Travis. The two quickly became best friends. \\"Like brothers,\\" Brendan said.<p>After graduation, they deployed: Travis to Iraq and Brendan to Korea. On April 29, 2007, while fighting to rescue his fellow marines from danger, Travis was killed by a sniper. Brendan did what he had to do. He kept going. He poured himself into his SEAL training and dedicated it to the friend that he missed. He married the woman he loved. And his tour in Korea behind him, he deployed to Afghanistan. On September 21 of last year, Brendan gave his own life, along with eight others, in a helicopter crash.<p>Heartbroken, yet filled with pride, the Manions and the Looneys knew only one way to honor their sons' friendship. They moved Travis from his cemetery in Pennsylvania and buried them side by side here at Arlington. \\"Warriors for freedom,\\" reads the epitaph written by Travis's father, \\"brothers forever.\\"<p>The friendship between First Lieutenant Travis Manion and Lieutenant Brendan Looney reflects the meaning of Memorial Day: brotherhood, sacrifice, love of country. And it is my fervent prayer that we may honor the memory of the fallen by living out those ideals every day of our lives, in the military and beyond. May God bless the souls of the venerable warriors we've lost and the country for which they died.\" "
"129" "\"Thank you very much. Thank you. Please, please, everybody, have a seat.<p>Well, thank you, Tom, for that introduction. Thank you to the entire Pritzker family for your friendship and incredible generosity towards so many causes. I want to welcome as well the diplomatic corps that is here, as well as Secretary Arne Duncan.<p>On behalf of Michelle and myself, I want to begin by congratulating tonight's winner, Eduardo Souto de Moura. And I also want to recognize the members of the prize jury, who I think have a very difficult task in choosing from so many outstanding architects all around the world.<p>Now, as Tom mentioned, my interest in architecture goes way back. There was a time when I thought I could be an architect, where I expected to be more creative than I turned out--so I had to go into politics instead. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And as the Pritzkers and so many others here can attest, if you love architecture there are few better places to live than in my hometown of Chicago. It is the birthplace of the skyscraper, a city filled with buildings and public spaces designed by architects like Louis Sullivan, Frank Lloyd Wright, and Frank Gehry, who is here tonight.<p>In fact, the headquarters of our last campaign was in a building based on a design by Mies van der Rohe. And for 2 years, we crammed it full of hundreds of people working around the clock and surviving on nothing but pizza. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm not sure if that's what Mies had in mind, but it worked out pretty well for us. <p>And that's what architecture is all about. It's about creating buildings and spaces that inspire us, that help us do our jobs, that bring us together, and that become, at their best, works of art that we can move through and live in. And in the end, that's why architecture can be considered the most democratic of art forms. <p>That's perhaps why Thomas Jefferson, who helped enshrine the founding principles of our Nation, had such a passion for architecture and design. He spent more than 50 years perfecting his home at Monticello. And he spent countless hours sketching and revising his architectural drawings for the University of Virginia, a place where he hoped generations would study and become, as he described it, \\"the future bulwark of the human mind in this hemisphere.\\"<p>Like Jefferson, tonight's honoree has spent his career not only pushing the boundaries of his art, but doing so in a way that serves the public good. Eduardo Souto de Moura has designed homes, shopping centers, art galleries, schools, and subway stations, all in a style that seems as effortless as it is beautiful. He's an expert at the use of different materials and colors, and his simple shapes and clean lines always fit seamlessly into their surroundings.<p>Perhaps Eduardo's most famous work is the stadium he designed in Braga, Portugal. Never one to settle for the easy answer, Eduardo wanted to build this particular stadium on the side of a mountain. So he blasted out nearly a million and a half cubic yards of granite from the mountainside, then crushed it to make the concrete necessary to build the stadium.<p>He also took great care to position the stadium in such a way that anyone who couldn't afford a ticket could watch the match from the surrounding hillsides, kind of like Portugal's version of Wrigley Field. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>And that combination of form and function, of artistry and accessibility, is why today we honor Eduardo with what is known as the Nobel Prize of architecture. As Frank Gehry, a former winner of this prize, said, \\"Architecture should speak of its time and place, but yearn for timelessness.\\" I want to thank all the men and women who create these timeless works of art, not only to bring us joy, but to help make this world a better place.<p>And, Tom, thank you again for your extraordinary patronage of architecture. It makes an enormous difference. Thank you very much.\" "
"130" "\"The President. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat. Please have a seat.<p>It is good to be back in Toledo. It is good to be with all of you. Now, for those of you who I've met up close, I just want you to know that I stopped by Rudy's, had--[<i>Laughter</i>]--two hot dogs, two chili dogs with onions. So I've been looking for a mint backstage. [<i>Laughter</i>] It tasted pretty good going down though.<p>It is wonderful to see you. We've got some outstanding public servants who are here, who've been working hard on behalf of working Americans their entire careers. One of the finest Senators that I know of, Senator Sherrod Brown, is in the house. Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur's in the house. Your mayor is in the house. Give him a big round of applause. <p>I just took a short tour of the plant and watched some of you putting the finishing touches on the Wrangler. Now, I--as somebody reminded--I need to call it the iconic Wrangler. [<i>Laughter</i>] And that's appropriate because when you think about what Wrangler has always symbolized, it symbolized freedom, adventure, hitting the open road, never looking back, which is why Malia and Sasha will never buy one--[<i>Laughter</i>]--until maybe they're 35. [<i>Laughter</i>] I don't want any adventure for them.<p>I want to thank Jill for the kind introduction. Somebody on my staff asked Jill to describe herself in three words or less, and she said, \\"Hard working.\\" Hard working. And her entire family agreed. So she's with the right team here at this plant, because I know there are a lot of hard-working people here. And I am--[<i>Applause</i>]--I'm proud of all of you. Now, Jill was born and raised right here in Toledo. Her mother retired from this plant. Her stepfather retired from this plant. Her uncle still works at this plant. She met her husband at this plant. Now they have two children of their own, and her 3-year-old wants to work at this plant. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>I don't think her story is unique. I'm sure there are a lot of you who have similar stories of previous generations working for Chrysler. And this plant or the earlier plant that used to--that I guess is still right down the road, this is the economic rock of the community. You depend on it, and so do thousands of Americans. The Wrangler you build here directly supports 3,000 other jobs, with parts manufactured all across America: doors from Michigan, axles from Kentucky, tires from Tennessee. And this plant indirectly supports hundreds of other jobs right here in Toledo. After all, without you, who'd eat at Chet's or Inky's or Rudy's? Or who'd buy all those cold ones at Zinger's? [<i>Laughter</i>] This guy right here? That's the Zinger crew right there. [<i>Laughter</i>] All right.<p>What would be life like here in Toledo if you didn't make these cars? Now, 2 years ago, we came pretty close to finding out. We were still near the bottom of a vicious recession, the worst that we've seen in our lifetimes, and ultimately, that recession cost 8 million jobs. And it hit this industry particularly hard. So in the year before I took office, this industry lost more than 400,000 jobs. In the span of a few months, one in five American autoworkers got a pink slip. And two great American companies, Chrysler and GM, stood on the brink of liquidation. <p>Now, we had a few options. We could have followed the status quo and kept the automakers on life support by just giving them tens of billions of dollars of taxpayer money, but never really dealing with the structural issues at these plants. But that would have just kicked the problem down the road.<p>Or we could have done what a lot of folks in Washington thought we should do, and that is, nothing. We could have just let U.S. automakers go into an uncontrolled freefall, and that would have triggered a cascade of damage all across the country. If we let Chrysler and GM fail, plants like this would have shut down. Then dealers and suppliers across the country would have shriveled up. Then Ford and other automakers could have failed too because they wouldn't have had the suppliers that they needed. And by the time the dominos stopped falling, more than a million jobs and countless communities and a proud industry that helped build America's middle class for generations wouldn't have been around anymore.<p>So in the middle of a deep recession, that would have been a brutal and irreversible shock to the entire economy and to the future of millions of Americans. So we refused to let that happen. <p>I didn't run for President to get into the auto business. I've got more than enough to do. I ran for President because too many Americans felt their dreams slipping away from them. That core idea of America that if you work hard, if you do right, if you're responsible, that you can lead a better life and, most importantly, pass on a better life to your kids, that American Dream felt like it was getting further and further out of reach.<p>Folks were working harder for less. Wages were flat, while the cost of everything from health care to groceries kept on going up. And as if things weren't hard enough, the bottom fell out of the economy in the closing weeks of that campaign back in 2008, so life got that much harder. <p>So I want everybody to understand, our task hasn't just been to recover from the recession. Our task has been to rebuild the future on a stronger foundation than we had before, to make sure that you can see your incomes and your savings rise again and you can retire with security and respect again and you can open doors of opportunity for your kids again and we can live out the American Dream again. That's what we're fighting for. [<i>Applause</i>] That's what we're fighting for.<p>So that's what drives me every day as I step into the Oval Office. That's why we stood by the American auto industry. It was about you--your families, your jobs, your lives, your dreams--making sure that we were doing everything possible to keep them within reach.<p>So we decided to do more than just rescue the industry from crisis. We decided to retool it for a new age. We said that if everyone involved was willing to take the tough steps and make the painful sacrifices that were needed to become competitive, then we'd invest in your future and the future of communities like Toledo, that we'd have your back.<p>So I placed my bet on you. I put my faith in the American worker. And I'll tell you what, I'm going to do that every day of the week, because what you've done vindicates my faith. <p>Today, all three automakers are turning a profit. That hasn't happened since 2004. Today, all three American automakers are gaining market share. That hasn't happened since 1995. And today I'm proud to announce the Government has been completely repaid for the investments we made under my watch by Chrysler because of the outstanding work that you guys did--[<i>Applause</i>]--because of you. That's right.<p>Chrysler has repaid every dime and more of what it owes the American taxpayer from the investment we made during my watch. And by the way, you guys repaid it 6 years ahead of schedule. And last night we reached an agreement to sell the Government's remaining interest in the company. So soon Chrysler will be a hundred percent in private hands, early, faster than anybody believed. <p>So I'm--I couldn't be prouder of what you've done. And what's most important, all three American automakers are now adding shifts and creating jobs at the strongest rate since the 1990s. So far the auto industry has added 113,000 jobs over the past 2 years. In Detroit, Chrysler added a second shift at its Jefferson North plant. GM's adding a third shift at its Hamtramck plant for the first time ever. In Indiana, Chrysler is investing more than 1.3 billion in its Kokomo facilities. And across the country, GM plans to hire back every single one of its laid-off workers by the end of the year--every single one.<p>And that makes a difference for everyone who depends on this industry. Companies like a small precision tooling manufacturer in Vandergrift, Pennsylvania, have brought back many of the employees they had laid off 2 years ago. Manufacturers from Michigan to Massachusetts are looking for new engineers to build advanced batteries for American-made electric cars. And obviously, Chet's and Inky's and Zinger's, they'll all have your business for some time to come, especially those guys over there. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So this industry is back on its feet, repaying its debts, gaining ground. Because of you, we can once again say that the best cars in the world are built right here in the U.S. of A., right here in Ohio, right here in the Midwest. And each day when you clock in, you're doing more than earning your pay by churning out cars. You're standing up for this company. You're sticking up for this way of life. You're scoring one for the home team and showing the world that American manufacturing and American industry is back.<p>Now, I don't want to pretend like everything's solved. We've still got a long way to go, not just in this industry, but in our economy, for all our friends, all our neighbors who are still feeling the sting of recession. There's nobody here who doesn't know someone who is looking for work and hasn't found something yet. Even though the economy is growing, even though it's created more than 2 million jobs over the past 15 months, we still face some tough times. We still face some challenges. This economy took a big hit. You know, it's just like if you had a bad illness, if you got hit by a truck, it's going to take a while for you to mend. And that's what's happened to our economy. It's taking a while to mend. <p>And there are still some headwinds that are coming at us. Lately, it's been high gas prices that have caused a lot of hardship for a lot of working families. And then you had the economic disruptions following the tragedy in Japan. You got the instability in the Middle East, which makes folks uncertain. There are always going to be bumps on the road to recovery. We're going to pass through some rough terrain that even a Wrangler would have a hard time with. We know that. <p><i>Audience members</i>. No!<p><i>The President</i>. You say a Wrangler can go over anything, huh? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But you know what, we know what's happened here. We know what's possible when we invest in what works. And just as we succeeded in retooling this industry for a new age, we've got to rebuild this whole economy for a new age so that the middle class doesn't just survive, but it also thrives.<p>These are tight fiscal times. You guys have all heard about the deficit and the debt, and that demands that we spend wisely, cut everywhere that we can. We've got to live within our means. Everybody's got to do their part. Middle class workers like you, though, shouldn't be bearing all the burden. You work too hard for someone to ask you to pay more so that somebody who's making millions or billions of dollars can pay less. That's not right. <p>And even though we're in tough times, there are still some things that we've got to keep on doing if we're going to win the future. We can't just sit back and stop. We got business we got to do. We got to make sure that our schools are educating our kids so that they can succeed. I was looking at all the gizmos and gadgets you got in this plant here. It's a lot more complicated working on a plant than it used to be. Kids have to know math and science. <p>We got to have a transportation and communications network that allows our businesses to compete. We used to have the best roads, the best bridges, the best airports. In a lot of places, we don't have that anymore. If you go to China, Beijing, they've got a fancier airport. You go to Europe, they got fancier trains, better roads. We can't let our infrastructure just crumble and fall apart. We're America. We've got to make that investment. <p>We've got to invest in innovation that will pave the way for future prosperity. We invented stuff that the world now uses and the world now makes. We've got to keep on inventing stuff and make sure it's made right here in America. And that requires investments. That requires investments in basic research and basic science. <p>So these are all things that will help America outinnovate, outeducate, outcompete, outhustle everybody else in the world. I want America to win the future, and I want our future to be big and optimistic, not small and fearful. <p>So we've got a lot of hard work that's left to do, Ohio. We've got a lot of work to do. But we're going to get there. And if anybody tells you otherwise, I want you to remember the improbable turnaround that's taken place here at Chrysler. I want you to remember all those folks who were--all those voices who were saying, \\"No,\\" saying, \\"No, we can't.\\" Because, Toledo, you showed that this was a good investment, betting on America's workers.<p>What we see here is a proud reminder that in difficult times, Americans, they dig deep, they recapture the toughness that makes us who we are: builders and doers who never stop imagining a better future. What I see here is a reminder of the character that makes us great, that we're a people who will forge a better future because that's what we do. What I see here is an America that is resilient, an America that understands that when we come together, nobody can stop us. <p>And so I tell you what, I'm going to keep betting on you. And as long as I continue to have the privilege of being the President of the United States, I'm going to keep fighting alongside you for a future that is brighter for this community, for Toledo, for Ohio, for America.<p>Thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"131" "\"Hello, everybody. I'm speaking to you today from a Chrysler plant in Toledo, Ohio, where I just met with workers, including Jill Opial. Jill was born and raised here in Toledo. Her mom and stepfather retired from this plant. She met her husband here, and now they have two children of their own. This plant has not only been central to the economy of this town, it's been part of the lifeblood of this community.<p>Now, the reason I came to Toledo was to congratulate Jill and her coworkers on the turnaround they helped bring about at Chrysler and throughout the auto industry. Today, each of the Big Three automakers--Chrysler, GM, and Ford--is turning a profit for the first time since 2004. Chrysler has repaid every dime and more of what it owes American taxpayers for their support during my Presidency, and it repaid that money 6 years ahead of schedule. And this week, we reached a deal to sell our remaining stake. And that means soon Chrysler will be a hundred percent in private hands.<p>Most importantly, all three American automakers are now adding shifts and creating jobs at the strongest rate since the 1990s. Chrysler has added a second shift at the Jefferson North plant in Detroit that I visited last year. GM is adding a third shift at its Hamtramck plant for the first time ever. And GM plans to hire back all of the workers they had laid off during the recession.<p>That's remarkable when you think about where we were just a couple of years ago. When I took office, we were facing the worst recession since the Great Depression, a recession that hit our auto industry particularly hard. In the year before I was President, this industry lost more than 400,000 jobs, and two great, iconic American companies, Chrysler and GM, stood on the brink of collapse.<p>Now, we had a few options. We could have done what a lot of folks in Washington thought we should do--nothing. But that would have made a bad recession worse and put a million people out of work. I refused to let that happen. So I said if GM and Chrysler were willing to take the difficult steps of restructuring and making themselves more competitive, the American people would stand by them, and we did.<p>But we decided to do more than rescue this industry from crisis. We decided to help it retool for a new age, and that's what we're doing all across the country. We're making sure America can outbuild, outinnovate, and outcompete the rest of the world. That's how we'll build an economy where you can see your incomes and savings rise again, send your kids to college, and retire with dignity, security, and respect. That's how we'll make sure we keep that fundamental American promise that if you work hard and act responsibly, you'll be able to pass on a better life to your kids and your grandkids.<p>Now, we've got a ways to go. Even though our economy has created more than 2 million private sector jobs over the past 15 months and continues to grow, we're facing some tough headwinds. Lately it's high gas prices, the earthquake in Japan, and unease about the European fiscal situation. That's going to happen from time to time. There are going to be bumps on the road to recovery.<p>We know that. But we also know what's happened here at this Chrysler plant. We know that hard-working Americans like Jill helped turn this company and this industry around. That's the American story. We're a people who don't give up, who do big things, who shape our own destiny. And I'm absolutely confident that if we hold on to that spirit, our best days are still ahead of us.<p>Thanks for tuning in, and have a great weekend.\" "
"132" "\"<i>President Obama</i>. Good morning, everybody.<p><i>Audience members</i>. Good morning.<p><i>President Obama</i>. Chancellor Merkel, members of the German delegation: On behalf of Michelle and myself, it is our great pleasure to welcome you back to the White House, and on behalf of the American people, it is our great honor to welcome you back to the United States.<p>Today marks the first official visit and state dinner for a European leader during my Presidency. It's only fitting. The transatlantic alliance is the cornerstone, is the heart, of our efforts to promote peace and prosperity around the world. And Germany, at the heart of Europe, is one of our strongest allies. And Chancellor Merkel is one of my closest global partners.<p>Our alliance, at its core, is a partnership between our peoples: the generations of German Americans who helped build a strong America; the Americans who, during a long cold war, helped to defend a free Germany; and citizens of both our countries--entrepreneurs, innovators, students, scientists, and soldiers--who work together and forge the future every day.<p>At a time when some have asked whether the rise of new global powers means the decline of others, this visit reaffirms an enduring truth. Our alliances with nations like Germany are more important than ever. Indeed, they're indispensable to global security and prosperity. <p>As two of the largest and most dynamic economies, the United States and Germany can show that the prosperity we seek is best achieved when nations invest in our greatest resource: our people and their ability to compete and innovate in the 21st century. <p>As members of the most successful alliance in human history, our commitment to our common defense is also a pillar of global security, from completing our mission in Afghanistan to preventing terrorist attacks to achieving our vision of a world without nuclear weapons.<p>And finally, as people around the world imagine a different future, the story of Germany and our alliance in the 20th century shows what's possible in the 21st. Wars can end. Adversaries can become allies. Walls can come down. At long last, nations can be whole and can be free. <p>Madam Chancellor, the arc of our lives speaks to this spirit. It's obvious that neither of us looks exactly like the leaders who preceded us. [<i>Laughter</i>] But the fact that we can stand here today, as President of the United States and as Chancellor of a united Germany, is a testament to the progress, the freedom, that is possible in our world. <p>Chancellor Merkel, to the members of the German delegation: We are honored to have all of you here, as allies, as partners, but most of all, as dear friends. So <i>herzlich willkommen.</i><p><i>Chancellor Merkel</i>. Mr. President, dear Barack, dear Michelle, Mr. Vice President, members of both Cabinets, guests of honor, my fellow countrymen, ladies and gentlemen: Thank you very much for this very warm and very moving reception that is overwhelming. I am indeed delighted--and I say this on behalf of all of the members of my delegation--to be back in Washington, DC, again.<p>About 20 months ago--and this was almost 20 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall--I had the great honor and privilege to address both Houses of Congress, a wonderful moment. And I'm certain this day today shall be another such unforgettable moment.<p>Mr. President, receiving the Presidential Medal of Freedom from you tonight is something that I consider to be not only an exceptionally gracious gesture of appreciation, and I see this as a gesture of appreciation for the whole of this united Germany. It is also a testimony of the very, very close ties that bind our two countries together.<p>We Germans know that America has always been a true friend to us. Our friendship has grown and matured throughout the decades, and every day it is filled with new life. More than 600,000 Americans are working for German companies here in the United States. And the reverse is also true: More than 600,000 Germans work for American companies in Germany. <p>There are many and diverse exchange programs at schools and universities, and they help us to win over numerous young people to serve as bridge builders between our two countries. Seventeen million members of the Armed Forces of the United States and their families have lived in Germany ever since the Second World War. And they have served their country with honor and distinction and rendered an inestimable service to their country and to us. The more than 50,000 American soldiers who are currently stationed in Germany are more than welcome every day.<p>I could mention many more examples of the close ties that bind our two countries together, but let me underline one thing in particular. When Germany and Europe were divided by the wall and barbed wire, America consistently stood on the side of freedom and resolutely stood by us Germans as we made our way towards unity and freedom, and this we shall never forget.<p>Today, we are just as closely linked to each other by the bonds of friendship as we were those 20 years ago. We are standing on a firm foundation, and standing and supported by this firm foundation, we tackle the current challenges we both face. Germany and the United States are partners, sharing responsibility for a peaceful and stable Afghanistan. We are pulling in the same direction trying to keep Iran from following its course of developing a nuclear forces capability. In North Africa, we support the struggle for freedom. And in the Middle East, we support efforts to fill the peace process with new life. Together, we mastered the aftershock of the global economic and financial crisis. <p>Yes, Germany and the United States do share the same values: democracy and freedom, rule of law, and the universality of human rights. And it is for this very reason that a close partnership with the United States is just as much part and parcel of Germany's raison d'être as is European integration. Both belong together. Both are and remain the pillars of German foreign policy. <p><i>[At this point, Chancellor Merkel concluded her remarks in English.]</i><p>Mr. President, dear Barack, in Berlin in 2008, you spoke to more than 200,000 people. And in your address, you said America has no better partner than Europe. And now it's my turn to say Europe and Germany have no better partner than America. Thank you.\" "
"133" "\"<i>The President.</i> Good evening. <i>Guten Abend</i>. Michelle and I are honored to welcome you as we host Chancellor Merkel, Professor Sauer, and the German delegation for the first official visit and state dinner for a European leader during my Presidency.<p>Angela, you and the German people have always shown me such warmth during my visits to Germany. I think of your gracious hospitality in Dresden. I think back to when I was a candidate and had that small rally in Berlin's Tiergarten. [<i>Laughter</i>] So we thought we'd reciprocate with a little dinner in our Rose Garden.<p>Now, it's customary at these dinners to celebrate the values that bind nations. Tonight we wanted to do something different. We wanted to pay tribute to an extraordinary leader who embodies these values and who's inspired millions around the world, including me, and that's my friend Chancellor Merkel.<p>More than five decades ago, in 1957, the first German Chancellor ever to address our Congress, Konrad Adenauer, spoke of his people's \\"will of freedom\\" and of the millions of his countrymen forced to live behind an Iron Curtain. And one of those millions, in a small East German town, was a young girl named Angela.<p>She remembers when the wall went up and how everyone in her church was crying. Told by the Communists that she couldn't pursue her love of languages, she excelled as a physicist. Asked to spy for the secret police, she refused. And the night the wall came down, she crossed over, like so many others, and finally experienced what she calls the \\"incredible gift of freedom.\\"<p>Tonight we honor Angela Merkel not for being denied her freedom or even for attaining her freedom, but for what she achieved when she gained her freedom. Determined to finally have her say, she entered politics, rising to become the first East German to lead a united Germany, the first woman Chancellor in German history, and an eloquent voice for human rights and dignity around the world.<p>The Presidential Medal of Freedom is the highest honor a President can bestow on a civilian. Most honorees are Americans; only a few others have received it, among them Pope John Paul II, Nelson Mandela, and Helmut Kohl. So please join me in welcoming Chancellor Merkel for the presentation of the next Medal of Freedom.<p><i>[At this point, Maj. Reginald McClam, USMC, Marine Corps Aide to the President, read the citation, and the President presented the medal.]</i><p>The President. You can all applaud. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>[Chancellor Merkel moved to the podium, but the President then returned to the podium and continued his remarks as follows.]</i><p>I've got to do the toast. [<i>Laughter</i>] I want to conclude by inviting all of you to stand and join me in a toast. And I want to do so with the words that Angela spoke 2 years ago when she became the first German leader to address our Congress since Chancellor Adenauer all those decades ago.<p>Her words spoke not only to the dreams of that young girl in the East, but to the dreams of all who still yearn for their rights and dignity today: To freedom, which \\"must be struggled for, and then defended anew, every day of our lives.\\"<p>Cheers. <i>Zum Wohl. </i><p><i>[Chancellor Merkel then gave brief remarks.]</i>\" "
"134" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. Please have a seat, have a seat. Welcome to the White House. And congratulations to the Auburn Tigers. War Eagle! I notice you all brought some Alabama weather up here too.<p>I want to start by recognizing some very proud Members of Congress who are here today. Members of Congress delegation, where are you? Here you go, all the Alabama crew right here--Shelby, Sessions too. They are very proud. All they do is just talk about you all, Alabama and Auburn. I don't know which way they----<p><i>Audience member.</i> Auburn----<p><i>The President.</i> Okay. See? [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Head Coach Gene </i><i>Chizik.</i> Auburn first.<p><i>The President.</i> And I want to welcome back to the White House--this is a point of personal privilege--the biggest Auburn fan I've ever met: my former Press Secretary, Robert Gibbs, is in the house, along with my main man Ethan Gibbs--[<i>Laughter</i>]--who has inherited the passion for Auburn that his dad had. Look at Gibbs, has his tie and everything. Come on. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>As some of you may know, Gibbs was born in Auburn. His parents worked in the university library, so he and his brother grew up watching the Tigers play. So earlier this year when the team was making its run to the championship, Robert was insufferable. He had a little statue of Aubie on his desk. [<i>Laughter</i>] He had his son Ethan--he and Ethan would roll the trees in front of the yard after a big win. [<i>Laughter</i>] So this is a big day for him.<p>Now, this visit was originally scheduled to happen a couple of months ago. But 2 days before this team was supposed to be in Washington, the State of Alabama was hit by a series of devastating tornadoes.<p>So Michelle and I went down with many members of the congressional delegation to meet some of the folks who had lost loved ones, make sure everything possible was being done to help the community get back on its feet. And it was a heartbreaking visit. Coach and I were just talking about--you don't understand the devastation until you see it firsthand.<p>But what was also inspiring was the amount of strength and generosity that was shown by so many people in the midst of so much tragedy. And that includes the members of this program. Two days after the tornado, almost 70 Auburn coaches, players, and athletic department staff, led by Coach, traveled to Pleasant Grove and Cullman to help out with relief efforts.<p>And even though one of the toughest hit areas by the storm was the home of the Crimson Tide, this team knew what we all know in situations like this, which is we're all on the same team. We're all Americans first and foremost, and we've got an obligation to support each other in times of need.<p>So I've said before, I will say again, we will continue to stand with the victims of these disasters, whether they're in Tuscaloosa or in Joplin, Missouri, which I just visited a couple weeks ago. We're going to do this as long as it takes until families are able to rebuild.<p>Now, the reason, obviously, we're celebrating today is because of a happier moment for the people of Alabama and to congratulate the Tigers for winning their first national title since before I was born. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I'm getting quite a bit of gray hair. [<i>Laughter</i>] So that was a long wait for Tigers fans.<p>It wasn't always an easy road. This team played one of the toughest schedules in all of college football last year. In nine games, they came from behind to win, including after being down 24-0 on the road to Alabama. Unbelievable--that was an unbelievable game. I watched that game. I'm busy, but I watched that game. [<i>Laughter</i>] That was unbelievable.<p>As senior linebacker Josh Bynes so eloquently put it, \\"Guys just went out there and fought their behinds off.\\" That's what he said: \\"behinds.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Now, of course, I've got to give credit to a couple players that haven't gotten a lot of attention, but did a great job. There's a guy named Cam Newton--[<i>Laughter</i>]--who had a pretty good season and went on to win the Heisman Trophy. So obviously, that's really extraordinary.<p>There's a guy named Fairley who won the Lombardi Trophy--the top defensive lineman in the Nation. You know, this guy is rough, Fairley. [<i>Laughter</i>] You don't want to be tackled by him; you really don't. No.<p><i>Defensive lineman Nick Fairley.</i> Cam.<p>The President. See, he said Cam, so they're thinking next year in the NFL--[<i>laughter</i>]--they're not going to be on the same team.<p>But as crucial as Cam and Nick were to this team's success, obviously, this is a team sport and you only win it with a team that is passionate and dedicated. They had help from teammates like freshman Michael Dyer who ran--where's Michael? There he is down there--ran an incredible 37-yard run on that final drive after everybody except Michael thought he had been tackled. [<i>Laughter</i>] Actually, I give--that was some good coaching--[<i>laughter</i>]--because the folks on the sidelines were all like, \\"Get up, get up!\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Teammates like senior Wes Byrum, who knew he had to knock the winning field goal through for the guys who had been fighting that whole game. Where's Wes? There you go. Good job, Wes.<p>And obviously, Coach Chizik, who in just two seasons had helped the Tigers go from good to great.<p>And then there's the Auburn family: the folks who celebrated at Toomer's Corner no matter what, no matter what the weather was; folks who haven't missed a game in decades and have waited a generation for a feeling like this. So I'm sure that I speak on behalf of the team. Everybody here has a little piece of that title.<p>So I want to congratulate this team once again on a great season. I want to thank them for taking the time during this visit to meet with some local kids from DC and share a little joy and inspiration. One of the things that the First Lady is constantly reminding our young people about is athletics is not just a spectator sport. Even if you're not going to be a Nick Fairley or a Cam Newton, you can still get out there and move. And so for the players here to send that message to young people I think is tremendous, and we really appreciate it.<p>So I hope everybody has a wonderful visit, and once again, I just want to say congratulations to an outstanding team and national champions. Thank you so much.<p>Coach Chizik. Thank you, Mr. President. And what an honor and a privilege, obviously, it is for the whole Auburn family to be able to stand here in the White House today and really embrace this moment. And this is not just a great championship team; it's got great, great character, it's got great kids, and they care about communities. They care about service. They care about doing all the right things.<p>What I'd like to do today is I'd like to introduce one of our seniors, which, by the way, I really want to say a word of appreciation. So many of our seniors that have been--they're spread out. They're--they've moved on with their life, decided to come back today just for this event.<p><i>The President.</i> That's great.<p><i>Coach Chizik.</i> And it's big for us. But Kodi Burns, one of the most selfless players we have on our football team, has a special presentation to you from Auburn University.<p><i>The President.</i> All right, Kodi. What do we got here?<p><i>Wide receiver Kodi Burns.</i> Mr. President, on behalf of Auburn football, I want to present you with this helmet.<p><i>The President.</i> That's a nice-looking helmet there. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Mr. Burns.</i> As well as your exclusive Auburn football national championship jersey.<p><i>The President.</i> Exclusive. There you go. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>All right. Let's--we're going to strike the podium so we can get a good picture.<p><i>[At this point, the podium was removed, and the President posed for a photograph with members of the Auburn University Tigers organization.]</i>\" "
"135" "\"Thank you so much, everybody. It is great to be back at NOVA. I come here often enough that I think I should be getting some credits. [<i>Laughter</i>] Plus I've got an in with Dr. Biden, and her husband owes me big time, so--[<i>Laughter</i>].<p>It is wonderful to see everybody here. We've got some special guests. Our outstanding Labor Secretary, Hilda Solis, is here. Where's Hilda? Congressman Jim Moran is here, putting on his jacket. The mayor of Alexandria, Bill Euille, is here. The president of Northern Virginia Community College, Dr. Robert Templin, is here.<p>I just had a chance to see the labs where students are training for jobs working on advanced vehicles, led by a teacher who's here, Ernie Packer, who spent almost three decades at Ford Motor Company. Where's Ernie? Did we get him back here? There he is. <p>That's why my sleeves are rolled up. I was getting under the hood. [<i>Laughter</i>] You guys want me to work on your car--don't do it. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But I was so impressed not only with the skills that the young people were learning, but also with the enthusiasm and excitement of what they see as a potential future. All across America, there are students like the ones that I've met here at NOVA, folks who are gaining skills, they're learning a trade, they're working hard and putting in the hours to move up the profession that they've chosen or to take a chance on a new line of work. Among the students I was meeting here, we saw some--looked like 18-, 19-year-olds, but we also saw a couple of folks who were midcareer or even had retired and now were looking to go back to work.<p>So these are men and women like David Korelitz. David started at a car dealership as a apprentice. And he'll tell you, he was at the low end of the totem pole. Then he entered GM--the GM automotive program here at NOVA, started picking up new skills, led to better and more challenging work. He began to prove himself as a technician. And after he graduated, he kept moving up. So now David is hoping to work hard enough to earn a management position at the dealership where he was an apprentice just a few years ago.<p>And I want to quote David, because I think it captures what happens here at a place like NOVA. David said, whatever he ends up doing, the automotive training program here was \\"the spark [he] needed to get [his] career started.\\" The spark he needed to get his career started.<p>Lighting a spark. That's what community colleges can do. That's what learning a new skill or training in a new field can do. And that's the reason that I'm here today. We've got to light more sparks all across America, and that's going to make a difference in the futures of individuals who are looking for a better life, but it's also going to make a difference in America's future. So I've set a goal that by the end of this decade, we are going to once again lead the world in producing college graduates. To achieve that, we're making college more affordable and we're investing in community colleges.<p>But the goal isn't just making sure that somebody's got a certificate or a diploma. The goal is to make sure your degree helps you to get a promotion or a raise or a job. And that's especially important right now. Obviously, we're slowly recovering from a very painful recession. But there are too many people out there who are still out of work, without a job that allows them to save a little money or to create the life they want for their families. That's unacceptable to me. It's unacceptable to all of you.<p>So we've got to do everything we can, everything in our power to strengthen and rebuild the middle class. We've got to be able to test new ideas, pull people together, and throw everything we've got at this challenge. So we're going to have to have all hands on deck.<p>And that's why last year, we brought together major companies and community colleges to launch a new campaign, led by business leaders from across the country, called Skills for America. And the idea was simple: If we could match up schools and businesses, we could create pipelines right from the classroom to the office or the factory floor. This would help workers find better jobs, and it would help companies find the highly educated and highly trained people that they need in order to prosper and to remain competitive.<p>So today we're announcing several new commitments by the private sector, colleges, and the National Association of Manufacturers to help make these partnerships a reality. Through these efforts, we're going to make it possible for 500,000 community college students--half a million community college students--to get industry-accepted credentials for manufacturing jobs that companies across America are looking to fill. Because the irony is, even though a lot of folks are looking for work, there are a lot of companies that are actually also looking for skilled workers. There's a mismatch that we can close, and this partnership is a great way to do it.<p>So if you're a company looking to hire, you'll know exactly what kind of training went into a specific degree. If you're considering attending a community college, you'll be able to know that the diploma you earn will be valuable when you hit the job market. And a lot of that's already happening here at NOVA. If you participate in the GM program here, like David did, you can count on being prepared to work on GM cars.<p>We're also taking some additional steps today: a new resource on the Internet so workers can sign on and see what jobs their skill sets allow them to access all across America. It's interesting, I was talking to Ernie, and he was saying how a lot of the young people who go through this program, they think initially that they can only get a job at a dealership. And then they realize that there are a whole range of possibilities out there. You might end up working for a company maintaining its fleet. You might end up working for NHTSA, making sure that automobile safety is practiced all across the country. So part of what this web site will do is give people a better idea of the scope of opportunities available for the skill sets that they're gaining.<p>A new push to make it easier for high school students to get a head start on their degrees at 3,500 participating schools, because part of our task is making sure that young people even in high school see a relevance between what they're learning and a potential career.<p>New mentoring programs and scholarships for folks who are thinking about careers in engineering, something that's going to be vital to our manufacturing success. And more business leaders, companies, colleges, and organizations are joining this campaign all the time.<p>What all these steps boil down to is this: Right now there are people across America with talents just waiting to be tapped, sparks waiting to be lit. Our job is to light them. And there's no time to lose when we've got folks looking for work, when we've got companies that need to stay competitive in this 21st-century economy, and when we know that we've got to rebuild a middle class, and a lot of that is going to have to do with how well we do in manufacturing and how well we do in those jobs that are related to making products here in the United States of America.<p>The fact is we understand what it takes to build a stronger economy. We know it's going to require investing in research and technology that will lead to new ideas and new industries. We know it means building the infrastructure, the roads and bridges, and manufacturing the new products here in the United States of America that create good jobs. Above all, it requires training and educating our citizens to outcompete workers from other countries.<p>That's why today's announcement is so important. And that's why I also want to see Congress--so Jim, get working on this--[<i>Laughter</i>]--pass the \\"Workforce Investment Act\\" to build on this progress with new and innovative approaches to training and to really figure out what works. We've got a lot of programs out there. If a program does not work in training people for the jobs of the future and getting them a job, we should eliminate that program. If a program is working, we should put more money into that program. So we've got to be ruthless in evaluating what works and what doesn't in order for folks to actually obtain a job and industry to get the workers they need. That's how we're going to help more Americans climb into the middle class and stay there. That's how we're going to make our overall economy stronger and more competitive.<p>Let me just make this point. If we don't decide to do this--it's possible that we could choose not to do the things that I just talked about. We could choose not to make investments in clean energy or let tuition prices rise and force more Americans to give up on the American Dream. We could choose to walk away from our community college system. We could say to ourselves, you know what, given foreign competition and low wages overseas, manufacturing's out the door and there's not much we can do about it. We could decide, in solving our fiscal problems, that we can't afford to make any of these investments and those of us who've done very well don't have to pay any more taxes in order to fund these investments.<p>But I want to make clear: That's not our history. That's not who we are. I don't accept that future for the United States of America. I see a United States where this Nation is able to outcompete every country on Earth, where we continue to be the world's engine for innovation and discovery. I see a future where we train workers who make things here in the United States and continue a important and honorable tradition of folks working with their hands, creating value, not just shuffling paper. That's part of what has built the American Dream.<p>And if anybody doubts that future is possible, they should come to this school and talk to the young people who are getting trained and the folks who are doing the training. They ought to go to Detroit, where auto companies are coming back and hiring again after a lot of people declared that entire industry dead and buried. They ought to travel all across the country like I do and meet men and women who are starting businesses, testing new ideas, bringing new products to market, and helping this country come back stronger than before.<p>You know, we are in a tough fight. We've been in a tough fight over the last 2 1/2 years to get past a crippling recession, but also to deal with the problems that happened before this recession, the fact that manufacturing had weakened, the middle class was treading water. I don't think the answer is for us to turn back. I think the answer is to stand up for what this country is capable of achieving and to place our bets on entrepreneurs and workers and to get behind some of the great work that's being done here at NOVA and in schools all across the country.<p>That's how we're going to win this fight. That's how we're going to win the future.<p>For all of those who are participating, including National Association of Manufacturers and the companies who have already begun to participate in this process, thank you. These young people are excited. They're ready to get trained. They're ready to go to work. America's ready to win the future.<p>Thank you very much everybody. God bless you. Thank you.\" "
"136" "\"Hello, everyone. I want to spend a couple minutes talking with you today about our economy. We've just come through the worst recession since the Great Depression, and while our economy as a whole has been growing and adding private sector jobs, too many folks are still struggling to get back on their feet. I wish I could tell you there was a quick fix to our economic problems, but the truth is, we didn't get into this mess overnight, and we won't get out of it overnight. It's going to take time.<p>The good news is, when it comes to job creation and economic growth, there are certain things we know we can do. Now, government is not and should not be the main engine of job creation in this country. That's the role of the private sector. But one thing government can do is partner with the private sector to make sure that every worker has the necessary skills for the jobs they're applying for.<p>On Wednesday, I announced commitments by the private sector, colleges, and the National Association of Manufacturers that will make it possible for 500,000 community college students to get a manufacturing credential that has the industry's stamp of approval. If you're a company that's hiring, you'll know that anyone who has this degree has the skills you're looking for. If you're a student considering community college, you'll know that your diploma will give you a leg up in the job market.<p>On Monday, I'll travel to North Carolina, where I'll meet with my jobs council and talk about additional steps we can take to spur private sector hiring in the short term and ensure our workers have the skills and training they need in this economy.<p>There are also a few other things we know will help grow our economy and give people good jobs that support a middle class lifestyle. We know that a quality education is a prerequisite for success, so we're challenging States and school districts to improve teaching and learning and making it a national goal to once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020.<p>We know that more and more jobs are being created in the clean energy sector, so we're investing in wind power, solar power, and biofuels that will make us less dependent on foreign oil and clean up our planet for our children. These are steps we know will make a difference in people's lives, not just 20 years from now or 10 years from now, but now and in the months to come.<p>In the end, the folks I hear from in letters or meet when I travel across the country, they aren't asking for much. They're just looking for a job that covers their bills. They're looking for a little financial security. They want to know that if they work hard and live within their means, everything will be all right. They'll be able to get ahead and give their kids a better life. That's the dream each of us has for ourselves and our families. And so long as I have the privilege of serving as President, I'll keep fighting to put that dream within the reach of all Americans.<p>Have a great weekend, everybody.\" "
"137" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. Thank you, everybody. Please, everybody, have a seat. Thank you.<p>It is good to be back in North Carolina. It's great to be back at Cree. To all the employees at Cree, thank you so much for your outstanding work and hospitality. I actually visited this plant about 3 years ago. I was still running for office. Somebody in the plant showed me a picture of the two of us together, and I looked so much younger then. [<i>Laughter</i>] But--so I--it's true, I've got a lot more gray hair now than I did the last time I visited. But I have a better plane--[<i>Laughter</i>]--so it's a fair trade.<p>Now, that day, a wonderful man gave me a heck of an introduction. He introduced himself by saying: \\"I am a Cree employee, and I help build the most energy-efficient LEDs in the world. That's what I do.\\" And his name was David Jones. This--David's the guy with the picture. Where's David? David must be--there he is. David's back there. As you can see, David's shy--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and lacks enthusiasm--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but nevertheless.<p>So I got to see David on--looking at the new LED production line--which he now runs, by the way--and it's easy to see why you guys are so proud of what you do. This company has made amazing progress. And the technology at this company is growing in leaps and bounds. In fact, as I was talking to Chuck here at Cree, he was explaining, how just since my last visit, LEDs have become--how much more efficient have they become?<p>Cree, Inc., President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board of Directors Charles M. Swoboda. Twice--doubled in efficiency.<p><i>The President.</i> Doubled in efficiency just since my visit 3 years ago--just since my visit 3 years ago.<p>So today, the small business that a group of NC State engineering students founded almost 25 years ago is a global company. It's got 5,000 employees. Next month, your new production line will begin running 24/7. And soon you'll add another 400,000 square feet of space on a new site next door. So you're helping to lead a clean energy revolution. You're helping lead the comeback of American manufacturing. This is a company where the future will be won.<p>So David was telling the truth when he said how great it is to work here and how grateful he is for the opportunities that it provides. But I also remember something else that David said that day. He talked about how, even with a good job at a great company, it was getting tougher for working people to provide for their families without having to cut corners.<p>What he said was, \\"Where I'm--where am I squeezing that balloon to make sure that my family has a life, that we're moving forward, that we're progressing?\\" Now, that was in 2008, before the financial crisis, before the bottom fell out of the economy, before a vicious recession that made things that much tougher for working families.<p>So the world has changed since the first time David and I met. And for a lot of our friends and neighbors, that change has been painful. Today, the single most serious economic problem we face is getting people back to work. We stabilized the economy. We prevented a financial meltdown. An economy that was shrinking is now growing. We've added more than 2 million private sector jobs over the last 15 months alone. But I'm still not satisfied. I will not be satisfied until everyone who wants a good job that offers some security has a good job that offers security. I won't be satisfied until the empty storefronts in town are open for business again. I won't be satisfied until working families feel like they're moving forward again, that they're progressing again. That's what drives me every day when I walk down to the Oval Office: you, your families, your jobs, your dreams, and everything it takes to reach those dreams.<p>Now, our economic challenges were years in the making, and it will take years to get back to where we need to be. But for all the hits we've taken, we are still America. We've got the largest economy in the world, we've got the best workers in the world, we've got the finest universities in the world, we've got the most successful companies in the world. We've got everything we need to help our workers adapt and to help our fellow Americans through this tough period.<p>But it's going to take all of us working together: the private sector, government, non-for-profits, academia. And that's what I came back to Cree to talk about today. I brought some folks with me. I travel with a bigger entourage these days than I did 3 years ago. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So the group I brought today is a group called the Council on Jobs and Competitiveness. These are leaders who have decades of experience in running some of America's best businesses, creating jobs, understanding what it takes to grow our economy and strengthen our middle class. They come from the business sector, but also labor, universities. Most importantly, they come from outside Washington. And they've decided to dedicate their time and energy to this singular task: How do we create more jobs in America?<p>And by the way, we put this together many months ago, not in response to one jobs report, but because we understood even though the economy was growing, it wasn't growing as fast as we want, and it wasn't producing as many jobs as we want. And so I told them I wanted to hear every smart, forward-thinking idea that they have to quicken the pace of job growth and make sure our economy and our workers can adapt to changing times.<p>So we just had an opportunity to meet backstage to talk about how we get our job creation engine running faster, and I want to highlight a couple of their ideas that apply to companies like this, to companies like Cree.<p>Now, the advanced manufacturing that you do here requires skilled workers. And you guys are lucky; you've got excellent schools nearby, like UNC and NC State and Duke. Reggie, I--don't worry, I'm not forgetting Duke. [<i>Laughter</i>] Every time I come here, there's some ACC thing that I got to work through. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So--but because you've got these great schools, you can hold your own talent draft, not just in basketball, but when it comes to highly skilled workers. And Durham Public Schools has strengthened that talent pipeline by forming a school of engineering at Southern High School, which celebrated its first graduating class last week. And we are so pleased with that because we want more engineers in America.<p>Here's why this is so important. Right now there are more than four job seekers for every job opening in America. But when it comes to science and high-tech fields, the opposite is true. The businesses represented here tell me they're having a hard time finding high-skilled workers to fill their job openings.<p>And that's because today, only 14 percent of all undergraduate students enroll in what we call the STEM subjects: science, technology, engineering, and math. Of those students, one-third will switch out of those fields, and only about two in five will graduate with a STEM degree or certification within 6 years.<p>So these are the jobs of the future. These are the jobs that China and India are cranking out. Those students are hungry because they understand if they get those skills they can find a good job, they can create companies, they can create businesses, create wealth. And we're falling behind in the very fields we know are going to be our future.<p>So we can do better than that. We must do better than that. If we're going to make sure the good jobs of tomorrow stay here in America, stay here in North Carolina, we've got to make sure all our companies have a steady stream of skilled workers to draw from.<p>So last year, in pursuit of this goal, we brought together companies and community colleges to forge pipelines directly from the classroom to the office or the factory floor, helping workers find better jobs and helping companies find the right workers. Last week, we announced new commitments by the private sector, as well as colleges and the National Association of Manufacturers, to make it possible for 500,000 community college students to earn industry-accepted credentials for manufacturing jobs that companies across America are looking to fill.<p>So what happens here now is businesses and trade organizations are going into the community colleges, helping to design the training for specific jobs that they know are going to be available, in some cases providing the equipment to help those students train on. The students then have an incentive. They know, you know what, if I do well here, I know I'm going to have a job.<p>And today, with the leadership of the jobs council, we're announcing an all-hands-on-deck strategy to train 10,000 new American engineers every year. So--[<i>Applause</i>]--and by the way, our jobs council, led by Jeff Immelt, they're doing this not counting on a whole bunch of Federal funding. Private sector companies are teaming up to help us promote STEM education, to offer students incentives to finish those degrees, and then to help universities fund those programs. They're going to double their summer internship hiring.<p>We're talking about companies like Intel, whose CEO, Paul Otellini, is here today. And Paul is heading up our task force for the jobs council in helping to figure this out, because he understands Intel's survival depends on our ability to get a steady stream of engineers. I've been, by the way, to the Intel plant out in Oregon. It is unbelievable. It's out of--something out of science fiction. And I pretended like I understood what they were saying the whole time. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But that's what's going to drive our competitiveness in the future. We know that if we're going to maintain our leadership in technology and innovation, our best companies need the world's brightest workers: American workers.<p>Now, that brings me to a second idea that we discussed backstage. At Cree, you're putting people back to work in a field that has the potential to create an untold number of new jobs and new businesses right here in America, and that's clean energy. And my administration has invested heavily in clean energy manufacturing, because I want to see the LEDs and solar panels and wind turbines and electric cars of tomorrow made right here in the U.S. of A. I want them made right here.<p>We invested in this company with a tax credit that allowed you to boost capacity and lower costs and hire hundreds of new workers. And with a grant from the Department of Energy, you've made incredible breakthroughs in smart grid technology to transmit clean, renewable energy across the country more efficiently at less cost.<p>Now, breakthroughs like these have the potential to create new jobs in other sectors of the economy as well. Think about it. Cree makes energy-efficient lighting that can save businesses and consumers a lot of money. And there are a lot of buildings out there that need upgrading. And there are a lot of workers ready to do the upgrades. Construction workers were hit harder than anybody by recession. Almost one in six construction workers are out of work. And that makes no sense at a time when we've got so much of America that needs to be rebuilt.<p>So this is what led us to create what we're calling the Better Buildings Initiative, putting people back to work doing the work that America needs done. Upgrading buildings for energy efficiency could save America's businesses up to $40 billion a year on their utility bills, and obviously, that $40 billion could be better spent growing and hiring new workers. It will boost manufacturing of energy-efficient products like those made here at Cree. It will put contractors and construction workers back on the job. It is a win-win-win-win proposition.<p>So today the members of my job council updated me on their efforts to push this initiative in the private sector. And they're working closely with a champion for this kind of energy innovation, President Bill Clinton, who I asked to colead the effort with them.<p>And as we get this moving, it can snowball, because right now the big impediment is a lot of companies know they would save money if they had more energy efficiency, but they may not have the initial capital to do it. In some cases, building owners, they're thinking to themselves, well, if I put in all this new lighting, am I going to be able to recover it with--through the rents or the leases that I'm able to obtain? And so what we've got here are premier experts who are going to be able to help us design this program to really get this to take off.<p>Now, this is just two examples of the kind of work that's being done by the jobs council. They had all sorts of recommendations that they're talking about. How do we deal with making sure our regulations make sense so that we start eliminating ones that don't work, aren't making consumers better off, or aren't improving our quality of life? How do we make sure that small businesses get financing? Because there are a lot of small businesses out there that are still struggling to get capital. Large businesses are doing pretty well. So they're tackling a whole host of different issues.<p>Now, their recommendations aren't going to solve every problem that we face. But slowly, steadily, they're helping us to move forward. We're going to pursue these ideas and any good ideas that are out there, no matter where they come from. Because even though this is a big country with a great diversity of opinion--as you discover when you're President--[<i>Laughter</i>]--we won't agree with each other on everything, we can agree on some basic things.<p>We can agree on educating our children and training our workers to be the best in the world. We should be able to agree on investing in the research and technology that leads to new ideas and new industries. We should be able to agree on developing clean energy and manufacturing jobs that come with it. It makes sense for us to rebuild our infrastructure and all the jobs that it can create. That's what's going to be required to grow our economy. That's what it takes to help our people prosper. That's how we're going to get to the future that we dream about for our children and our grandchildren.<p>And the main thing I wanted to communicate to all of you here at Cree, everybody here in North Carolina, and all across the country is we're going to get there. I know that because I've seen it here at this company, where you're helping to lead the clean energy revolution. I've seen it across the Midwest, where automakers are coming back and hiring again, even after reading their own obituaries just 2 years ago. I've seen it from coast to coast, where men and women are testing new ideas and starting new businesses and bringing new products to market and helping America come back stronger than before.<p>So I am optimistic about our future. We can't be complacent. We shouldn't pretend that a lot of folks out there are not still struggling. But I am absolutely optimistic that we've got everything it takes for us to succeed in the 21st century. Americans do not respond to trials by lowering our sights or downscaling our dreams or settling for something less. We are a people who dream big, even when times are tough, especially when times are tough. We're a people who reach forward, who look out to the horizon and remember that together, there's nothing we can't do.<p>And as long as I have the privilege of being your President, I'm going to be right there with you, every step of the way, fighting for a brighter future in this community, in North Carolina, and across the United States of America.<p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. Thank you.\" "
"138" "\"Well, listen, first of all, I just want to thank everybody for the seriousness, the diligence that you've displayed already on this jobs council. When we formed this we understood that we had averted the worst possibilities of a Great Depression. We'd gotten the economy growing again. We had stabilized the financial system. So we had made great strides from where we had been in 2008. But we understood even though jobs were being created, they were not being created fast enough.<p>And I've said this before, I will say it again: I wake up every single morning thinking about how can I make sure that anybody who wants a job is able to get a job. And that's what I think about when I go to bed at night. And I am absolutely confident about America's prospects for the 21st century, but we do have some challenges. And these challenges predated the financial crisis that we had in 2008. If you look at what had happened between 2001 and 2008, job growth was slow even when the economy was growing at a pretty good clip.<p>So we've got a combination of factors, as Jeff said, that come into how do we create jobs. I cannot think of a better group of people to help us tackle it than those who are sitting around the table.<p>A couple of just points that I would make so far. Over the last 15 months, we have seen over 2 million jobs created. And prior to this month, we had seen job growth at a pretty good clip for the previous 3 months. So we had some good reports. This last one showed that job creation has not moved as quickly as we'd like.<p>Now, there are some headwinds that all of us are aware of. High gas prices, I think, had a depressing effect on consumer confidence. It is something that I think was offset to some degree by the payroll tax cut that we initiated in December. That's made a difference in helping families to absorb it. But when you're reminded every single day that your costs are going up, that's going to constrain how you think about spending and investment and so forth. So that's been a challenge.<p>Europe is still uncertain. And what's happening with respect to the situation with Greece, that's something that's created a headwind for some businesses. And I also note that Washington getting its act together and making sure that we've got a credible plan for not simply raising the debt limit, but also medium- and long-term deficit reduction is going to be something that's critically important and we're spending a lot of time focused on.<p>The other thing that we had heard in the last meeting was the question of regulation and regulatory uncertainty. And I took this very much to heart. As I've said before, I am a big believer that it's important for us to have core regulations that help protect consumers from being taken advantage of, that protect our air and water. I think everybody here around this table recognizes that having a smart regulatory structure can actually enhance market competitiveness. But it's also important to make sure that these regulations are serving a purpose and that the benefits exceed the cost.<p>So what we've done is to initiate a full-scale regulatory review, not just of pending regulations, but actually looking back for the first time at all existing regulations. And I have to tell you, I just did an address on this where I was sitting next to a stack of <i>Federal Registers</i> where all the regulations are--exist, and it was a pretty high stack. And it was a reminder that very often Washington passes laws, but doesn't do what every business around the table does, which is to look back and see, did what we do in the past still make sense in the current operating environment?<p>Cass Sunstein has been leading this process, and we released an initial report where we've got scores of regulations that we are prepared to eliminate because they no longer apply to current situations. We think it is going to be able to save billions of dollars for businesses, just in terms of compliance costs, over the next several years.<p>And this is an example of how ideas that were generated from this job council we're going to act on. Sometimes, we can do it administratively; we don't need legislative cooperation in order to make it happen. Sometimes, we are going to need legislation. And where we do, having a group like this that can reach a bipartisan consensus and then push Congress to act I think can make an extraordinary difference.<p>So overall, we are feeling optimistic about how this council can help drive our agenda over the next 12 to 18 months. I want to thank, in particular, Penny, who has been doing some great work on skills training and how we get community colleges linked up with businesses more effectively. We had a terrific event just last week with the National Association of Manufacturers.<p>One of the things that I think we're all aware of is that we're going to have to up our game when it comes to how we train people for the jobs that actually exist and design credentialing training programs, apprenticeship programs, so that people know if they complete this work, they are prepared to work at an Intel or GE or any of the businesses that are represented around this table.<p>A couple of other things that I'll just mention very quickly. I know that one of the things that people may be wondering about, at least the press who've traveled with me as opposed to the folks who have been down here for the last day, is why are we here at Cree? This is an example of the kind of company that I think all of us want to see being promoted all across the country. This is a company that is specializing in LED lighting, has been extraordinarily effective in driving down the costs of high-efficiency lighting that is, over time, I think going to make a huge difference, not just for businesses who use the technology, but also for a country that needs to figure out how do we operate in a more energy-efficient way.<p>They've been adding jobs. They have trained their workers. They've got a terrific relationship with the surrounding community as well as the institutions of higher learning in the area. And so this is a good example of entrepreneurship focused on technologies of the future, linking up with training American workers for those jobs. And my understanding is not only are we focused on the domestic market, but we're also focused on the export market and competing internationally, which is going to be extraordinarily important.<p>So in conclusion, let me just say how appreciative I am of all of you. As soon as all this press clears out of the way, we're going to be having a more open conversation I think. As I understand, Jeff, you guys are going to give me some reports in terms of what the current environment is out there.<p>As Jeff said, ultimately, job growth is going to be driven by the private sector. But we can make some smart decisions to encourage businesses to feel like this is a--the right time to invest and that America is the right place to invest. And that's what we want to find out from you, is what are you hearing out there, what can we do to make sure that we're boosting job growth not just over the next year, but over the next 20 years.<p>Thanks, Jeff. Thank you, everybody.\" "
"139" "\"<i>Buenas tardes</i>! Ah, it is good to be back in Puerto Rico. It is great to see so many familiar faces, so many advocates for the island. First of all, I want to acknowledge Congressman Pierluisi is here. Where is he? Right over there. My great friend Andres Lopez, Francisco Pavia, Senator Bhatia, Governor Fortuno, and I know that we've got some former Governors here today, along with leaders of local parties and of the House and the Senate.<p>I am so grateful for the unbelievable reception. As you know, the last President to come to San Juan and address the people of Puerto Rico was John F. Kennedy, nearly 50 years ago. Now, at the time, I was about 4 months old--[<i>laughter</i>]--so my memory of this visit is a little hazy. What I do remember is that when I came here to campaign, I promised that I would return as President of the United States. And although my hair is a little grayer than during my first visit, I am glad to be able to keep that promise to the people of Puerto Rico.<p>But this is only one part of my commitment to families here on the island. Because when I ran for President, I promised to include Puerto Rico not just on my itinerary, but also in my vision of where our country needs to go. And I am proud to say that we've kept that promise too.<p>First of all, we've addressed the question of political status. In March, a report from our Presidential task force on Puerto Rican status provided a meaningful way forward on this question so that the residents of the island can determine their own future. And when the people of Puerto Rico make a clear decision, my administration will stand by you.<p>I also know that there are plenty of other issues that the island is facing. When President Kennedy was here, he addressed the relationship between Washington and San Juan, and he also spoke about tackling what he called \\"the difficult problems of education and housing and employment.\\"<p>In that same spirit, we've been trying to make sure that every family on the island can find work and make a living and provide for their children. That's why our economic plan and our health care reform included help for Puerto Rico.<p>That's why we're increasing access to broadband and investing in education. That's why we're helping to grow local tourism and health care and clean energy industry. We're giving Puerto Ricans the tools they need to build their own economic futures.<p>And this is how it should be. Because every day, <i>Boricuas</i> help write the American story. Puerto Rican artists contribute to our culture. And by the way, I don't know if you noticed, but Marc Anthony decided to show up here today. Puerto Rican entrepreneurs create American jobs. Even in the NBA finals, J.J. Barea inspired all of us with those drives to the hoop. That guy can play. Next time I'm down here, I'm going to have to--next time I'm here, I'm going to have to play some hoops.<p>I also want to take a moment to acknowledge all the Puerto Rican men and women who serve in our country's uniform. Give it up for our veterans. Thank you.<p>You know, one of those veterans is Juan Castillo. Juan fought in World War II, and he fought in the Korean war. Today, he's 2 months away from his 101st birthday. Juan's legacy is carried on by Puerto Ricans in Iraq and Afghanistan, men and women like Chief Master Sergeant Ramon Colon-Lopez of the United States Air Force. In 2004, Ramon's team was going after a high-value target in Afghanistan. His helicopter was seriously damaged by hostile fire. In the thick of battle, he didn't know how large the force that he was up against. But he pressed on anyway, and his team killed or captured 12 enemy fighters. Because of his bravery, he was the first Hispanic American to be awarded the Air Force Combat Action Medal.<p>And I tell this story because for decades, Puerto Ricans like Juan and Ramon have put themselves in harm's way for a simple reason: They want to protect the country that they love. Their willingness to serve, their willingness to sacrifice, is as American as apple pie--or as <i>arroz con gandules</i>. The aspirations and the struggles on this island mirror those across America.<p>So I know that today a lot of folks are asking some of the same questions here on the island as they're asking in Indiana or California or in Texas: How do I make sure my kids get the kind of education that they need? How can I put away a little money for retirement? How can I fill up my gas tank? How can I pay the bills?<p>Everywhere I go, I see families facing challenges like these, but they're facing them with resolve and determination. You know, these problems didn't develop overnight here in Puerto Rico or anywhere else, but that means we're not going to solve them overnight. But day by day, step by step, we will solve them.<p>We are going to be able to improve our education system here in Puerto Rico and all across America. We are making strides to improve our health care system here in Puerto Rico and all across America. We are going to put people back to work here in Puerto Rico and all across America.<p>Maybe some of you remember that when I was here in 2008, I spoke in front of the Cuartel de Ballaja, a site that had been home to so many chapters of Puerto Rican history. Today, Puerto Rican workers are writing the next chapter by turning the building into a model of energy efficiency. They're making HVAC systems more efficient. They're putting on a green roof. They're installing 720 photovoltaic panels. When they're done, it's estimated that the energy savings will be 57 percent. And Puerto Rico will have taken one more step towards creating a clean energy economy.<p>Those are the kinds of steps it will take for Puerto Rico to win the future and for America to win the future. That's what we do in this country. With each passing decade, with each new challenge, we reinvent ourselves. We find new ways to solve our problems. We push forward.<p>And we do so in a way that gives every one of our people a shot at the dream that we all share; the dream that if you're willing to work hard and take responsibility, you can build a better life for your family. You can find a job that's secure, provides decent wages, provides for your children, provides for your retirement. That's what people are hoping for, and it's not too much to ask.<p>Puerto Rico, I don't need to tell you that we're not there yet. We're not where we need to be. But in these challenging times, people on this island don't quit. We don't turn back. People in America don't quit. We don't turn back. We place our bets on entrepreneurs and on workers and on our families. We understand that there is strength in our diversity. We renew the American Dream. We have done it before. We will do it again.<p><i>Muchas gracias</i>. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, Puerto Rico.\" "
"140" "\"Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat. I am going to be really quick because I understand you guys have been hearing too many speeches and you're here to see the movie.<p>So the--first of all, I want to say thanks to Jason and to Jack and Mary Frances for not only the great introduction, but also for your incredible service--your family--and the incredible service you've rendered to the First Lady, who could not be more thrilled about the work you've done.<p>I am extremely pleased to be here. I'm glad to have Disney's Roshon Fegan here. Thank you very much, Roshon, for the great work you've done. Disney's ambassador, Jennifer Mason, thank you.<p>I wanted to invite you all here first and foremost just to say thank you. Thank you for your service. Thank you for your dedication. And when I say thank you, it's not just to those in uniform; it's to the families as well who are also serving. We could not be more proud of you, and we are grateful because you help not only keep us secure, but also keep us free. So we're grateful for that.<p>The second reason I'm here is because I'm a dad. And across the country, one of the things that we've been trying to do is to stress the importance of fatherhood. We've hosted town halls, we've supported local programs, we've reached out to over 10,000 dads through our fatherhood pledge. For those fathers who may have trouble living up to their responsibilities, we're trying to give them some support, but also give them a strong nudge to understand how important they are in the lives of their families.<p>This year we're launching something new. We call it Year of Strong Fathers and Strong Families. And the idea is simple: We're working with organizations to help dads connect with their kids in simple, meaningful ways. So bowling proprietors are going to give a free game of bowling to dads and their kids. Those of you who are better bowlers than me, please give me some tips. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's always good laughs from my kids when they see me out bowling.<p>The Zoos and Aquariums Association is going to be helping dads take their kids to the zoos. Major League Baseball, the WNBA, other sports leagues are promoting fatherhood involvement. Even LivingSocial and Groupon are discounting activities and outings for fathers and kids. So you can find out more about all this stuff at fatherhood.gov. Fatherhood.gov.<p>We're also, today, kicking off a summer-long partnership with Disney. We are so proud of what they do. Disney, in partnership with the First Lady's Joining Forces initiative, is going to be hosting movie screenings at military bases across the country. And this partnership with Disney will give an opportunity for military families to spend some time together, have fun, and provide a brief respite from all the incredible responsibilities you guys carry out.<p>So bottom line is this: We're proud of you. We are grateful to you. Dads, happy Father's Day in advance. For the families, please know that we understand that you're serving right alongside anybody in uniform, and that's why the First Lady and Dr. Jill Biden have made such a big priority on military families. This is just one small way that we can say thank you to all of you. All right?<p>God bless you. God bless America. Enjoy the movie, \\"Cars 2.\\" See you.\" "
"141" "\"Hello, everybody! Welcome to the White House. First of all, I take full responsibility for the weather. [<i>Laughter</i>] What a spectacular day for a congressional picnic. This is always one of the best events of the year for us, mainly because with all the work that we do with Members of Congress and their staffs, all too often, we don't get a chance to say thank you to the families.<p>And we understand that public service is tough on the families, in some ways tougher. You've got spouses who are away from home, moms or dads or grandpas or grandmas who don't get a chance to see you as often as they'd like. And so this is just one modest way for us to say to all of you, thank you for the enormous contributions you make to the country. We are thrilled with everything that you guys do each and every day to make this country stronger and more secure and more free.<p>It is good to see a lot of familiar faces here. I hope everybody's getting enough to eat. We don't want to make a long speech, but I do hope that the spirit of community that is so evident on a day like today, that this carries over each and every day. We've got Democrats here and Republicans here, and we all have differences on issues at any given moment, but the one thing that we have to remind ourselves every day is we're all Americans and we're all part of the American family.<p>So finally, the last point I'd make is we've got some servicemembers here who helped to not only play the banjo and make some wonderful music, but folks who serve each and every day. For all of those who serve our country in uniform, thank you so much and God bless you. We're all grateful to you. All right?<p>So you guys have fun. And I want you guys to eat until you can't eat any more. [<i>Laughter</i>] All right? And then tomorrow you can \\"Let's Move!\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] All right. Thank you very much, everybody. Appreciate it.\" "
"142" "\"Hi, everybody. This Father's Day weekend, I'd like to spend a couple of minutes talking about what's sometimes my hardest, but always my most rewarding job: being a dad.<p>I grew up without my father around. He left when I was 2 years old, and even though my sister and I were lucky enough to have a wonderful mom and caring grandparents to raise us, I felt his absence. And I wonder what my life would have been like had he been a greater presence.<p>That's why I try pretty hard to be a good dad for my own kids. I haven't always succeeded, of course. In the past, my job has kept me away from home more often than I would have liked, and the burden of raising two young girls sometimes would fall too heavily on Michelle. But between my own experiences growing up and my ongoing efforts to be the best father I can be, I've learned a couple of things about what our children need most from their parents.<p>First and foremost, they need our time. And more important than the quantity of hours we spend with them is the quality of those hours. Maybe it's just asking about their day or taking a walk together, but the smallest moments can have the biggest impact.<p>They also need structure, including learning the values of self-discipline and responsibility. Malia and Sasha may live in the White House these days, but Michelle and I still make sure they finish their homework, do their chores, and walk the dog.<p>And above all, children need our unconditional love, whether they succeed or make mistakes, when life is easy and when life is tough. And life is tough for a lot of Americans today.<p>More and more kids grow up without a father figure. Others miss a father who's away serving his country in uniform. And even for those dads who are present in their children's lives, the recession has taken a harsh toll. If you're out of a job or struggling to pay the bills, doing whatever it takes to keep the kids healthy and happy and safe can understandably take precedence over everything else.<p>That's why my administration has offered men who want to be good fathers a little extra support. We've boosted community and faith-based groups focused on fatherhood, partnered with businesses to offer opportunities for fathers to spend time with their kids at a bowling alley or a ballpark, and worked with military chaplains to help deployed dads connect with their children.<p>We're doing this because we all have a stake in forging stronger bonds between fathers and their children. And you can find out more about some of what we're doing at fatherhood.gov.<p>But we also know that every father has a personal responsibility to do right by our kids as well. All of us can encourage our children to turn off the video games and pick up a book. All of us can pack a healthy lunch for our son or go outside and play ball with our daughter. And all of us can teach our children the difference between right and wrong and show them through our own example the value in treating one another as we wish to be treated.<p>Our kids are pretty smart. They understand that life won't always be perfect, that sometimes, the road gets rough, that even great parents don't get everything right. But more than anything, they just want us to be a part of their lives.<p>So, recently, I took on a second job: assistant coach for Sasha's basketball team. On Sundays, we'd get the team together to practice, and a couple of times, I'd help coach the games. And it was great fun, even if Sasha rolled her eyes occasionally when her dad voiced his displeasure with the refs.<p>But I was so proud watching her run up and down the court, seeing her learn and improve and gain confidence. And I was hopeful that in the years to come, she'd look back on experiences like these as the ones that helped define her as a person and as a parent herself.<p>In the end, that's what being a parent is all about: those precious moments with our children that fill us with pride and excitement for their future, the chances we have to set an example or offer a piece of advice, the opportunities to just be there and show them that we love them.<p>That's something worth remembering this Father's Day and every day. Thanks, and happy Father's Day to all the dads out there. Have a great weekend.\" "
"143" "\"Good evening. Nearly 10 years ago, America suffered the worst attack on our shores since Pearl Harbor. This mass murder was planned by Usama bin Laden and his Al Qaida network in Afghanistan and signaled a new threat to our security, one in which the targets were no longer soldiers on a battlefield, but innocent men, women, and children going about their daily lives.<p>In the days that followed, our Nation was united as we struck at Al Qaida and routed the Taliban in Afghanistan. Then, our focus shifted. A second war was launched in Iraq, and we spent enormous blood and treasure to support a new government there. By the time I took office, the war in Afghanistan had entered its seventh year. But Al Qaida's leaders had escaped into Pakistan and were plotting new attacks, while the Taliban had regrouped and gone on the offensive. Without a new strategy and decisive action, our military commanders warned that we could face a resurgent Al Qaida and a Taliban taking over large parts of Afghanistan.<p>For this reason, in one of the most difficult decisions that I've made as President, I ordered an additional 30,000 American troops into Afghanistan. When I announced this surge at West Point, we set clear objectives: to refocus on Al Qaida, to reverse the Taliban's momentum, and train Afghan security forces to defend their own country. I also made it clear that our commitment would not be open-ended and that we would begin to draw down our forces this July.<p>Tonight I can tell you that we are fulfilling that commitment. Thanks to our extraordinary men and women in uniform, our civilian personnel, and our many coalition partners, we are meeting our goals. As a result, starting next month, we will be able to remove 10,000 of our troops from Afghanistan by the end of this year, and we will bring home a total of 33,000 troops by next summer, fully recovering the surge I announced at West Point. After this initial reduction, our troops will continue coming home at a steady pace as Afghan security forces move into the lead. Our mission will change from combat to support. By 2014, this process of transition will be complete, and the Afghan people will be responsible for their own security.<p>We're starting this drawdown from a position of strength. Al Qaida is under more pressure than at any time since 9/11. Together with the Pakistanis, we have taken out more than half of Al Qaida's leadership. And thanks to our intelligence professionals and special forces, we killed Usama bin Laden, the only leader that Al Qaida had ever known. This was a victory for all who have served since 9/11. One soldier summed it up well. \\"The message,\\" he said, \\"is we don't forget. You will be held accountable, no matter how long it takes.\\"<p>The information that we recovered from bin Laden's compound shows Al Qaida under enormous strain. Bin Laden expressed concern that Al Qaida had been unable to effectively replace senior terrorists that had been killed and that Al Qaida has failed in its effort to portray America as a nation at war with Islam, thereby draining more widespread support. Al Qaida remains dangerous, and we must be vigilant against attacks. But we have put Al Qaida on a path to defeat, and we will not relent until the job is done.<p>In Afghanistan, we've inflicted serious losses on the Taliban and taken a number of its strongholds. Along with our surge, our allies also increased their commitments, which helped stabilize more of the country. Afghan security forces have grown by over 100,000 troops, and in some Provinces and municipalities, we've already begun to transition responsibility for security to the Afghan people. In the face of violence and intimidation, Afghans are fighting and dying for their country, establishing local police forces, opening markets and schools, creating new opportunities for women and girls, and trying to turn the page on decades of war.<p>Of course, huge challenges remain. This is the beginning--but not the end--of our effort to wind down this war. We'll have to do the hard work of keeping the gains that we've made while we draw down our forces and transition responsibility for security to the Afghan Government. And next May, in Chicago, we will host a summit with our NATO allies and partners to shape the next phase of this transition.<p>We do know that peace cannot come to a land that has known so much war without a political settlement. So as we strengthen the Afghan Government and security forces, America will join initiatives that reconcile the Afghan people, including the Taliban. Our position on these talks is clear: They must be led by the Afghan Government, and those who want to be a part of a peaceful Afghanistan must break from Al Qaida, abandon violence, and abide by the Afghan Constitution. But, in part because of our military effort, we have reason to believe that progress can be made.<p>The goal that we seek is achievable and can be expressed simply: No safe haven from which Al Qaida or its affiliates can launch attacks against our homeland or our allies. We won't try to make Afghanistan a perfect place. We will not police its streets or patrol its mountains indefinitely. That is the responsibility of the Afghan Government, which must step up its ability to protect its people and move from an economy shaped by war to one that can sustain a lasting peace. What we can do, and will do, is build a partnership with the Afghan people that endures, one that ensures that we will be able to continue targeting terrorists and supporting a sovereign Afghan Government.<p>Of course, our efforts must also address terrorist safe havens in Pakistan. No country is more endangered by the presence of violent extremists, which is why we will continue to press Pakistan to expand its participation in securing a more peaceful future for this war-torn region. We'll work with the Pakistani Government to root out the cancer of violent extremism, and we will insist that it keeps its commitments. For there should be no doubt that so long as I am President, the United States will never tolerate a safe haven for those who aim to kill us. They cannot elude us, nor escape the justice they deserve.<p>My fellow Americans, this has been a difficult decade for our country. We've learned anew the profound cost of war, a cost that's been paid by the nearly 4,500 Americans who have given their lives in Iraq and the over 1,500 who have done so in Afghanistan, men and women who will not live to enjoy the freedom that they defended. Thousands more have been wounded. Some have lost limbs on the battlefield, and others still battle the demons that have followed them home.<p>Yet tonight we take comfort in knowing that the tide of war is receding. Fewer of our sons and daughters are serving in harm's way. We've ended our combat mission in Iraq, with 100,000 American troops already out of that country. And even as there will be dark days ahead in Afghanistan, the light of a secure peace can be seen in the distance. These long wars will come to a responsible end.<p>As they do, we must learn their lessons. Already, this decade of war has caused many to question the nature of America's engagement around the world. Some would have America retreat from our responsibility as an anchor of global security and embrace an isolation that ignores the very real threats that we face. Others would have America overextended, confronting every evil that can be found abroad.<p>We must chart a more centered course. Like generations before, we must embrace America's singular role in the course of human events. But we must be as pragmatic as we are passionate, as strategic as we are resolute. When threatened, we must respond with force. But when that force can be targeted, we need not deploy large armies overseas. When innocents are being slaughtered and global security endangered, we don't have to choose between standing idly by or acting on our own. Instead, we must rally international action, which we're doing in Libya, where we do not have a single soldier on the ground, but are supporting allies in protecting the Libyan people and giving them the chance to determine their own destiny.<p>In all that we do, we must remember that what sets America apart is not solely our power, it is the principles upon which our Union was founded. We're a nation that brings our enemies to justice while adhering to the rule of law and respecting the rights of all our citizens. We protect our own freedom and prosperity by extending it to others. We stand not for empire, but for self-determination. That is why we have a stake in the democratic aspirations that are now washing across the Arab world. We will support those revolutions with fidelity to our ideals, with the power of our example, and with an unwavering belief that all human beings deserve to live with freedom and dignity.<p>Above all, we are a nation whose strength abroad has been anchored in opportunity for our citizens here at home. Over the last decade, we have spent a trillion dollars on war, at a time of rising debt and hard economic times. Now, we must invest in America's greatest resource: our people. We must unleash innovation that creates new jobs and industries, while living within our means. We must rebuild our infrastructure and find new and clean sources of energy. And most of all, after a decade of passionate debate, we must recapture the common purpose that we shared at the beginning of this time of war. For our Nation draws strength from our differences, and when our Union is strong, no hill is too steep, no horizon is beyond our reach. America, it is time to focus on nation-building here at home.<p>In this effort, we draw inspiration from our fellow Americans who have sacrificed so much on our behalf. To our troops, our veterans, and their families, I speak for all Americans when I say that we will keep our sacred trust with you and provide you with the care and benefits and opportunity that you deserve.<p>I met some of these patriotic Americans at Fort Campbell. A while back, I spoke to the 101st Airborne that has fought to turn the tide in Afghanistan and to the team that took out Usama bin Laden. Standing in front of a model of bin Laden's compound, the Navy SEAL who led that effort paid tribute to those who had been lost, brothers and sisters in arms whose names are now written on bases where our troops stand guard overseas and on headstones in quiet corners of our country where their memory will never be forgotten. This officer--like so many others I've met on bases in Baghdad and Bagram and at Walter Reed and Bethesda Naval Hospital--spoke with humility about how his unit worked together as one, depending on each other and trusting one another, as a family might do in a time of peril.<p>That's a lesson worth remembering, that we are all a part of one American family. Though we have known disagreement and division, we are bound together by the creed that is written into our founding documents and a conviction that the United States of America is a country that can achieve whatever it sets out to accomplish. Now let us finish the work at hand. Let us responsibly end these wars and reclaim the American Dream that is at the center of our story. With confidence in our cause, with faith in our fellow citizens, and with hope in our hearts, let us go about the work of extending the promise of America for this generation and the next.<p>May God bless our troops, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"144" "\"Thank you, everybody. Thank you. I don't want to give a long speech, because I want to spend most of my time just shaking hands and thanking all of you.<p>Colonel Burleson, thank you so much for your leadership. To Sergeant Major Defreese and Parham, to all of you, there's a reason I wanted to come here today. As the colonel just mentioned, in 2009, after having been in Afghanistan for 7 years, but having, I think, lost a sense of focus in terms of how we were going to accomplish our mission, I made the most difficult decision that I've made as President, and that is to deploy an additional 30,000 troops into Afghanistan so that we could turn back Taliban momentum, so that we could continue to go after Al Qaida aggressively, and so that we could make sure that we were training an Afghan security force that had the capacity to secure their own country.<p>The only reason I was able to make that decision was because I knew that we had the finest fighting force in the world and that if I gave a command to our troops, they would be able to accomplish that mission. If we were focused and if we were clear in terms of what we were going to try to accomplish, I knew that we could get it done.<p>And the 10th Mountain Division, this storied--this group that has been there for America day in, day out throughout our history, was the first folks to go in after that order was given. And that's not surprising because you guys were also some of the first folks to go in right after 9/11.<p>Throughout my service, first as a Senator and then as a Presidential candidate and then as a President, I've always run into you guys. And for some reason, it's always in some rough spots.<p>First time I saw 10th Mountain Division, you guys were in southern Iraq. When I went back to visit Afghanistan, you guys were the first ones there. I had the great honor of seeing some of you because a comrade of yours, Jared Monti, was the first person who I was able to award the Medal of Honor to who actually came back and wasn't receiving it posthumously [sic]*.<p>And so you guys have always been there in the toughest fights. And the fact that you are continuing, even as we speak, that many of your comrades are there right now under some very tough circumstances, is a testimony to your dedication and your patriotism.<p>Now, last night I gave a speech in which I said that we have turned a corner where we can begin to bring back some of our troops. We're not doing it precipitously. We're going to do it in a steady way to make sure that the gains that all of you helped to bring about are going to be sustained. But because of your outstanding work, what we've been able to do is train an additional hundred thousand Afghan soldiers so that they can start carrying on the fight.<p>Because of what you've done, areas like Kandahar are more secure than they have been in years. Because of you, we're now taking the fight to the Taliban instead of the Taliban bringing the fight to us. And because of you, there are signs that the Taliban may be interested in figuring out a political settlement, which ultimately is going to be critical for consolidating that country.<p>It's also because of you that we had the platform to be able to go after bin Laden and Al Qaida. And we have decimated their ranks. Al Qaida leadership, half of them have been killed, and most of them are now on the run, and they can't operate as effectively as they could.<p>And so as I look around this room, I suspect that some of you joined the military after 9/11 because you had seen fellow Americans suffer at the hands of bin Laden. And when we got them--when we got him, and as we keep on driving to get the rest of them, it's because of the work and the sacrifice that you guys have made.<p>Now, the 10th Mountain and the 1st Brigade, you guys have sacrificed mightily. I know that you got 11 fallen soldiers just out of this group right here, and I think about 270 all told since 9/11.<p>We will never forget their sacrifice. And the reason that, I know, many of you continue to do the outstanding work that you do is not only love of country, but it's also love for each other and your commitment to making sure that those sacrifices were not in vain.<p>So the main message I have for all of you here today is that the American people understand the sacrifices you're making, they understand the sacrifices that your families are making. Our job is not finished.<p>If you looked at the schedule that I set forth, we're only bringing out 10,000 by the end of this year. We're going to bring out all 33,000 that we surged by next summer. But there's still some fighting to be done. And then we're still going to have 68,000. And frankly, the 10th Mountain Division is still going to be represented there until we have fully transferred to the Afghan military and security forces.<p>But I hope that all of you can both take pride in what you've done over the past years, but also understand that there's a future there that is brighter not only for the Afghan people, but for--most importantly, for American security. And you guys are the tip of the spear. You guys are the ones that keep us safe each and every day.<p>So for all the sacrifices that you've made, I want to say thank you. For all the sacrifices that your families have made, I want to say thank you. I have no greater job, nothing gives me more honor, than serving as your Commander in Chief. And to all of you who are potentially going to be redeployed, just know that your Commander in Chief has your back.<p>So thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. \\"Climb to Glory.\\" Thank you.\" "
"145" "\"Hello, hello, hello! Thank you very much. Everybody, please have a seat. Thank you. Hello, Pittsburgh! It is good to be back. Thank you, Senator Casey and Mayor Ravenstahl, County Executive Dan Onorato, State Auditor Jack Wagner, and all of you for having me back here at Carnegie Mellon. It is good to be here.<p>And it seems like every time I'm here I learn something. So for those of you who are thinking about Carnegie Mellon, it's a terrific place, and you guys are doing just great work.<p>I just met with folks from some cutting-edge companies and saw some of their inventions here in your National Robotics Engineering Center. But that's not the only reason I'm here. You might not know this, but one of my responsibilities as Commander in Chief is to keep an eye on robots. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I'm pleased to report that the robots you manufacture here seem peaceful--[<i>Laughter</i>]--at least for now.<p>This is a city that knows something about manufacturing. For generations of Americans, it was the ticket to a middle class life. Here and across America's industrial heartland, millions clocked in each day at foundries and on assembly lines to make things. And the stuff we made--steel, cars, planes--was the stuff that made America what it is. The jobs were good. They paid enough to own a home, to raise kids, send them to college, to retire. They were jobs that told us something more important than just how much money we made, what was in our paycheck. These jobs also told us that we were meeting our responsibilities to our family and to our neighborhoods, and building our communities, and building our country.<p>But for better and worse, our generation has been pounded by wave after wave of profound economic change. Revolutions in technology have transformed the way we live and the way we work. Businesses and industries can relocate anywhere in the world--anywhere that there are skilled workers, anywhere that there is an Internet connection. And companies have learned to become more efficient with fewer employees. In Pittsburgh you know this as well as anybody. Steel mills that once needed a thousand workers now do the same work with a hundred.<p>And while these changes have resulted in great wealth for some Americans and have drastically increased productivity, they've also caused major disruptions for many others. Today, a high school diploma no longer guarantees you a job. Over the past 13 years, about a third of our manufacturing jobs have vanished. And meanwhile, the typical worker's wages have barely kept up with the rising costs of everything else. And all this was even before a financial crisis and recession that pounded the middle class even more.<p>Now, we've made some tough decisions that have turned our economy in a positive direction over the past 2 years. We've created more than 2 million new jobs in the private sector over the past 15 months alone, including almost 250,000 in manufacturing. But we still have to confront those underlying problems. They weren't caused overnight, and we won't solve them overnight. But we will solve them. And we're starting to solve them right here in Pittsburgh and right here at Carnegie Mellon. <p>And by the way, that's why I ran for President. Not just to get us back to where we were--I ran for President to get us to where we need to be. I have a larger vision for America, one where working families feel secure, feel like they are moving forward and that they know that their dreams are within reach, an America where our businesses lead the world in new technologies like clean energy, where we work together, Democrats and Republicans, to live within our means, to cut our deficit and debt, but also to invest in what our economy needs to grow: world-class education, cutting-edge research, and building the best transportation and communication infrastructure anywhere in the world. That's what it's going to take for us to win the future. And winning the future begins with getting our economy moving right now.<p>And that's why we're here. Carnegie Mellon is a great example of what it means to move forward. At its founding, no one would have imagined that a trade school for the sons and daughters of steelworkers would one day become the region's largest--one of the region's largest employers and a global research university. And yet innovations led by your professors and your students have created more than 300 companies and 9,000 jobs over the past 15 years, companies like Carnegie Robotics.<p>But more important than the ideas that you've incubated are what those ideas have become: They've become products made right here in America, and in many cases, sold all over the world. And that's in our blood. That's who we are. We are inventors and we are makers and we are doers.<p>If we want a robust, growing economy, we need a robust, growing manufacturing sector. That's why we told the auto industry 2 years ago that if they were willing to adapt, we'd stand by them. Today, they're profitable, they're creating jobs, and they're repaying taxpayers ahead of schedule.<p>That's why we've launched a partnership to retrain workers with new skills. That's why we've invested in clean energy manufacturing and new jobs building wind turbines and solar panels and advanced batteries. We have not run out of stuff to make. We've just got to reinvigorate our manufacturing sector so that it leads the world the way it always has, from paper and steel and cars to new products that we haven't even dreamed up yet. That's how we're going to strengthen existing industries; that's how we're going to spark new ones. That's how we're going to create jobs, grow the middle class, and secure our economic leadership.\" "
"146" "\"Hello, everybody. Earlier this week, I spoke about our way forward in Afghanistan, and I said that because of the extraordinary work of our men and women in uniform, civilians, and our coalition partners, we will soon begin bringing our troops home, just as we've begun doing in Iraq. After a decade of conflict, we're finally bringing these wars to a responsible end.<p>That's in the best interest of America's security, and it's also in the best interest of America's economy. Even though we've turned our economy in the right direction over the past couple of years, many Americans are still hurting, and now is the time to focus on nation-building here at home.<p>Of course, there's been a real debate about where to invest and where to cut, and I'm committed to working with members of both parties to cut our deficits and debt. But we can't simply cut our way to prosperity. We need to do what's necessary to grow our economy, create good, middle class jobs, and make it possible for all Americans to pursue their dreams.<p>That means giving our kids the best education in the world so they have the knowledge and skills to succeed in this economy. It means rebuilding our crumbling roads, railways, and runways. And it means investing in the cutting-edge research and technologies that will spur growth in the years ahead, from clean energy to advanced manufacturing.<p>That's why I'm here today at Carnegie Mellon in Pittsburgh, one of America's leading research universities. Behind me is a display from a company called RedZone Robotics. The robots they make are used to explore water and sewage pipes and find leaks and breaks before they become expensive problems. But the folks at RedZone aren't just solving problems; they're working with unions to create new jobs operating the robots, and they're saving cities millions of dollars in infrastructure costs.<p>This company is just one example of how advanced manufacturing can help spur job creation and economic growth across this country. That's why this week we launched what we're calling an Advanced Manufacturing Partnership. It's a partnership that brings our Federal Government together with some of America's most brilliant minds and some of America's most innovative companies and manufacturers.<p>Their mission is to come up with a way to get ideas from the drawing board to the manufacturing floor to the marketplace as swiftly as possible, which will help create quality jobs and make our businesses more competitive. But they also have a broader mission. It's to renew the promise of American manufacturing, to help make sure America remains in this century what we were in the last, a country that makes things, a country that outbuilds and outinnovates the rest of the world.<p>I know these have been tough years for American manufacturing and all the workers and families who've built their lives around it. But being here in Pittsburgh, I'm hopeful about the future. I'm hopeful when I think about how companies like RedZone are reinvigorating manufacturing or about how what started as a small trade school is now a global research university. We are a people who've always adapted to meet the challenges of a new time, who've always shaped our own destiny, and I'm absolutely confident that that's what we're going to do one more time.<p>Have a great weekend.\" "
"147" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat. Now, I just want to point out that I got the memo and dressed appropriately in the gray suit. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Welcome to the White House, and congratulations to the Colorado Rapids on winning your first MLS Cup.<p>I want to begin by recognizing Stan Kroenke and Coach Gary Smith for building such an extraordinary program.<p>And some of you know, I am a soccer dad myself. [<i>Laughter</i>] I have watched my share of games over the years. And I'm used to seeing everybody gather around the ball, and then it kind of pops out somewhere, and everybody runs over to the ball. [<i>Laughter</i>] And so I want to congratulate all the players behind me for coming so far since those days, because I'm sure your parents were thinking the same thing--that these guys can't play. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>They may not be household names, but the great thing about sports is that, in the end, that doesn't really matter. What matters is how well a team can pull together when the chips are down, and that's exactly what the Rapids did.<p>This team had the second worst record of any team in the playoffs last year. But they showed up in close games, they clawed back from behind. They just kept on winning. And when the clock ran out, the Rapids were the best team in American soccer.<p>So this is a testament to players like Pablo, the captain, who played 286 games over 13 years before finally earning a title. Where are you, Pablo? Right here. Congratulations. Players like Omar Cummings and Conor Casey, who were the highest scoring forward combination in the league. Where are you guys? Omar? And players like Mac Kandji, who fired the cross that led to the championship-winning goal, even as he tore his ACL in the process. Mac, where are you? You doing okay? All right.<p>But what really sets this team apart is not how they play only. It's also why they play. They have a love for the game that has brought them together.<p>This team obviously has overcome quite a few cultural differences. This is like a mini United Nations right here. [<i>Laughter</i>] You've got players from Argentina, England, France, Ireland, Jamaica, Japan, Scotland, and Senegal. In fact, I heard that the night before the championship, Kosuke Kimura--where is Kosuke? Right here. I understand that he made a very inspiring speech to the team, but it was in Japanese, so nobody really--[<i>Laughter</i>]--understood what he was saying, but it was really inspirational, was what I heard. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>This is also a team that makes due without the high salaries and perks that some other professional sports teams enjoy. Players can sometimes actually be seen eating at local restaurants together after practice. A few guys chipped in to buy a fishing boat that they keep hidden in the stadium parking lot. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But while life in the MLS isn't always fancy, it serves to bring players closer to each other and to their fans. Wells Thompson likes to take food from the stadium and give it to the homeless on nearby street corners. Where is Wells? Right here. If a fan wants a player to show up at a charity event or help out with a nonprofit, all they have to do is ask. These guys show up. More often than not, the Rapids staff only finds out about these visits after they happen.<p>So these aren't just good players, they're also good people. And I want to thank them for teaming up with MLS today to put on a soccer clinic here at the White House for kids from military families. You will make their summer, and you will make their parents happier when they actually know what to do on the soccer field. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>So congratulations again to the players, to the staff, the fans back in Colorado, everybody who is part of this program. Good luck again this season, and we hope to see you back here soon. So thank you very much. Give them a big round of applause.<p><i>Colorado Rapids Managing Director Jeff Plush.</i> So real quick, on behalf of our owner, Stan Kroenke, everyone associated with the Colorado Rapids Soccer Club and Major League Soccer, all of our players, fans, it's our honor to make you an honorary member, and present you with your very own jersey----<p><i>The President.</i> That's good.<p><i>Mr. Plush</i>. ----commemorating the 2011 Championship.<p><i>[At this point, the President was presented with a Colorado Rapids team jersey.]</i><p><i>The President.</i> That's a good-looking jersey.<p><i>Mr. Plush.</i> As you know, the number 10 is the leader, so----<p><i>The President.</i> Absolutely. That is me and Messi. We're right up there. Absolutely. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p><i>Mr. Plush.</i> So thank you very much.<p><i>The President.</i> Thank you so much. Thank you. This is terrific. Thank you.\" "
"148" "\"Hello, hello! Thank you. Please--you can cut the music. Thank you, everybody. Have a seat, have a seat. It is great to see all of you. Good to be back in the Quads.<p>Hello, Iowa! I see a couple of old friends here. I want to start by recognizing a few folks who are with us today. First of all, Governor Branstad is here. Congressman Bruce Braley is here. Congressman Dave Loebsack is here. Bobby Schilling is here. Michael Freemire, the mayor of Bettendorf, is here. And Jeff Grindle, mayor of Riverdale, is here. The chairwoman of the National Association of Manufacturers, Mary Andringa, is here. The CEO of Alcoa, Klaus Kleinfeld, is here; vice president and general manager, Davenport, Malcolm Murphy, is here. And an old friend of mine who actually drove me around a couple times while I was traveling around Iowa, Skip McGill, is here, president of the local USW.<p>You know, I know you've been seeing a lot of politicians around lately. Something tells me that you may see a few more before February is over. But Iowa, you and I, we go a long way back. And those of you who are coming over from the Illinois side, we go even longer back. So we've got some history together. And together, we're going to make some more history for years to come.<p>And that's why I'm so glad to be here at Alcoa. All of you are showing the future we can build here in eastern Iowa and all across the country. Almost every airplane in the world has some kind of Alcoa product in it. Think about that. Every airplane in the world, you guys have something to do with.<p>In fact, it turns out that you're responsible for the wings on Air Force One. So I want to thank all of you for getting me here in one piece. [<i>Laughter</i>] It was a pretty smooth ride, thanks to Alcoa.<p>Now, this company was founded by a college student named Charles Martin Hall a hundred and twenty-five years ago. And back then, it produced about 50 pounds of aluminum a day. And it was so hard to sell that folks kept on telling Charles that it was pointless even to lock up the plant at night because nobody wanted the stuff. But when the Wright brothers--you heard of them, right, the Wright brothers--when they needed a lightweight material for their plane, they turned to Alcoa. And this company hasn't looked back ever since.<p>When President Kennedy challenged America to go to the Moon, your engineers produced the alloys that helped get a man on the Moon. In Afghanistan and Iraq, you've helped provide our troops with the armor they need to protect their vehicles from roadside bombs and IEDs. And let me tell you, when I go to Walter Reed or Bethesda and I think about all the lives you guys have saved, it makes me proud of what you do right here. And today, your new aluminum-lithium alloy is making some of the world's most advanced airplanes lighter and tougher and more cost effective than ever.<p>So you know that times change. You've seen times change. Alcoa has grown as America has grown. Now, you also know that sometimes change can be tough. Sometimes the old ways of doing things just won't cut it anymore. I was just talking to Klaus; he was talking about some sheet metal that you guys produce, that for a while you guys lost market share completely. You got your team together, redesigned it, and now you have 80 percent of the market back. That's adapting to change. And see, when change happens, you've got a choice. You can either keep on doing what you were doing and hope things work out, or you can make the decision that not only you can meet the challenges of the future, but you can help set the pace.<p>That's true for this company, and it's true for America. For better or for worse, our generation has seen more than our fair share of economic change. Revolutions in technology have changed the way we live and the way we work. A lot of jobs can now be located anywhere there's an Internet connection. And companies have become more efficient, so they get by with fewer workers.<p>Now, in some ways, these changes have made our lives a lot easier. It makes products cheaper. You can produce them faster. But for a lot of our friends and neighbors, these changes have also caused a whole lot of pain. Today, for example, a high school diploma no longer guarantees you a good job. I kept a--I met a couple of the guys here whose fathers had worked at the plant. Now, when the previous generation came to work at this plant, it didn't matter what kind of education you had, it just mattered whether you were willing to work hard. But these days, it's hard to find a job without a high school diploma. And in a lot of cases, it's hard to find a job without a college diploma.<p>Over the past 13 years, about a third of our manufacturing jobs have vanished. They--it's not just that they've gone overseas, it's also that you guys are just better at producing stuff now than you used to be, so you use fewer workers. And meanwhile, a lot of workers have seen their wages not keep up with rising costs.<p>So I spent a lot of time thinking about these issues when I ran for this office in the first place. When I ran for President, before I came to Iowa, when I was still a Senator in Illinois, I kept on thinking about all the folks I would meet in my travels who were feeling that squeeze of wages flat, costs going up. And then in the closing weeks of the campaign, the bottom fell out of the economy and the middle class got hammered some more. And I know, talking to Klaus, Alcoa got hit pretty good too.<p>That demanded that we make some tough decisions, decisions that we now know have pulled our economy back from the brink and put us on a better path. We've created more than 2 million new private sector jobs over the last 15 months alone, including almost 250,000 in manufacturing. That's in the last 15 months.<p>And here at this plant, the workers that were laid off during the darkest days of the recession have all been hired back. And in fact, you guys are telling me that you're thinking about hiring some more folks in the near future. That's worth applauding. Somebody was--[<i>Applause</i>].<p>But you know, for a lot of Americans, those numbers don't matter much if they're still out of work or if they have a job that doesn't pay enough to make the mortgage or pay the bills. So we've got more work to do. And that work is going to take some time. The promise--the problems that we developed didn't happen overnight. We're not going to solve them overnight either. But we will solve them.<p>We'll solve them because after all we've been through, we are still the United States of America. We've got the largest economy. We've got the best universities. We've got the most successful companies. We've got the best innovators and entrepreneurs. We've got the best workers in the world. Together, we've got the capacity not only to get back to where we were, but to get to where we need to be.<p>That's why I ran for President, to get us where we need to be. I ran because I believe in an America where working families aren't just treading water, but they're moving forward, and where our businesses lead the change on new technologies like clean energy and advanced manufacturing of the sort you're doing right here at this plant.<p>I believe in an America where our Government lives within its means while investing in things that will help us grow, like a world-class education system and cutting-edge innovation and the best transportation and communication systems anywhere in the world. That's how we're going to make America the best place to create good, middle class jobs. That's how we're going to win the future, by doing the smart things right now to help the middle class grow and feel more secure.<p>And a big part of that, a big part of our future has to be a robust and growing manufacturing sector. We've got to make things right here in America. Now, we've always made things here in America. It's in our blood. This plant has been in operation for 60 years. And what you've learned is that if you want to beat the competition, then you've got to innovate. You've got to invest in new skills, you've got to invest in new processes, you've got to invest in new products. I was just learning that some of the equipment right behind us--this was a huge investment. How much did you guys--$90 million. Think about that. That's what made you guys competitive: having the best workers, but also having the best equipment. You had to up your game. And that's what we've got to do as a country as a whole. I want the cars and planes and wind turbines of the future to bear the proud stamp that says \\"Made in America.\\" That's what I want.<p>That's why 2 years ago, we stood by the auto industry and kept some of our Nation's largest automakers from being sold for parts. And today, for the first time in years, the Big Three automakers are adding jobs and turning a profit and putting steel workers to work. We also told those companies, though, that they'd have to make some changes to compete. So we brought people together and set the first new fuel-mileage standards in more than 30 years. And that means fewer trips to the pump and less harmful pollution. And this plant has something to do with it, because I was just seeing some doors and some hoods made right here--more lightweight, more efficient, saves on fuel economy. And that means your business is improved as well. Everybody wins.<p>That's also why I announced last week a new partnership between our top engineering schools, our most innovative manufacturers, and the Federal Government to get American products from the drawing board to the factory floor to the marketplace as quickly as possible. And today I'm proud to announce that Alcoa is joining that partnership. The idea is to create jobs now and to make sure America stays on the cutting edge of manufacturing for years to come.<p>Now, we also know that strengthening our manufacturing sector requires workers getting the skills and training they need. Today, there are more than four job seekers for every job opening in America. Every one job, there are four folks looking for work. But when it comes to the high-tech fields, the opposite is true: Businesses say they're having trouble finding enough skilled workers to fill the openings that they have.<p>And so, 3 weeks ago, we announced new commitments from businesses and universities to make it possible for 500,000 community college students--half a million students--to earn industry-accepted credentials for manufacturing jobs that companies across the country are looking to fill. So, basically, what happens is the companies, they'll say to the community colleges, here's what we need. The community colleges will design a training program that certifies that if you get through that training program and you're working hard, you are prepared and equipped to get that job. And so we're also making it easier for workers to get retrained and move up into better positions.<p>Now, these steps won't help solve every problem that we face. No matter what you may hear, there's no silver bullet to reverse a decade of economic challenges. We've had problems for 10 years now. It's not going to reverse overnight. But these steps will help us move forward. They'll help us grow our economy today, and they'll guarantee a better future for our children.<p>I know these are difficult times. And many of you probably have friends who are looking for work or family members who are looking for work or are just getting by. And when that happens, sometimes it's tempting to turn cynical and to be doubtful about the future and to start thinking maybe our best days are behind us.<p>But that's not the America that I know. That's not the America I see here in the Quads and in communities all across the country today. I see an America where people don't give up, where people don't quit. I see companies like Alcoa where reinvention is a part of life. Whatever the future may bring, I know you want to be a part of it. And that spirit has always been at the heart of our American story.<p>You know, as I was walking in, your team talked about, I guess, a saying around Alcoa, it says, \\"Nobody's perfect, but a team can be perfect.\\" Well, none of us individually are perfect, but as a team, America can perfect ourselves. But we got to start working like a team. Instead of having the kind of squabbling we see in Washington all the time, everybody has got to start thinking together the way engineers and workers and the business side of Alcoa thinks together. What's our market? What's the product we want to produce? How can we make it better? How can we make the plant safer? How can we cut costs? How can we retrain our workers? Problem-solving all the time, that's what's made you successful. That's what will make America successful, by adapting and innovating, but also thinking like a team, instead of turning on each other.<p>And I promise you, if we continue to adapt and we continue to innovate and we work together to compete around the world, America will come back stronger than before. We will lead the way forward, and we will make the next century another great American century.<p>So thank you very much, Alcoa, for leading the way. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"149" "\"The President. Hello, everybody! Everybody, please have a seat. We arranged for a gorgeous day here. Give it up for the 2010 WNBA champions, the Seattle Storm. Congratulations, Coach, on winning a second title.<p>We've got some big fans in the house today. The former Governor of Washington State, current Commerce Secretary, soon-to-be Ambassador to China--that's all one person--Gary Locke is here with his beautiful wife. Secretary of Health and Human Services and former college basketball star Kathleen Sebelius is in the house. The wonderful Senator from Washington State, Patty Murray is here. There she is. And the former county executive out in Seattle, who's now Deputy Secretary at HUD, Ron Sims is in the house.<p>A few weeks ago, WNBA tipped off its 15th season. And in that time, it has become the most successful women's professional sports league in the world. Attendance is up. Ratings are up. Basketball is now the most popular sport for girls in the Nation. That's worth applauding. To WNBA President Laurel Richie and everyone who else make--everybody else who makes this possible, congratulations. We are very, very proud.<p>Today, though, is about the Storm. Three years ago, when this team's future in Seattle was uncertain, four season ticket holders joined forces to become co-owners. Now they're also the first all-female ownership group in American history to win a championship. Owners, wave your hands.<p>Congratulations to Coach Brian: three winning seasons in a row, 2010 Coach of the Year, championship ring. Not bad. And he had a special team to coach. They tied the record for the most regular-season wins, went undefeated at home, became the first team in WNBA history to go a perfect 7-0 in the playoffs on the way to the title.<p>And this was no fluke. It was the result of true teamwork and unselfish play. When you meet these women, you can't help but be struck by their humility. You ask them how they'd describe a champion, and they say things like, \\"Somebody that makes the people around them better.\\"<p>There's guard Tanisha Wright, who, when asked that same question, said, \\"Tanisha Wright.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] But the rest are humble. <p>Lauren Jackson, who couldn't be here today, but was there every time she was needed last year, picked up her third WNBA MVP award and her first Finals MVP award. Forward Camille Little iced the championship game by draining two clutch free throws with 6 seconds left. Swin Cash and Sue Bird--they're no strangers to the White House--both know something about perfection from their time playing college ball at UConn.<p>In fact, we can't get rid of Swin. [<i>Laughter</i>] I think she's got a cot here somewhere. She was here as part of the Detroit Shock championship team. She volunteered to read to children at an Easter egg roll. She helped out with our Father's Day mentoring barbecue. So Swin, thank you for going above and beyond the call of duty.<p>You see, the Storm family understands that being a champion doesn't stop when you step off the court. That's why they're playing their part in the life of Seattle communities by running healthy lifestyle programs for girls and reading and mentoring in the schools.<p>And today they're bringing that commitment here to the White House. After we're done, they're going to hold a clinic for young people on the basketball court--young people, go ahead and wave--as part of the First Lady's \\"Let's Move!\\" initiative and the WNBA Fit program.<p>And I was telling Coach, as somebody who had an extraordinary time this year coaching a couple of games of Sasha's, I can tell you nothing gets me more stressed--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but also nothing gave me more satisfaction than seeing young girls get confidence and improve and learn how to be competitive and still good sports. It is just wonderful.<p>And since I'm usually surrounded by strong women in this house, seeing these young ladies behind us is a special pleasure. Because Michelle and I are always trying to teach our girls to set their sights high for themselves, expectations high for themselves, and we tell them if they work hard and do right, there's nothing they can't achieve.<p>So as a father, I thank this team for reaffirming that sentiment and for setting a good example for every young girl with big dreams. And as a basketball fan, congratulations on a thrilling year, and good luck next year.<p>All right? All right, we're going to take a picture.<p>We going to move this out? Thank you, guys.<p><i>[At this point, White House staff began to remove the podium, but were interrupted by the President, who continued his remarks as follows.]</i><p><i>The President.</i> Coach, you want to say anything? Let him--[<i>inaudible</i>]. He won all these----<p><i>Head Coach Brian Agler.</i> Well, first of all, President Obama, thank you for having us. It's a special moment for us and our organization, and we've got a special group here. And Lauren Jackson is not here today, but we miss her. She's having surgery tomorrow, as a matter of fact. So our wishes with--are with her, but we'll continue on and be a strong team, and we'll be competitive this year.<p>So thank you so much.<p><i>The President.</i> Thank you. Fantastic. Congratulations.\" "
"150" "\"The President. Hello, everybody! Hello. Welcome to the White House.<p>Nothing ruins a good party like a long speech from a politician. [<i>Laughter</i>] So I'm going to make a short set of remarks here. I appreciate all of you being here. I have learned a lesson: Don't follow Potomac Fever--[<i>laughter</i>]--because they sounded pretty good.<p>We've got community leaders here. We've got grassroots organizers. We've got some incredible young people here who are just doing great work all across the country, folks who are standing up against discrimination and for the rights of parents and children and partners and students----<p><i>Audience member.</i> And spouses.<p>The President. ----and spouses. You're fighting for the idea that everyone ought to be treated equally and everybody deserves to be able to live and love as they see fit.<p>Now, I don't have to tell the people in this room, we've got a ways to go in the struggle. How many people are still denied their basic rights as Americans, who are still, in particular circumstances, treated as second-class citizens or still fearful when they walk down the street or down the hall at school? Many of you have devoted your lives to the cause of equality. So you all know that we've got more work to do.<p>But I think it's important for us to note the progress that's been made just in the last 2 1/2 years. I just want everybody to think about this. It was here, in the East Room, at our first pride reception, on the 40th anniversary of the Stonewall riots, a few months after I took office, that I made a pledge, I made a commitment. I said that I would never counsel patience; it wasn't right for me to tell you to be patient any more than it was right for folks to tell African Americans to be patient in terms of their freedoms. I said it might take time to get everything we want done. But I also expected to be judged not by the promises I made, but the promises I kept.<p>Now, let's just think about it. I met with Judy Shepard. I promised her we'd pass an inclusive hate crimes law named after her son Matthew. And with the help of Ted Kennedy and others, we got it done and I signed the bill.<p>I met Janice Langbehn, who was barred from the bedside of the woman she loved as she lay dying, and I told her we were going to put a stop to that discrimination. And I issued an order so that any hospital in America that accepts Medicare or Medicaid--and that means just about every hospital in America--has to treat gay partners just as they have to treat straight partners. Nobody in America should have to produce a legal contract.<p>I said we'd lift the HIV travel ban. We got that done. We put in place the first national strategy to fight HIV/AIDS.<p>A lot of people said we weren't going to be able to get \\"don't ask, don't tell\\" done, including a bunch of people in this room. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I just met Sue Fulton, who was part of the first class of women at West Point, and is an outstanding advocate for gay servicemembers. It took 2 years through Congress, working with Admiral Mullen and Secretary Gates and the Pentagon. We had to hold together a fragile coalition. We had to keep up the pressure. But the bottom line is, we got it done. And in a matter of weeks, not months, I expect to certify the change in policy, and we will end \\"don't ask, don't tell\\" once and for all.<p>I told you I was against the Defense--so-called Defense of Marriage Act. I've long supported efforts to pass a repeal through Congress. And until we reach that day, my administration is no longer defending DOMA in the courts. The law is discriminatory. It violates the Constitution. It's time for us to bring it to an end.<p>So bottom line is, I've met my commitments to the LGBT community. I have delivered on what I promised. Now, that doesn't mean our work is done. There are going to be times where you're still frustrated with me. [<i>Laughter</i>] I know there are going to be times where you're still frustrated at the pace of change. I understand that. I know I can count on you to let me know. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is not a shy group. [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>But what I also know is that I will continue to fight alongside you. And I don't just mean as an advocate. You are moms and dads who care about the schools that your children go to. You're students who are trying to figure out how to pay for going to college. You're folks who are looking for good jobs to pay the bills. You're Americans who want this country to prosper. So those are your fights too. And the fact is, these are hard days for America. So we've got a lot of work to do to, not only on ending discrimination. We've got a lot of work to do to live up to the ideals on which we were founded and to preserve the American Dream in our time for everybody, whether they're gay or straight or lesbian or transgender.<p>But the bottom line is, I am hopeful. I'm hopeful because of the changes we've achieved just in these past 2 years. Think about it. It's astonishing, progress that just a few years ago people would have thought were impossible. And more than that, what gives me hope is the deeper shift that we're seeing that's a transformation not just in our laws, but in the hearts and minds of people, the progress led not by Washington, but by ordinary citizens.<p>It's propelled not by politics, but by love and friendship and a sense of mutual regard and mutual respect. It's playing out in legislatures like New York. It's playing out in courtrooms. It's playing out in the ballot box, as people argue and debate over how to bring about the changes where we are creating a more perfect Union. But it's also happening around water coolers. It's happening at Thanksgiving tables. It's happening on Facebook and Twitter and at PTA meetings and potluck dinners and church halls and VFW halls.<p>It happens when a father realizes he doesn't just love his daughter, but also her partner. It happens when a soldier tells his unit that he's gay, and they say, well, yes, we knew that--[<i>Laughter</i>]--but you know, you're a good soldier. It happens when a video sparks a movement to let every single young person out there know that they're not alone. It happens when people look past their differences to understand our common humanity.<p>And that's not just the story of the gay rights movement. It is the story of America, and the slow, inexorable march towards a more perfect Union.<p>I want thank you for your contribution to that story. I'm confident we're going to keep on writing more chapters.<p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"151" "\"Thank you very much. Admiral Mullen, thank you for your eloquent words, but also for your extraordinary service, as you near a well-deserved retirement. And thank you for four decades of incredible service, to you and Deborah.<p>Members of Congress, Vice President Biden, Deputy Secretary Lynn, members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Service Secretaries and distinguished guests, men and women of the finest military in the world, and most of all, Secretary Gates, Becky, Brad, and although she could not be here, I also want to acknowledge your daughter Eleanor.<p>When I took office, Bob Gates had already served under seven Presidents during an illustrious career that spanned four decades. He would have been forgiven if he had opted for a private life of comfort and ease. He had earned it. And when asked by a reporter whether he might stay on to serve an eighth President, he offered the answer, \\"Inconceivable.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>]<p>Why did he stay? I know there are days when Bob asks that himself. I'm sure Becky asked that also. But I believe I know the answer, because I've seen this man in those moments of debate and decision when a person's character is revealed: in the Oval Office, in the Situation Room, in the theaters of war.<p>You see, if you look past all of Bob's flashiness and bravado--[<i>Laughter</i>]--and his sharp attire, his love for the Washington limelight--[<i>Laughter</i>]--then what you see is a man that I've come to know and respect, a humble American patriot, a man of common sense and decency, quite simply, one of our Nation's finest public servants.<p>Bob, today you're not only one of the longest serving Secretaries of Defense in American history, but it is also clear that you've been one of the best.<p>Why did Bob Gates serve? Our Nation is at war, and to know Bob is to know his profound sense of duty: to country, to our security, and most of all, to our men and women who get up every day and put on America's uniform and put their lives on the line to keep us safe and to keep us free.<p>When the outcome of the war in Iraq was in doubt, Bob Gates presided over the extraordinary efforts that helped restore order. Over the past 2 1/2 years, we've removed more than 100,000 troops from Iraq, ended our combat mission, and are responsibly ending that war.<p>When the fight against Al Qaida and our efforts in Afghanistan needed new focus, Bob Gates helped us devise the strategy that has finally put Al Qaida on a path to defeat and ensures that Afghanistan never again becomes a source for attacks against our Nation.<p>When institutional inertia kept funding systems our troops didn't need, Bob Gates launched a war on waste, challenging conventional wisdom with courage and conviction, speaking hard truths, and saving hundreds of billions of dollars that can be invested in a 21st-century military.<p>Bob Gates made it his mission to make sure this Department is serving our troops in the field as well as they serve us. And today, we see the lifesaving difference he made in the mine-resistant vehicles and the unmanned aircraft, the shorter medevac times in Afghanistan, in our determination to give our wounded warriors the world-class care they deserve.<p>Bob, this may be your greatest legacy of all: the lives you saved and the confidence you gave our men and woman in battle, who knew that there was a Secretary of Defense who had their backs and who loved them and who fought for them and who did everything in his power to bring them home safely.<p>Let me also thank Becky for her extraordinary support of our extraordinary military families. She's been there day in and day out. And in many ways, I know both Bob and Becky consider our troops to be like their own sons and daughters. And, Bob, your sense of responsibility to them is profound.<p>It's a responsibility we've shared as leaders who have served every day in a time of war. We're the ones who send them into harm's way. We visit them in the field, knowing that we are the reason they're there. We've stood in solemn respect at Dover when our fallen heroes have made their final journey home. We've held their families in our arms as they grieve the loved ones they gave to America so that our loved ones can be secure. We know the heavy wages of war, and we know America's shared obligations to all who serve.<p>So today we not only pay tribute to a remarkable public servant, we celebrate the principles for which he served and for which our Nation stands. I believe the life of Bob Gates is a lesson, especially to young Americans, a lesson that public service is an honorable calling, that we can pass our country, better and stronger, to those who follow.<p>Our next Secretary of Defense, Leon Panetta, has subscribed to this same life of service, and I'm confident that he too will lead this Department with clear vision and a steady hand.<p>In his willingness to become the first Secretary of Defense to serve under Presidents of both parties, the integrity of Bob Gates is also a reminder, especially to folks here in Washington, that civility and respectful discourse and citizenship over partisanship are not quaint relics of a bygone era, they are the timeless virtues that we need now more than ever. For whatever differences of party or ideology we may have, we can only keep America strong if we remember what keeps America great: our ability to come together and work together, as Americans, for a common purpose.<p>Finally, as we face difficult challenges around the world and here at home, let today be a reminder that the United States will meet the tests of our time. We remain at war, but today, fewer Americans are in harm's way, and we will bring the wars we're in to a responsible end. We will make hard fiscal choices, but we'll do so responsibly. And as Commander in Chief, I am determined that our Armed Forces will always, always, remain the best trained, the best led, the best equipped fighting force in history. And in an uncertain world that demands our leadership, the United States of America and our Armed Forces will remain the greatest force for freedom and security that the world has ever known.<p>This is the America, strong and confident, to which Bob Gates has devoted his life. And this is the America to which we rededicate ourselves.<p>I can think of no better way to express my appreciation to someone who I have come to admire and whom I consider a friend; I can think of no better way to express the gratitude of the Nation for Bob Gates than with a very special recognition.<p>Bob, this is not in the program, but I would ask you to please stand.<p>As President, the highest honor that I can bestow on a civilian is the Presidential Medal of Freedom. It speaks to the values we cherish as a people and the ideals we strive for as a nation. And today it is my great privilege to present the Presidential Medal of Freedom to America's 22d Secretary of Defense, Robert M. Gates.<p>Will the military aide please read the citation?<p><i>[At this point, Lt. Cmdr. John F. McCarthy, USCG, Coast Guard Aide to the President, read the citation, and the President presented the medal.]</i>\" "
"152" "\"Right now there are a lot of folks who are still struggling with the effects of the recession. They're wondering how they'd deal with an unexpected expense if their car breaks down. They're worried about layoffs. They're not sure if they can help their kids pay for college. And for many families, these challenges were around long before the recession hit in 2007. <p>I ran for President because I believed in an America where ordinary folks could get ahead, where if you worked hard, you could have a better life. That's been my focus since I came into office, and that has to be our focus now. It's one of the reasons why we're working to reduce our Nation's deficit. Government has to start living within its means, just like families do. We have to cut the spending we can't afford so we can put the economy on a sounder footing and give our businesses the confidence they need to grow and create jobs. <p>The good news is, Democrats and Republicans agree on the need to solve the problem. And over the last few weeks, the Vice President and I have gotten both parties to identify more than $1 trillion in spending cuts. That's trillion with a \\"t.\\" But after a decade in which Washington ran up the country's credit card, we've got to find more savings to get out of the red. That means looking at every program and tax break in the budget&mdash;every single one&mdash;to find places to cut waste and save money. It means we'll have to start making some tough decisions and scale back worthy programs. And nothing can be off limits, including spending in the Tax Code, particularly the loopholes that benefit very few individuals and corporations. <p>Now, it would be nice if we could keep every tax break, but we can't afford them. Because if we choose to keep those tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires or for hedge fund managers and corporate jet owners or for oil and gas companies pulling in huge profits without our help, then we'll have to make even deeper cuts somewhere else. We've got to say to a student, you don't get a college scholarship. We have to say to a medical researcher, you can't do that cancer research. We might have to tell seniors, you have to pay more for your Medicare. <p>That isn't right, and it isn't smart. We've got to cut the deficit, but we can do that while making investments in education and research and technology that actually create jobs. We can live within our means while still investing in our future. That's what we have to do. And I'm confident that the Democrats and Republicans in Congress can find a way to give some ground, make some tough choices, and put their shoulders to the wheel to get this done for the sake of the country. <p>On Monday, we celebrate Independence Day, the day we declared a new nation, based on a revolutionary idea: that people ought to determine their own destiny, that freedom and self-governance weren't gifts handed to us by kings or emperors, but the rights of every human being. We've learned in the years since that democracy isn't always pretty. We have arguments. We disagree. But time and again we've proven that we could come together to solve problems. We remember that while we may not see eye to eye on everything, we share a love for this country and a faith in its future. That's the spirit we need to harness now. That's how we'll meet this challenge, and that's how we'll reach a brighter day. Thanks for listening, and have a wonderful Fourth of July.\" "
"153" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody! Happy Fourth of July! On behalf of the entire Obama family, we want to welcome you here to the White House. <p>Right now, in small towns and big cities all across America, folks are getting together in their backyards; they're raising flags, firing up grills, and enjoying time with family and with friends. It's a tradition that we try to follow here at the White House, although I've got to say we've got a few more people here than most. And I cannot think of anybody I would rather celebrate with than all of you, the men and women of our military and our extraordinary military families. <p>So let me just check to see who we've got here. I understand we've got some Army here. How about Navy? Air Force! Marines! And we've got some Coast Guard. <p>After all that you do for our country every day, we wanted to give you guys a chance to get out of the uniform, relax a little bit, and have some fun. <p>But of course it's also a time for us to reflect on the meaning of America. In many ways, I think that that small band of patriots who signed their names to the Declaration of Independence and risked their lives for freedom might be surprised to see their legacy all these years later: a nation that's led revolutions in commerce, that sent a man to the Moon, that lifted up the poor, that cured the sick, a nation that fought for democracy and served as a beacon of hope around the world. <p>But all this could only happen because of our Founders' central faith that through democracy and individual rights, ordinary people have it within their means to forge a nation that's more just and more equal and more free. And all of you are heirs to that legacy. You represent the latest in a long line of heroes who have served our country with honor and who've made incredible sacrifices to protect the freedoms that we all enjoy. <p>And I've got some of those heroes here with us today, like Army Sergeant First Class Justin Gang. Where's Justin? Right here. While on patrol in Iraq, his convoy was struck by an IED and fell under enemy fire. Even after being wounded by shrapnel himself, he helped to secure the scene and evacuate his wounded comrades to safety. And today we honor his extraordinary courage. <p>Navy Hospitalman First Class Obi Nwagwu, born in Nigeria, he became an American citizen and volunteered to serve in our Nation's military. And as an orthopedic technician, he helps our wounded warriors regain their strength and resume their lives back home. And today we honor his incredible dedication, Obi. <p>Air Force Master Sergeant Heather Adkins. <p><i>Audience member.</i> Whoo! <p><i>The President.</i> Is that Heather's husband up there? <p><i>M. Sgt. Heather Adkins, USAF.</i> No, Heather doesn't have a husband. <p><i>The First Lady.</i> [<i>Inaudible</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> I'm not trying to get anybody in trouble here. [<i>Laughter</i>] Whether it's partnering with Iraqi Army or making sure our troops have shelter in some of the toughest places on the planet, she knows how to get things done. And today we honor her tireless devotion. <p>Marine Corps Staff Sergeant Keith Kesterson, he rushed through enemy fire to free a fellow marine trapped inside a burning vehicle. And after untangling the marine's equipment, he extinguished the flames and pulled him to safety. And today we honor his unyielding loyalty. <p>Coast Guard Chief Petty Officer Marlene Riklon&mdash;where's Marlene? Right over here. Come on over here. Less than 24 hours after the devastating earthquake in Haiti she was on the scene helping direct aid and save lives in the midst of chaos. And today we honor her incredible dedication. <p>These American patriots, all the services that are represented up here today, all of you who are out there today, you're the reason why America and our Armed Forces remain the greatest force for peace and security that the world has ever known. And together, you're standing with all of those around the world who are reaching for the same freedoms and the same liberties that we celebrate today. <p>So I just want to close by saying thank you. You've done everything we could have asked of you. Your families have served alongside of you with strength and devotion. America is proud of all of you. And as long as I have the privilege of serving as your Commander in Chief, I'm going to make sure that you have the support that you need in the field; I'm going to make sure that you get the care you deserve when you come home. And with the help of Michelle and Dr. Jill Biden, we will make sure America takes care of your families and recognizes the extraordinary sacrifices that they are making. <p>This day is possible because of your service. And so I think it's only appropriate that we give you a chance to celebrate it together as well. <p>God bless you. God bless the United States of America. And happy Fourth of July, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"154" "\"All right. Hello, everybody. I just wanted to give you an update on the deficit negotiations that we've been having for the last several weeks. And I want to wish, again, everybody a happy Fourth of July. <p>Over the July 4th weekend, my team and I had a series of discussions with congressional leaders in both parties. We've made progress, and I believe that greater progress is within sight, but I don't want to fool anybody, we still have to work through some real differences. <p>Now, I've heard reports that there may be some in Congress who want to do just enough to make sure that America avoids defaulting on our debt in the short term, but then wants to kick the can down the road when it comes to solving the larger problem of our deficit. I don't share that view. And I don't think the American people here&mdash;sent us here to avoid tough problems. That's, in fact, what drives them nuts about Washington, when both parties simply take the path of least resistance. And I don't want to do that here. <p>I believe that right now we've got a unique opportunity to do something big: to tackle our deficit in a way that forces our Government to live within its means, that puts our economy on a stronger footing for the future and still allows us to invest in that future. <p>Most of us already agree that to truly solve our deficit problem, we need to find trillions in savings over the next decade and significantly more in the decades that follow. That's what the bipartisan fiscal commission said, that's the amount that I put forward in the framework I announced a few months ago, and that's around the same amount that Republicans have put forward in their own plans. And that's the kind of substantial progress that we should be aiming for here. <p>To get there, I believe we need a balanced approach. We need to take on spending in domestic programs, in defense programs, in entitlement programs. And we need to take on spending in the Tax Code, spending on certain tax breaks and deductions for the wealthiest of Americans. This will require both parties to get out of our comfort zones and both parties to agree on real compromise. <p>I'm ready to do that; I believe there are enough people in each party that are willing to do that. And what I know is that we need to come together over the next 2 weeks to reach a deal that reduces the deficit and upholds the full faith and credit of the United States Government and the credit of the American people. <p>That's why, even as we continue discussions today and tomorrow, I've asked leaders of both parties and both Houses of Congress to come here to the White House on Thursday so we can build on the work that's already been done and drive towards a final agreement. It's my hope that everybody's going to leave their ultimatums at the door, that we'll all leave our political rhetoric at the door, and that we're going to do what's best for our economy and do what's best for our people. <p>And I want to emphasize&mdash;I said this at my press conference: This should not come down to the last second. I think it's important for us to show the American people and their leaders that we can find common ground and solve our problems in a responsible way. We know that it's going to require tough decisions. I think it's better for us to take those tough decisions sooner rather than later. <p>That's what the American people expect of us. That's what a healthy economy is going to require. That's the kind of progress that I expect to make. So I promise, I will keep you guys updated as time goes on. All right?\" "
"155" "\"Hello, everybody. I'm going to make a very brief statement. <p>I just completed a meeting with all the congressional leaders from both Chambers, from both parties, and I have to say that I thought it was a very constructive meeting. People were frank. We discussed the various options available to us. Everybody reconfirmed the importance of completing our work and raising the debt limit ceiling so that the full faith and credit of the United States of America is not impaired. <p>What we decided was that staffs, as well as leadership, will be working during the weekend, and that I will reconvene congressional leaders here on Sunday with the expectation that, at that point, the parties will at least know where each other's bottom lines are and will hopefully be in a position to then start engaging in the hard bargaining that's necessary to get a deal done. <p>I want to emphasize that nothing is agreed to until everything is agreed to. And the parties are still far apart on a wide range of issues. But, again, I thought that all the leaders here came in a spirit of compromise, in a spirit of wanting to solve problems on behalf of the American people. Everybody acknowledged that the issue of our debt and our deficit is something that needs to be tackled now. Everybody acknowledged that in order to do that, Democrats and Republicans are going to be required in each Chamber. Everybody acknowledged that we have to get this done before the hard deadline of August 2d to make sure that America does not default for the first time on its obligations. And everybody acknowledged that there's going to be pain involved politically on all sides. But our biggest obligation is to make sure that we're doing the right thing by the American people, creating an environment in which we can grow the economy and make sure that more and more people are being put back to work. <p>So I want to thank all the leaders. I thought it was a very constructive meeting. And I will be seeing them back here on Sunday. A lot of work will be done between now and then.\" "
"156" "\"Earlier this week, we did something that's never been done here at the White House, we had a Twitter town hall. I even sent my first live tweet as President. The questions at the town hall were sent in from across the country and covered all kinds of topics, from jobs and the economy to education and energy. <p>Lots of people also submitted different versions of another question. They'd start by saying that our politics has grown so contentious. Then they'd ask, \\"When will both parties in Congress come together on behalf of the people who elected them?\\" <p>That's a really important question, and it goes to the heart of a debate we're having right now in this country, and that's the debate about how to tackle the problem of our deficits and our debt. <p>Now, there are obviously real differences in approach. I believe we need a balanced approach. That means taking on spending in our domestic programs and our defense programs. It means addressing the challenges in programs like Medicare so we can strengthen those programs and protect them for future generations. And it means taking on spending in the Tax Code, spending on tax breaks and deductions for the wealthiest Americans. <p>But I also know that Republicans and Democrats don't see eye to eye on a number of issues. And so we're going to continue working over the weekend to bridge those gaps. <p>The good news is, we agree on some of the big things. We agree that after a decade of racking up deficits and debt, we need to get our fiscal house in order. We agree that to do that, both sides are going to have to step outside of their comfort zones and make some political sacrifices. And we agree that we simply cannot afford to default on our national obligations for the first time in our history, that we need to uphold the full faith and credit of the United States of America. <p>With a recovery that's still fragile and isn't producing all the jobs we need, the last thing we can afford is the usual partisan game-playing in Washington. By getting our fiscal house in order, Congress will be in a stronger position to focus on some of the job-creating measures I've already proposed, like putting people to work rebuilding America's infrastructure or reforming our patent system so that our innovators and entrepreneurs have a greater incentive to generate new products or making college more affordable for families. And businesses that may be holding back because of the uncertainty surrounding the possibility of a default by the U.S. Government will have greater confidence to invest and create jobs. <p>I know we can do this. We can meet our fiscal challenge. That's what the American people sent us here to do. They didn't send us to kick our problems down the road. That's exactly what they don't like about Washington. They sent us here to work together. They sent us here to get things done. <p>Right now, we have an extraordinary&mdash;and an extraordinarily rare&mdash;opportunity to move forward in a way that makes sure our Government lives within its means, that puts our economy on a sounder footing for the future, and that still invests in the things we need to prosper in the years to come. And I'm hopeful that we will rise to the moment and seize this opportunity on behalf of all Americans and the future we hold in common. <p>Thanks, every body, and have a great weekend.\" "
"157" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you, Chaplain Rutherford. Please be seated. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the White House as we present our Nation's highest military decoration, the Medal of Honor, to an extraordinary American soldier, Sergeant First Class Leroy Petry. <p>This is a historic occasion. Last fall, I was privileged to present the Medal of Honor to Staff Sergeant Salvatore Giunta for his heroism in Afghanistan, and Sal joins us this afternoon. Where's Sal? Good to see you. <p>So today is only the second time during the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, indeed, only the second time since Vietnam, that a recipient of the Medal of Honor from an ongoing conflict has been able to accept this medal in person. And having just spent some time with Leroy, his lovely wife Ashley, their wonderful children, in the Oval Office, then had a chance to see the entire Petry family here, I have to say this could not be happening to a nicer guy or a more inspiring family. <p>Leroy, the Medal of Honor reflects the deepest gratitude of our entire Nation. So we're joined by Members of Congress, Vice President Biden, leaders from across my administration, including Deputy Secretary of Defense Bill Lynn, and leaders from across our Armed Forces, including the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Jim \\"Hoss\\" Cartwright, Army Secretary John McHugh, and Army Chief of Staff General Marty Dempsey. <p>We're honored to welcome more than 100 of Leroy's family and friends, many from his home State of New Mexico, as well as his fellow Rangers from the legendary Delta Company, 2d Battalion, 75th Ranger Regiment. And as always, we are humbled by the presence of members of the Medal of Honor Society. <p>Today we honor a singular act of gallantry. Yet as we near the 10th anniversary of the attacks that thrust our Nation into war, this is also an occasion to pay tribute to a soldier and a generation that has borne the burden of our security during a hard decade of sacrifice. <p>I want to take you back to the circumstances that led to this day. It's May 26, 2008, in the remote east of Afghanistan, near the mountainous border of Pakistan. Helicopters carrying dozens of elite Army Rangers race over the rugged landscape. And their target is an insurgent compound. The mission is high risk. It's broad daylight. The insurgents are heavily armed. But it's considered a risk worth taking because intelligence indicates that a top Al Qaida commander is in that compound. <p>Soon, the helicopters touch down, and our Rangers immediately come under fire. Within minutes, Leroy, then a Staff Sergeant, and another soldier are pushing ahead into a courtyard, surrounded by high mud walls. And that's when the enemy opens up with their AK-47s. Leroy is hit in both legs. He's bleeding badly, but he summons the strength to lead the other Ranger to cover, behind a chicken coop. He radios for support. He hurls a grenade at the enemy, giving cover to a third Ranger who rushes to their aid. An enemy grenade explodes nearby, wounding Leroy's two comrades. And then a second grenade lands, this time, only a few feet away. <p>Every human impulse would tell someone to turn away. Every soldier is trained to seek cover. That's what Sergeant Leroy Petry could have done. Instead, this wounded Ranger, this 28-year-old man with his whole life ahead of him, this husband and father of four, did something extraordinary. He lunged forward, toward the live grenade. He picked it up. He cocked his arm to throw it back. <p>What compels such courage? What leads a person to risk everything so that others might live? For answers, we don't need to look far. The roots of Leroy's valor are all around us. <p>We see it in the sense of duty instilled by his family, who joins us today: his father Larry, his mother Lorella, and his four brothers. Growing up, the walls of their home were hung with pictures of grandfathers and uncles in uniform, leading a young Leroy to believe \\"that's my calling too.\\" <p>We see it in the compassion of a high school student who overcame his own struggles to mentor younger kids to give them a chance. We see it in the loyalty of an Army Ranger who lives by a creed: Never shall I fail my comrades. Or as Leroy puts it, \\"These are my brothers, family just like my wife and kids, and you protect the ones you love.\\" And that's what he did that day when he picked up that grenade and threw it back, just as it exploded. <p>With that selfless act, Leroy saved his two Ranger brothers, and they are with us today. His valor came with a price. The force of the blast took Leroy's right hand. Shrapnel riddled his body. Said one of his teammates, \\"I had never seen someone hurt so bad.\\" So even his fellow Rangers were amazed at what Leroy did next. Despite his grievous wounds, he remained calm. He actually put on his own tourniquet. And he continued to lead, directing his team, giving orders, even telling the medics how to treat his wounds. <p>When the fight was won, as he lay in a stretcher being loaded onto a helicopter, one of his teammates came up to shake the hand that Leroy had left. \\"That was the first time I shook the hand of someone who I consider to be a true American hero,\\" that Ranger said. Leroy Petry \\"showed that true heroes still exist and that they're closer than you think.\\" <p>That Ranger is right. Our heroes are all around us. They're the millions of Americans in uniform who have served these past 10 years, many, like Leroy, deploying tour after tour, year after year. On the morning of 9/11, Leroy was training to be a Ranger, and as his instructor got the terrible news, they told Leroy and his class, \\"Keep training, you might be going to war.\\" Within months Leroy was in Afghanistan for the first of seven deployments since 9/11. <p>Leroy speaks proudly of the progress our troops have made: Afghan communities now free from the terror of the Taliban and Afghan forces that are taking more responsibility for their security. And he carries with him the memories of Americans who have made the ultimate sacrifice to make this progress possible. <p>Earlier in the Oval Office, Leroy gave me the extraordinary privilege of showing me the small plaque that is bolted to his prosthetic arm. On it are the names of the fallen Rangers from the 75th Regiment. They are, quite literally, part of him, just as they will always be part of America. <p>One of those names is of the Ranger who did not come back from the raid that day, Specialist Christopher Gathercole. Christopher's brother and sister and grandmother are here with us today. I would ask that they stand briefly so that we can show our gratitude for their family's profound sacrifice. <p>Our heroes are all around us. They're the force behind the force: military spouses like Ashley, who during Leroy's many deployments, during missed birthdays and holidays, has kept this family \\"Army Strong.\\" So we're grateful to you, Ashley, and for all the military spouses who are here. <p>They're military children, like Brittany and Austin and Reagan, and 7-year-old Landon, who at the end of a long day is there to gently rub his dad's injured arm. And so I want to make sure that we acknowledge these extraordinary children as well. <p>Our heroes are all around us. They're our men and women in uniform who through a decade of war have earned their place among the greatest of generations. During World War II, on D-day, it was the Rangers of D Company who famously scaled the cliffs of Pointe du Hoc. After 9/11, we learned again: \\"Rangers Lead the Way.\\" They were some of the first boots on the ground in Afghanistan. They have been deployed continuously ever since. <p>Today, we can see our progress in this war and our success against Al Qaida, and we're beginning to bring our troops home from Afghanistan this summer. Understand, there will be more fighting and more sacrifices in the months and years to come. But I am confident that because of the service of men and women like Leroy, we will be able to say of this generation what President Reagan once said of those Rangers who took the cliffs on D-day: \\"These are the heroes who helped end a war.\\" <p>I would ask all of our Rangers, members of the 9/11 generation, to stand and accept the thanks of a grateful nation. <p>Finally, the service of Leroy Petry speaks to the very essence of America, that spirit that says, no matter how hard the journey, no matter how steep the climb, we don't quit. We don't give up. Leroy lost a hand and those wounds in his legs sometimes make it hard for him to stand. But he pushes on, and even joined his fellow Rangers for a grueling 20-mile march. He could have focused only on his own recovery, but today he helps care for other wounded warriors, inspiring them with his example. Given his wounds, he could have retired from the Army, with honor, but he chose to reenlist, indefinitely. And this past year he returned to Afghanistan&mdash;his eighth deployment&mdash;back with his Ranger brothers on another mission to keep our country safe. <p>This is the stuff of which heroes are made. This is the strength, the devotion that makes our troops the pride of every American. And this is the reason that, like a soldier named Leroy Petry, America doesn't simply endure, we emerge from our trials stronger, more confident, with our eyes fixed on the future. <p>Our heroes are all around us. And as we prepare for the reading of the citation, please join me in saluting one of those heroes, Leroy Petry. <p>[<i>At this point, Maj. Reginald McClam, USMC, Marine Corps Aide to the President, read the citation, and the President presented the medal.</i>] <p><i>The President. </i>Can you give Leroy a big round of applause? <p>[<i>Brig. Gen. Donald L. Rutherford, USA, Deputy Chief of Chaplains, said a prayer.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> Thank you all for attending this extraordinary ceremony for this extraordinary hero. I hope that all of you will join the family. There is going to be an outstanding reception. I hear the food is pretty good around here. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I know the music is great because we've got my own Marine Band playing. <p>So thank you so much for your attendance. And once again, congratulations, Leroy, for your extraordinary devotion to our country. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"158" "\"Today, there's a debate going on in Washington over the best way to get America's fiscal house in order and get our economy on a stronger footing going forward. <p>For a decade, America has been spending more money than we've taken in. And for several decades, our debt has been rising. Let's be honest, neither party in this town is blameless. Both have talked this problem to death without doing enough about it. And that's what drives people nuts about Washington. Too often, it's a place more concerned with playing politics and serving special interests than resolving real problems or focusing on what you're facing in your own lives. <p>But right now, we have a responsibility and an opportunity to reduce our deficit as much as possible and solve this problem in a real and comprehensive way. <p>Simply put, it will take a balanced approach, shared sacrifice, and a willingness to make unpopular choices on all our parts. That means spending less on domestic programs. It means spending less on defense programs. It means reforming programs like Medicare to reduce costs and strengthen the program for future generations. And it means taking on the Tax Code and cutting out certain tax breaks and deductions for the wealthiest Americans. <p>Now, some of these things don't make folks in my party too happy. And I wouldn't agree to some of these cuts if we were in a better fiscal situation. But we're not. That's why I'm willing to compromise. I'm willing to do what it takes to solve this problem, even if it's not politically popular. And I expect leaders in Congress to show that same willingness to compromise. <p>The truth is, you can't solve our deficit without cutting spending. But you also can't solve it without asking the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share or without taking on loopholes that give special interests and big corporations tax breaks that middle class Americans don't get. <p>It's pretty simple. I don't think oil companies should keep getting special tax breaks when they're making tens of billions in profits. I don't think hedge fund managers should pay taxes at a lower rate than their secretaries. And I don't think it's fair to ask nothing of someone like me when the average family has seen their income decline over the past decade and when many of you are just trying to stretch every dollar as far it will go. <p>We shouldn't put the burden of deficit reduction on the backs of folks who've already borne the brunt of the recession. It's not reasonable, and it's not right. If we're going to ask seniors or students or middle class Americans to sacrifice, then we have to ask corporations and the wealthiest Americans to share in that sacrifice. We have to ask everyone to play their part because we are all part of the same country. We're all in this together. <p>So I've put things on the table that are important to me and to Democrats, and I expect Republican leaders to do the same. After all, we've worked together like that before. Ronald Reagan worked with Tip O'Neill and Democrats to cut spending, raise revenues, and reform Social Security. Bill Clinton worked with Newt Gingrich and Republicans to balance the budget and create surpluses. Nobody ever got everything they wanted. But eventually they worked together, and they moved this country forward. <p>That kind of cooperation should be the least you expect from us, not the most you expect from us. You work hard, you do what's right, and you expect leaders who do the same. You sent us to Washington to do the tough things, the right things, not just for some of us, but for all of us; not just what's enough to get through the next election, but what's right for the next generation. <p>You expect us to get this right, to put America back on firm economic ground, to forge a healthy, growing economy, to create new jobs and rebuild the lives of the middle class. And that's what I'm committed to doing. <p>Thanks.\" "
"159" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. I wanted to give folks a quick update on the progress that we're making on the debt ceiling discussions. <p>I was in contact with all the leadership over the course of the weekend and continued to urge both Democrats and Republicans to come together around an approach that not only lifts the debt ceiling, but also solves the underlying challenges that we face when it comes to debt and deficits. <p>Some progress was made in some of the discussions, some narrowing of the issues. Speaker Boehner and the Republican House caucus felt it necessary to put forward the plan that they're going to be voting on today. I think everyone's estimation is, is that that is not an approach that could pass both Chambers, it's not an approach that I would sign, and it's not balanced. But I understand the need for them to test that proposition. <p>The problem we have now is we're in the 11th hour, and we don't have a lot more time left. The good news is that today a group of Senators, the Gang of Six, Democrats and Republicans&mdash;I guess now Gang of Seven, because one additional Republican Senator added on&mdash;put forward a proposal that is broadly consistent with the approach that I've urged. What it says is we've got to be serious about reducing discretionary spending both in domestic spending and defense, we've got to be serious about tackling health care spending and entitlements in a serious way, and we've got to have some additional revenue so that we have an approach in which there is shared sacrifice and everybody is giving up something. <p>And so for us to see Democratic Senators acknowledge that we've got to deal with our long-term debt problems that arise out of our various entitlement programs and for Republican Senators to acknowledge that revenues will have to be part of a balanced package that makes sure that nobody is disproportionately hurt from us making progress on the debt and deficits, I think, is a very significant step. And as I said, the framework that they put forward is broadly consistent with what we've been working on here in the White House and with the presentations that I've made to the leadership when they've come over here. <p>So here's where we stand. We have a Democratic President and administration that is prepared to sign a tough package that includes both spending cuts, modifications to Social Security, Medicaid, and Medicare that would strengthen those systems and allow them to move forward and would include a revenue component. We now have a bipartisan group of Senators who agree with that balanced approach. And we've got the American people who agree with that balanced approach. <p>My hope, and what I will be urging Speaker Boehner, Nancy Pelosi, as well as Leader Reid and Mitch McConnell, is that they, tomorrow, are prepared to start talking turkey and actually getting down to the hard business of crafting a plan that can move this forward in time for the August 2 deadline that we've set forward. <p>Just a couple of other points I will make. Some of you may ask, what does it mean for the plan that Senator McConnell and Senator Reid had been working on? Our attitude is, is that that continues to be a necessary approach to put forward. In the event that we don't get an agreement, at minimum, we've got to raise the debt ceiling. So that's the bare minimum that has to be achieved, but we continue to believe that we can achieve more. <p>And so I want to congratulate the Gang of Six for coming up with a plan that I think is balanced. We just received it, so we haven't reviewed all the details of it. It would not match perfectly with some of the approaches that we've taken, but I think that we're in the same playing field. And my hope is, is that we can start gathering everybody over the next couple of days to choose a clear direction and to get this issue resolved. <p>So far at least, the markets have shown confidence that leadership here in Washington are not going to send the economy over a cliff. But if we continue to go through a lot of political posturing, if both sides continue to be dug in, if we don't have a basic spirit of cooperation that allows us to rise above immediate election-year politics and actually solve problems, then I think markets here, the American people, and the international community are going to start reacting adversely fairly quickly. <p>So I think it's very important for in these next couple of days to understand we don't have any more time to engage in symbolic gestures, we don't have any more time to posture. It's time to get down to the business of actually solving this problem. And I think we now are seeing the potential for a bipartisan consensus around what that would take. <p>It will be hard. It will be tough. There are still going to be a lot of difficult negotiations that have to take place in order for us to actually get something done. And as I said, we have to have that fail-safe that Senator McConnell and Senator Reid are working on. But the hope is, is that everybody seizes this opportunity. <p>All right? Okay, guys, I'm going to let Jay answer questions today. I think I've been pretty good to you guys. [<i>Laughter</i>] But after the votes today in the House, I'll call up Speaker Boehner and the other leadership, and we'll arrange for times where we bring folks back here, and hopefully, we'll be able to report on some additional progress over the next few days. <p>All right? Thank you very much, guys. <p><i>National Debt and Deficit </i><p><i>Q.</i> When will you announce whether you will be supporting the Gang of Six plan? Would that be in the next day? <p><i>The President.</i> Well, as I said, I think what you're going to be seeing is an evaluation of that plan versus the things that we've been looking at. I think what you're going to see is some significant overlap. But obviously, just because we might agree in principle with a range of issues with six Senators or seven Senators, that doesn't get us out of the House of Representatives; that doesn't get us out of the Senate. There's going to have to be a broader agreement on the part of all the leadership that we're going to get this done in a serious way, and we've got a tight deadline to do it. <p>All right? Thanks, guys.\" "
"160" "\"For years, the Government has spent more money than it takes in. The result is a lot of debt on our Nation's credit card, debt that, unless we act, will weaken our economy, cause higher interest rates for families, and force us to scale back things like education and Medicare. <p>Now, folks in Washington like to blame one another for this problem. But the truth is neither party is blameless. And both parties have a responsibility to do something about it. Every day, families are figuring out how stretch their paychecks, struggling to cut what they can't afford so they can pay for what's really important. It's time for Washington to do the same thing. But for that to happen, it means that Democrats and Republicans have to work together. It means we need to put aside our differences to do what's right for the country. Everyone is going to have to be willing to compromise. Otherwise, we'll never get anything done. <p>That's why we need a balanced approach to cutting the deficit. We need an approach that goes after waste in the budget and gets rid of pet projects that cost billions of dollars. We need an approach that makes some serious cuts to worthy programs, cuts I wouldn't make under normal circumstances. And we need an approach that asks everybody to do their part. <p>So that means, yes, we have to make serious budget cuts, but it's not right to ask middle class families to pay more for college before we ask the biggest corporations to pay their fair share of taxes. It means that before we stop funding clean energy, we should ask oil companies and corporate jet owners to give up the tax breaks that other companies don't get. Before we cut medical research, we should ask hedge fund managers to stop paying taxes at a lower rate than their secretaries. Before we ask seniors to pay more for Medicare, we should ask the wealthiest taxpayers to give up tax breaks we simply can't afford under these circumstances. <p>That's the heart of this approach: serious cuts balanced by some new revenues. And it's been the position of every Democratic and Republican leader who has worked to reduce the deficit, from Bill Clinton to Ronald Reagan. In fact, earlier this week, one of the most conservative Members of the Senate, Tom Coburn, announced his support for a balanced, bipartisan plan that shows promise. And then a funny thing happened. He received a round of applause from a group of Republican and Democratic Senators. That's a rare event in Washington. <p>So there will be plenty of haggling over the details in the days ahead. But this debate boils down to a simple choice. We can come together for the good of the country and reach a compromise. We can strengthen our economy and leave for our children a more secure future, or we can issue insults and demands and ultimatums at each another, withdraw to our partisan corners, and achieve nothing. Well, we know the right thing to do. And we know what the American people expect us to do.\" "
"161" "\"<i>The President</i>. Well, hello, everybody. Have a seat, have a seat. This is a party. Welcome to the White House, and congratulations to the Giants on winning your first World Series title in 56 years. Give that a big round. <p>I want to start by recognizing some very proud Giants fans in the house. We've got Mayor Ed Lee; Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom. We have quite a few Members of Congress&mdash;I am going to announce one; the Democratic Leader in the House, Nancy Pelosi is here. We've got Senator Dianne Feinstein who is here. And our newest Secretary of Defense and a big Giants fan, Leon Panetta is in the house. <p>I also want to congratulate Bill Neukom and Larry Baer for building such an extraordinary franchise. <p>I want to welcome obviously our very special guest, the \\"Say Hey Kid,\\" Mr. Willie Mays is in the house. Now, 2 years ago, I invited Willie to ride with me on Air Force One on the way to the All-Star Game in St. Louis. It was an extraordinary trip. Very rarely when I'm on Air Force One am I the second most important guy on there. [<i>Laughter</i>] Everybody was just passing me by&mdash;\\"Can I get you something, Mr. Mays?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] What's going on? <p>Willie was also a 23-year-old outfielder the last time the Giants won the World Series, back when the team was in New York. And even though there have been some great Giants teams since then, none of them had brought a championship back to the bay area. <p>And then this team came along. Manager Bruce Bochy once called them a bunch of \\"misfits and castoffs.\\" Let me take a look at these guys. Or as GM Brian Sabean put it, \\"We've got a lot of characters with a lot of character.\\" <p>One of these characters is Tim Lincecum. Where's Tim? I see him back there. Recognize the hair. [<i>Laughter</i>] When Tim entered the draft 5 years ago, nine teams passed him over before the Giants picked him up. Nobody thought somebody that skinny&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;with that violent a delivery could survive without just flying apart. But now, with two Cy Youngs under his belt, everybody understands why he's called \\"The Freak.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Before Game 5 last year, Tim was so relaxed he was singing in the clubhouse. That's how his teammates knew they were about to see something special. And after watching him pitch 8 incredible innings, including a stretch of 11 strikes in a row, America learned sometimes it's a good idea to bet on the skinny guy. [<i>Laughter</i>] So you and me. <p>And then there's the guy with the beard. Where's he? [<i>Laughter</i>] I do fear it. [<i>Laughter</i>] Have you guys seen the SportsCenter ad where it's&mdash;ESPN&mdash;where it starts doing a dance? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, underneath Brian's beard and the spandex tuxedo&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and the sea captain costume and the cleats with his face on them is also one of the most dominant closers in baseball. And I do think, Brian, you should know that Michelle was very relieved that the press was going to be talking about what somebody else wears here in the White House&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;so that it's not just her making a fashion statement. <p>So even though this team is a little different, even though these players haven't always followed the traditional rules, one thing they know is how to win. And maybe some of that wisdom comes from all the old-time greats who never won a Series, but know that being a Giant means being a Giant for life. And that's why greats like Willie McCovey can often be found hanging around the clubhouse, pulling young players aside and offering them hitting tips. And the love goes both ways. Brian said, \\"What those players went through when they played, to not bring one home like we did, this is for them.\\" <p>So for this team, winning the World Series means remembering their roots, especially when those roots run deep. Last year, after all the confetti had been cleaned up and the players had gone home, Willie Mays took the trophy back to the site of the old Polo Grounds in New York. And he visited students at P.S. 46, on the spot where the stadium once stood, and told them stories about playing stickball with the neighborhood kids all those years ago. <p>And the rest of this team has also made a point of giving back, whether it's supporting wounded warriors and their families or becoming the first professional sports team to join the \\"It Gets Better\\" campaign against bullying. <p>So that's what this team is all about: characters with character. And so once again I want to congratulate this team and wish them all the best of luck in the rest of the season, unless the White Sox are in the World Series&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;which right now is not a sure thing. <p>All right? Congratulations, everybody. <p><i>Manager Bruce Bochy</i>. Thank you, Mr. President. We have a few gifts here. But first, we want to thank you very much for having us here. We know you're busy, and on behalf of the Giant family, we're honored and privileged for you to have us here. <p><i>The President</i>. Thank you. <p><i>Mr. Bochy</i>. So a special day for us after having a special season. Thank you. <p>[<i>At this point, a baby in the audience cried</i>.] <p><i>The President</i>. He's really upset that I quit talking. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>[<i>The President was presented with a team jersey</i>.] <p><i>The President.</i> Oh, that's terrific. Thank you&mdash;44. Thank you. Thank you, guys. Beautiful. Thank you. All right? What else we got? <p><i>Pitcher Matt Cain</i>. We just wanted to present you with a team-signed bat. <p><i>The President</i>. Thank you so much. <p><i>Mr. Cain</i>. Your name, special edition. So it's right there&mdash;[<i>inaudible</i>]. <p><i>The President</i>. That is beautiful. Thank you so much. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you. This is beautiful. <p><i>Managing General Partner and Chief Executive Officer William H. Neukom</i>. Mr. President, on behalf of the entire Giants organization, our investors, many of whom are here today, the front office, many of whom are also here today, and of course, this amazing ball club, with the trainers and the coaches and the players and the broadcast folks, on behalf of all of us, we thank you for making time for us and for your kind words. And we wish you well, and we'd like our general manager to make a presentation to you and the family, if he may. <p><i>The President</i>. Oh, thank you. <p><i>Senior Vice President and General Manager Brian R. Sabean</i>. A custom glove. Real deal. <p><i>The President</i>. Oh, that's what I need right there. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Mr. Sabean</i>. In White Sox colors. <p><i>The President</i>. I notice that you put the silver and black on there. I appreciate that. That was good. [<i>Laughter</i>] Thank you. <p>I've got&mdash;we should do something like this every day. Look at all this loot. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is good. All right, let's strike the podium. We'll take a good picture.\" "
"162" "\"<i>The President</i>. Thank you so much. What an extraordinary crowd. Thank you. Please have a seat. <p>It is good to be back with NCLR. It is good to see all of you. Right off the bat, I should thank you because I have poached quite a few of your alumni to work in my administration. [<i>Laughter</i>] They're all doing outstanding work. Raul Yzaguirre, my Ambassador to the Dominican Republic; Latinos serving at every level of my administration. We've got young people right out of college in the White House. We've got the first Latina Cabinet Secretary in history, Hilda Solis. So we couldn't be prouder of the work that so many folks who've been engaged with La Raza before, the handiwork that they're doing with our administration. And as Janet mentioned, obviously, we're extraordinarily proud of someone who is doing outstanding work on the Supreme Court, Sonia Sotomayor. <p>Now, recently, 100 Latino officials from across the Government met with Latino leaders from across the country at the White House. I know some of you were there. And I think all who attended would agree that we weren't just paying lip service to the community. Our work together, not just that day but every day, has been more than just talk. <p>What I told the gathering at the White House was we need your voice. Your country needs you. Our American family will only be as strong as our growing Latino community. And so we're going to take these conversations on the road and keep working with you, because for more than four decades, NCLR has fought for opportunities for Latinos from city centers to farm fields. And that fight for opportunity&mdash;the opportunity to get a decent education, the opportunity to find a good job, the opportunity to make of our lives what we will&mdash;has never been more important than it is today. <p>And we're still climbing out of a vicious recession, and that recession hit Latino families especially hard. I don't need to tell you Latino unemployment is painfully high. And there's no doubt that this economy has not recovered as fast as it needs to. The truth is, it's going to take more time. And a lot of the problems we face right now, like slow job growth and stagnant wages, these were problems that were there even before the recession hit. <p>These challenges weren't caused overnight; they're not going to be solved overnight. But that only makes our work more urgent, to get this economy going and make sure that opportunity is spreading, to make sure that everyone who wants a job can find one; and to make sure that paychecks can actually cover the bills; to make sure that families don't have to choose between buying groceries or buying medicine, that they don't have to choose between sending their kids to college or being able to retire. <p>My number-one priority, every single day, is to figure out how we can get businesses to hire and create jobs with decent wages. And in the short term, there are some things we can do right away. I want to extend tax relief that we already put in place for middle class families to make sure that folks have more money in their paychecks. And I want to cut redtape that keeps entrepreneurs from turning new ideas into thriving businesses. I want to sign trade deals so our businesses can sell more goods made in America to the rest of the world, especially to the Americas. <p>And the hundreds of thousands of construction workers&mdash;many of them Latino&mdash;who lost their jobs when the housing bubble burst, I want to put them back to work rebuilding our roads and our bridges and new schools and airports all across the country. There is work to be done. These workers are ready to do it. <p>So bipartisan proposals for all of these jobs measures would already be law if Congress would just send them to my desk, and I'd appreciate if you all would help me convince them to do it. We need to get it done. [<i>Applause</i>] We need to get it done. <p>Now, obviously, the other debate in Washington that we're having is one that's going to have a direct impact on every American. Every day, NCLR and your affiliates hear from families figuring out how to stretch every dollar a little bit further, what sacrifices they've got to make, how they're going to budget only what's truly important. So they should expect the same thing from Washington. Neither party is blameless for the decisions that led to our debt, but both parties have a responsibility to come together and solve the problem and make sure that the American people aren't hurt on this issue. <p>Because&mdash;I just want to talk about this for a second, because it has a potential impact on everybody here and all the communities you serve&mdash;if we don't address the debt that's already on our national credit card, it will leave us unable to invest in things like education, to protect vital programs. <p>So I've already said I'm willing to cut spending that we don't need by historic amounts to reduce our long-term deficit and make sure that we can invest in our children's future. I'm willing to take on the rising costs of health care programs like Medicare and Medicaid to make sure they're strong and secure for future generations. <p>But we can't just close our deficits by cutting spending. That's the truth, and Americans understand that. Because if all we all do is cut, then seniors will have to pay a lot more for their health care, and students will have to pay a lot more for college, and workers who get laid off might not have any temporary assistance or job training to get them back on their feet. And with gas prices this high, we'd have to stop much of the clean energy research that will help us free ourselves from dependence on foreign oil. <p>Not only is it not fair if all of this is done on the backs of middle class families and poor families, it doesn't make sense. It may sound good to save a lot of money over the next 5 years, but not if we sacrifice our future for the next 50. <p>And that's why people from both parties have said that the best way to take on our deficit is with a balanced approach, one where the wealthiest Americans and big corporations pay their fair share too. Before we stop funding energy research, we should ask oil companies and corporate jet owners to give up special tax breaks that other folks don't get. Before we ask college students to pay more to go to college, we should ask hedge fund managers to stop paying taxes that are lower in their&mdash;in terms of rates than their secretaries. Before we ask seniors to pay more for Medicare, before we ask seniors to pay more for Medicare we should ask people like me to give up tax breaks that we don't need and weren't even asking for. <p>So, NCLR, that's at the heart of this debate. Are we a nation that asks only the middle class and the poor to bear the burden? After they've seen their jobs disappear and their incomes decline over a decade? Are we a people who break the promises we've made to seniors or the disabled and leave them to fend for themselves? <p>That's not who we are. We are better than that. We're a people who look out for one another. We're a people who believe in shared sacrifice, because we know that we rise or fall as one nation. We're a people who will do whatever it takes to make sure our children have the same chances and the same opportunities that our parents gave us&mdash;not just the same chances, better chances, than our parents gave us. That's the American way. <p>And that's what NCLR is all about. That's what the Latino community is all about. When I spoke to you as a candidate for this office, I said you and I share a belief that opportunity and prosperity aren't just words to be said, they are promises to be kept. Back then, we didn't know the depths of the challenges that were going to lie ahead. But thanks to you, we are keeping our promises. <p>We're keeping our promise to make sure that America remains a place where opportunity is open to all who work for it. We've cut taxes for middle class workers and small businesses and low-income families. We won credit card reform and financial reform and protections for consumers and folks who use payday lenders or send remittances home from being exploited and being ripped off. <p>We worked to secure health care for 4 million children, including the children of legal immigrants. And we are implementing health reform for all who've been abused by insurance companies and all who fear about going broke if they get sick. And these were huge victories for the Latino community that suffers from lack of health insurance more than any other group. <p>We're keeping our promise to give our young people every opportunity to succeed. NCLR has always organized its work around the principle that the single most important investment we can make is in our children's education and that if we let our Latino students fall behind, we will all fall behind. I believe that. <p>So we've tied giving more money to reform. And we're working with States to improve teacher recruitment and retraining and retention. We're making sure English language learners are a priority for educators across the country. We're holding schools with high dropout rates accountable so they start delivering for our kids. We're emphasizing math and science and investing in community colleges so that all of our workers get the skills that today's companies want. And we've won new college grants for more than 100,000 Latino students. And as long as I am President, this country will always invest in its young people. <p>These are victories for NCLR; they are victories for America. And we did it with your help. We're keeping our promises. <p>Of course, that doesn't mean we don't have unfinished business. I promised you I would work tirelessly to fix our broken immigration system and make the \\"DREAM Act\\" a reality. And 2 months ago, I went down to the border of El Paso to reiterate&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]. El Paso is in the house&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;to reiterate my vision for an immigration system that holds true to our values and our heritage and meets our economic and security needs. And I argued this wasn't just the moral thing to do, it was an economic imperative. <p>In recent years, one in four high-tech startups in America&mdash;companies like Google and Intel&mdash;were founded on immigrants. One in six new small-business owners are immigrants. These are job creators who came here to seek opportunity and now seek to share opportunity. <p>This country has always been made stronger by our immigrants. That's what makes America special. We attract talented, dynamic, optimistic people who are continually refreshing our economy and our spirit. And you can see that in urban areas all across the country where communities that may have been hollowed out when manufacturing left or were having problems because of an aging population, suddenly, you see an influx of immigration, and you see streets that were full of boarded-up buildings, suddenly, they're vibrant with life once again. And it's immigrant populations who are providing that energy and that drive. <p>We have a system right now that allows the best and the brightest to come study in America and then tells them to leave, set up the next great company someplace else. We have a system that tolerates immigrants and businesses that breaks the rules and punishes those that follow the rules. We have a system that separates families, and punishes innocent young people for their parents' actions by denying them the chance to earn an education or contribute to our economy or serve in our military. These are the laws on the books. <p>Now, I swore an oath to uphold the laws on the books, but that doesn't mean I don't know very well the real pain and heartbreak that deportations cause. I share your concerns, and I understand them. And I promise you, we are responding to your concerns and working every day to make sure we are enforcing flawed laws in the most humane and best possible way. <p>Now, I know some people want me to bypass Congress and change the laws on my own. Believe me&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;and believe me, right now dealing with Congress, the idea&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes you can! Yes you can! Yes you can! <p><i>The President</i>. But believe me, the idea of doing things on my own is very tempting. [<i>Laughter</i>] I promise you. Not just on immigration reform. [<i>Laughter</i>] But that's not how our system works. <p><i>Audience member</i>. Change it! <p><i>The President</i>. That's not how our democracy functions. That's not how our Constitution is written. <p>So let's be honest. I need a dance partner here, and the floor is empty. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Five years ago, 23 Republican Senators supported comprehensive immigration reform because they knew it was the right thing to do for the economy and it was the right thing to do for America. Today, they've walked away. Republicans helped write the \\"DREAM Act\\" because they knew it was the right thing to do for the country. Today, they've walked away. Last year, we passed the \\"DREAM Act\\" through the House only to see it blocked by Senate Republicans. It was heartbreaking to get so close and see politics get in the way, particularly because some of the folks who walked away had previously been sponsors of this. <p>Now, all that has to change. And part of the problem is, is that the political winds have changed. That's left States to come up with patchwork versions of reform that don't solve the problem. You and I know that's not the right way to go. We can't have 50 immigration laws across the country. <p>So yes, feel free to keep the heat on me and keep the heat on Democrats. But here's the only thing you should know. The Democrats and your President are with you&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;are with you. Don't get confused about that. Remember who it is that we need to move in order to actually change the laws. <p>Now, usually, as soon as I come out in favor of something, about half of Congress is immediately against it even if it was originally their idea. [<i>Laughter</i>] You notice how that works? [<i>Laughter</i>] So I need you to keep building a movement for change outside of Washington, one they can't stop, one that's greater than this community. <p>We need a movement that bridges party lines, that unites business and labor and faith communities and law enforcement communities and all who know that America cannot continue operating with a broken immigration system. And I will be there every step of the way. I will keep up this fight, because Washington is way behind where the rest of the country knows we need to go. <p>And I know that can be frustrating. This is a city where compromise is becoming a dirty word, where there's more political upside in doing what's easier for reelection, what's easier for an attack ad, than what's best for the country. But, NCLR, I want you to know, when you feel frustration or you're feeling cynical, and when you hear people say we can't solve our problems or we can't bring about the change that we've fought so hard for, I do want you to remember everything that we've already accomplished together just in 2&frac12; years. And I want you to remember why we do this in the first place. <p>Recently, I heard the story of a participant at this gathering that we had at the White House that I was telling you about at the top of my speech. So this participant's name was Marie Lopez Rogers. And Marie was born to migrant farm workers in Avondale, Arizona. As a young girl, she and her brother would help their parents in the cotton fields. And I'm assuming the temperatures were sort of like they've been the last couple days here in DC. And it was in those cotton fields that Marie's father would tell her, \\"If you don't want to be working in this heat, you better stay in school.\\" And so that's what Marie did. <p>And because of that, because of the tireless, back-breaking work of her parents, because of their willingness to struggle and sacrifice so that one day their children wouldn't have to, Marie became the first in her family to go to college. And interestingly, she now works at the very site where she used to pick cotton, except now city hall sits there, and Marie is the town's mayor. <p>So that's the promise of America. That is why we love this country so much. That is why all of us are here. That's why I am here. Some of us had parents or grandparents who said, maybe I can't go to college, but someday my child will go to college. Maybe I can't start my own business, but I promise you someday my child will start his or her own business. I may have to rent today, but someday my child will have a home of her own. My back may be tired, my hands may be cut, I may be working a field, but someday, someday my daughter will be mayor or Secretary of Labor or a Supreme Court Justice. <p><i>Hermanos y hermanas</i>, that promise is in our hands. It's up to us to continue that story. It's up to us to hand it down to all of our children: Latino, Black, White, Asian, Native American, gay, straight, disabled, not disabled. We're one family, and we need each other. And if we remember that and continue to focus on that, if we come together and work together as one people and summon the best in each other, I'm confident that promise will endure. <p>Thank you very much. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"163" "\"Good evening. Tonight I want to talk about the debate we've been having in Washington over the national debt, a debate that directly affects the lives of all Americans. <p>For the last decade, we've spent more money than we take in. In the year 2000, the Government had a budget surplus. But instead of using it to pay off our debt, the money was spent on trillions of dollars in new tax cuts, while two wars and an expensive prescription drug program were simply added to our Nation's credit card. <p>As a result, the deficit was on track to top $1 trillion the year I took office. To make matters worse, the recession meant that there was less money coming in, and it required us to spend even more: on tax cuts for middle class families to spur the economy, on unemployment insurance, on aid to States so we could prevent more teachers and firefighters and police officers from being laid off. These emergency steps also added to the deficit. <p>Now, every family knows a little credit card debt is manageable. But if we stay on the current path, our growing debt could cost us jobs and do serious damage to the economy. More of our tax dollars will go toward paying off the interest on our loans. Businesses will be less likely to open up shop and hire workers in a country that can't balance its books. Interest rates could climb for everyone who borrows money: the homeowner with a mortgage, the student with a college loan, the corner store that wants to expand. And we won't have enough money to make job-creating investments in things like education and infrastructure or pay for vital programs like Medicare and Medicaid. <p>Because neither party is blameless for the decisions that led to this problem, both parties have a responsibility to solve it. And over the last several months, that's what we've been trying to do. I won't bore you with the details of every plan or proposal, but basically, the debate has centered around two different approaches. <p>The first approach says, let's live within our means by making serious, historic cuts in Government spending. Let's cut domestic spending to the lowest level it's been since Dwight Eisenhower was President. Let's cut defense spending at the Pentagon by hundreds of billions of dollars. Let's cut out waste and fraud in health care programs like Medicare, and at the same time, let's make modest adjustments so that Medicare is still there for future generations. Finally, let's ask the wealthiest Americans and biggest corporations to give up some of their breaks in the Tax Code and special deductions. <p>This balanced approach asks everyone to give a little without requiring anyone to sacrifice too much. It would reduce the deficit by around $4 trillion and put us on a path to pay down our debt. And the cuts wouldn't happen so abruptly that they'd be a drag on our economy or prevent us from helping small businesses and middle class families get back on their feet right now. <p>This approach is also bipartisan. While many in my own party aren't happy with the painful cuts it makes, enough will be willing to accept them if the burden is fairly shared. While Republicans might like to see deeper cuts and no revenue at all, there are many in the Senate who have said, \\"Yes, I'm willing to put politics aside and consider this approach because I care about solving the problem.\\" And to his credit, this is the kind of approach the Republican Speaker of the House, John Boehner, was working on with me over the last several weeks. <p>The only reason this balanced approach isn't on its way to becoming law right now is because a significant number of Republicans in Congress are insisting on a different approach, a cuts-only approach, an approach that doesn't ask the wealthiest Americans or biggest corporations to contribute anything at all. And because nothing is asked of those at the top of the income scale, such an approach would close the deficit only with more severe cuts to programs we all care about, cuts that place a greater burden on working families. <p>So the debate right now isn't about whether we need to make tough choices. Democrats and Republicans agree on the amount of deficit reduction we need. The debate is about how it should be done. Most Americans, regardless of political party, don't understand how we can ask a senior citizen to pay more for her Medicare before we ask a corporate jet owner or the oil companies to give up tax breaks that other companies don't get. How can we ask a student to pay more for college before we ask hedge fund managers to stop paying taxes at a lower rate than their secretaries? How can we slash funding for education and clean energy before we ask people like me to give up tax breaks we don't need and didn't ask for? <p>That's not right. It's not fair. We all want a Government that lives within its means, but there are still things we need to pay for as a country, things like new roads and bridges, weather satellites and food inspection, services to veterans and medical research. <p>And keep in mind that under a balanced approach, the 98 percent of Americans who make under $250,000 would see no tax increases at all. None. In fact, I want to extend the payroll tax cut for working families. What we're talking about under a balanced approach is asking Americans whose incomes have gone up the most over the last decade&mdash;millionaires and billionaires&mdash;to share in the sacrifice everyone else has to make. And I think these patriotic Americans are willing to pitch in. <p>In fact, over the last few decades, they've pitched in every time we passed a bipartisan deal to reduce the deficit. The first time a deal was passed, a predecessor of mine made the case for a balanced approach by saying this: \\"Would you rather reduce deficits and interest rates by raising revenue from those who are not now paying their fair share, or would you rather accept larger budget deficits, higher interest rates, and higher unemployment? And I think I know your answer.\\" <p>Those words were spoken by Ronald Reagan. But today, many Republicans in the House refuse to consider this kind of balanced approach, an approach that was pursued not only by President Reagan, but by the first President Bush, by President Clinton, by myself, and by many Democrats and Republicans in the United States Senate. So we're left with a stalemate. <p>Now, what makes today's stalemate so dangerous is that it has been tied to something known as the debt ceiling, a term that most people outside of Washington have probably never heard of before. <p>Understand, raising the debt ceiling does not allow Congress to spend more money. It simply gives our country the ability to pay the bills that Congress has already racked up. In the past, raising the debt ceiling was routine. Since the 1950s, Congress has always passed it, and every President has signed it. President Reagan did it 18 times. George W. Bush did it seven times. And we have to do it by next Tuesday, August 2, or else, we won't be able to pay all of our bills. <p>Unfortunately, for the past several weeks, Republican House Members have essentially said that the only way they'll vote to prevent America's first-ever default is if the rest of us agree to their deep, spending-cuts-only approach. <p>If that happens and we default, we would not have enough money to pay all of our bills, bills that include monthly Social Security checks, veterans' benefits, and the Government contracts we've signed with thousands of businesses. <p>For the first time in history, our country's AAA credit rating would be downgraded, leaving investors around the world to wonder whether the United States is still a good bet. Interest rates would skyrocket on credit cards, on mortgages, and on car loans, which amounts to a huge tax hike on the American people. We would risk sparking a deep economic crisis, this one caused almost entirely by Washington. <p>So defaulting on our obligations is a reckless and irresponsible outcome to this debate. And Republican leaders say that they agree we must avoid default. But the new approach that Speaker Boehner unveiled today, which would temporarily extend the debt ceiling in exchange for spending cuts, would force us to once again face the threat of default just 6 months from now. In other words, it doesn't solve the problem. <p>First of all, a 6-month extension of the debt ceiling might not be enough to avoid a credit downgrade and the higher interest rates that all Americans would have to pay as a result. We know what we have to do to reduce our deficits; there's no point in putting the economy at risk by kicking the can further down the road. <p>But there's an even greater danger to this approach. Based on what we've seen these past few weeks, we know what to expect 6 months from now. The House of Representatives will once again refuse to prevent default unless the rest of us accept their cuts-only approach. Again they will refuse to ask the wealthiest Americans to give up their tax cuts or deductions. Again they will demand harsh cuts to programs like Medicare. And once again the economy will be held captive unless they get their way. <p>This is no way to run the greatest country on Earth. It's a dangerous game that we've never played before, and we can't afford to play it now. Not when the jobs and livelihoods of so many families are at stake. We can't allow the American people to become collateral damage to Washington's political warfare. <p>And Congress now has one week left to act, and there are still paths forward. The Senate has introduced a plan to avoid default, which makes a downpayment on deficit reduction and ensures that we don't have to go through this again in 6 months. <p>I think that's a much better approach, although serious deficit reduction would still require us to tackle the tough challenges of entitlement and tax reform. Either way, I've told leaders of both parties that they must come up with a fair compromise in the next few days that can pass both Houses of Congress and a compromise that I can sign. I'm confident we can reach this compromise. Despite our disagreements, Republican leaders and I have found common ground before. And I believe that enough members of both parties will ultimately put politics aside and help us make progress. <p>Now, I realize that a lot of the new Members of Congress and I don't see eye to eye on many issues. But we were each elected by some of the same Americans for some of the same reasons. Yes, many want Government to start living within its means. And many are fed up with a system in which the deck seems stacked against middle class Americans in favor of the wealthiest few. <p>But do you know what people are fed up with most of all? They're fed up with a town where compromise has become a dirty word. They work all day long, many of them scraping by, just to put food on the table. And when these Americans come home at night, bone tired, and turn on the news, all they see is the same partisan three-ring circus here in Washington. They see leaders who can't seem to come together and do what it takes to make life just a little bit better for ordinary Americans. They're offended by that. And they should be. <p>The American people may have voted for divided Government, but they didn't vote for a dysfunctional Government. So I'm asking you all to make your voice heard. If you want a balanced approach to reducing the deficit, let your Member of Congress know. If you believe we can solve this problem through compromise, send that message. <p>America, after all, has always been a grand experiment in compromise. As a democracy made up of every race and religion, where every belief and point of view is welcomed, we have put to the test time and again the proposition at the heart of our founding: that out of many, we are one. We've engaged in fierce and passionate debates about the issues of the day, but from slavery to war, from civil liberties to questions of economic justice, we have tried to live by the words that Jefferson once wrote: \\"Every man cannot have his way in all things. . . . Without this mutual disposition, we are disjointed individuals, but not a society.\\" <p>History is scattered with the stories of those who held fast to rigid ideologies and refused to listen to those who disagreed. But those are not the Americans we remember. We remember the Americans who put country above self and set personal grievances aside for the greater good. We remember the Americans who held this country together during its most difficult hours, who put aside pride and party to form a more perfect Union. <p>That's who we remember. That's who we need to be right now. The entire world is watching. So let's seize this moment to show why the United States of America is still the greatest nation on Earth, not just because we can still keep our word and meet our obligations, but because we can still come together as one Nation. <p>Thank you, God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"164" "\"I want to speak about the ongoing and increasingly urgent efforts to avoid default and reduce our deficit. <p>Right now the House of Representatives is still trying to pass a bill that a majority of Republicans and Democrats in the Senate have already said they won't vote for. It's a plan that would force us to relive this crisis in just a few short months, holding our economy captive to Washington politics once again. In other words, it does not solve the problem, and it has no chance of becoming law. <p>What's clear now is that any solution to avoid default must be bipartisan. It must have the support of both parties that were sent here to represent the American people, not just one faction. It will have to have the support of both the House and the Senate. And there are multiple ways to resolve this problem. Senator Reid, a Democrat, has introduced a plan in the Senate that contains cuts agreed upon by both parties. Senator McConnell, a Republican, offered a solution that could get us through this. There are plenty of modifications we can make to either of these plans in order to get them passed through both the House and the Senate and would allow me to sign them into law. And today I urge Democrats and Republicans in the Senate to find common ground on a plan that can get support from both parties in the House, a plan that I can sign by Tuesday. <p>Now, keep in mind, this is not a situation where the two parties are miles apart. We're in rough agreement about how much spending can be cut responsibly as a first step toward reducing our deficit. We agree on a process where the next step is a debate in the coming months on tax reform and entitlement reform, and I'm ready and willing to have that debate. And if we need to put in place some kind of enforcement mechanism to hold us all accountable for making these reforms, I'll support that too if it's done in a smart and balanced way. <p>So there are plenty of ways out of this mess. But we are almost out of time. We need to reach a compromise by Tuesday so that our country will have the ability to pay its bills on time, as we always have, bills that include monthly Social Security checks, veterans' benefits and the Government contracts we've signed with thousands of businesses. Keep in mind, if we don't do that, if we don't come to an agreement, we could lose our country's AAA credit rating, not because we didn't have the capacity to pay our bills&mdash;we do&mdash;but because we didn't have a AAA political system to match our AAA credit rating. <p>And make no mistake, for those who say they oppose tax increases on anyone, a lower credit rating would result potentially in a tax increase on everyone in the form of higher interest rates on their mortgages, their car loans, their credit cards. And that's inexcusable. <p>There are a lot of crises in the world that we can't always predict or avoid: hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, terrorist attacks. This isn't one of those crises. The power to solve this is in our hands. And on a day when we've been reminded how fragile the economy already is, this is one burden we can lift ourselves. We can end it with a simple vote, a vote that Democrats and Republicans have been taking for decades, a vote that the leaders in Congress have taken for decades. <p>It's not a vote that allows Congress to spend more money. Raising the debt ceiling simply gives our country the ability to pay the bills that Congress has already racked up. I want to emphasize that. The debt ceiling does not determine how much more money we can spend, it simply authorizes us to pay the bills we already have racked up. It gives the United States of America the ability to keep its word. <p>Now, on Monday night, I asked the American people to make their voice heard in this debate, and the response was overwhelming. So please, to all the American people, keep it up. If you want to see a bipartisan compromise&mdash;a bill that can pass both Houses of Congress and that I can sign&mdash;let your Members of Congress know. Make a phone call. Send an e-mail. Tweet. Keep the pressure on Washington, and we can get past this. <p>And for my part, our administration will be continuing to work with Democrats and Republicans all weekend long until we find a solution. The time for putting party first is over. The time for compromise on behalf of the American people is now. And I am confident that we can solve this problem. I'm confident that we will solve this problem. For all the intrigue and all the drama that's taking place on Capitol Hill right now, I'm confident that common sense and cooler heads will prevail. <p>But as I said earlier, we are now running out of time. It's important for everybody to step up and show the leadership that the American people expect. <p>Thank you.\" "
"165" "\"Okay. Well, I just wanted to publicly welcome four very distinguished leaders to the White House: President Yayi of Benin, President Conde of Guinea, President Issoufou of Niger, and President Ouattara of Cote d'Ivoire. <p>Although obviously we've got a lot of things going here in Washington today, it was important for us, I think, to maintain this scheduled appointment with four leaders of nations that represent Africa's democratic progress, which is vital to a stable and prosperous and just Africa, but is also critical to the stability and prosperity of the world. <p>All these leaders were elected through free and fair elections. They've shown extraordinary persistence in wanting to promote democracy in their countries despite significant risks to their own personal safety and despite enormous challenges, in some cases&mdash;most recently in Cote d'Ivoire&mdash;in actually implementing the results of these elections. <p>But because of their fortitude and because of the determination of their people to live in democratic, free societies, they have been able to arrive at a position of power that is supported by the legitimate will of their peoples. And as such, they can serve as effective models for the continent. <p>These countries all underscore what I emphasized when I visited Ghana and gave a speech about Africa as a whole: This is a moment of great opportunity and significant progress in Africa. Politically, a majority of sub-Saharan African countries are now embracing democracy. Economically, Africa is one of the fastest growing regions in the world. <p>And we just had a very productive discussion where we discussed how we can build on both the political progress, the economic progress, and address the security challenges that continue to confront Africa. And I emphasized that the United States has been and will continue to be a stalwart partner with them in this process of democratization and development. <p>Despite the impressive work of all these gentlemen, I've said before and I think they all agree: Africa does not need strong men, Africa needs strong institutions. So we are working with them as partners to build effective judiciaries, strong civil societies, legislators that are effective and inclusive, making sure that human rights are protected. <p>With respect to economic development, all of us agree that we can't keep on duplicating a approach that breeds dependence, but rather, we need to embrace an approach that creates sustainability and capacity within each of these countries through trade and investment and the development of human capital and the education of young people throughout these countries. <p>We discussed as well that not only do we want to encourage trade between the United States and each of these respective countries, but we want to encourage inter-African and regional trade, and that requires investments in infrastructure in those areas. <p>We are partners in resolving conflicts peacefully and have worked effectively with ECOWAS and the African Union to resolve crisis&mdash;crises in the region. And we appreciate very much the assistance that we've received on battling terrorism that currently is trying to gain a foothold inside of Africa. <p>And finally, we discussed how we can partner together to avert the looming humanitarian crisis in eastern Africa. And I think it hasn't gotten as much attention here in the United States as it deserves, but we're starting to see famine developing in&mdash;along the Horn of Africa, in areas like Somalia in particular. And that's going to require an international response, and Africa will have to be a partner in making sure that tens of thousands of people do not starve to death. <p>So let me just close by saying that many of the countries here are&mdash;either have celebrated or are in the process of celebrating their 50th year of independence. As President Issoufou pointed out, I'm also celebrating my 50th year of at least existence. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And when we think about the extraordinary progress that's been made, I think there's much we can be proud of. But of course, when we think about the last 50 years, we also have to recognize there have been a lot of opportunities missed. And so these leaders, I think, are absolutely committed to making sure that 50 years from now they can say that they helped to turn the tide in their countries, to establish strong, democratic practices, to help establish economic prosperity and security. And we just want you to know the United States will stand with you every step of the way. <p>Thank you very much, everyone.\" "
"166" "\"Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Good morning. I have been having a lot of fun this week, but&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;nothing more fun and more important to the future of the American economy than the agreement that we're announcing today. <p>I am extraordinarily proud to be here today with the leaders of the world's largest auto companies and the folks who represent autoworkers all across America. And &mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;I'm glad that I have a chance to see some of the great cars that you are manufacturing. As some of you may know, it's only a matter of time until Malia gets her learner's permit&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;so I'm hoping to see one of those models that gets a top speed of 15 miles an hour&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;the ejector seat anytime boys are in the car. [<i>Laughter</i>] And so hopefully, you guys have some of those in the pipeline. <p>Now, for the last few months, gas prices have just been killing folks at the pump. People are filling up their tank, and they're watching the cost rise $50, $60, $70. For some families, it means driving less. But a lot of folks don't have that luxury. They've got to go to work. They've got to pick up the kids. They've got to make deliveries. So it's just another added expense when money is already tight. <p>And of course, this is not a new problem. For decades, we've left our economy vulnerable to increases in the price of oil. And with the demand for oil going up in countries like China and India, the problem is only getting worse. The demand for oil is inexorably rising far faster than supply. And that means prices will keep going up unless we do something about our own dependence on oil. That's the reality. <p>At the same time, it's also true that there is no quick fix to the problem. There's no silver bullet here. But there are steps we can take now that will help us become more energy independent. There are steps we can take that will save families money at the pump, that will make our economy more secure, and that will help innovative companies all across America generate new products and new technologies and new jobs. <p>So I've laid out an energy strategy that would do that. In the short term, we need to increase safe and responsible oil production here at home to meet our current energy needs. And even those who are proponents of shifting away from fossil fuels have to acknowledge that we're not going to suddenly replace oil throughout the economy. We're going to need to produce all the oil we can. <p>But while we're at it, we need to get rid of, I think, the $4 billion in subsidies we provide to oil and gas companies every year at a time when they're earning near-record profits and put that money toward clean energy research, which would really make a big difference. <p>Those are all short-term solutions though. In the long run, we're going to have to do more. We're going to have to harness the potential of startups and clean energy companies across America. We're going to need to build on the progress that I've seen in your factories, where workers are producing hybrid cars and more fuel-efficient engines and advanced electric vehicles. We need to tap into this reservoir of innovation and enterprise. <p>And that's why we're here today. This agreement on fuel standards represents the single most important step we've ever taken as a nation to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. Think about that. <p>Most of the companies here today were part of an agreement that we reached 2 years ago to raise the fuel efficiency of their cars over the next 5 years. And the vehicles on display here are ones that benefited from that standard. Folks buying cars like these in the next several years will end up saving more than $3,000 over time because they can go further on a gallon of gas. <p>And today these outstanding companies are committing to doing a lot more. The companies here today have endorsed our plan to continue increasing the mileage on their cars and trucks over the next 15 years. We've set an aggressive target, and the companies here are stepping up to the plate. <p>By 2025, the average fuel economy of their vehicles will nearly double to almost 55 miles per gallon. So this is an incredible commitment that they've made. And these are some pretty tough business guys. They know their stuff. And they wouldn't be doing it if they didn't think that it was ultimately going to be good business and good for America. <p>Think about what this means. It means that filling up your car every 2 weeks instead of filling it up every week. It will save a typical family more than $8,000 in fuel costs over time. And consumers in this country as a whole will save almost $2 trillion in fuel costs. That's trillion with a \\"t.\\" <p>And just as cars will go further on a gallon of gas, our economy will go further on a barrel of oil. In the next 15 years, we're going to reduce the amount of oil we need by 2.2 million barrels per day. And this will help meet the goal that I've set for America: reducing our dependence on foreign oil by one-third. <p>Using less oil also means our cars will produce fewer emissions. So when your kids are biking around the neighborhood, they'll be breathing less pollution and fewer toxins. It means we're doing more to protect our air and water. And it means we're reducing the carbon pollution that threatens our climate. <p>Lastly, these standards aren't just about the bad things we'll prevent; it's about the good things that we'll build. As these companies look for ways to boost efficiency, they'll be conducting research and development on test tracks. They're going to look to startups working on biofuels and new engine technologies. They're going to continue to invest in advanced battery manufacturing. They're going to spur growth in clean energy. And that means new jobs in cutting-edge industries all across America. <p>I'll give you a couple of examples. There's a company called Celgard in North Carolina that's expanding its production line to meet demand for advanced batteries. And they've hired 200 employees, and they're adding 250 more. There's A123, a clean-energy manufacturer in Michigan that just hired its 1,000th worker as demand has soared for its vehicle components. Companies like these are taking root and putting people to work in every corner of the country. <p>And after a very difficult time for the automotive sector in this country, after a period of painful restructuring, with the Federal Government lending a helping hand to two of the Big Three American automakers, we're seeing growth and a rise in sales, led by vehicles using new, more fuel-efficient technologies. And that bodes well for the future. That tells us that these standards are going to be a win for consumers, for these companies, for our economy, for our security, and for our planet. <p>So we are happy to welcome all the auto companies to this effort. But I do want to pay special tribute to the extraordinary progress of General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler. It was little more than 2 years ago that many doubted whether these companies would still be around, much less moving forward and leading the kind of change that we're seeing. <p>I also want to point out all this progress we're talking about today, the promise of this agreement, it is only possible because we've made investments in technology. It's only possible because we're willing as a nation to make sure that young people could afford to go to college and get engineering degrees, to make sure that we're backing the basic research of our scientists, to make sure innovative small businesses could get the credit to open their doors and ultimately maybe be a supplier for one of these big companies. <p>So as we look to close the deficit, this agreement is a reminder of why it's so important that we have a balanced approach. We've got to make serious spending cuts while still investing in our future, while still investing in education and research and technology like clean energy, which are so important for our economy. <p>And finally, this agreement ought to serve as a valuable lesson for leaders in Washington. This agreement was arrived at without legislation. You are all demonstrating what can happen when people put aside differences. These folks are competitors, you've got labor and business, but they decided, we're going to work together to achieve something important and lasting for the country. <p>So when it comes to tackling the deficit or it comes to growing the economy, when it comes to giving every American an opportunity to achieve their American Dream, the American people are demanding the same kind of resolve, the same kind of spirit of compromise, the same kind of problem solving that all these folks on stage have shown. They're demanding that people come together and find common ground; that we have a sensible, balanced approach that's based on facts and evidence and us reasoning things out and figuring out how to solve problems and asks everybody to do their part. <p>That's what I'm fighting for. That's what this debate is all about. That's what the American people want. <p>So I want to once again thank automakers. I want to thank workers. I want to thank the State of California. I want to thank&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;which has been&mdash;the State of California has consistently been a leader on this issue. I want to thank the environmental leaders and elected officials, including Leader Pelosi, who is here, and the leaders here from the Michigan delegation and&mdash;cause obviously the State of Michigan has a huge stake and has been on the cutting-edge of these issues and have helped to pave the way forward. I want to thank all of you for helping to reduce our dependence on oil, on growing the economy, and leaving for future generations a more secure and prosperous America. <p>So congratulations, gentlemen. Thank you very much. Good work.\" "
"167" "\"Today I'd like to speak with you about the ongoing and urgent efforts to avoid a first-ever default and get our fiscal house in order. <p>Republicans in the House of Representatives just spent precious days trying to pass a plan that a majority of Republicans and Democrats in the Senate had already said they wouldn't vote for. It's a plan that wouldn't solve our fiscal problems, but would force us to relive this crisis in just a few short months. It would hold our economy captive to Washington politics once again. If anything, the past few weeks have demonstrated that's not acceptable. <p>Any solution to avoid default must be bipartisan. It must have the support of both parties that were sent here to represent the American people, not just one faction of one party. There are multiple ways to resolve this problem. Congress must find common ground on a plan that can get support from both parties in the House and in the Senate. And it's got to be a plan that I can sign by Tuesday. <p>The parties are not that far apart here. We're in rough agreement on how much spending we need to cut to reduce our deficit. And we agree on a process to tackle tax reform and entitlement reform. There are plenty of ways out of this mess. But there is very little time. <p>We need to reach a compromise by Tuesday so that our country will have the ability to pay its bills on time, bills like Social Security checks, veterans' benefits, and contracts we've signed with thousands of American businesses. If we don't, for the first time ever, we could lose our country's AAA credit rating. Not because we didn't have the capacity to pay our bills&mdash;we do&mdash;but because we didn't have a AAA political system to match it. And make no mistake, for those who reflexively oppose tax increases on anyone, a lower credit rating would be a tax increase on everyone; we'd all pay higher interest rates on mortgages, and car loans, and credit cards. <p>That would be inexcusable and entirely self-inflicted by Washington. The power to solve this is in our hands. All that's needed is a simple vote that Democrats and Republicans have taken for decades, including all of the leaders in Congress today. It was done 18 times under President Reagan, 7 times under George W. Bush. And it must be done again now. It's not a vote that allows Congress to spend more money. Raising the debt ceiling simply gives our country the ability to pay the bills that Congress has already racked up, it gives the United States of America the ability to keep its word, and it lets businesses and our economy breathe a sigh of relief. <p>On Monday night, I asked you to make your voice heard in this debate, and the response was overwhelming. One of the e-mails we received was from a woman named Kelly Smith, who wanted to send this message to Washington: \\"I keep my home clean,&rdquo; Kelly wrote. &ldquo;I work hard at a full time job, give my parents any monies I can so they can afford their medications, I pay my bills, and by all appearances, I am a responsible person. All I'm asking is that you be responsible. I have my house in order, and all I'm asking is that you get yours the same way.\\" <p>Here in Washington, we need to get our house in order. And I have to say, Democrats in Congress and some Senate Republicans have been listening and have shown themselves willing to make compromises to solve this crisis. Now all of us, including Republicans in the House of Representatives, need to demonstrate the same kind of responsibility that the American people show every day. The time for putting party first is over. The time for compromise on behalf of the American people is now. <p>Thank you.\" "
"168" "\"Good evening. There are still some very important votes to be taken by Members of Congress, but I want to announce that the leaders of both parties, in both Chambers, have reached an agreement that will reduce the deficit and avoid default, a default that would have had a devastating effect on our economy. <p>The first part of this agreement will cut about $1 trillion in spending over the next 10 years, cuts that both parties had agreed to early on in this process. The result would be the lowest level of annual domestic spending since Dwight Eisenhower was President, but at a level that still allows us to make job-creating investments in things like education and research. We also made sure that these cuts wouldn't happen so abruptly that they'd be a drag on a fragile economy. <p>Now, I've said from the beginning that the ultimate solution to our deficit problem must be balanced. Despite what some Republicans have argued, I believe that we have to ask the wealthiest Americans and biggest corporations to pay their fair share by giving up tax breaks and special deductions. Despite what some in my own party have argued, I believe that we need to make some modest adjustments to programs like Medicare to ensure that they're still around for future generations. <p>That's why the second part of this agreement is so important. It establishes a bipartisan committee of Congress to report back by November with a proposal to further reduce the deficit, which will then be put before the entire Congress for an up-or-down vote. In this stage, everything will be on the table. To hold us all accountable for making these reforms, tough cuts that both parties would find objectionable would automatically go into effect if we don't act. And over the next few months, I'll continue to make a detailed case to these lawmakers about why I believe a balanced approach is necessary to finish the job. <p>Now, is this the deal I would have preferred? No. I believe that we could have made the tough choices required on entitlement reform and tax reform right now rather than through a special congressional committee process. But this compromise does make a serious down payment on the deficit reduction we need and gives each party a strong incentive to get a balanced plan done before the end of the year. <p>Most importantly, it will allow us to avoid default and end the crisis that Washington imposed on the rest of America. It ensures also that we will not face this same kind of crisis again in 6 months or 8 months or 12 months. And it will begin to lift the cloud of debt and the cloud of uncertainty that hangs over our economy. <p>Now, this process has been messy; it's taken far too long. I've been concerned about the impact that it has had on business confidence and consumer confidence and the economy as a whole over the last month. Nevertheless, ultimately, the leaders of both parties have found their way toward compromise. And I want to thank them for that. <p>Most of all, I want to thank the American people. It's been your voices&mdash;your letters, your e-mails, your tweets, your phone calls&mdash;that have compelled Washington to act in the final days. And the American people's voice is a very, very powerful thing. <p>We're not done yet. I want to urge members of both parties to do the right thing and support this deal with your votes over the next few days. It will allow us to avoid default. It will allow us to pay our bills. It will allow us to start reducing our deficit in a responsible way. And it will allow us to turn to the very important business of doing everything we can to create jobs, boost wages, and grow this economy faster than it's currently growing. <p>That's what the American people sent us here to do, and that's what we should be devoting all of our time to accomplishing in the months ahead. <p>Thank you very much everybody.\" "
"169" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. Congress has now approved a compromise to reduce the deficit and avert a default that would have devastated our economy. It was a long and contentious debate. And I want to thank the American people for keeping up the pressure on their elected officials to put politics aside and work together for the good of the country. <p>This compromise guarantees more than $2 trillion in deficit reduction. It's an important first step to ensuring that as a nation we live within our means. Yet it also allows us to keep making key investments in things like education and research that lead to new jobs and assures that we're not cutting too abruptly while the economy is still fragile. <p>This is, however, just the first step. This compromise requires that both parties work together on a larger plan to cut the deficit, which is important for the long-term health of our economy. And since you can't close the deficit with just spending cuts, we'll need a balanced approach where everything's on the table. Yes, that means making some adjustments to protect health care programs like Medicare so they're there for future generations. It also means reforming our Tax Code so that the wealthiest Americans and biggest corporations pay their fair share. And it means getting rid of taxpayer subsidies to oil and gas companies and tax loopholes that help billionaires pay a lower tax rate than teachers and nurses. <p>I've said it before, I will say it again: We can't balance the budget on the backs of the very people who have borne the biggest brunt of this recession. We can't make it tougher for young people to go to college or ask seniors to pay more for health care or ask scientists to give up on promising medical research because we couldn't close a tax shelter for the most fortunate among us. Everyone is going to have to chip in. It's only fair. That's the principle I'll be fighting for during the next phase of this process. <p>And in the coming months, I'll continue also to fight for what the American people care most about: new jobs, higher wages, and faster economic growth. While Washington has been absorbed in this debate about deficits, people across the country are asking what we can do to help the father looking for work. What are we going to do for the single mom who's seen her hours cut back at the hospital? What are we going to do to make it easier for businesses to put up that \\"Now Hiring\\" sign? <p>That's part of the reason that people are so frustrated with what's been going on in this town. In the last few months, the economy's already had to absorb an earthquake in Japan, the economic headwinds coming from Europe, the Arab Spring, and the rile [rise; White House correction] in oil prices, all of which have been very challenging for the recovery. But these are things we couldn't control. Our economy didn't need Washington to come along with a manufactured crisis to make things worse. That was in our hands. It's pretty likely that the uncertainty surrounding the raising of the debt ceiling&mdash;for both businesses and consumers&mdash;has been unsettling and just one more impediment to the full recovery that we need. And it was something that we could have avoided entirely. <p>So voters may have chosen divided Government, but they sure didn't vote for dysfunctional Government. They want us to solve problems. They want us to get this economy growing and adding jobs. And while deficit reduction is part of that agenda, it is not the whole agenda. Growing the economy isn't just about cutting spending; it's not about rolling back regulations that protect our air and our water and keep our people safe. That's not how we're going to get past this recession. We're going to have to do more than that. <p>And that's why, when Congress gets back from recess, I will urge them to immediately take some steps&mdash;bipartisan, commonsense steps&mdash;that will make a difference, that will create a climate where businesses can hire, where folks have more money in their pockets to spend, where people who are out of work can find good jobs. <p>We need to begin by extending tax cuts for middle class families so that you have more money in your paychecks next year. If you've got more money in your paycheck, you're more likely to spend it. And that means small businesses and medium-sized businesses and large businesses will all have more customers. That means they'll be in a better position to hire. <p>And while we're at it, we need to make sure that millions of workers who are still pounding the pavement looking for jobs to support their families are not denied needed unemployment benefits. <p>Through patent reform, we can cut the redtape that stops too many inventors and entrepreneurs from quickly turning new ideas into thriving businesses, which holds our whole economy back. And I want Congress to pass a set of trade deals&mdash;deals we've already negotiated&mdash;that would help displaced workers looking for new jobs and would allow our businesses to sell more products in countries in Asia and South America, products that are stamped with the words \\"Made in America.\\" <p>We also need to give more opportunities to all those construction workers out there who lost their jobs when the housing boom went bust. We could put them to work right now by giving loans to private companies that want to repair our roads and our bridges and our airports, rebuilding our infrastructure. We have workers who need jobs and a country that needs rebuilding; an infrastructure bank would help us put them together. <p>And while we're on the topic of infrastructure, there's another stalemate in Congress right now involving our aviation industry which has stalled airport construction projects all around the country and put the jobs of tens of thousands of construction workers and others at risk because of politics. It's another Washington-inflicted wound on America, and Congress needs to break that impasse now, hopefully before the Senate adjourns, so these folks can get back to work. <p>So these are some things that we could be doing right now. There's no reason for Congress not to send me those bills so I can sign them into law right away as soon as they get back from recess. Both parties share power in Washington, and both parties need to take responsibility for improving this economy. It's not a Democratic responsibility or a Republican responsibility, it is our collective responsibility as Americans. And I'll be discussing additional ideas in the weeks ahead to help companies hire, invest, and expand. <p>So we've seen in the past few days that Washington has the ability to focus when there's a timer ticking down and when there's a looming disaster. It shouldn't take the risk of default, the risk of economic catastrophe, to get folks in this town to work together and do their jobs. Because there's already a quiet crisis going on in the lives of a lot of families, in a lot of communities, all across the country. They're looking for work, and they have been for a while, or they're making do with fewer hours or fewer customers, or they're just trying to make ends meet. That ought to compel Washington to cooperate. That ought to compel Washington to compromise, and it ought to compel Washington to act. That ought to be enough to get all of us in this town to do the jobs we were sent here to do. We've got to do everything in our power to grow this economy and put America back to work. That's what I intend to do, and I'm looking forward to working with Congress to make it happen. <p>Thanks very much, everybody.\" "
"170" "\"Well, thank you very much, everybody. Good morning. I'm glad somebody told me that was the last one because I had lost count. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It is great to be here at the Navy Yard. And first of all, I want to thank Admiral Mullen for being here and for his four decades of extraordinary service to this country. And I want to thank him for saying that for an old guy I look okay. [<i>Laughter</i>] I appreciate that. <p>This may be one of the oldest shipyards in the United States, but today it's used to develop some of the most advanced technology in the military. Although I hear your engineers are still working on a solution to the traffic when the Nationals are playing. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's not ready yet. <p>Let me start by saying a few words about our economy. There is no doubt this has been a tumultuous year. We've weathered the Arab Spring's effect on oil and gas prices, the Japanese earthquake and tsunami's effect on supply chains, the extraordinary economic uncertainty in Europe. And recently, markets around the globe have taken a bumpy ride. <p>My concern right now, my singular focus, is the American people. Getting the unemployed back on the job, lifting their wages. Rebuilding that sense of security the middle class has felt slipping away for years. And helping them recover fully, as families and as communities, from the worst recession that any of us have ever seen. <p>Today we know that our economy created 154,000 new private sector jobs in July. And that's the strongest pace since April. The unemployment rate went down, not up. But while this marks the 17th month in a row of job growth in the private sector, nearly 2.5 million new private sector jobs in all, we have to create more jobs than that each month to make up for the more than 8 million jobs that the recession claimed. We need to create a self-sustaining cycle where people are spending and companies are hiring and our economy is growing. And we've known that will take some time. <p>But what I want the American people and our partners around the world to know is this: We are going to get through this. Things will get better, and we're going to get there together. <p>The bipartisan compromise on deficit reduction was important in terms of putting us on sounder fiscal footing going forward. But let's be honest: The process was divisive. It was delayed. And if we want our businesses to have the confidence they need to get cash off the sidelines and invest and hire, we've got to do better than that. We've got to be able to work together to grow the economy right now and strengthen our long-term finances. That's what the American people expect of us: leaders that can put aside our differences to meet our challenges. <p>So when Congress gets back in September, I want to move quickly on things that will help the economy create jobs right now: extending the payroll tax credit to put $1,000 in the pocket of the average worker, extending unemployment insurance to help people get back on their feet, putting construction workers back to work rebuilding America. Those are all steps that we can take right now that will make a difference. And there's no contradiction between us taking some steps to put people to work right now and getting our long-term fiscal house in order. In fact, the more we grow, the easier it will be to reduce our deficits. <p>Now, both parties share power. Both parties share responsibility for our progress. Moving our economy and our country forward is not a Democratic or a Republican responsibility. It's not a public or a private responsibility. It is the responsibility of all Americans. It's in our nature to do the tough things when necessary, to do the right things when called. And that's the spirit that Washington needs right now. <p>It's also the kind of spirit found in the men and women who proudly serve in our country's uniform, and it's a spirit that endures long after they take those uniforms off. Today's veterans are Americans who have done their duty. They have fought our wars with valor, from the jungles of Vietnam to the deserts of Iraq to the mountains of Afghanistan. And they include the members of today's military, the 9/11 generation, some of whom are here today, who volunteered to serve at a time of war knowing they would be sent into harm's way. <p>To these men and women, I want to say that all of you have served our country with honor. Over the last decade, you have performed heroically and done everything we have asked of you in some of the most dangerous places on the planet. Your generation has earned a special place in American history. <p>Today, nearly 3 million extraordinary servicemembers like you have completed their service and made the transition back to civilian life. They've taken their leadership experience, their mastery of cutting-edge technologies, their ability to adapt to changing circumstances, and they've become leaders here at home. Just think about how many veterans have led their comrades on life-and-death missions by the time they were 25 years old. That's the kind of responsibility and experience that any business in America should want to take advantage of. <p>These veterans are already making an impact, making companies and communities stronger. But for every success story, there are also stories of veterans who come home and struggle to find a job worthy of their experience and worthy of their talent. <p>Veterans like Nick Colgin. When Nick was in Afghanistan, he served as a combat medic with the 82d Airborne. Over the course of his deployment, Nick saved the life of a French soldier who was shot in the head and helped 42 people escape from a flooding river. He earned a Bronze Star for his actions. But when Nick got back home to Wyoming, he couldn't get a job as a first-responder. So he ended up having to take classes through the post-9/11 GI bill, classes he easily could have taught, just so he could qualify for the same duties at home that he was doing every single day in Afghanistan. <p>They're veterans like Maria Canales. She was a financial specialist in the Army, helping provide financial support for her unit in Iraq. And when she got home, she finished earning her degree in business management. But even with her education and her experience in the Army, Maria still couldn't find a steady, working job in accounting or finance. That isn't right, and it doesn't make any sense, not for our veterans, not for the strength of our country. <p>If you can save a life in Afghanistan, you can save a life in an ambulance in Wyoming. If you can oversee millions of dollars in assets in Iraq, you can help a business balance its books here at home. Our incredible service men and women need to know that America values them not simply for what they can do in uniform, but for what they can do when they come home. We need them to keep making America stronger. <p>Our companies need skilled workers like our veterans to grow, and there's no reason why we can't connect the two. And keeping our commitments to our veterans has been one of my top priorities as Commander in Chief, and that includes helping them make the transition back to civilian life. <p>That's why we're fully funding the post-9/11 GI bill, which is helping more than 500,000 veterans and their family members pursue a college education. That's why we supported extending the bill to include non-college degrees and on-the-job and apprenticeship training. That's why I directed the Federal Government to be a model employer and hire more veterans, including more than 100,000 in the past year and a half alone. <p>So today we're taking it a step further. <p>First, we need to do more to make the transition from military to civilian life easier for our veterans. That's why I'm directing the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs to design what we're calling a reverse boot camp. The problem is that right now, we spend months preparing our men and women for life in the military, but we spend much less time preparing them for life after they get out. So we'll devote more time on the back end to help our veterans learn about everything from benefits to how they can translate their military training into an industry-accepted credential. In addition, we'll make it easier for veterans to go to their local One-Stop Career Center and get help pursuing a career that fits them best. <p>These steps will help bridge part of the gap between veterans looking for work and companies looking to hire. But that's only part of the equation. The other half is about encouraging companies to do their part. That's why I'm proposing a new returning heroes tax credit for companies that hire unemployed veterans. And I'm proposing an increase in the existing tax credit for companies who hire unemployed veterans with a disability, who still have so much to offer our country. <p>And finally, we're challenging the private sector to hire or train 100,000 unemployed post-9/11 veterans or their spouses by the end of 2013. This builds on commitments that many companies have already made as part of the Joining Forces campaign championed by my wife Michelle and Dr. Jill Biden. Siemens, for example, recently met their goal of hiring 300 veterans, so they're aiming to hire 150 more by December. Microsoft is helping more than 10,000 veterans get IT certified over the next 2 years. And today groups from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to Accenture to Lockheed Martin have all agreed to do their part to help veterans get back in the workforce. <p>The bottom line is this: We still have a long way to go and a lot of work to do to give folks the economic security and opportunity they deserve. And that begins with connecting Americans looking for work, including our veterans, with employers looking to hire. <p>Over the last few years, another generation of young veterans has learned that the challenges don't end in Kandahar or Baghdad. They continue right here at home. Today we're saying to our veterans, you fought for us, and now we're fighting for you, for the jobs and opportunities that you need to keep your families strong and to keep America competitive in the 21st century. And at a time when there is so much work to be done in this country, we need everyone's help to do it. <p>So thank you, God bless you, God bless all our Services, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"171" "\"This week, Congress reached an agreement that's going to allow us to make some progress in reducing our Nation's budget deficit. And through this compromise, both parties are going to have to work together on a larger plan to get our Nation's finances in order. That's important. We've got to make sure that Washington lives within its means, just like families do. In the long term, the health of our economy depends on it. <p>But in the short term, our urgent mission has to be getting this economy growing faster and creating more jobs. That's what's on people's minds; that's what matters to families in this country. And the fact is, this has been a tumultuous year for the economy. We've weathered the Arab Spring's effect on oil and gas prices, the Japanese earthquake and tsunami's effect on supply chains, the economic situation in Europe. And in Washington, there was a contentious debate over our Nation's budget that nearly dragged our country into financial crisis. <p>So our job right now has to be doing whatever we can to help folks find work, to help create the climate where a business can put up that job listing, where incomes are rising again for people. We've got to rebuild this economy and the sense of security that middle class families have felt slipping away for years. And while deficit reduction has to be part of our economic strategy, it's not the only thing we have to do. <p>We need Democrats and Republicans to work together to help grow this economy. We've got to put politics aside to get some things done. That's what the American people expect of us. And there are a number of steps that Congress can take right away when they return in September. <p>We need to extend tax cuts for working and middle class families so you have more money in your paychecks next year. That would help millions of people to make ends meet. And that extra money for expenses means businesses will have more customers and will be in a better position to hire. <p>Yesterday I proposed a new tax credit for companies that hire veterans who are looking for work after serving their country. We've got a lot of honorable and skilled people returning from Iraq and Afghanistan and companies that could benefit from their abilities. Let's put them together. <p>We need to make sure that millions of workers who are still pounding the pavement looking for jobs are not denied unemployment benefits to carry them through hard times. <p>We've got to cut redtape that stops too many inventors and entrepreneurs from quickly turning new ideas into thriving businesses, which holds back our whole economy. <p>It's time Congress finally passed a set of trade deals that would help displaced workers looking for new jobs and that would allow our businesses to sell more products in countries in Asia and South America, products stamped with three words: Made in America. <p>And we ought to give more opportunities to all those construction workers who lost their jobs when the housing boom went bust. We could put them to work right now, by giving loans to companies that want to repair our roads and bridges and airports, helping to rebuild America. <p>Those are a few commonsense steps that would help the economy. And these are ideas that have been supported by both Democrats and Republicans in the past. So I'm going to keep calling on both parties in Congress to put aside their differences and send these bills to my desk so I can sign them right away. After all, both parties share power. Both parties share responsibility for our progress. Moving our economy and our country forward is not a Democratic or a Republican responsibility, it is our responsibility as Americans. <p>That's the spirit we need in Washington right now. That's how we'll get this economy growing faster and reach a brighter day. <p>Thanks for listening, and have a great weekend.\" "
"172" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. On Friday, we learned that the United States received a downgrade by one of the credit rating agencies, not so much because they doubt our ability to pay our debt if we make good decisions, but because after witnessing a month of wrangling over raising the debt ceiling, they doubted our political system's ability to act. The markets, on the other hand, continue to believe our credit status is AAA. In fact, Warren Buffett, who knows a thing or two about good investments, said, \\"If there were a AAAA rating, I'd give the United States that.\\" I and most of the world's investors agree. <p>That doesn't mean we don't have a problem. The fact is, we didn't need a rating agency to tell us that we need a balanced, long-term approach to deficit reduction. That was true last week. That was true last year. That was true the day I took office. And we didn't need a rating agency to tell us that the gridlock in Washington over the last several months has not been constructive, to say the least. We knew from the outset that a prolonged debate over the debt ceiling&mdash;a debate where the threat of default was used as a bargaining chip&mdash;could do enormous damage to our economy and the world's. That threat, coming after a string of economic disruptions in Europe, Japan, and the Middle East, has now roiled the markets and dampened consumer confidence and slowed the pace of recovery. <p>So all of this is a legitimate source of concern. But here's the good news: Our problems are imminently [eminently; White House correction] solvable, and we know what we have to do to solve them. With respect to debt, our problems is not confidence in our credit; the markets continue to reaffirm our credit as among the world's safest. Our challenge is the need to tackle our deficits over the long term. <p>Last week, we reached an agreement that will make historic cuts to defense and domestic spending. But there's not much further we can cut in either of those categories. What we need to do now is combine those spending cuts with two additional steps: tax reform that will ask those who can afford it to pay their fair share and modest adjustments to health care programs like Medicare. <p>Making these reforms doesn't require any radical steps. What it does require is common sense and compromise. There are plenty of good ideas about how to achieve long-term deficit reduction that doesn't hamper economic growth right now. Republicans and Democrats on the bipartisan fiscal commission that I set up put forth good proposals. Republicans and Democrats in the Senate's Gang of Six came up with some good proposals. John Boehner and I came up with some good proposals when we came close to agreeing on a grand bargain. <p>So it's not a lack of plans or policies that's the problem here, it's a lack of political will in Washington. It's the insistence on drawing lines in the sand, a refusal to put what's best for the country ahead of self-interest or party or ideology. And that's what we need to change. <p>I realize that after what we just went through, there's some skepticism that Republicans and Democrats on the so-called super committee, this joint committee that's been set up, will be able to reach a compromise, but my hope is that Friday's news will give us a renewed sense of urgency. I intend to present my own recommendations over the coming weeks on how we should proceed. And that committee will have this administration's full cooperation. And I assure you, we will stay on it until we get the job done. <p>Of course, as worrisome as the issues of debt and deficits may be, the most immediate concern of most Americans, and of concern to the marketplace as well, is the issue of jobs and the slow pace of recovery coming out of the worst recession in our lifetime. <p>And the good news here is that by coming together to deal with the long-term debt challenge, we would have more room to implement key proposals that can get the economy to grow faster. Specifically, we should extend the payroll tax cut as soon as possible, so that workers have more money in their paychecks next year and businesses have more customers next year. <p>We should continue to make sure that if you're one of the millions of Americans who's out there looking for a job, you can get the unemployment insurance that your tax dollars contributed to. That will also put money in people's pockets and more customers in stores. <p>In fact, if Congress fails to extend the payroll tax cut and the unemployment insurance benefits that I've called for, it could mean 1 million fewer jobs and half a percent less growth. This is something we can do immediately, something we can do as soon as Congress gets back. <p>We should also help companies that want to repair our roads and bridges and airports so that thousands of construction workers who've been without a job for the last few years can get a paycheck again. That will also help to spur economic growth. <p>These aren't Democratic proposals. These aren't big government proposals. These are all ideas that traditionally Republicans have agreed to, have agreed to countless times in the past. There's no reason we shouldn't act on them now, none. <p>I know we're going through a tough time right now. We've been going through a tough time for the last 2&frac12; years. And I know a lot of people are worried about the future. But here's what I also know. There will always be economic factors that we can't control: earthquakes, spikes in oil prices, slowdowns in other parts of the world. But how we respond to those tests, that's entirely up to us. <p>Markets will rise and fall, but this is the United States of America. No matter what some agency may say, we've always been and always will be a AAA country. For all of the challenges we face, we continue to have the best universities, some of the most productive workers, the most innovative companies, the most adventurous entrepreneurs on Earth. And what sets us apart is that we've always not just had the capacity, but also the will to act, the determination to shape our future, the willingness in our democracy to work out our differences in a sensible way and to move forward, not just for this generation, but for the next generation. <p>And we're going to need to summon that spirit today. The American people have been through so much over the last few years, dealing with the worst recession, the biggest financial crisis since the 1930s, and they've done it with grace. And they're working so hard to raise their families, and all they ask is that we work just as hard here in this town to make their lives a little bit easier. That's not too much to ask. And ultimately, the reason I am so hopeful about our future&mdash;the reason I have faith in these United States of America&mdash;is because of the American people. It's because of their perseverance and their courage and their willingness to shoulder the burdens we face together as one Nation. <p><i>Military Casualties in Afghanistan </i><p>One last thing. There is no one who embodies the qualities I mentioned more than the men and women of the United States Armed Forces. And this weekend, we lost 30 of them, when their helicopter crashed during a mission in Afghanistan. And their loss is a stark reminder of the risks that our men and women in uniform take every single day on behalf of their county. Day after day, night after night, they carry out missions like this in the face of enemy fire and grave danger. And in this mission, as in so many others, they were also joined by Afghan troops, seven of whom lost their lives as well. <p>So I've spoken to our generals in the field, as well as President Karzai. And I know that our troops will continue the hard work of transitioning to a stronger Afghan Government and ensuring that Afghanistan is not a safe haven for terrorists. We will press on. And we will succeed. <p>But now is also a time to reflect on those we lost, and the sacrifices of all who serve, as well as their families. These men and women put their lives on the line for the values that bind us together as a nation. They come from different places, and their backgrounds and beliefs reflect the rich diversity of America. <p>But no matter what differences they might have as individuals, they serve this Nation as a team. They meet their responsibilities together. And some of them&mdash;like the 30 Americans who were lost this weekend&mdash;give their lives for their country. Our responsibility is to ensure that their legacy is an America that reflects their courage, their commitment, and their sense of common purpose. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"173" "\"Good evening, everyone, and welcome to the White House. Tonight is part of a rich tradition here at the White House of celebrating the holy days of many faiths and the diversity that define us as a nation. So these are quintessentially American celebrations: people of different faiths coming together, with humility before our Maker, to reaffirm our obligations to one another. Because no matter who we are or how we pray, we're all children of a loving God. <p>Now, this year, Ramadan is entirely in August. That means the days are long, the weather is hot, and you are hungry. [<i>Laughter</i>] So I will be brief. <p>I want to welcome the members of the diplomatic corps who are here; the Members of Congress, including two Muslim American Members of Congress, Keith Ellison and Andre Carson; and leaders and officials from across my administration. Thank you all for being here. Please give them a big round of applause. <p>To the millions of Muslim Americans across the United States and more&mdash;the more than 1 billion Muslims around the world, Ramadan is a time of reflection and a time of devotion. It's an occasion to join with family and friends in celebration of a faith known for its diversity and a commitment to justice and the dignity of all human beings. So to you and your families, <i>Ramadan Kareem</i>. <p>Now, this evening reminds us of both the timeless teachings of a great religion and the enduring strengths of a great nation. Like so many faiths, Islam has always been part of our American family, and Muslim Americans have long contributed to the strength and character of our country, in all walks of life. This has been especially true over the past 10 years. <p>In 1 month, we will mark the 10th anniversary of those awful attacks that brought so much pain to our hearts. It will be the time to honor all those that we've lost, the families who carry on their legacy, the heroes who rushed to help that day and all who have served to keep us safe during a difficult decade. And tonight it's worth remembering that these Americans were of many faiths and backgrounds, including proud and patriotic Muslim Americans. <p>Muslim Americans were innocent passengers on those planes, including a young married couple looking forward to the birth of their first child. They were workers in the Twin Towers, Americans by birth and Americans by choice, immigrants who crossed the oceans to give their children a better life. They were cooks and waiters, but also analysts and executives. <p>There, in the Towers where they worked, they came together for daily prayers and meals at iftar. They were looking to the future: getting married, sending their kids to college, enjoying a well-deserved retirement. And they were taken from us much too soon. Today, they live on in the love of their families and the Nation that will never forget. And tonight we're deeply humbled to be joined by some of these 9/11 families, and I would ask them to stand and be recognized, please. <p>Muslim Americans were first-responders: the former police cadet who raced to the scene to help and then was lost when the towers collapsed around him, the EMTs who evacuated so many to safety, the nurse who tended to so many victims, the naval officer at the Pentagon who rushed into the flames and pulled the injured to safety. On this 10th anniversary, we honor these men and women for what they are: American heroes. <p>Nor let us forget that every day for these past 10 years Muslim Americans have helped to protect our communities as police and firefighters, including some who join us tonight. Across our Federal Government, they keep our homeland secure, they guide our intelligence and counterterrorism efforts, and they uphold the civil rights and civil liberties of all Americans. So make no mistake, Muslim Americans help to keep us safe. <p>We see this in the brave service of our men and women in uniform, including thousands of Muslim Americans. In a time of war, they volunteered, knowing they could be sent into harm's way. Our troops come from every corner of our country, with different backgrounds and different beliefs, but every day they come together and succeed together, as one American team. <p>During the 10 hard years of war, our troops have served with excellence and with honor. Some have made the ultimate sacrifice, among them Army Specialist Kareem Khan. Galvanized by 9/11 to serve his country, he gave his life in Iraq and now rests with his fellow heroes at Arlington. And we thank Kareem's mother Elsheba for being here again tonight. Like Kareem, this generation has earned its place in history, and I would ask all of our servicemembers here tonight, members of the 9/11 generation, to stand and accept the thanks of our fellow Americans. <p>This year and every year, we must ask ourselves: How do we honor these patriots, those who died and those who served? In this season of remembrance, the answer is the same as it was 10 Septembers ago. We must be the America they lived for and the America they died for, the America they sacrificed for. <p>An America that doesn't simply tolerate people of different backgrounds and beliefs, but an America where we are enriched by our diversity. An America where we treat one another with respect and with dignity, remembering that here in the United States there is no \\"them\\" or \\"us,\\" it's just \\"us.\\" An America where our fundamental freedoms and inalienable rights are not simply preserved, but continually renewed and refreshed, among them the right of every person to worship as they choose. An America that stands up for dignity and the rights of people around the world, whether a young person demanding his or her freedom in the Middle East or North Africa or a hungry child in the Horn of Africa, where we are working to save lives. <p>Put simply, we must be the America that goes forward as one family, like generations before us, pulling together in times of trial, staying true to our core values, and emerging even stronger. This is who we are, and this is who we must always be. <p>And tonight, as we near a solemn anniversary, I cannot imagine a more fitting wish for our Nation. So God bless you all, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"174" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you! Thank you, everybody. Please, please have a seat. <p>Hello, Johnson Controls! It is good to be back in Holland, Michigan. A couple people I want to thank. In particular, your CEO Steve Roell is here. Steve. And sitting next to him, one of my favorite people and one of the finest Senators in the country, Carl Levin is in the house. <p>So I just had a chance to see what you guys are doing in this plant. It is very impressive. Elizabeth was giving me the tour, and she was very patient with me. And I think I understood about half of what she said. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>At a time when Americans are rightly focused on our economy, when Americans are asking about what's our path forward, all of you here at Johnson Controls are providing a powerful answer. This is one of the most advanced factories in the world. You're helping America lead in a growing new industry. You're showing us how we can come back from the worst recession that we've had in generations and start making things here in America that are sold all around the world. <p>And that's why I'm here today. I've said it before, I will say it again: You cannot bet against the American worker. Don't bet against American ingenuity. The reason a plant like this exists is because we are a country of unmatched freedom, where groundbreaking ideas flourish. We've got the finest universities, the finest technical schools, the most creative scientists, the best entrepreneurs, all of which is why we are home to the world's most dynamic and successful businesses, large and small. <p>And that's why even in these difficult times, there is not a single country on Earth that wouldn't trade places with us. Not one. We've got to remember that. <p>But we also know that we face some tough challenges right now. You know what they are. You live them every day in your communities, in your families. You know too many people who are out of work or struggling to get by with fewer shifts or fewer customers. Paychecks aren't big enough. Costs are too high. And even though the economy has started growing again since the recession started in 2007, the fact is, it's not growing fast enough. <p>Now, some of what we're facing today has to do with events beyond our control. As the economy was improving and improving through 2009, 2010, the beginning of this year, suddenly, it was hit with the unrest in the Middle East that helped send gas prices through the roof. Europe is dealing with all sorts of financial turmoil that is lapping up on our shores. Japan's tragic earthquake hurt economies around the globe, including ours, cut off some supply chains that were very important to us. And all of this has further challenged our economy. And as we've seen, it's playing out in the stock market, wild swings, up and down, and it makes folks nervous. And it affects the savings of families all across America. <p>Now, challenges like these&mdash;earthquakes, revolutions&mdash;those are things we can't control. But what we can control is our response to these challenges. What we can control is what happens in Washington. Unfortunately, what we've seen in Washington the last few months has been the worst kind of partisanship, the worst kind of gridlock, and that gridlock has undermined public confidence and impeded our efforts to take the steps we need for our economy. It's made things worse instead of better. <p>So what I want to say to you, Johnson Controls, is: There is nothing wrong with our country. There is something wrong with our politics. There's something wrong with our politics that we need to fix. <p>We know there are things we can do right now that will help accelerate growth and job creation, that will support the work going on here at Johnson Controls, here in Michigan, and all across America. We can do some things right now that will make a difference. We know there are things we have to do to erase a legacy of debt that hangs over the economy. But time and again, we've seen partisan brinksmanship get in the way, as if winning the next election is more important than fulfilling our responsibilities to you and to our country. This downgrade you've been reading about could have been entirely avoided if there had been a willingness to compromise in Congress. See, it didn't happen because we don't have the capacity to pay our bills, it happened because Washington doesn't have the capacity to come together and get things done. It was a self-inflicted wound. <p>That's why people are frustrated. Maybe you hear it in my voice; that's why I'm frustrated. Because you deserve better. You guys deserve better. <p>All of you, from the CEO down, are working hard, taking care of your kids or your parents, maybe both. You're living within your means. You may be trying to save for your child's college education or saving for retirement. You're donating to the church or the food pantry. You're trying to help the community. You're doing your part. You're living up to your responsibilities. It's time for Washington to do the same, to match your resolve and to match your decency and to show the same sense of honor and discipline. That is not too much to ask. That's what the American people are looking for. <p>And if that can happen, we know what's possible. We know what we can achieve. Look at this factory. Look what's happening in Holland, Michigan. Every day, hundreds of people are going to work on the technologies that are helping us to fight our way out of this recession. Every day, you're building high-tech batteries so that we lead the world in manufacturing, the best cars and the best trucks. And that just doesn't mean jobs in Michigan. You're buying equipment and parts from suppliers in Florida and New Mexico and Ohio and Wisconsin and all across America. <p>So let's think about it, what made this possible? The most important part is you: your drive, your work ethic, your ingenuity, your management. The grit and optimism that says, \\"We've got an idea for a new battery technology or a new manufacturing process, and we're going to take that leap, and we're going to make an investment. And we're going to hire some folks, and we're going to see it through.\\" That's what made it possible. <p>But what also made this possible are the actions that we took together, as a nation, through our government, the fact that we were willing to invest in the research and the technology that holds so much promise for jobs and growth, the fact that we helped create together the conditions where businesses like this can prosper. <p>That's why we're investing in clean energy. That's why I brought together the world's largest auto companies who agreed, for the first time, to nearly double the distance their cars can go on a gallon of gas. That's going to save customers thousands of dollars at the pump. It's going to cut our dependence on foreign oil. It's going to promote innovation and jobs, and it's going to mean more groundbreakings and more jobs posting for companies like Johnson Controls. And that's how America will lead the world in automotive innovation and production and exports in this country. <p>Think about it. That's what we got done, and by the way, we didn't go through Congress to do it. [<i>Laughter</i>] But we did use the tools of government&mdash;us working together&mdash;to help make it happen. <p>Now, there are more steps that we can take to help this economy grow even faster. There are things we can do right now that will put more money in your pockets, will help businesses sell more products around the world, will put people to work in Michigan and across the country. And to get these things done, we do need Congress. <p>They're commonsense ideas that have been supported in the past by Democrats and Republicans, things that are supported by Carl Levin. The only thing keeping us back is our politics. The only thing preventing these bills from being passed is the refusal of some folks in Congress to put country ahead of party. There are some in Congress right now who would rather see their opponents lose than see America win. <p>And that has to stop. It's got to stop. We're supposed to all be on the same team, especially when we're going through tough times. We can't afford to play games, not right now, not when the stakes are so high for our economy. <p>And if you agree with me&mdash;it doesn't matter if you're a Democrat or a Republican or an Independent&mdash;you've got to let Congress know. You've got to tell them you've had enough of the theatrics. You've had enough of the politics. Stop sending out press releases. Start passing some bills that we all know will help our economy right now. That's what they need to do. They've got to hear from you. <p>Let me be specific. I'll give you some examples. You've got to tell them to extend the payroll tax cut so middle class families will continue to have more money to spend. We passed this in December. The average family received $1,000 from that tax cut, and you need to get it again, because the economy is still weak. It's going to help you make ends meet, but it's also going to mean more customers for businesses. It'll increase demand. It's right for the economy, and I would sign that bill today if it came to my desk. <p>Tell Congress to get past their differences and send me a road construction bill so that companies can put tens of thousands of people to work right now building our roads and bridges and airports and seaports. I mean, think about it, we&mdash;America used to have the best stuff: best roads, best airports, best seaports. We're slipping behind because we're not investing in it, because of politics and gridlock. Do you want to put people to work right now rebuilding America? You've got to send that message to Congress. <p>Send a message to Congress to come to an agreement on trade deals that will level the playing field and open markets to our businesses so we can sell more goods to countries around the world. We've got a lot of Americans driving Kias and Hyundais. I want folks in Korea driving Fords and Chevys and Chryslers. I'd like to see that. I want to see billions of dollars more products sold around the world stamped with three words: \\"Made in America.\\" [<i>Applause</i>] \\"Made in America.\\" Those trade bills are teed up; they're ready to go. Let's get it done. <p>Tell Congress we need to reform the patent system so entrepreneurs like the ones who developed some of the technology here can turn their ideas into businesses more quickly, so companies like this one can better compete against companies around the world. We shouldn't make it so difficult for somebody with a good idea to translate that into a business. <p>Tell Congress we've got hundreds of thousands of bright, talented, skilled Americans who are returning home from Iraq and Afghanistan. And I've proposed connecting those veterans looking for work with businesses that need their skills. You've got 24-year-olds and 25-year-olds that are leading platoons and handling equipment that's worth tens or hundreds of billions of dollars, and they come back here and they can't find a job? Let's put them to work. These are things we can do right now. <p>These are things I've already proposed, we've worked out the glitches, the legislation is drafted, let's get it done. <p>Now, given the weaknesses of the economy, we need to do even more than that. And over the coming weeks, I'm going to be putting out more proposals, week by week, that will help businesses hire and put people back to work. And I'm going to keep at it until every single American who wants a job can find one. <p>Now, we do have to pay for these things. And in order to pay for these things, Congress has to finish the job of reducing the Nation's budget deficit in a sensible, responsible way. Not just with more cuts this year or next year. Those cuts would weaken the economy more than it already is, and we've already cut a trillion dollars in what's called discretionary spending. What we need is a long-term plan to get our Nation's finances in order. That's the only way we can invest in places like this. That's how we can fund the research at the Department of Energy. That's how we can fund the community college that trains folks to be able to work here. That's how we can fund the infrastructure and the technology that will help us win the future, by doing what you do, what families do. <p>Think about it: When things are tight you cut out those things you cannot afford, even if it's tough, to pay for the things that really matter. You don't cut out the college fund for your kids. You stop maybe going out as often. You don't stop taking care of your parent who needs care. You cut back on some of the things that you don't really need. It's the same principle applies to government. And by the way, in your own families, I'm assuming you don't just keep all the stuff you like and tell your spouse, you got to get rid of all the stuff she likes or he likes. [<i>Laughter</i>] That wouldn't work in my household. You don't just cut out the stuff that's important to you and&mdash;or keep all the stuff that's important to you and cut out the stuff that's important for your kids. The same is true for us as an American family. <p>We can't ask the people in this room&mdash;working families, middle class families&mdash;to bear the entire burden. We're not going to balance our budgets on the back of middle class and working people in this country. Everybody has got to do their part. Everybody has got to do their part. Everybody has got to chip in. That's fair. You learn it in kindergarten. That's what all this fuss was about in Washington: Are we going to deal with our deficit in a way that's fair? And that means closing tax loopholes for billionaires before we cut college loans for young people. That means ending Government subsidies for oil and gas companies that are doing very well before you cut health care for seniors. It means making sure that the biggest corporations pay their fair share in taxes before we gut the investments in technology and clean energy that made this factory a reality. <p>Now, that's just common sense. It should have bipartisan support. These are things we could be doing right now. And that's how we can jump-start this economy and speed up the recovery and get more folks working, while making sure that we get our fiscal house in order. We can do both. <p>And I'll be laying out more proposals in the days ahead. And I'm going to keep after every idea and every serious proposal to help us grow this economy, until everybody who wants a job can find one. <p>But I want everybody to understand here, the problem is not that we don't have answers. The problem is, is that folks are playing political games. And we've got a long way to go. We didn't get into this mess overnight, and it's going to take time to get us out. That's the truth. But that's no excuse for inaction. It's time to put aside ultimatums. It's time to stop drawing lines in the sand. <p>You know, in the aftermath of this whole debt ceiling debacle, and with the markets going up and down like they are, there's been a lot of talk in Washington right now that I should call Congress back early. The last thing we need is Congress spending more time arguing in DC. What I figure is, they need to spend more time out here listening to you and hearing how fed up you are. That's why I'm here. That's why I'll be traveling to a lot of communities like this one over the next week. That's what Congress should be doing: go back home, listen to people's frustrations with all the gridlock. Listen to how frustrated folks are with the constant bickering and the unwillingness to compromise and the desire to score points, even if it's at the expense of our country. And if they're listening hard enough, maybe they'll come back to Washington ready to compromise and ready to create jobs and ready to reduce our deficit, ready to do what you sent them there to do. <p>You know, America voted for divided Government. And that makes it tough. You got one party controlling the House of Representatives, another party controlling the Senate. So they voted for&mdash;you voted for divided Government. But you didn't vote for dysfunctional Government. You didn't vote for a do-nothing Government. You didn't vote for a Government that&mdash;where folks are just looking out for special interests. You didn't vote for a Government that is beholden to lobbyists. <p>We've got a lot of work to do, and the only way we will get it done is if everybody, Democrats and Republicans, find a way to put country ahead of party. That's what I'm fighting for. I'm here to enlist you in that fight. You've got to hold everybody accountable, because if we can come together and find common ground, there is no stopping the United States of America. There is no holding us back. We can strengthen this economy, and we can put our Nation back to work. And we can lead the world in growing industries. And we will make it through these economic storms and reach calmer waters stronger than we were before. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. Thank you.\" "
"175" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody. Everybody have a seat. On this spectacular day, I want to welcome everybody to the White House. Thank you all for being here. <p>I'm just going to come out and say it: This hurts a little bit. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is a hard thing for a Bears fan to do. It doesn't hurt as much as the NFC Championship Game hurt&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;but it still hurts, you guys coming to my house to rub it in. [<i>Laughter</i>] What are you going to do, go to Ditka's house next or&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]. <p>But in the interest of good sportsmanship, congratulations to the Green Bay Packers on your 4th Super Bowl championship and record 13th NFL championship. <p>Oh, you know, the problem you have, though, in your franchise&mdash;your fans are not that enthusiastic. [<i>Laughter</i>] You guys have got to work on that. I'm surprised they're not wearing cheeseheads. Oh, there they are. [<i>Laughter</i>] All right, my mistake. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Look, obviously, it's good to have football right around the corner. Like every football fan, I was thrilled to have the lockout ended. Nobody likes long, frustrating negotiations&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;with a rigid opposition, taking it to the brink. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I want to recognize Packers President Mark Murphy, GM Ted Thompson, for the outstanding job they've done, as well as Coach Mike McCarthy for guiding them to the next championship. <p>And I would like to welcome all the players to the White House; some of them I've had a chance to meet before, wonderful guys. I guess I especially have to welcome Charles Woodson. Where's Woodson? <p>[<i>At this point, cornerback Charles Woodson approached the podium.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> See&mdash;hold on a second. I wasn't asking for some certificate you're about to give me, aren't you? [<i>Laughter</i>] He's really rubbing it in. Look at that. <p>Now, look, I admit Woodson is a pretty good ballplayer. And for those who don't know, I gave Charles a little bulletin board material, apparently, last year. And so after the Packers beat the Bears, Charles addressed the team&mdash;everybody on ESPN saw it. I saw it while I was working out in the morning&mdash;and Charles said, \\"If the President doesn't want to come to watch us at the Super Bowl, then we're going to him.\\" <p>Then I flew to Green Bay later that week to visit a local company, and Governor Walker and Mayor Schmitt&mdash;where's Mayor Schmitt? There he is right there. He gave me a jersey from Charles on which he'd written, \\"See you at the White House.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] So basically, Charles has been giving me a hard time now for several months. <p>Charles, you're a man of your word. And I've now learned something that every NFL quarterback already knows too well: Don't mess with Charles Woodson. <p>Now, in the Super Bowl, the Packers showed just what a championship team is made of and that you deserved those rings Coach McCarthy had you fitted on the night before. The game was a lot like your season. Some key players went down with injuries in the first half, including Donald and Charles. But everybody stepped up. Your offense exploded behind one of the greatest performances by a quarterback in a Super Bowl. Where's Aaron? <p>Your defense was flying all over the place like Clay Matthews's hair. Where's Clay? There he is. And you brought the Lombardi Trophy back home. <p>Aaron earned the game's MVP award: 304 yards, three touchdowns, no interceptions. This was a performance that capped off an incredible playoff run that proved he's not just one of the best quarterbacks in the game, he's one of the best quarterbacks perhaps of all time. And I know that he's going to be having an extraordinary career going forward. <p>We also know that the Packers are made of more than one player or one season. They're made of the people of Green Bay. Back in the twenties, fans passed the hat at the games to support the team. In 1923, after some rough financial years, local businessmen banded together to pay the bills. Two more times&mdash;in 1935 and 1950&mdash;the community came to the rescue to keep the club afloat, and today, a hundred and twelve thousand people own a piece of this franchise. It is the only publicly owned team in pro sports, so&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]. And after the Super Bowl, hundreds of those fans woke up the next day, put on their snow boots, and headed over to Lambeau Field to shovel it out for the victory pep rally. <p>That support goes both ways. The Packers have raised more than $4 million for charities in communities all across Wisconsin and Michigan. More than 300 schools participate in the Packers Fit Kids program to promote childhood health. They've given scholarships to local students, sponsored food and blood drives, found creative ways to support our troops and their families. <p>So even a Bears fan can admit that the relationship between Green Bay and its team is something special. It reflects those old-school, small-town values of community and hard work that have always defined what it meant to be an American. And Super Bowl spotlight or not, that's something that's alive in towns across this country every single day. <p>So to all the Green Bay Packers, to all the fans, congratulations. Enjoy it while it lasts. [<i>Laughter</i>] Because Bears fans have two dates circled on our calendars: September 25 and Sunday Night Football on Christmas Day. And if you guys are on a roll by then, just keep in mind that there's only one place&mdash;one person here who can ground all planes in and out of Green Bay&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;if he has to. <p>So congratulations. <p>Charles, what do you got here? You can step up to the mike. <p><i>Mr. Woodson.</i> Well, on behalf of the Green Bay Packers organization and all the players, we would like to present you with this. Of course, all the fans own the team, and it hurts us a little bit to give you this as well&mdash;[<i>Laughter</i>]&mdash;but to give you shares of the Green Bay Packers. <p>[<i>The President was presented with a framed share of stock.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> Man, that is outstanding. The&mdash;well, if I'm a part owner, I think&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]. <p><i>Coach Mike McCarthy.</i> We figured this is the only way we could get you away from the Bears. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> No, what I'm thinking is, I think we should initiate a trade to send Rodgers down to the Bears. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo! <p><i>The President.</i> What do you think? No? How about&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>Mr. Woodson.</i> A minority owner, thank you. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Coach McCarthy.</i> Aaron, go ahead. <p><i>The President.</i> All right, what else we got? <p><i>Quarterback Aaron Rodgers.</i> On behalf of the team, we also want to give you the right colors to wear on those two dates you mentioned. [<i>Laughter</i>] We got you this jersey, right here. <p>[<i>The President was presented with a team jersey bearing the words \\"Commander in Chief.\\"</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> All right, man. Thank you. Commander in Chief. <p><i>Mr. Rodgers.</i> Why don't you change into that right now? <p><i>The President.</i> Thank you. Good to see you, man. Absolutely. <p>All right. Let's get a good picture. They're going to break this down.\" "
"176" "\"On Thursday, I visited a new high-tech factory in Michigan where workers are helping America lead the way in a growing clean energy industry. <p>They were proud of their work, and they should be. They're not just showing us a path out of the worst recession in generations. They're proving that this is still a country where we make things; where new ideas take root and grow; where the best universities, most creative entrepreneurs, and most dynamic businesses in the world call home. They're proving that even in difficult times, there's not a country on Earth that wouldn't trade places with us. <p>That doesn't mean we don't face some very tough economic challenges. Many Americans are hurting badly right now. Many have been unemployed for too long. Putting these men and women back to work and growing wages for everybody has got to be our top priority. <p>But lately, the response from Washington has been partisanship and gridlock that's only undermined public confidence and hindered our efforts to grow the economy. <p>So while there's nothing wrong with our country, there is something wrong with our politics. And that's what we've got to fix, because we know there are things Congress can do right now to get more money back in your pockets, get this economy growing faster, and get our friends and neighbors back to work. <p>That payroll tax cut that put $1,000 back in the average family's pocket this year, let's extend it. Construction workers who've been jobless since the housing boom went bust, let's put them back to work rebuilding America. Let's cut redtape in the patent process so entrepreneurs can get good ideas to market more quickly. Let's finish trade deals so we can sell more American-made goods around the world. Let's connect the hundreds of thousands of brave Americans coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan to businesses that need their incredible skills and talents. <p>These are all things we can do right now: So let's do them. And over the coming weeks, I'll put forward more proposals to help our businesses hire and create jobs. And I won't stop until every American who wants a job can find one. <p>But we can't let partisan brinksmanship get in our way, the idea that making it through the next election is more important than making things right. That's what's holding us back, the fact that some in Congress would rather see their opponents lose than see America win. <p>So you've got a right to be frustrated&mdash;I know am&mdash;because you deserve better. And I don't think it's too much for you to expect that the people you send to this town start delivering for you. <p>Members of Congress are at home in their districts right now. And if you agree with me, whether you're a Democrat or a Republican, or not much of a fan of either, let them know. If you've had it with gridlock and you want them to pass stalled bills that will help our economy right now, let them know. If you refuse to settle for a politics where scoring points is more important than solving problems, if you believe it's time to put country before party and the interests of our children before our own, then let them know. <p>And maybe they'll get back to Washington ready to compromise, ready to create jobs, ready to get our fiscal house in order, ready to do what you sent them here to do. <p>Yes, we've still got a long way to go to get to where we need to be. We didn't get into this mess overnight, and it's going to take some time to get out of it. That's a hard truth, but it's no excuse for inaction. After all, America voted for divided Government, not dysfunctional Government, and we've got work to do. And when we come together and find common ground, there is no stopping this country; there is no stopping our people; there is no holding us back. And there is every reason to believe we'll get through this storm to a brighter day. <p>Thanks for listening, and have a great weekend.\" "
"177" "\"[<i>The discussion is joined in progress.</i>] <p><i>The President</i>. John, sorry to interrupt. <p><i>Participant</i>. No. No problem. <p><i>The President</i>. You were making a good point. Good to see you. Everybody, please have a seat. I just wanted to jump in. I just came out of a Small Business Breakout Session. So I don't want to interrupt. I just want to emphasize, first of all, I think Vilsack is doing a great job. <p>Second of all, this issue of energy innovation I think is absolutely vital for rural communities, but for the entire country. If we can harness homegrown fuels&mdash;whether it's biofuels, wind, solar, geothermal, you name it&mdash;then I think it can generate hundreds of thousands of jobs all across the country. It can help free ourselves from dependence on foreign oil. It diversifies sources of income for farmers. I'm not telling you guys anything that you don't already know. <p>All I want to emphasize is, is that when you look at farm economies, right now obviously prices are good, but given the volatility of the world market, for us to be able to figure out how we can also use energy and conservation as an enhancement to the core business of feeding people, then I think that we can make enormous progress. And Tom has a lot of creative ideas. Our Department of Energy, we've made this one of our highest priorities. And so I'm very interested in figuring out how the Federal Government can be even more helpful than it already is in moving this agenda forward. <p>So, with that, let me just sit back and listen and&mdash;unless somebody has a question for me, then I'll try to answer it. <p>[<i>The discussion continued, but no transcript was provided.</i>]\" "
"178" "\"Thank you so much. Well, it is wonderful to be back in Iowa, and thank you for arranging perfect weather these last couple of days. [<i>Laughter</i>] I have just been having a great time. <p>I want to first of all make just a few acknowledgments. Richard Avenarius, who is the mayor of Peosta, please&mdash;where are you, Mr. Mayor? Well, he was here. [<i>Laughter</i>] Give him a round of applause anyway. <p>This person I know is here&mdash;and I want to thank Northeast Iowa Community College for hosting us&mdash;Dr. Liang Wee is here, interim president. <p>I've got a number of members of my Cabinet who are here. All of them do outstanding work day in, day out. So I couldn't be prouder of them. First of all, this guy you should be a little familiar with because he used to be the Governor of this great State, Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack; Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar; Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood; Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Shaun Donovan; and the Small Business Administrator Karen Mills. <p>Well, this is an outstanding crowd, and I don't want to stand in the way of a lot of good work that's going to be done, so I'm going to just make some brief remarks at the top. We've got small-business owners here. We have farmers. We have ranchers, public servants, clean energy entrepreneurs, and community organizations from all across rural America. And I'm here because I want to hear from you and my Cabinet wants to hear from you. <p>There are two things that I know for sure: America is going to come back from this recession stronger than before. That I'm convinced of; I believe that. And I'm also convinced that comeback isn't going to be driven by Washington. It's going to be driven by folks here in Iowa. It's going to begin in the classrooms of community colleges like this one. It's going to start on the ranchlands and farms of the Midwest, in the workshops of basement inventors, in the storefronts of small-business owners. <p>And that's why I'm here today. Obviously, we're going through tough times right now. I don't have to tell you that. A lot of folks are looking for work. Even if you have a job or a small business or a farm, you're maybe getting by with fewer customers or making do with fewer shifts or less money in tips. And for a lot of families in rural parts of the country, these challenges aren't new. For a long time&mdash;a decade, maybe longer&mdash;you've known what it means to face hardship. <p>But we also know that while times may be tough, our people are tougher. You know how to make it through a hard season. You know how to look out for each other in the face of drought or tornadoes or disasters, looking out for each other until we reach a brighter day. <p>And that ethic, that kind of honor and self-discipline and integrity, those are the values that we associate with small towns like this one. Those are the values that built America. And while we've taken some hits, this country still has the best workers, the greatest farms, the top scientists and universities, the most successful businesses and entrepreneurs in the world. <p>So as I've been saying over the last couple days, there's nothing wrong with this country. We'll get through this moment of challenge. The only question is if, as a nation, we're going to do what it takes to grow this economy and put people back to work right now and can we get our politics to match up with the decency of our people. <p>The question is if we're going to harness the potential to create jobs and opportunities that exist here in Iowa and all across America. We know what's possible if we're willing to fight for our future and to put aside the politics of the short term and try to get something done. Already this administration has helped nearly 10,000 rural businesses and 35,000 small and medium-sized farms and ranches to get the financing that they need. That's already happened. And that means a restaurant owner can bust down a wall and set up some more tables. It means a family farm can buy a new piece of equipment to get more product to market. And that puts people to work today. <p>Now, just as the interstate highways knitted the country together 50 years ago, we've also got to do some new things to meet the challenges of the 21st century. We need to expand the reach of broadband, high-speed Internet to 7 million more people and hundreds of thousands of businesses in rural communities. And by taking that step, it's making it possible for folks to take classes and train for new jobs online. It's helping people sell goods, not just down the street, but across the country and around the world. We've invested in clean energy, like advanced biofuels, so that we're moving from an economy that runs on foreign oil to one that runs on homegrown America energy. That's a whole new industry that's taking root here in Iowa and across rural America. <p>But the rural economy is still not as strong as it could be. That's why I created a Rural Council to look for ways to promote jobs and opportunity right now. And this council has come up with a number of proposals. And we're not wasting time in taking up these proposals; we want to put them to work right now. <p>So today I'm announcing that we're ramping up our efforts to get capital to small businesses in rural areas. We're doubling the commitment we've already made through key small-business lending programs. We're going to make it easier for people in rural areas looking for work to find out about companies that are hiring. We're going to do more to speed the development of next-generation biofuels, and we're going to promote renewable energy and conservation. We're going to help smaller local hospitals in communities like this one to recruit doctors and the nurses that they need. And those are just some of the things that we're already announcing today. The reason we brought you all together is because I'm looking forward to hearing from you about what else we can do to jump-start the economy here in rural America. <p>We want to leave no stone unturned when it comes to strengthening this economy. And we're going to be able to do a lot of stuff administratively. All the proposals we're making today didn't require new laws; it just means that we're doing things smarter, we're eliminating duplication, we're allocating resources to places that we know are really making a difference. <p>But we could do even more if Congress is willing to get in the game. There are bipartisan ideas, commonsense ideas that have traditionally been supported by Democrats and Republicans that will put more money in your pockets, that will put our people to work, that will allow us to deal with the legacy of debt that hangs over our economy. <p>I want to cut the payroll tax again to help families make ends meet. That's meant an extra thousand dollars in the pockets of typical American families. That means more customers for your business, more buyers of your products. I want to pass a road construction bill to put tens of thousands of people to work all across America. <p>We've got young people returning from Iraq and Afghanistan with incredible skills: 25-year-olds who have led platoons, 26-year-olds handling equipment that costs hundreds of millions of dollars. Well, let's connect them to businesses that can use their talents right now. <p>We should pass trade deals that will level the playing field for American companies. And no folks benefit more than rural Americans when it comes to our trade. That's the reason that our agricultural sector is doing incredibly well and that has spillover effects, ripple effects throughout the economy here. <p>But it also benefits manufacturing. We've got folks in America driving Kias and Hyundais. I want to see folks in Korea driving Fords and Chryslers and Chevys. I want to sell goods all over the world that are stamped with three words: \\"Made in America.\\" <p>And all of these proposals will make a difference for rural communities. The only thing that is holding us back is our politics. The only thing that's preventing us from passing the bills I just mentioned is the refusal of a faction in Congress to put country ahead of party. And that has to stop. Our economy cannot afford it. Our economy can't afford it. <p>So I don't care whether you're a Democrat or Republican, Independent, if you're not registered with any party. I want to enlist your help. I need your help sending a message to Congress that it's time to put the politics aside and get something done. <p>The folks here in Iowa do the right thing. I've been traveling through these small towns and talking to folks, sitting down at diners. And you listen to people, they take such pride doing the right thing: taking care of their families, working hard, saving for the future, living within their means, giving back to their communities. <p>You do your part. You meet your obligations. Well, it's time Washington acted as responsibly as you do every single day. It's past time. <p>We've got a lot of work to do, and the only way it will get done is if Democrats and Republicans put country ahead of party and put the next generation ahead of the next election. And that's what I'm fighting for. That's why I'm out here visiting communities like this one and Decorah and small towns in Minnesota and Illinois. <p>I'm convinced; I've seen it. When we come together, there's no stopping this country. There is no stopping it. We can create opportunities for training and education and good careers in rural America so young people don't feel like they've got to leave their hometowns to find work. We can strengthen the middle class, restore that sense of economic security that's been missing for a lot of people for way too long. We can push through this period of economic hardship, and we can get to a better place. That's why we're here together. That's what this forum is all about. <p>So I appreciate all of your participation. I expect great ideas coming out of these breakout sessions. I'm going to join a couple of them. Let's get to work. Thank you very much.\" "
"179" "\"Thank you so much. Please, please, everybody, have a seat. <p>I just want to again thank my extraordinary Secretary of Agriculture, Tom Vilsack, for leading this forum. You don't have a more passionate advocate for farming communities in rural America than Tom Vilsack. And I will tell you, if you are not fully persuaded that this administration has been all over the rural agenda, spend 5 minutes with Tom Vilsack&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and his enthusiasm for the steps that we've been taking just bubbles over. And it's been under his leadership more than anybody's that we've been able to make such a difference. <p>I want to thank all the members of my Cabinet who are here today as well. They've done a terrific job participating in some of these breakout sessions. <p>As I said earlier, despite the hits that we've taken over the last 2&frac12; years, Tom's right: I am absolutely confident about our future. And I'm confident because I know that while we face serious challenges&mdash;and there's no sugarcoating that&mdash;there's not a nation on Earth that would not want to trade places with us. There's nothing wrong with our country, although there is some problems with our politics. That's what we need to fix. That's how we're going to unlock the promise of America and the incredible dynamism and creativity of our people. <p>And having a chance to meet with some of the men and women in this room have only made me feel more confident. I'm excited about the future that you're working towards each and every day. And it ought to remind us of a simple lesson: It's always a mistake to bet against America. It's always a mistake to bet against the American worker. [<i>Applause</i>] It's always a mistake to bet against the American worker, the American farmer, the American small-business owner, the American people. <p>And I know there are naysayers out there. We know that there are some who see hard times and think that we've got to accept less, that our best days are past. We know that there are people who think that for America to get ahead, small towns and rural communities have to be left behind. You hear those sentiments. But we also know that, time and again, those kinds of skeptics and that kind of pessimism has been proven wrong. <p>You look at the people in this room. Look at what you're achieving. I met with a group of small-business owners, including a woman named Jan Heister, who started a small tooling and manufacturing company around 20 years ago. Started off with nine people in a very small plant. And with the help of a SBA loan, she's got a staff of more than 140 in a 160,000-square-foot factory. Jan's not messing around. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>This morning I had breakfast with somebody who has not only been interested in wind power because their family got involved in it '77, back in 1977, but are now&mdash;have figured out a new technology to help locate where farm&mdash;wind farms would ideally be located. And have started a whole new business because they see the incredible potential of clean energy throughout this country. <p>I saw some of these Future Farmers of America, and their young president, right over there. And when you hear the enthusiasm and energy that these young people display&mdash;and the fact that if they can just get a little bit of a break when it comes to getting started on the front end, get a little bit of help with capital&mdash;that they are ready to take American agriculture to the next level, it gives you confidence It gives you hope. <p>I joined a session with a group of entrepreneurs and ranchers and farmers and clean energy companies. And we were talking about all the ways in which folks right here in the heartland are pioneering new methods of raising crops and earning more off the land. And we talked about the ways in which farmlands are helping our Nation develop new forms of energy: ranches where cattle graze next to solar panels, farms supplying crops for biofuels. I've got a former State senator here who's helping farms manage manure in creative ways&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;in creative ways. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So our task as a nation has to be to get behind what you're doing. Our task has to be making sure that nothing stands in your way, that we remove any obstacles to your success. That's why we're doing more to connect rural America with broadband and expanding small-business loans and investing in homegrown American energy. That's why forums like this are important, so that we hear directly from you about what you need and what you're facing. And what's interesting is, in these conversations, one thing you notice: In Washington, you'd think that the only two ways of thinking about our problems is either Government is terrible and it has to be basically eliminated, or Government is the answer to every problem. But when you sit in some of these breakout sessions, I had no idea who was Democrat, who was Republican, who was Independent. What everybody understood was, there are times when Government can make a huge difference. There are times where that SBA office or that USDA office can make all the difference in the world. There are some boneheaded things the Government is doing that need to be fixed. <p>And so it's a very practical way of thinking about these problems. It's not either-or. It's a recognition that the prime driver of economic growth and jobs is going to be our people and the private sector and our businesses. But you know what, Government can help. Government can make a difference. <p>So I hope that I can count on you in the days ahead to lend your voice to this fight to strengthen our economy. I need you to keep your pressure on your elected representatives for things like the payroll tax cuts or road construction funds or the other steps that will help to put our country back to work. <p>That's our great challenge. It has been my central mission for the last 2&frac12; years. It has to be all of our central missions going forward. That's what ought to unite us as a country, regardless of party or ideology, because if we can do that, if we can put country ahead of party, I know that our future is bright. I know that our best days are ahead of us. <p>And Tom is actually&mdash;absolutely right. Not only do I continue to have absolute confidence in you, but you're what gives me strength. As I was driving down those little towns in my big bus&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I'm&mdash;we slowed down, and I'm standing in the front, and I'm waving. I'm seeing little kids with American flags and grandparents in their lawn chairs and folks outside a machine shop. And passing churches and cemeteries and corner stores and farms, I'm reminded about why I wanted to get into public service in the first place. <p>Sometimes there are days in Washington that will drive you crazy. But getting out of Washington and meeting all of you and seeing how hard you're working, how creative you are, how resourceful you are, and how determined you are, that just makes me that much more determined to serve you as best I can as President of the United States. <p>So thank you very much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"180" "\"<i>The President.</i> Everybody, please have a seat. So I'm just going to hang out here for about 20 minutes. Karen's the one who's actually in charge. <p><i>Small Business Administration Administrator Karen G. Mills.</i> Yes, he's my boss. We have no better advocate for small businesses than the President. So I don't know if you want to hear some of the stories or thoughts that people are starting to come out with. <p><i>The President.</i> You know, I think all I want to say by way of introduction is, I had the chance to have breakfast with a couple of your panelists here, and&mdash;three of them, actually&mdash;and I was just struck by the creativity and the stick-to-it-ness that so many businesses here are exhibiting. <p>The good news, Karen, is all of them, uniformly, on a bipartisan basis, felt that the SBA&mdash;their local SBA office is doing a great job and working really hard. <p><i>Administrator Mills.</i> Well I want to point out&mdash;[<i>inaudible</i>]&mdash;you can take credit for it. <p><i>The President.</i> So there you go. Just wanted you to know. [<i>Laughter</i>] They were talking behind your back, and it was good. <p>At the same time, I think that there was a sense in the conversation I had at breakfast this morning that issues of credit are still a problem. In particular, smaller businesses and startup businesses&mdash;$100,000, $200,000&mdash;that getting that initial startup capital oftentimes was a challenge. <p>And we also heard that getting help on things like marketing could make a big difference for businesses that want to break out beyond their immediate communities, and particularly if they're competing with larger businesses, even if they think they've got a better product. <p>So what I said to them is the same thing that I'd say to the entire group: We genuinely believe that small business is the backbone of America. It's going to be the key for us to be able to put a lot of folks back to work. What we're looking for is, how can we do our jobs better. How can the SBA or USDA or any of the other Federal agencies that touch on rural America on a regular basis help you create the jobs and businesses and ideas that I think are so evident in a lot of communities all across the country. <p>We also heard, by the way, that there are a lot of young people, I think, who want to be more entrepreneurial. And so are there ways that we can connect, for example, the community colleges&mdash;but even beneath that, high schools&mdash;to help young people think about how they go about organizing, getting a business started. <p>So that's my initial report from breakfast, and what I want to do is just hear from all of you. And Karen will be taking copious notes, and she is somebody who I know is going to execute on any ideas that make sense. So with that&mdash;&mdash; <p>[<i>At this point, the discussion continued, but no transcript was provided.</i>]\" "
"181" "\"Hello from the Country Corner Farm in Alpha, Illinois. For the past few days, I've been traveling to small towns and farm towns here in the heartland of this country. I sat down with small-business owners in Gutenberg, Iowa, and ranchers and farmers in Peosta. I had lunch with veterans in Cannon Falls, Minnesota, and talked to plant workers at a seed distributor in Atkinson, Illinois. And to the girls volleyball team in Maquoketa High School, let me just say one thing: Go Cardinals! <p>Now, I'm out here for one reason: I think Washington, DC, can learn something from the folks in Atkinson and Peosta and Cannon Falls. I think our country would be a whole lot better off if our elected leaders showed the same kind of discipline and integrity and responsibility that most Americans demonstrate in their lives every single day. <p>Because the fact is, we're going through a tough time right now. We're coming through a terrible recession. A lot of folks are still looking for work. A lot of people are getting by with smaller paychecks or less money in the cash register. So we need folks in Washington&mdash;the people whose job it is to deal with the country's problems, the people who you elected to serve&mdash;we need them to put aside their differences to get things done. <p>There are things we can do right now that will mean more customers for businesses and more jobs across the country. We can cut payroll taxes again so families have an extra $1,000 to spend. We can pass a road construction bill so construction crews, who are now sitting idle, can head back to the worksite, rebuilding roads, bridges, and airports. We've got brave, skilled Americans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. Let's connect them with businesses that could use their skills. And let's pass trade deals to level the playing field for our businesses. We have Americans driving Hyundais and Kias. Well, I want to see folks in Korea driving Fords, Chevys, and Chryslers. I want more products sold around the globe stamped with three words: Made in America. <p>These are commonsense ideas, ideas that have been supported by both Democrats and Republicans. The only thing holding them back is politics. The only thing preventing us from passing these bills is the refusal by some in Congress to put country ahead of party. That's the problem we have right now. That's what's holding this country back. That's what we have to change. <p>Because, for all the knocks we've taken, despite all the challenges we face, this is still the greatest country on Earth. We still have the best workers and farmers, entrepreneurs and businesses, students and scientists. And you can see that here in Alpha. You can see it along the country roads that connect these small towns and farmlands. <p>These past few days, I've been seeing little kids with American flags and grandparents in lawn chairs. I've shaken hands with folks outside machine shops and churches, corner stores and farms. It reminds me of why I got into public service in the first place. Getting out of Washington and spending time with the people of this country, seeing how hard you're working, how creative you are, how resourceful you are, how determined you are, that only makes me more determined to serve you as best I can as President. And it only makes me more confident in our future. <p>That's why it's so important that folks in Washington put country before party. That's why it's so important that our elected leaders get past their differences to help grow the economy and put this Nation back to work. Because here in Alpha, it couldn't be more clear: If we can come together, there is no stopping the United States of America. There's no doubt that our future is bright. <p>Thanks, and have a great weekend.\" "
"182" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. I just completed a call with my National Security Council on the situation in Libya. And earlier today I spoke to Prime Minister Cameron about the extraordinary events taking place there. <p>The situation is still very fluid. There remains a degree of uncertainty, and there are still regime elements who pose a threat. But this much is clear: The Qadhafi regime is coming to an end, and the future of Libya is in the hands of its people. <p>In just 6 months, the 42-year reign of Muammar Qadhafi has unraveled. Earlier this year, we were inspired by the peaceful protests that broke out across Libya. This basic and joyful longing for human freedom echoed the voices that we had heard all across the region from Tunis to Cairo. In the face of these protests, the Qadhafi regime responded with brutal crackdowns. Civilians were murdered in the streets. A campaign of violence was launched against the Libyan people. Qadhafi threatened to hunt peaceful protestors down like rats. As his forces advanced across the country, there existed the potential for wholesale massacres of innocent civilians. <p>In the face of this aggression, the international community took action. The United States helped shape a U.N. Security Council resolution that mandated the protection of Libyan civilians. An unprecedented coalition was formed that included the United States, our NATO partners, and Arab nations. And in March, the international community launched a military operation to save lives and stop Qadhafi's forces in their tracks. <p>In the early days of this intervention, the United States provided the bulk of the firepower, and then our friends and allies stepped forward. The Transitional National Council has established itself as a credible representative of the Libyan people. And the United States, together with our European allies and friends across the region, recognize the TNC as the legitimate governing authority in Libya. <p>Qadhafi was cut off from arms and cash, and his forces were steadily degraded. From Benghazi to Misurata to the western mountains, the Libyan opposition courageously confronted the regime and the tide turned in their favor. <p>Over the last several days, the situation in Libya has reached a tipping point as the opposition increased its coordination from east to west, took town after town, and the people of Tripoli rose up to claim their freedom. <p>For over four decades, the Libyan people have lived under the rule of a tyrant who denied them their most basic human rights. Now the celebrations that we've seen in the streets of Libya shows that the pursuit of human dignity is far stronger than any dictator. I want to emphasize that this is not over yet. As the regime collapses, there is still fierce fighting in some areas, and we have reports of regime elements threatening to continue fighting. <p>Although it's clear that Qadhafi's rule is over, he still has the opportunity to reduce further bloodshed by explicitly relinquishing power to the people of Libya and calling for those forces that continue to fight to lay down their arms for the sake of Libya. <p>As we move forward from this pivotal phase, the opposition should continue to take important steps to bring about a transition that is peaceful, inclusive, and just. As the leadership of the TNC has made clear, the rights of all Libyans must be respected. True justice will not come from reprisals and violence; it will come from reconciliation and a Libya that allows its citizens to determine their own destiny. <p>In that effort, the United States will be a friend and a partner. We will join with allies and partners to continue the work of safeguarding the people of Libya. As remaining regime elements menace parts of the country, I've directed my team to be in close contact with NATO, as well as the United Nations, to determine other steps that we can take. To deal with the humanitarian impact, we're working to ensure that critical supplies reach those in need, particularly those who've been wounded. <p>Secretary Clinton spoke today with her counterparts from leading nations of the coalition on all these matters. And I've directed Ambassador Susan Rice to request that the U.N. Secretary-General use next month's General Assembly to support this important transition. <p>For many months, the TNC has been working with the international community to prepare for a post-Qadhafi Libya. As those efforts proceed, our diplomats will work with the TNC as they ensure that the institutions of the Libyan state are protected, and we will support them with the assets of the Qadhafi regime that were frozen earlier this year. Above all, we will call for an inclusive transition that leads to a democratic Libya. <p>As we move forward, we should also recognize the extraordinary work that has already been done. To the American people, these events have particular resonance. Qadhafi's regime has murdered scores of American citizens in acts of terror in the past. Today we remember the lives of those who were taken in those acts of terror and stand in solidarity with their families. We also pay tribute to Admiral Sam Locklear and all of the men and women in uniform who have saved so many lives over the last several months, including our brave pilots that have executed their mission with skill and extraordinary bravery. And all of this was done without putting a single U.S. troop on the ground. <p>To our friends and allies, the Libyan intervention demonstrates what the international community can achieve when we stand together as one. Although the efforts in Libya are not yet over, NATO has once more proven that it is the most capable alliance in the world and that its strength comes from both its firepower and the power of our democratic ideals. And the Arab members of our coalition have stepped up and shown what can be achieved when we act together as equal partners. Their actions sent a powerful message about the unity of our effort and our support for the future of Libya. <p>Finally, the Libyan people: Your courage and character have been unbreakable in the face of a tyrant. An ocean divides us, but we are joined in the basic human longing for freedom, for justice, and for dignity. Your revolution is your own, and your sacrifices have been extraordinary. Now the Libya that you deserve is within your reach. Going forward, we will stay in close coordination with the TNC to support that outcome. And though there will be huge challenges ahead, the extraordinary events in Libya remind us that fear can give way to hope and that the power of people striving for freedom can bring about a brighter day. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"183" "\"<i>Hurricane Irene </i><p>Good morning, everybody. I want to say a few words about Hurricane Irene, urge Americans to take it seriously, and provide an overview of our ongoing Federal preparations for what's likely to be an extremely dangerous and costly storm. <p>I've just convened a conference call with senior members of my emergency response team and directed them to make sure that we are bringing all Federal resources to bear and deploying them properly to cope not only with the storm, but also its aftermath. I've also spoken this morning with Governors and mayors of major metropolitan areas along the eastern seaboard to let them know that this administration is in full support of their efforts to prepare for this storm and stands ready to fully support their response efforts. And we will continue to stay in close contact with them. <p>I cannot stress this highly enough: If you are in the projected path of this hurricane, you have to take precautions now. Don't wait. Don't delay. We all hope for the best, but we have to be prepared for the worst. All of us have to take this storm seriously. You need to listen to your State and local officials, and if you are given an evacuation order, please follow it. Just to underscore this point: We ordered an aircraft carrier group out to sea to avoid this storm yesterday. So if you're in the way of this hurricane, you should be preparing now. <p>If you aren't sure how to prepare your families or your home or your business for a hurricane or any other emergency, then you can visit Ready.gov&mdash;that's Ready.gov&mdash;or Listo.gov&mdash;that's L-I-S-T-O.gov. <p>Now, since last weekend, FEMA has been deploying its Incident Management Assistance Teams to staging areas in communities up and down the coast. FEMA has millions of liters of water, millions of meals, and tens of thousands of cots and blankets, along with other supplies, pre-positioned along the eastern seaboard. And the American Red Cross has already begun preparing shelters in North Carolina and other States. <p>These resources are all being coordinated with our State and local partners, and they stand ready to be deployed as necessary. But again, if you are instructed to evacuate, please do so. It's going to take time for first-responders to begin rescue operations and to get the resources we've pre-positioned to people in need. So the more you can do to be prepared now&mdash;making a plan, make a supply kit, know your evacuation route, follow instructions of your local officials&mdash;the quicker we can focus our resources after the storm on those who need help the most. <p>To sum up, all indications point to this being a historic hurricane. Although we can't predict with perfect certainty the impact of Irene over the next few days, the Federal Government has spent the better part of last week working closely with officials in communities that could be affected by this storm to see to it that we are prepared. So now is the time for residents of these communities&mdash;in the hours that remain&mdash;to do the same. And FEMA and Craig Fugate, the director of FEMA, will be keeping people closely posted in the next 24, 48 hours. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"184" "\"In just 2 weeks, we'll come together as a nation to mark the 10th anniversary of the September 11th attacks. We'll remember the innocent lives we lost; we'll stand with the families who loved them. We'll honor the heroic first-responders who rushed to the scene and saved so many. And we'll pay tribute to our troops and military families and all those who have served over the past 10 years to keep us safe and strong. <p>We'll also recall how the worst terrorist attack in American history brought out the best in the American people: how Americans lined up to give blood, how volunteers drove across the country to lend a hand, how schoolchildren donated their savings, how communities, faith groups, and businesses collected food and clothing. We were united, and the outpouring of generosity and compassion reminded us that in times of challenge, we Americans move forward together, as one people. <p>This September 11th, Michelle and I will join the commemorations at Ground Zero, in Shanksville, and at the Pentagon. But even if you can't be in New York, Pennsylvania, or Virginia, every American can be part of this anniversary. Once again, 9/11 will be a National Day of Service and Remembrance. And in the days and weeks ahead, folks across the country, in all 50 States, will come together in their communities and neighborhoods to honor the victims of 9/11 and to reaffirm the strength of our Nation with acts of service and charity. <p>In Minneapolis, volunteers will help restore a community center. In Winston-Salem, North Carolina, they'll hammer shingles and lay floors to give a family a new home. In Tallahassee, Florida, they'll assemble care packages for our troops overseas and their families here at home. In Orange County, California, they'll renovate homes for our veterans. And once again, Michelle and I look forward to joining a local service project as well. <p>There are so many ways to get involved, and every American can do something. To learn more about the opportunities where you live, just go online and visit serve.gov. Even the smallest act of service, the simplest act of kindness, is a way to honor those we lost, a way to reclaim that spirit of unity that followed 9/11. <p>On this 10th anniversary, we still face great challenges as a nation. We're emerging from the worst economic crisis in our lifetimes. We're taking the fight to Al Qaida and ending the war in Iraq and starting to bring our troops home from Afghanistan. And we're working to rebuild the foundation of our national strength here at home. <p>None of this will be easy, and it can't be the work of Government alone. As we saw after 9/11, the strength of America has always been the character and compassion of our people. So as we mark this solemn anniversary, let's summon that spirit once more. And let's show that the sense of common purpose that we need in America doesn't have to be a fleeting moment. It can be a lasting virtue, not just on one day, but every day.\" "
"185" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. I'm joined today by my Secretary of Homeland Security, Janet Napolitano, and Administrator of FEMA, Craig Fugate, to provide a brief update on our ongoing response efforts to Hurricane Irene. <p>First, let me say that this is a storm that has claimed lives. Our thoughts and prayers are with those who've lost loved ones and those whose lives have been affected by the storm. You need to know that America will be with you in your hour of need. <p>While the storm has weakened as it moves north, it remains a dangerous storm that continues to produce heavy rains. One of our chief concerns before Irene made landfall was the possibility of significant flooding and widespread power outages. And we've been getting reports of just that from our State and local partners. Many Americans are still at serious risk of power outages and flooding, which could get worse in the coming days as rivers swell past their banks. <p>So I want people to understand that this is not over. Response and recovery efforts will be an ongoing operation, and I urge Americans in affected areas to continue to listen for the guidance and direction of their State and local officials. <p>Before the storm made landfall, the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA worked very closely with our State and local partners, as well as volunteer organizations, to preposition supplies and teams of first-responders along the hurricane's projected track. And the American Red Cross opened shelters in communities across the region. I want to thank those Americans for their work over the past several days, which has saved lives and property up and down the East Coast. <p>We continue to have search and rescue personnel on alert, as well as water, food, and other needed resources. And moving forward, FEMA is working with State and local responders to assess damage and assist in the recovery. <p>I do want to underscore that the impacts of this storm will be felt for some time, and the recovery effort will last for weeks or longer. Power may be out for days in some areas, and we will support our State and local partners in every way that we can as they work to restore power in those areas. <p>So I'm going to make sure that DHS and FEMA and other Federal agencies are doing everything in their power to help folks on the ground. I continue to meet regularly with Secretary Napolitano and Administrator Fugate and the other members of my team to assess our response and ensure that we have what we need in place. <p>As I've told Governors and mayors from across the affected area, if they need something, I want to know about it. We're going to make sure that we respond as quickly and effectively as possible. And we're going to keep it up as long as hurricane season continues. <p>Finally, while we're not out of the woods yet, I want to thank everybody at the Federal, State, and local levels who have worked so hard to respond to this storm. This has been an exemplary effort of how good government at every level should be responsive to people's needs, work to keep them safe, and protect and promote the Nation's prosperity. <p>I want to thank scientists who provide the information necessary for Governors and mayors to make sound decisions, disaster response experts who made sure we were as prepared as possible, to National Guard members and first-responders who risked their lives to ensure their fellow citizens' safety&mdash;all ordinary Americans who love their country and volunteered to do their part. <p>Above all, the past few days have been a shining example of how Americans open our homes and our hearts to those in need and pull together in tough times to help our fellow citizens prepare for and respond to, as well as recover from, extraordinary challenges, whether natural disasters or economic difficulties. That's what makes the United States of America a strong and resilient nation, a strong and resilient people. And I want to thank all who have been involved very much. <p>Now I'd like to ask Secretary Napolitano and Administrator Fugate to say a few words. <p>Janet. <p>[<i>At this point, Secretary of Homeland Security Janet A. Napolitano and Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator W. Craig Fugate made brief remarks.</i>] <p>Okay. Thank you very much, everybody. Craig and Janet will continue to keep everybody posted throughout the week. As we have already said, there are a lot of communities that are still being affected. We are particularly concerned about flooding because the continuing rains can end up having an impact well beyond the immediate center of the storm. <p>And so we're going to continue to monitor that carefully. Assessments are already being done in North Carolina and Virginia. There are still search and rescue teams that are operating throughout the region. And we will continue to keep the American people posted throughout our efforts not only with respect to response, but also with respect to recovery. <p>So thanks very much, everybody.\" "
"186" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello Legionnaires! It is wonderful to see all of you. Let me first of all thank Commander Foster for your introduction and for your lifetime of service to your fellow marines, soldiers, and veterans. On behalf of us all, I want to thank Jimmie and I want to thank your entire leadership team for welcoming me here today. Thank you very much. <p>Your national adjutant, Dan Wheeler; your executive director, your voice in Washington, Peter Gaytan, who does just an extraordinary job; and the president of the American Legion Auxiliary, Carlene Ashworth, thank you for your extraordinary service. To Rehta Foster and all the spouses, daughters, and sisters of the Auxiliary and the Sons of the American Legion, as military families, you also serve, and we salute all of you as well. <p>There are some special guests here I want to acknowledge. They may have already been acknowledged, but they're great friends so I want to make sure that I point them out. First of all, the wonderful Governor of Minnesota, Mark Dayton, is here. Two Senators who are working on behalf of veterans every single day, Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken; Congressman Keith Ellison&mdash;this is his district; Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak, a great friend; to all the other Members of Congress and Minnesota elected officials who are here, welcome. <p>It is wonderful to be back with the American Legion. Back in Illinois, my home State&mdash;[<i>applause</i>] Hey! Illinois is in the house. [<i>Laughter</i>] We worked together to make sure veterans across the State were getting the benefits they had earned. When I was in the U.S. Senate, we worked together to spotlight the tragedy of homelessness among veterans and the need to end it. <p>As President, I've welcomed Jimmie and your leadership to the Oval Office to hear directly from you. And I have been&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;I've been honored to have you by my side when I signed advance appropriations to protect veterans' health care from the budget battles in Washington, when I signed legislation to give new support to veterans and their caregivers, and most recently, when I proposed new initiatives to make sure the private sector is hiring our talented veterans. <p>So American Legion, I thank you for your partnership. I appreciate the opportunity to talk with you today about what we need to do to make sure America is taking care of our veterans as well as you've taken care of us. <p>And I'm grateful to be with you for another reason. A lot of our fellow citizens are still reeling from Hurricane Irene and its aftermath. Folks are surveying the damage. Some are dealing with tremendous flooding. As a Government, we're going to make sure that States and communities have the support they need so their folks can recover. <p>And across the Nation, we're still digging out from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. It's taken longer and it's been more difficult than any of us had imagined. And even though we've taken some steps in the right direction, we've got a lot more to do. Our economy has to grow faster. We have to create more jobs, and we have to do it faster. And most of all, we've got to break the gridlock in Washington that's been preventing us from taking the action we need to get this country moving. That's why next week, I'll be speaking to the Nation about a plan to create jobs and reduce our deficit, a plan that I want to see passed by Congress. We've got to get this done. <p>And here's what else I know. We Americans have been through tough times before, much tougher than these. And we didn't just get through them, we emerged stronger than before. Not by luck, not by chance, but because in hard times, Americans don't quit. We don't give up. We summon that spirit that says, when we come together, when we choose to move forward together, as one people, there's nothing we can't achieve. <p>And Legionnaires, you know this story because it's the story of your lives. And in times like these, all Americans can draw strength from your example. When Hitler controlled a continent and fascism appeared unstoppable, when our harbor was bombed and our Pacific Fleet crippled, there were those that declared that the United States had been reduced to a third-class power. But you, our veterans of World War II, crossed the oceans and stormed the beaches and freed the millions, liberated the camps, and showed the United States of America is the greatest force for freedom that the world has ever known. <p>When North Korea invaded the South, pushing the allied forces into a tiny sliver of territory, the Pusan Perimeter, it seemed like the war could be lost. But you, our Korean veterans, pushed back, fought on, year after bloody year. And this past Veterans Day, I went to Seoul and joined our Korean war veterans for the 60th anniversary of that war, and we marked that milestone in a free and prosperous Republic of Korea, one of our greatest allies. <p>When communist forces in Vietnam unleashed the Tet Offensive, it fueled the debate here at home that raged over that war. You, our Vietnam veterans, did not always receive the respect that you deserved, which was a national shame. But let it be remembered that you won every major battle of that war&mdash;every single one. As President, I've been honored to welcome our Vietnam veterans to the White House and finally present them with the medals and recognition that they had earned. It's been a chance to convey, on behalf of the American people, those simple words with which our Vietnam veterans greet each other: Welcome home. <p>Legionnaires, it&mdash;in the decades that followed, the spirit of your service was carried forth by our troops in the sands of Desert Storm and the rugged hills of the Balkans. And now, it's carried on by a new generation. Next weekend will mark the 10th anniversary of those awful attacks on our Nation. In the days ahead, we will honor the lives we lost and the families that loved them, the first-responders who rushed to save others, and we will honor all those who have served to keep us safe these 10 difficult years, especially the men and women of our Armed Forces. <p>Today, as we near this solemn anniversary, it's fitting that we salute the extraordinary decade of service rendered by the 9/11 generation, the more than 5 million Americans who've worn the uniform over the past 10 years. They were there, on duty, that September morning, having enlisted in a time of peace, but they instantly transitioned to a war footing. They're the millions of recruits who have stepped forward since, seeing their nation at war and saying, \\"Send me.\\" They're every single soldier, sailor, airman, marine, and coast guardsman serving today who has volunteered to serve in a time of war, knowing that they could be sent into harm's way. <p>They come from every corner of our country, big cities, small towns. They come from every background and every creed. They're sons and daughters who carry on the family's tradition of service, and they're new immigrants who've become our newest citizens. They're our National Guardsmen and Reservists, who've served in unprecedented deployments. They're the record number of women in our military, proving themselves in combat like never before. And every day for the past 10 years, these men and women have succeeded together, as one American team. <p>They're a generation of innovators, and they've changed the way America fights and wins its wars. Raised in the age of the Internet, they've harnessed new technologies on the battlefield. They've learned the cultures and traditions and languages of the places where they served. Trained to fight, they've also taken on the role of diplomats and mayors and development experts, negotiating with tribal sheikhs, working with village <i>shuras</i>, partnering with communities. Young captains, sergeants, lieutenants, they've assumed responsibilities once reserved for more senior commanders and remind us that in an era when so many other institutions have shirked their obligations, the men and women of the United States military welcome responsibility. <p>In a decade of war, they've borne an extraordinary burden, with more than 2 million of our servicemembers deploying to the war zones. Hundreds of thousands have deployed again and again, year after year. Never before has our Nation asked so much of our All-Volunteer Force, that 1 percent of Americans who wears the uniform. <p>We see the scope of their sacrifice in the tens of thousands who now carry the scars of war, both seen and unseen, our remarkable wounded warriors. We see it in our extraordinary military families who serve here at home, the military spouses who hold their families together, the millions of military children, many of whom have lived most of their young lives with our Nation at war and mom or dad deployed. <p>Most profoundly, we see the wages of war in those patriots who never came home. They gave their all, their last full measure of devotion, in Kandahar, in the Korengal, in Helmand, in the battles for Baghdad and Fallujah and Ramadi. Now they lay at rest in quiet corners of America, but they live on in the families who loved them and in a nation that is safer because of their service. And today we pay humble tribute to the more than 6,200 Americans in uniform who have given their lives in this hard decade of war. We honor them all. We are grateful for them. <p>Through their service, through their sacrifice, through their astonishing record of achievement, our forces have earned their place among the greatest of generations: toppling the Taliban in just weeks, driving Al Qaida from the training camps where they plotted 9/11, giving the Afghan people the opportunity to live free from terror. When the decision was made to go into Iraq, our troops raced across deserts and removed a dictator in less than a month. When insurgents, militias and terrorists plunged Iraq into chaos, our troops adapted, they endured ferocious urban combat, they reduced the violence and gave Iraqis a chance to forge their own future. <p>When a resurgent Taliban threatened to give Al Qaida more space to plot against us, the additional forces I ordered to Afghanistan went on the offensive, taking the fight to the Taliban and pushing them out of their safe havens, allowing Afghans to reclaim their communities and training Afghan forces. And a few months ago, our troops achieved our greatest victory yet in the fight against those who attacked us on 9/11, delivering justice to Usama bin Laden in one of the greatest intelligence and military operations in American history. <p>Credit for these successes, credit for this progress, belongs to all who have worn the uniform in these wars. Today we're honored to be joined by some of them. And I would ask all those who served this past decade, the members of the 9/11 generation, to stand and accept the thanks of a grateful nation. <p>Thanks to these Americans, we're moving forward from a position of strength. Having ended our combat mission in Iraq and removed more than 100,000 troops so far, we'll remove the rest of our troops by the end of this year and we will end that war. <p>Having put Al Qaida on the path to defeat, we won't relent until the job is done. Having started to draw down our forces in Afghanistan, we'll bring home 33,000 troops by next summer and bring home more troops in the coming years. As our mission transitions from combat to support, Afghans will take responsibility for their own security and the longest war in American history will come to a responsible end. <p>For our troops and military families who've sacrificed so much, this means relief from an unrelenting decade of operations. Today, fewer of our sons and daughters are serving in harm's way. For so many troops who've already done their duty, we've put an end to the stop-loss. And our soldiers can now look forward to shorter deployments. That means more time at home between deployments and more time training for the full range of missions that they will face. <p>Indeed, despite 10 years of continuous war, it must be said: America's military is the best that it's ever been. We saw that most recently in the skill and precision of our brave forces who helped the Libyan people finally break free from the grip of Muammar Qadhafi. And as we meet the test that the future will surely bring, including hard fiscal choices here at home, there should be no doubt: The United States of America will keep our military the best trained, the best led, the best equipped fighting force in history. It will continue to be the best. <p>Now, as today's wars end, as our troops come home, we're reminded once more of our responsibilities to all who have served. The bond between our forces and our citizens must be a sacred trust. And for me and my administration, upholding that trust is not just a matter of policy, it is not about politics; it is a moral obligation. That's why my very first budget included the largest percentage increase to the VA budget in the past 30 years. So far, we're on track to have increased funding for Veterans Affairs by 30 percent. And because we passed advanced appropriations, when Washington politics threatens to shut down the Government, as it did last spring, the veterans' medical care that you count on was safe. <p>And let me say something else about VA funding that you depend on. As a nation, we're facing some tough choices as we put our fiscal house in order. But I want to be absolutely clear: We cannot, we must not, we will not balance the budget on the backs of our veterans. As Commander in Chief, I won't allow it. <p>With these historic investments, we're making dramatic improvements to veterans' health care. We're improving VA facilities to better serve our women veterans. We're expanding outreach and care for our rural veterans, like those that I met during my recent visit to Cannon Falls, including two proud Legionnaires, Tom Newman of Legion Post 620 in Hugo and Joseph Kidd, Post 164 in Stewartville. Are they here right now? They're out there somewhere. That was a good lunch, by the way. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>For our Vietnam veterans, because we declared that three diseases are now presumed to be related to your exposure to agent orange, we've begun paying the disability benefits that you need. For our veterans of the Gulf war, we're moving forward to address the nine infectious diseases that we declared are now presumed to be related to your service in Desert Storm. <p>At the same time, our outstanding VA Secretary, Ric Shinseki, is working every day to build a 21st-century VA. Many of our Vietnam vets are already submitting their agent orange claims electronically. Hundreds of you, from all wars, are requesting your benefits online. Thanks to the new Blue Button on the VA web site, you can now share your personal health information with your doctors outside of the VA. And we're making progress in sharing medical records between DOD and VA. We're not there yet. I've been pounding on this thing since I came into office. We are going to stay on it, we're going to keep at it until our troops and our veterans have a lifetime electronic medical record that you can keep for your life. <p>Of course, we've still got some work to do. We got to break the backlog of disability claims. I know that over the past year, the backlog has actually grown due to new claims from agent orange. But let me say this, and I know Secretary Shinseki agrees: When our veterans who fought for our country have to fight just to get the benefits that you've already earned, that's unacceptable. So this is going to remain a key priority for us. <p>We're going to keep hiring new claims processors, and we're going to keep investing in new paperless systems and keep moving ahead with our innovation competition, in which our dedicated VA employees are developing new ways to process your claims faster. We want your claims to be processed not in months, but in days. So the bottom line is this: Your claims need to be processed quickly and accurately the first time. We're not going to rest until we get that done. We will not rest. <p>The same is true for our mission to end homelessness among our veterans. Already, we've helped to bring tens of thousands of veterans off the streets. For the first time ever, we've made veterans and military families a priority not just at the VA, not just at DOD, but across the Federal Government. And that includes making sure that Federal agencies are working together so that every veteran who fought for America has a home in America. <p>We're working to fulfill our obligations to our 9/11 generation veterans, especially our wounded warriors. The constant threat of IEDs has meant a new generation of servicemembers with multiple traumatic injuries, including traumatic brain injury. And thanks to advanced armor and medical technologies, our troops are surviving injuries that would have been fatal in previous wars. So we're saving more lives, but more American veterans live with severe wounds for a lifetime. That's why we need to be for them for a lifetime. <p>We're giving unprecedented support to our wounded warriors, especially those with traumatic brain injury. And thanks to the veterans and caregivers legislation I signed into law, we've started training caregivers so that they can receive the skills and the stipends that they need to care for their loved ones. <p>We're working aggressively to address another signature wound of this war, which has led to too many fine troops and veterans to take their own lives, and that's posttraumatic stress disorder. We're continuing to make major investments: improving outreach and suicide prevention, hiring and training more mental health counselors, and treating more veterans than ever before. <p>The days when depression and PTSD were stigmatized, those days must end. That's why I made the decision to start sending condolence letters to the families of servicemembers who take their lives while deployed in a combat zone. These Americans did not die because they were weak. They were warriors. They deserve our respect. Every man and woman in uniform, every veteran, needs to know that your Nation will be there to help you stay strong. It's the right thing to do. <p>In recent months, we've heard new reports of some of our veterans not getting the prompt mental health care that they desperately need, and that too is unacceptable. If a veteran has the courage to seek help, then we need to be doing everything in our power to deliver the life-saving mental care that they need. So Secretary Shinseki and the VA are going to stay on this. And we'll continue to make it easier for veterans with posttraumatic stress to qualify for VA benefits, regardless of the war that you served in. If you served in a combat theater and a VA doctor confirms a diagnosis of PTSD, that's enough. <p>Which brings me to the final area where America must meet its obligations to our veterans, and this is a place where we need each other, and that's the task of renewing our Nation's economic strength. After a decade of war, it's time to focus on nation-building here at home. And our veterans, especially our 9/11 veterans, have the skills and the dedication to help lead the way. <p>That's why we're funding the post-9/11 G.I. bill, which is now helping more than 500,000 veterans and family members go to college, get their degrees, and play their part in moving America forward. It's why this fall, we'll start including vocational training and apprenticeships as well, so veterans can develop the skills to succeed in today's economy. And that's why I've directed the Federal Government to hire more veterans, including more than 100,000 veterans in the past year and a half alone. <p>But in this tough economy, far too many of our veterans are still unemployed. That's why I've proposed a comprehensive initiative to make sure we're tapping the incredible talents of our veterans. And it's got two main parts. <p>First, we're going to do more to help our newest veterans find and get that private sector job. We're going to offer more help with career development and job searches. I've directed DOD and the VA to create what we're calling a reverse boot camp to help our newest veterans prepare for civilian jobs and translate their exceptional military skills into industry&mdash;into industry-accepted licenses and credentials. And today I'm calling on every State to pass legislation that makes it easier for our veterans to get the credentials and the jobs for which they are so clearly qualified. This needs to happen, and it needs to happen now. <p>Second, we're encouraging the private sector to do its part. So I've challenged companies across America to hire or train 100,000 unemployed veterans or their spouses. And this builds on the commitments that many companies have already made as part of the Joining Forces campaign championed by the First Lady and the Vice President's spouse, Dr. Jill Biden: 100,000 jobs for veterans and spouses. And to get this done, I've proposed a returning heroes tax credit for companies that hire unemployed veterans and a wounded warrior tax credit for companies that hire unemployed veterans with a disability. <p>When Congress returns from recess, this needs to be at the top of their agenda. For the sake of our veterans, for the sake of our economy, we need these veterans working and contributing and creating the new jobs and industries that will keep America competitive in the 21st century. <p>These are the obligations we have to each other: our forces, our veterans, our citizens. These are the responsibilities we must fulfill. Not just when it's easy, not just when we're flush with cash, not just when it's convenient, but always. <p>That's a lesson we learned again this year in the life and in the passing of Frank Buckles, our last veteran from the First World War. He passed away at the age of 110. Think about it. Frank lived the American Century. An ambulance driver on the Western Front, he bore witness to the carnage of the trenches in Europe. Then during the Second World War, he survived more than 3 years in Japanese prisoner-of-war camps. Then, like so many veterans, he came home, went to school, pursued a career, started a family, lived a good life on his farm in West Virginia. <p>Even in his later years, after turning 100, Frank Buckles still gave back to his country. He'd go speak to schoolchildren about his extraordinary life. He'd meet and inspire other veterans. And for 80 years, he served as a proud member of the American Legion. <p>The day he was laid to rest, I ordered the flags be flown at halfstaff at the White House, at the Government buildings across the Nation, at our Embassies around the world. As Frank Buckles lay in honor at Arlington's Memorial Chapel, hundreds passed by his flag-draped casket in quiet procession. Most were strangers who never knew him, but they knew the story of his service, and they felt compelled to offer their thanks to this American soldier. <p>And that afternoon, I had the privilege of going over to Arlington and spending a few moments with Frank's daughter Susannah, who cared for her father to the very end. And it was a chance for me to convey the gratitude of an entire nation and to pay my respects to an American who reflected the best of who we are as a people. <p>And Legionnaires, it was a reminder, not just to the family and friends of Corporal Frank Buckles, but to the veterans and families of every generation: No matter when you serve, no matter how many years ago that you took off the uniform, no matter how long you live as a proud veteran of this country we love, America will never leave your side. America will never forget. We will always be grateful to you. <p>God bless you, God bless all our veterans, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"187" "\"Good morning, everybody. Please have a seat. I want to say a few words about an issue that affects thousands of American workers, as well as millions of Americans who drive on our Nation's roads and bridges every single day. <p>At the end of September, if Congress doesn't act, the transportation bill will expire. This bill provides funding for highway construction, bridge repair, mass transit systems, and other essential projects that keep our people and our commerce moving quickly and safely. And for construction workers and their families across the country, it represents the difference between making ends meet or not making ends meet. <p>If we allow the transportation bill to expire, over 4,000 workers will be immediately furloughed without pay. If it's delayed for just 10 days, it will lose nearly $1 billion in highway funding. That's money we can never get back. And if it's delayed even longer, almost 1 million workers could lose their jobs over the course of the next year. <p>That includes some of the folks behind me today. We've got Adam Vencill and Chris Negley, who are with the Federal Highway Administration [White House correction; KCI Technologies]. We've got Hector Sealey and Austin Anderson, who work for the Fort Myers Construction Company [White House correction; Fort Myer Construction Corporation]. If we don't extend this bill by the end of September, all of them will be out of a job, just because of politics in Washington. <p>And that's just not acceptable; that's inexcusable. It's inexcusable to put more jobs at risk in an industry that's already been one of the hardest hit over the last decade. It's inexcusable to cut off necessary investments at a time when so many of our highways are choked with congestion, when so many of our bridges are in need of repair, when so many commuters depend on reliable public transit, and when travel and shipping delays cost businesses billions of dollars every single year. <p>Now, if this story sounds familiar, that's because we've heard it before. Just a few weeks ago, Congress refused to act on another bill, typically a routine bill, that would have ended up pulling thousands of aviation workers off the job and delaying necessary airport improvement projects across the country. And when Congress finally got their act together, they only funded the FAA until September 16. That's why, when they come back next month, not only do they need to pass the transportation bill, but they've also got to pass a clean extension of that FAA bill&mdash;for longer this time&mdash;and address back pay for the workers who were laid off during the last shutdown. <p>At a time when a lot of people in Washington are talking about creating jobs, it's time to stop the political gamesmanship that can actually cost us hundreds of thousands of jobs. This should not be a Democratic issue or a Republican issue. This transportation bill has been renewed seven times in the last 2 years alone. That's why my Secretary of Transportation, Ray LaHood, a Republican, is with me today, along with David Chavern from the Chamber of Commerce and Rich Trumka of the AFL-CIO&mdash;two organizations who don't always see eye to eye on things&mdash;because they agree on how important it is for our economy that Congress act now. <p>So I'm calling on Congress, as soon as they come back, to pass a clean extension of the surface transportation bill, along with a clean extension of the FAA bill, to give workers and communities across America the confidence that vital construction projects won't come to a halt. <p>After that's done, I'm also proposing that we reform the way transportation money is invested to eliminate waste, to give States more control over the projects that are right for them, and to make sure that we're getting better results for the money that we spend. We need to stop funding projects based on whose districts they're in and start funding them based on how much good they're going to be doing for the American people. No more bridges to nowhere. No more projects that are simply funded because of somebody pulling strings. And we need to do this all in a way that gets the private sector more involved. That's how we're going to put construction workers back to work right now doing the work that America needs done, not just to boost our economy this year, but for the next 20 years. <p>Finally, in keeping with a recommendation from my jobs council, today I'm directing certain Federal agencies to identify high-priority infrastructure projects that can put people back to work. And these projects&mdash;these are projects that are already funded, and with some focused attention, we could expedite the permitting decisions and reviews necessary to get construction underway more quickly while still protecting safety, public health, and the environment. <p>Tomorrow in Dallas, my jobs council will meet with local jobs&mdash;local business owners and other folks about what we've done so far to rebuild our infrastructure and what we can do to make sure that America is moving even faster in getting people back to work. <p>That's what we're going to need to do in the short term: keep people on the job, keep vital projects moving forward, fund projects that are already underway in a smarter way. Of course, if we're honest, we also know that when it comes to our Nation's infrastructure&mdash;our roads, our railways, mass transit, airports&mdash;we shouldn't just be playing patch-up or catch-up, we should be leading the world. Ten years ago, our Nation's infrastructure was ranked 6th globally; today, it's 23d. We invest half as much in our infrastructure as we did 50 years ago, with more than one and a half the number of people. Everybody can see the consequences. <p>And that's unacceptable for a nation that's always dreamed big and built big, from transcontinental railroads to the Interstate Highway System. And it's unacceptable when countries like China are building high-speed rail networks and gleaming new airports while more than a million construction workers who could be doing the same thing are unemployed right here in America. <p>And so when Congress is back next week, in addition to passing these clean extensions to prevent any halt on existing work, we're going to have to have a serious conversation in this country about making real, lasting investments in our infrastructure, from better ports to a smarter electric grid, from high-speed Internet to high-speed rail. And at a time when interest rates are low and workers are unemployed, the best time to make those investments is right now, not once another levee fails or another bridge falls. Right now is when we need to be making these decisions. <p>Now is the time for Congress to extend the transportation bill, keep our workers on the job. Now is the time to put our country before party and to give certainty to the people who are just trying to get by. There is work to be done. There are workers ready to do it. And that's why I expect Congress to act immediately. <p>And to all the folks who are here on the stage, thank you for the outstanding work you're doing in helping to maintain our Nation's infrastructure. <p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"188" "\"At the end of September, if Congress doesn't act, funding for our roads and bridges will expire. This would put a stop to highway construction, bridge repair, mass transit systems, and other important projects that keep our country moving quickly and safely. And it would affect thousands of construction workers and their families who depend on the jobs created by these projects to make ends meet. <p>Now, usually, renewing this transportation bill is a no-brainer. In fact, Congress has renewed it seven times over the last 2 years. But thanks to political posturing in Washington, they haven't been able to extend it this time, and the clock's running out. <p>Allowing this bill to expire would be a disaster for our infrastructure and our economy. Right away, over 4,000 workers would be furloughed without pay. If it's delayed for just 10 days, we will lose nearly $1 billion in highway funding that we can never get back. And if we wait even longer, almost 1 million workers could be in danger of losing their jobs over the next year. <p>These are serious consequences, and the pain will be felt all across the country. In Virginia, 19,000 jobs are at risk; in Minnesota, more than 12,000; and in Florida, over 35,000 people could be out of work if Congress doesn't act. <p>That makes no sense, and it's completely avoidable. There's no reason to put more jobs at risk in an industry that has been one of the hardest hit in this recession. There's no reason to cut off funding for transportation projects at a time when so many of our roads are congested, so many of our bridges are in need of repair, and so many businesses are feeling the cost of delays. <p>This isn't a Democratic or a Republican issue, it's an American issue. That's why last week, I was joined at the White House by representatives from the AFL-CIO and the Chamber of Commerce, two groups who don't see eye to eye on much, but who agree that it's critically important for our economy that Congress act now. <p>That's also why 128 mayors from both parties wrote to Congress asking them to come together and pass a clean extension. These are local leaders who are on the ground every day and who know what would happen to their communities if Congress fails to act. <p>So I'm calling on Congress, as soon as they come back, to pass a clean extension of the transportation bill to keep workers on the job, keep critical projects moving forward, and to give folks a sense of security. <p>There's a lot of talk in Washington these days about creating jobs. But it doesn't help when those same folks turn around and risk losing hundreds of thousands of jobs just because of political gamesmanship. We need to pass this transportation bill and put people to work rebuilding America. We need to put our differences aside and do the right thing for our economy. And now is the time to act.\" "
"189" "\"<i>The President</i>. Thank you, Detroit. Thank you, Michigan. Oh, this is a&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>Audience members</i>. Four more years! <p><i>The President</i>. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. It is good to&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>Audience members</i>. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! <p><i>The President</i>. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! <p><i>The President</i>. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. I can tell Ghana got you fired up. Thank you, Ghana, for that introduction. Thank you all for having me. It is good to be back in Detroit. I'm glad I was able to bring a friend, a proud daughter of the Teamsters, your Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis, in the house. <p>We're thrilled to be joined by so many other friends. I want to acknowledge, first of all, two of the finest Senators in the country: Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow in the house; outstanding members of the congressional delegation: John Dingell, John Conyers, Sandy Levin, Gary Peters, and Hansen Clarke. <p>The president of the Metropolitan Detroit Central Labor Council, our host, Saundra Williams; AFL-CIO president, Rich Trumka; president of the Michigan AFL-CIO, Mark Gaffney; and some proud sons and daughters of Michigan representing working people here and across the country: SEIU President Mary Kay Henry, Teamsters President Jimmy Hoffa, UAW President Bob King, Utility Workers President Mike Langford. We are proud of them, and we're proud of your congressional delegation, who are working every single day with your State and local elected officials to create jobs and economic growth and prosperity here in Michigan and all across the country. <p>I am honored, we are honored, to spend this day with you and your families, the working men and women of America. This day belongs to you. You deserve a little R&R, a little barbecue&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;little grilling&mdash;because you've been working hard. You've been working hard to make ends meet. You've been working hard to build a better life for your kids. You've been working hard to build a better Detroit. But that's not all I'm going to talk to you about. <p>I also want to talk about the work you've been doing for decades: work to make sure that folks get an honest day's pay for an honest day's work; work to make sure that families get a fair shake. The work you've done that helped build the greatest middle class the world has ever known. I'm talking about the work that got us a 40-hour workweek and weekends, and paid leave and pensions, and the minimum wage and health insurance, and Social Security and Medicare, the cornerstones of middle class security. That's because of your work. <p>If you want to know who helped lay these cornerstones of an American middle class you just have to look for the union label. <p>That's the bedrock this country is built on: hard work; responsibility; sacrifice; looking out for one another; giving everybody a shot, everybody a chance to share in America's prosperity, from the factory floor to the boardroom. That's what unions are all about. <p>And that's something that's worth keeping in mind today. We've come through a difficult decade in which those values were all too often given short shrift. We've gone through a decade where wealth was valued over work and greed was valued over responsibility. And the decks were too often stacked against ordinary folks in favor of the special interests. And everywhere I went while I was running for this office, I met folks who felt their economic security slipping away, men and women who were fighting harder and harder just to stay afloat. And that was even before the economic crisis hit, and that just made things even harder. <p>So these are tough times for working Americans. They're even tougher for Americans who are looking for work, and a lot of them have been looking for work for a long time. A lot of folks have been looking for work for a long time here in Detroit and all across Michigan and all across the Midwest and all across the country. So we've got a lot more work to do to recover fully from this recession. <p>But I'm not satisfied just to get back to where we were before the recession; we've got to fully restore the middle class in America. And America cannot have a strong, growing economy without a strong, growing middle class and without a strong labor movement. <p>That's the central challenge that we face in our country today. That's at the core of why I ran for President. That's what I've been fighting for since I've been President. Everything we've done, it's been thinking about you. We said working folks deserved a break. So within 1 month of me taking office, we signed into law the biggest middle class tax cut in history, putting more money into your pockets. <p>We said working folks shouldn't be taken advantage of, so we passed tough financial reform that ended the days of taxpayer bailouts and stopped credit card companies from gouging you with hidden fees and unfair rate hikes and set up a new consumer protection agency with one responsibility: sticking up for you. <p>We said that if you're going to work hard all day to provide a better life for your kids, then we're going to make sure that those kids get the best education possible. So we helped keep teachers on the job. We're reforming our public schools, and we're investing in community colleges and job training programs. And we ended wasteful giveaways that went to the big banks and used the savings to make college more affordable for millions of your kids. <p>We said that every family in America should have affordable, accessible health care. We said you shouldn't be discriminated against because you've got a preexisting condition. We said young adults without insurance should be able to stay on their parents' plan. We got that done for you. <p>And here's what else we said, Detroit. We said that American autoworkers could once again build the best cars in the world. So we stood by the auto industry. And we made some tough choices that were necessary to make it succeed. And now the Big Three are turning a profit and hiring new workers and building the best cars in the world right here in Detroit, right here in the Midwest, right here in the United States of America. <p>I know it. I've seen it. I've been to GM's Hamtramck plant. I've been to Chrysler's Jefferson North plant. I've seen Detroit prove the cynics and the naysayers wrong. <p>We didn't just stop there. We said American workers could manufacture the best products in the world. So we invested in high-tech manufacturing, and we invested in clean energy. And right now, there's an advanced battery industry taking root here in Michigan that barely existed before. Half of the workers at one plant in Detroit were unemployed before a new battery company came to town. And we're growing our exports so that more of the world buys products that are stamped with three simple words: Made in America. <p>So that's what we're fighting for, Michigan. We're fighting for good jobs with good wages. We're fighting for health care when you get sick. We're fighting for a secure retirement even if you're not rich. We're fighting for the chance to give our kids a better life than we had. That's what we're doing to restore middle class security and rebuild this economy the American way, based on balance and fairness and the same set of rules for everybody from Wall Street to Main Street, an economy where hard work pays off, and gaming the system doesn't pay off, and everybody has got a shot at the American Dream. That's what we're fighting for. <p>On Thursday, we're going to lay out a new way forward on jobs to grow the economy and put more Americans back to work right now. I don't want to give everything away right here, because I want you all to tune in on Thursday, but I'll give you just a little bit. <p>We've got roads and bridges across this country that need rebuilding. We've got private companies with the equipment and the manpower to do the building. We've got more than 1 million unemployed construction workers ready to get dirty right now. There is work to be done, and there are workers ready to do it. Labor is on board. Business is on board. We just need Congress to get on board. Let's put America back to work. <p>Last year, we worked together, Republicans and Democrats, to pass a payroll tax cut. And because of that, this year the average family has an extra $1,000 in their pocket because of<i> </i>it. But that's going to expire in a few months if we don't come together to extend it. And I think putting money back in the pockets of working families is the best way to get demand rising, because that then means business is hiring, and that means the Government&mdash;that means that the economy is growing. <p>So I'm going to propose ways to put America back to work that both parties can agree to, because I still believe both parties can work together to solve our problems. And given the urgency of this moment, given the hardship that many people are facing, folks have got to get together. <p>But we're not going to wait for them. We're going to see if we've got some straight shooters in Congress. We're going to see if congressional Republicans will put country before party. We'll give them a plan, and then we'll say, do you want to create jobs? Then put our construction workers back to work rebuilding America. Do you want to help our companies succeed? Open up new markets for them to sell their products. You want&mdash;you say you're the party of tax cuts? Well then, prove you'll fight just as hard for tax cuts for middle class families as you do for oil companies and the most affluent Americans. Show us what you got. <p>The time for Washington games is over; the time for action is now. No more manufactured crises. No more games. Now is not the time for the people you sent to Washington to worry about their jobs, now is the time for them to worry about your jobs. <p>Now, let me say a word about labor in particular. Now, I know this is not going to be an easy time. I know it's not easy when there's some folks who have their sights trained on you. After all that unions have done to build and protect the middle class, you've got people trying to claim that you're responsible for the problems middle class folks are facing.<i> </i>You've got some Republicans saying you're the ones exploiting working families. Imagine that. <p>Now, the fact is, our economy is stronger when workers are getting paid good wages and good benefits. Our economy is stronger when we've got broad-based growth and broad-based prosperity. That's what unions have always been about: shared prosperity. <p>You know, I was on the plane flying over here, and Carl Levin was with me, and he showed me a speech that Harry Truman had given on Labor Day 63 years ago, right here in Detroit&mdash;63 years ago. And just to show that things haven't changed much, he talked about how Americans had voted in some folks into Congress who weren't very friendly to labor. And he pointed out that some working folks and even some union members voted these folks in. And now they were learning their lesson. And he pointed out that&mdash;and I'm quoting here&mdash;\\"the gains of labor were not accomplished at the expense of the rest of the Nation. Labor's gains contributed to the Nation's general prosperity.\\" <p>What was true in&mdash;back in 1948 is true in 2011. When working families are doing well, when they're getting a decent wage and they're getting decent benefits, that means they're good customers for businesses. That means they can buy the cars that you build. That means that you can buy the food from the farmers. That means you can buy from Silicon Valley, that you are creating prosperity when you share in prosperity. <p>So when I hear some of these folks trying to take collective bargaining rights away, trying to pass so-called \\"right to work\\" laws for private sector workers, that really means the right to work for less and less and less. When I hear some of this talk, I know this is not about economics, this is about politics. <p>And I want everybody here to know, as long as I'm in the White House I'm going to stand up for collective bargaining. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! <p><i>The President</i>. That's why we've reversed harmful decisions that were designed to undermine those rights. That's why we passed the Fair Pay Act to stop pay discrimination. That's why we appointed people who are actually fulfilling their responsibilities to make sure that the offices and factories and mine workers that clock in each day, that they're actually safe on the job. <p>And we're going to keep at it. Because having a voice on the job and a chance to organize and a chance to negotiate for a fair day's pay after a hard day's work, that is the right of every man and woman in America, not just the CEO in the corner office, but also the janitor who cleans that office after the CEO goes home. Everybody has got the same right. <p>And that's true for public employees as well. Look, the recession had a terrible effect on State and local budgets; we all understand that. Unions have recognized that; they've already made tough concessions. In the private sector, we live in a more competitive global economy. So unions like the UAW understand that workers have to work with management to revamp business models, to innovate so we can sell our products around the world. We understand that the world is changing; unions understand that the world is changing. Unions understand they need to help drive the change, whether it's on the factory floor or in the classroom or in the Government office. <p>But what unions also know is that the values at the core of the union movement, those don't change. Those are the values that have made this country great. That's what the folks trying to undermine your rights don't understand. When union workers agree to pay freezes and pay cuts, they're not doing it just to keep their jobs. They're doing it so that their fellow workers&mdash;their fellow Americans&mdash;can keep their jobs. <p>When teachers agree to reforms in how schools are run at the same time as they're digging into their pockets to buy school supplies for those kids, they do so because they believe every child can learn. They do it because they know something that those who seek to divide us don't understand: We are all in this together. That's why those crowds came out to support you in Madison and in Columbus. We are one Nation. We are one people. We will rise and we will fall together. <p>Anyone who doesn't believe it should come here to Detroit. It's like the commercial says: This is a city that's been to heck and back. And while there are a lot of challenges here, I see a city that's coming back. <p>You ask somebody here if times are tough, they'll say, \\"Yeah, it's tough, but we're tougher.\\" Look at what we're doing to overcome. Look at what we're doing to rebuild and reinvent and redefine what it means to live in this great city. Look at our parents who catch the first bus to work and our students who stay up late to earn a degree. Look at our workers on the line at Hamtramck and Jefferson North who are building the best cars in the world. Look at our artists who are revamping our city and our young people who are thinking up new ways to make a difference that we never dreamed of. Look how we look out for one another. <p>That's why we chose Detroit as one of the cities that we're helping revitalize in our Strong Cities, Strong Communities initiative. We're teaming up with everybody&mdash;mayors, local officials, you name it&mdash;boosting economic development, rebuilding your communities the best way, which is a way that involves you. Because despite all that's changed here, and all the work that lies ahead, this is still a city where men clocked into factories. This is the city that built the greatest middle class the world has ever known. This is the city where women rolled up their sleeves and helped build an arsenal for democracy to free the world. This is a city where the great American industry has come back to life and the industries of tomorrow are taking root. This is a city where people, brave and bold, courageous and clever, are dreaming up ways to prove the skeptics wrong and write the next proud chapter in our history. <p>That's why I wanted to be here with you today. Because for every cynic and every naysayer running around talking about how our best days are behind us, for everybody who keeps going around saying, \\"No we can't\\"&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes we can! <p><i>The President</i>. &mdash;&mdash;for everybody who can always find a reason why we can't rebuild America, I meet Americans every day who, in the face of impossible odds, they've got a different belief. They believe we can. You believe we can. <p>Yes, times are tough. But we've been through tough times before. I don't know about you, but I'm not scared of tough times. I'm not scared of tough times because I know we're going to be all marching together and walking together and working together and rebuilding together. And I know we don't quit. I know we don't give up our dreams and settle for something less. We roll up our sleeves, and we remember a fundamental truth of our history: We are strong when we are united. We're firing all cylinders. <p>The union movement is going to be at the center of it. And if all of you are committed to making sure that the person standing next to you, and their kids and their grandkids, that everybody in this city and everybody in this country can unleash his or her potential, if you work hard and play by the rules, you will get a fair shake and get a fair shot. That's the country I want for my kids. That's the country you want for your kids. That's the country we're going to build together. <p>Thank you very much, Detroit. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"190" "\"<i>The President</i>. Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. Have a seat. Welcome to the White House, and congratulations to Jimmie Johnson on winning his fifth straight Sprint Cup Championship. <p>Before we start, I do want to acknowledge some people who are here today. First of all, an outstanding American, somebody who's been a great friend and adviser to me, General Ray Odierno, the incoming Army Chief of Staff, is here. So please give him a big round of applause. We've got a host of Members of Congress. I'm not going to name them all, but they're all big NASCAR fans. They're right here in the front row. <p>Brian France the CEO of NASCAR, and his wife Amy couldn't make it here because of the storm. But I want to thank them for everything that they do. <p>It's great to welcome NASCAR back to Washington. It's great to have Number 48 parked outside. [<i>Laughter</i>] I was just telling these guys I'm not allowed to drive much these days&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;basically just my golf cart at Camp David, which is called Golf Cart One. [<i>Laughter</i>] True. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I will say that it's pretty tough to look at Number 48 and not want to jump in and take a few laps, although I'm sure Jimmie would not be happy if I was doing that. <p>The last time many of these drivers were here, Jimmie was celebrating his third straight championship. He's got a couple more titles under his belt now. But another big change in the Johnson house: He and Chandra are now parents of Genevieve Marie, who was born late July. So congratulations on that. <p>I told Jimmie you cannot beat daughters. And I know Jimmie is pretty excited to be a daddy. He whipped out, like, the iPhone with the pictures on it the minute I asked about it. [<i>Laughter</i>] I hear that he is in charge of taking Genevieve Marie to music class. And because of his unique work schedule, Jimmie is usually the only dad there, so&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]. But that's a good sign of being a good dad. <p>So Jimmie's got a lot to be proud of. And that's especially true when you think of what it means to win five championships in a row. NASCAR is a sport where anything that can go wrong will go wrong at some point during the season&mdash;similar to being President. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's true even for the best drivers. And with so much extraordinary talent that is going bumper-to-bumper in every race, just making the Chase is hard enough, let alone winning the whole thing. <p>And that's why Jimmie is not just one of the best drivers of all time, he's up there with some of the great sports dynasties. If you think about it, the&mdash;only the Boston Celtics, the Yankees, and the Canadiens have ever won more than four titles in a row. And now Jimmie's breathing down the necks of Dale Earnhardt and Richard Petty for the most NASCAR titles ever, which is not bad for the son of a machine operator and a school bus driver who still has plenty of seasons ahead of him. <p>Jimmie's talent has been to make a very difficult, demanding sport look easy. But this year, the Number 48 team also showed its toughness. They entered the last race of the Chase trailing and ended up pulling off an extraordinary comeback. <p>And if you ask Jimmie, he'll give credit to that team, led by owner Rick Hendrick and crew chief Chad Knaus, who couldn't be here today. We also need to give credit, though, to the other Chase drivers up here who want Jimmie to know that the second he makes a mistake, they will be ready to knock him out of the victory lane. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I did observe that lately there's been some trash-talking in NASCAR. [<i>Laughter</i>] I was&mdash;I thought I was watching WWF. [<i>Laughter</i>] But that's good. You got to have a little feistiness, and these guys are extraordinary competitors. And that's what makes this sport so exciting to watch, because everything can come down to just one race, one pit stop, one split-second decision. <p>Now, what also makes NASCAR special is the difference that it makes in the lives of so many people, especially our troops and their families. And I personally thanked all these guys for what they've been doing on behalf of military families, who are obviously huge fans of NASCAR. <p>Last month, the drivers and staff toured Walter Reed hospital, served dinner to 400 wounded warriors and their loved ones. NASCAR has been a huge supporter of the Joining Forces program that Michelle and Dr. Jill Biden have set up to support military families. This morning, Jimmie made a special visit to the Pentagon to spend time with folks over there. And later this week, NASCAR will be honoring our military and first-responders again in Richmond the night before the anniversary of 9/11. <p>So I want to congratulate Jimmie. I want to congratulate all the drivers who are on the stage for their extraordinary success, for the success of NASCAR, and for everything that they do for our country. <p>Good luck heading into this year's Chase, everybody. We will all be watching. <p>So thank you very much. And I think&mdash;Jimmie, do you want to&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>Jimmie Johnson.</i> Yes. <p><i>The President.</i>&mdash;&mdash;tell me what you got here? <p><i>Mr. Johnson</i>. Absolutely. Well, first of all, thank you for having us here. We all greatly appreciate it. And on behalf of myself and our race team, the Lowe's Hendrick Motorsports team, we have some gloves here that were worn in Las Vegas when I won. I wanted to present them to go&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>The President</i>. That's pretty sharp. <p><i>Mr. Johnson</i>. &mdash;&mdash;with the helmet we gave to you last time we were here. <p><i>The President</i>. I will wear the helmet and the gloves&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;when I'm&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>Mr. Johnson</i>. Halloween? <p><i>The President</i>. &mdash;&mdash;driving&mdash;no, \\"Golf Cart One.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Mr. Johnson</i>. Fantastic. <p><i>The President.</i> Absolutely. <p><i>Mr. Johnson.</i> Be safe.\" "
"191" "\"Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of Congress, and fellow Americans: Tonight we meet at an urgent time for our country. We continue to face an economic crisis that has left millions of our neighbors jobless and a political crisis that's made things worse. <p>This past week, reporters have been asking, \\"What will this speech mean for the President? What will it mean for Congress? How will it affect their polls and the next election?\\" <p>But the millions of Americans who are watching right now, they don't care about politics. They have real-life concerns. Many have spent months looking for work. Others are doing their best just to scrape by: giving up nights out with the family to save on gas or make the mortgage, postponing retirement to send a kid to college. <p>These men and women grew up with faith in an America where hard work and responsibility paid off. They believed in a country where everyone gets a fair shake and does their fair share, where if you stepped up, did your job, and were loyal to your company, that loyalty would be rewarded with a decent salary and good benefits, maybe a raise once in a while. If you did the right thing, you could make it. Anybody could make it in America. <p>For decades now, Americans have watched that compact erode. They have seen the decks too often stacked against them. And they know that Washington has not always put their interests first. <p>The people of this country work hard to meet their responsibilities. The question tonight is whether we'll meet ours. The question is whether, in the face of an ongoing national crisis, we can stop the political circus and actually do something to help the economy. The question is whether we can restore some of the fairness and security that has defined this Nation since our beginning. <p>Those of us here tonight can't solve all our Nation's woes. Ultimately, our recovery will be driven not by Washington, but by our businesses and our workers. But we can help. We can make a difference. There are steps we can take right now to improve people's lives. <p>I am sending this Congress a plan that you should pass right away. It's called the \\"American Jobs Act\\". There should be nothing controversial about this piece of legislation. Everything in here is the kind of proposal that's been supported by both Democrats and Republicans, including many who sit here tonight. And everything in this bill will be paid for&mdash;everything. <p>The purpose of the \\"American Jobs Act\\" is simple: to put more people back to work and more money in the pockets of those who are working. It will create more jobs for construction workers, more jobs for teachers, more jobs for veterans, and more jobs for long-term unemployed. It will provide a tax break for companies who hire new workers, and it will cut payroll taxes in half for every working American and every small business. It will provide a jolt to an economy that has stalled and give companies confidence that if they invest and if they hire, there will be customers for their products and services. You should pass this jobs plan right away. <p>Everyone here knows that small businesses are where most new jobs begin. And you know that while corporate profits have come roaring back, smaller companies haven't. So for everyone who speaks so passionately about making life easier for \\"job creators,\\" this plan is for you. <p>Pass this jobs bill &mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;pass this jobs bill, and starting tomorrow, small businesses will get a tax cut if they hire new workers or if they raise workers' wages. Pass this jobs bill, and all small-business owners will also see their payroll taxes cut in half next year. If you have 50 employees making an average salary, that's an $80,000 tax cut. And all businesses will be able to continue writing off the investments they make in 2012. <p>It's not just Democrats who have supported this kind of proposal. Fifty House Republicans have proposed the same payroll tax cut that's in this plan. You should pass it right away. <p>Pass this jobs bill, and we can put people to work rebuilding America. Everyone here knows we have badly decaying roads and bridges all over the country. Our highways are clogged with traffic. Our skies are the most congested in the world. It's an outrage. <p>Building a world-class transportation system is part of what made us a economic superpower. And now we're going to sit back and watch China build newer airports and faster railroads, at a time when millions of unemployed construction workers could build them right here in America? <p>There are private construction companies all across America just waiting to get to work. There's a bridge that needs repair between Ohio and Kentucky that's on one of the busiest trucking routes in North America. A public transit project in Houston that will help clear up one of the worst areas of traffic in the country. And there are schools throughout this country that desperately need renovating. How can we expect our kids to do their best in places that are literally falling apart? This is America. Every child deserves a great school. And we can give it to them if we act now. <p>The \\"American Jobs Act\\" will repair and modernize at least 35,000 schools. It will put people to work right now fixing roofs and windows, installing science labs and high-speed Internet in classrooms all across this country. It will rehabilitate homes and businesses in communities hit hardest by foreclosures. It will jump-start thousands of transportation projects all across the country. And to make sure the money is properly spent, we're building on reforms we've already put in place. No more earmarks. No more boondoggles. No more bridges to nowhere. We're cutting the redtape that prevents some of these projects from getting started as quickly as possible. And we'll set up an independent fund to attract private dollars and issue loans based on two criteria: how badly a construction project is needed and how much good it will do for the economy. <p>This idea came from a bill written by a Texas Republican and a Massachusetts Democrat. The idea for a big boost in construction is supported by America's largest business organization and America's largest labor organization. It's the kind of proposal that's been supported in the past by Democrats and Republicans alike. You should pass it right away. <p>Pass this jobs bill, and thousands of teachers in every State will go back to work. These are the men and women charged with preparing our children for a world where the competition has never been tougher. But while they're adding teachers in places like South Korea, we're laying them off in droves. It's unfair to our kids. It undermines their future and ours. And it has to stop. Pass this bill, and put our teachers back in the classroom where they belong. <p>Pass this jobs bill, and companies will get extra tax credits if they hire America's veterans. We ask these men and women to leave their careers, leave their families, risk their lives to fight for our country. The last thing they should have to do is fight for a job when they come home. <p>Pass this bill, and hundreds of thousands of disadvantaged young people will have the hope and the dignity of a summer job next year. And their parents, low-income Americans who desperately want to work, will have more ladders out of poverty. <p>Pass this jobs bill, and companies will get a $4,000 tax credit if they hire anyone who has spent more than 6 months looking for a job. We have to do more to help the long-term unemployed in their search for work. This jobs plan builds on a program in Georgia that several Republican leaders have highlighted, where people who collect unemployment insurance participate in temporary work as a way to build their skills while they look for a permanent job. The plan also extends unemployment insurance for another year. If the millions of unemployed Americans stopped getting this insurance and stopped using that money for basic necessities, it would be a devastating blow to this economy. Democrats and Republicans in this chamber have supported unemployment insurance plenty of times in the past. And in this time of prolonged hardship, you should pass it again right away. <p>Pass this jobs bill, and the typical working family will get a $1,500 tax cut next year. Fifteen hundred dollars that would have been taken out of your pocket will go into your pocket. This expands on the tax cut that Democrats and Republicans already passed for this year. If we allow that tax cut to expire&mdash;if we refuse to act&mdash;middle class families will get hit with a tax increase at the worst possible time. We can't let that happen. I know that some of you have sworn oaths to never raise any taxes on anyone for as long as you live. Now is not the time to carve out an exception and raise middle class taxes, which is why you should pass this bill right away. <p>This is the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" It will lead to new jobs for construction workers, for teachers, for veterans, for first-responders, young people and the long-term unemployed. It will provide tax credits to companies that hire new workers, tax relief to small-business owners, and tax cuts for the middle class. <p>And here's the other thing I want the American people to know: The \\"American Jobs Act\\" will not add to the deficit. It will be paid for. And here's how: The agreement we passed in July will cut Government spending by about $1 trillion over the next 10 years. It also charges this Congress to come up with an additional $1.5 trillion in savings by Christmas. Tonight I am asking you to increase that amount so that it covers the full cost of the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" And a week from Monday, I'll be releasing a more ambitious deficit plan, a plan that will not only cover the cost of this jobs bill, but stabilize our debt in the long run. <p>This approach is basically the one I've been advocating for months. In addition to the trillion dollars of spending cuts I've already signed into law, it's a balanced plan that would reduce the deficit by making additional spending cuts, by making modest adjustments to health care programs like Medicare and Medicaid, and by reforming our Tax Code in a way that asks the wealthiest Americans and biggest corporations to pay their fair share. What's more, the spending cuts wouldn't happen so abruptly that they'd be a drag on our economy or prevent us from helping small businesses and middle class families get back on their feet right away. <p>Now, I realize there are some in my party who don't think we should make any changes at all to Medicare and Medicaid, and I understand their concerns. But here's the truth: Millions of Americans rely on Medicare in their retirement, and millions more will do so in the future. They pay for this benefit during their working years. They earn it. But with an aging population and rising health care costs, we are spending too fast to sustain the program. And if we don't gradually reform the system while protecting current beneficiaries, it won't be there when future retirees need it. We have to reform Medicare to strengthen it. <p>I am also well aware that there are many Republicans who don't believe we should raise taxes on those who are most fortunate and can best afford it. But here is what every American knows: While most people in this country struggle to make ends meet, a few of the most affluent citizens and most profitable corporations enjoy tax breaks and loopholes that nobody else gets. Right now Warren Buffett pays a lower tax rate than his secretary, an outrage he has asked us to fix. [<i>Laughter</i>] We need a Tax Code where everyone gets a fair shake and where everybody pays their fair share. And by the way, I believe the vast majority of wealthy Americans and CEOs are willing to do just that if it helps the economy grow and gets our fiscal house in order. <p>I'll also offer ideas to reform a corporate Tax Code that stands as a monument to special interest influence in Washington. By eliminating pages of loopholes and deductions, we can lower one of the highest corporate tax rates in the world. Our Tax Code should not give an advantage to companies that can afford the best connected lobbyists. It should give an advantage to companies that invest and create jobs right here in the United States of America. <p>So we can reduce this deficit, pay down our debt, and pay for this jobs plan in the process. But in order to do this, we have to decide what our priorities are. We have to ask ourselves, \\"What's the best way to grow the economy and create jobs?\\" <p>Should we keep tax loopholes for oil companies, or should we use that money to give small-business owners a tax credit when they hire new workers? Because we can't afford to do both. Should we keep tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires, or should we put teachers back to work so our kids can graduate ready for college and good jobs? Right now we can't afford to do both. <p>This isn't political grandstanding. This isn't class warfare. This is simple math. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is simple math. These are real choices. These are real choices that we've got to make. And I'm pretty sure I know what most Americans would choose. It's not even close. And it's time for us to do what's right for our future. <p>Now, the \\"American Jobs Act\\" answers the urgent need to create jobs right away. But we can't stop there. As I've argued since I ran for this office, we have to look beyond the immediate crisis and start building an economy that lasts into the future, an economy that creates good, middle class jobs that pay well and offer security. We now live in a world where technology has made it possible for companies to take their business anywhere. If we want them to start here and stay here and hire here, we have to be able to out-build and out-educate and out-innovate every other country on Earth. <p>And this task of making America more competitive for the long haul, that's a job for all of us, for Government and for private companies, for States and for local communities, and for every American citizen. All of us will have to up our game. All of us will have to change the way we do business. <p>My administration can and will take some steps to improve our competitiveness on our own. For example, if you're a small-business owner who has a contract with the Federal Government, we're going to make sure you get paid a lot faster than you do right now. We're also planning to cut away the redtape that prevents too many rapidly growing startup companies from raising capital and going public. And to help responsible homeowners, we're going to work with Federal housing agencies to help more people refinance their mortgages at interest rates that are now near 4 percent. That's a step&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;I know you guys must be for this, because that's a step that can put more than $2,000 a year in a family's pocket and give a lift to an economy still burdened by the drop in housing prices. <p>So some things we can do on our own. Other steps will require congressional action. Today you passed reform that will speed up the outdated patent process, so that entrepreneurs can turn a new idea into a new business as quickly as possible. That's the kind of action we need. Now it's time to clear the way for a series of trade agreements that would make it easier for American companies to sell their products in Panama and Colombia and South Korea, while also helping the workers whose jobs have been affected by global competition. If Americans can buy Kias and Hyundais, I want to see folks in South Korea driving Fords and Chevys and Chryslers. I want to see more products sold around the world stamped with the three proud words: Made in America. That's what we need to get done. <p>And on all of our efforts to strengthen competitiveness, we need to look for ways to work side by side with America's businesses. That's why I've brought together a jobs council of leaders from different industries who are developing a wide range of new ideas to help companies grow and create jobs. <p>Already, we've mobilized business leaders to train 10,000 American engineers a year, by providing company internships and training. Other businesses are covering tuition for workers who learn new skills at community colleges. And we're going to make sure the next generation of manufacturing takes root not in China or Europe, but right here in the United States of America. If we provide the right incentives, the right support&mdash;and if we make sure our trading partners play by the rules&mdash;we can be the ones to build everything from fuel-efficient cars to advanced biofuels to semiconductors that we sell all around the world. That's how America can be number one again. And that's how America will be number one again. <p>Now, I realize that some of you have a different theory on how to grow the economy. Some of you sincerely believe that the only solution to our economic challenges is to simply cut most Government spending and eliminate most Government regulations. <p>Well, I agree that we can't afford wasteful spending, and I'll work with you, with Congress, to root it out. And I agree that there are some rules and regulations that do put an unnecessary burden on businesses at a time when they can least afford it. That's why I ordered a review of all Government regulations. So far, we've identified over 500 reforms, which will save billions of dollars over the next few years. We should have no more regulation than the health, safety, and security of the American people require. Every rule should meet that commonsense test. <p>But what we can't do&mdash;what I will not do&mdash;is let this economic crisis be used as an excuse to wipe out the basic protections that Americans have counted on for decades. I reject the idea that we need to ask people to choose between their jobs and their safety. I reject the argument that says for the economy to grow, we have to roll back protections that ban hidden fees by credit card companies, or rules that keep our kids from being exposed to mercury, or laws that prevent the health insurance industry from shortchanging patients. I reject the idea that we have to strip away collective bargaining rights to compete in a global economy. We shouldn't be in a race to the bottom, where we try to offer the cheapest labor and the worst pollution standards. America should be in a race to the top. And I believe we can win that race. <p>In fact, this larger notion that the only thing we can do to restore prosperity is just dismantle Government, refund everybody's money, and let everyone write their own rules, and tell everyone they're on their own, that's not who we are. That's not the story of America. <p>Yes, we are rugged individualists. Yes, we are strong and self-reliant. And it has been the drive and initiative of our workers and entrepreneurs that has made this economy the engine and the envy of the world. But there's always been another thread running throughout our history, a belief that we're all connected and that there are some things we can only do together as a nation. <p>We all remember Abraham Lincoln as the leader who saved our Union, founder of the Republican Party. But in the middle of a civil war, he was also a leader who looked to the future; a Republican President who mobilized Government to build the transcontinental railroad, launch the National Academy of Sciences, set up the first land grant colleges. And leaders of both parties have followed the example he set. <p>Ask yourselves: Where would we be right now if the people who sat here before us decided not to build our highways, not to build our bridges, our dams, our airports? What would this country be like if we had chosen not to spend money on public high schools or research universities or community colleges? Millions of returning heroes, including my grandfather, had the opportunity to go to school because of the GI bill. Where would we be if they hadn't had that chance? <p>How many jobs would it have cost us if past Congresses decided not to support the basic research that led to the Internet and the computer chip? What kind of country would this be if this Chamber had voted down Social Security or Medicare just because it violated some rigid idea about what government could or could not do? How many Americans would have suffered as a result? <p>No single individual built America on their own. We built it together. We have been and always will be one Nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all; a nation with responsibilities to ourselves and with responsibilities to one another. And Members of Congress, it is time for us to meet our responsibilities. <p>Every proposal I've laid out tonight is the kind that's been supported by Democrats and Republicans in the past. Every proposal I've laid out tonight will be paid for. And every proposal is designed to meet the urgent needs of our people and our communities. <p>Now, I know there's been a lot of skepticism about whether the politics of the moment will allow us to pass this jobs plan or any jobs plan. Already, we're seeing the same old press releases and tweets flying back and forth. Already, the media has proclaimed that it's impossible to bridge our differences. And maybe some of you have decided that those differences are so great that we can only resolve them at the ballot box. <p>But know this: The next election is 14 months away. And the people who sent us here&mdash;the people who hired us to work for them&mdash;they don't have the luxury of waiting 14 months. Some of them are living week to week, paycheck to paycheck, even day to day. They need help, and they need it now. <p>I don't pretend that this plan will solve all our problems. It should not be, nor will it be, the last plan of action we propose. What's guided us from the start of this crisis hasn't been the search for a silver bullet. It's been a commitment to stay at it&mdash;to be persistent&mdash;to keep trying every new idea that works and listen to every good proposal, no matter which party comes up with it. <p>Regardless of the arguments we've had in the past, regardless of the arguments we will have in the future, this plan is the right thing to do right now. You should pass it. And I intend to take that message to every corner of this country. And I ask every American who agrees to lift your voice: Tell the people who are gathered here tonight that you want action now. Tell Washington that doing nothing is not an option. Remind us that if we act as one Nation and one people, we have it within our power to meet this challenge. <p>President Kennedy once said: \\"Our problems are manmade, therefore they can be solved by man. And man can be as big as he wants.\\" <p>These are difficult years for our country. But we are Americans. We are tougher than the times we live in, and we are bigger than our politics have been. So let's meet the moment. Let's get to work, and let's show the world once again why the United States of America remains the greatest nation on Earth. <p>Thank you very much. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"192" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, Richmond! Thank you. Thank you, Richmond. Well, it is good to be in Richmond, Virginia. Thank you, Nigel, for that outstanding introduction. Give Nigel a big round of applause. <p>Everybody is a special guest, but there are a few people I want to acknowledge: First of all, the outstanding president of the University of Richmond, Ed Ayers; the mayor of Richmond, Dwight Jones, is in the house; former Governor of Virginia, and one of my greatest friends, the first person to endorse me outside of Illinois, my home State&mdash;right here in Richmond, Virginia&mdash;Tim Kaine; and his lovely wife Anne, who I love more. And another history maker and outstanding former Governor, Doug Wilder is in the house. <p>Now&mdash;you guys can sit down, by the way, if you want. [<i>Laughter</i>] But you don't have seats&mdash;don't&mdash;you guys don't sit down. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It is good to be here in Virginia, first of all, because the sun is out. I have not seen sun in about 5 days. So it was nice to remember what that's like. It is always nice to get out of Washington once in a while, be with the American people. And I have great memories of Richmond, and I have wonderful feelings about the Commonwealth of Virginia. The people here, I just think, have an innate optimism and a can-do spirit that is typical of this country. <p><i>Audience member</i>. We love you! <p><i>The President</i>. Well, I love you too. [<i>Applause</i>] I love you too. <p>So it's good to get some fresh air. It's good to get some fresh perspective. I'm grateful to spend some time with you. Because, obviously, we're going through a difficult time in this country, and I know you folks are as frustrated as I am about the economy. I know you're also frustrated not just about our economic conditions, but also what's happening in Washington. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Amen! <p><i>The President</i>. Tim, I got an \\"amen\\" there. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>You have every right to be frustrated. Here in Virginia, here in Richmond, people don't have time for political concerns. You've got real-life concerns. You may be looking for a job, or you know somebody who's looking for a job. <p><i>Audience member</i>. We still love you, Barack! <p><i>The President</i>. I love you back. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>You make sacrifices to make ends meet. You work hard to meet your responsibilities. You expect the people you send to Washington to do the same thing, to meet their responsibilities. You expect, in a time of crisis, that everybody stops the political circus and actually do something to help people, to help the economy, to restore some security and opportunity, restore the American Dream, restore those things that made America the envy of the world. In other words, you expect action. And you deserve it right now. <p>And that's why, after a few scheduling issues, I went to Congress last night&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;to suggest new ways that we can grow the economy, help businesses, and put more of our fellow Americans back to work. It's called the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" Next week, I will send it to Congress. They should pass it right away. <p>Now, everything in the \\"American Jobs Act\\"&mdash;everything in there&mdash;is the kind of proposal that's been supported in the past by both Democrats and Republicans&mdash;nothing radical in this bill. Everything in it will put more people back to work and more money back into the pockets of those who are working. Everything in it will be paid for. <p>But the reason I'm here in Richmond is because, to make it happen, every one of your voices can make a difference. Every one of your voices will have an impact. <p>Now, I'm going to talk about the politics in a second, but let me, right now, just talk about what's in the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" It will create more jobs for construction workers, more jobs for teachers, more jobs for veterans, more jobs for young people, more jobs for the long-term unemployed. It will provide a tax break to companies if they hire new workers. It will cut payroll taxes in half for every small-business owner and every working American. It will jump-start an economy that has stalled, and it will give companies the confidence that, if they hire new workers and they invest in their businesses, then there are going to be customers there who can afford to actually buy the things they're selling. <p>Passing this jobs bill will put people to work rebuilding our crumbling roads and our crumbling bridges. And it will also help us rebuild our schools. I just&mdash;in the back, I was taking some photos with folks who had helped out to organize this event, and there was a young lady who is a teacher. And she said: \\"I heard your speech last night. I really appreciate it. I'm teaching eighth grade English, and I teach in a trailer.\\" We shouldn't have people teaching in trailers. We shouldn't have kids learning in trailers. They should have classrooms with Internet and science labs. <p>So you've got aging bridges on I-95, need to replace them. You've got schools like Nigel's that need to be upgraded. There are millions of unemployed construction workers across America ready to put on their tool belt and get dirty. I don't know about you, I don't want the newest airports, the fastest railroads, to be built in China, I want them to build&mdash;I want them to be built right here in the Unites States of America. <p><i>Audience members</i>. USA! USA! USA! <p><i>The President</i>. I don't want any of our kids to study in subpar schools. I want all our kids to study in great schools. So there's work to be done; there are workers ready to do it. Let's pass this jobs bill right away. <p>Passing this jobs bill will put thousands of teachers in Virginia and across America back to work when we need them most. This is a new age. Everybody here knows that. You&mdash;if you want a good job, a good career, if we want America to succeed, then we've got to have the best trained, most highly skilled workers in the world. You've got places like South Korea that are adding teachers to prepare their kids for a global economy. We're laying off our teachers in droves. It's unfair to our kids. It undermines their future; it undermines our future. It has to stop. Let's pass this bill and put our teachers back in the classroom where they belong. <p>Passing this bill gives companies new tax credits to hire America's veterans. There are a lot of veterans here in Richmond and all across Virginia. We ask these men and women to leave their careers, or interrupt their careers, leave their families, risk their lives to fight for us. They come home, and they can't find a job? The last thing they should have to do is fight for a job when they come home. Pass this bill now and put these folks to work. <p>Pass this jobs bill, and we'll give small-business owners here in Richmond and here in Virginia a tax cut for hiring new workers, but also for raising workers' wages. Cut their payroll taxes in half, that will give small businesses money they can use to hire more workers. <p>Pass this bill, and we give hundreds of thousands of disadvantaged youth the hope and the dignity of a summer job next year. And that instills in them good habits that will last a lifetime. It will make it easier for them to find a job in the future and to continue their education. <p>Passing this bill will give companies a tax credit for hiring anybody who has spent more than 6 months looking for work. And there are a lot of folks like that. This has been a terrible recession. And I get letters from folks, and they write to me about what it's like, month after month, writing letters, sending out resumes, knocking on doors. And folks get discouraged. And when they get discouraged, at some point they drop out of the labor force, and it's very hard for them, then, to get reattached. And you've got some employers now&mdash;if you've been out of work a long time, even if they're looking for a job&mdash;or even if they're looking to hire, a lot of times, they'll say, \\"Well, you've been out of work too long, I'm not sure we want to hire you,\\" which is not fair. It's not right. <p>So this bill will help people on unemployment insurance to do temporary work to build skills while looking for a full-time job. And we should extend unemployment insurance for another year. Not only is it the right thing to do for those families, but if we cut off unemployment insurance right now, that's money that millions of unemployed folks can't spend on their basic needs. So that money comes out of the economy. That means businesses have fewer customers, and the economy, for everybody, including those who have work, will shrink. That would be a big, unnecessary blow to this economy. <p>Passing this bill will give a typical working family a $1,500 tax cut next year. So this boosts the $1,000 tax cut that Democrats and Republicans already passed for this year. We can't allow that tax cut to expire. It would hit middle class families with a tax increase at the worst possible time. And some of you may have heard, I said to folks yesterday, especially my good Republican friends, I said, you guys have made pledges never to raise taxes on everybody ever again; you can't make an exception when the tax break is going to middle class people. <p>So this is the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" It will lead to new jobs for construction workers, teachers, veterans, young people, the long-term unemployed, provide tax credits for businesses and workers. And it will not add to the deficit; it will be paid for. <p>Look, we spent a whole summer fussing about the deficit. And it is legitimate for us to get a Government that is living within its means, just like families do. Now, Democrats and Republicans have already agreed to cut spending by about a trillion dollars over the next decade. They've agreed to identify another 1.5 trillion in savings by the end of the year. What I said last night is, let's go further. Let's be a little more ambitious. <p>I believe we need to do more to make sure that we can do&mdash;to boost jobs and growth in the short term and still bring down our debt in the long run. So 10 days from now, I'll release a more ambitious deficit reduction plan, and it will follow the balanced approach that I've been talking about for months. Yes, we need to cut wasteful spending. We're going to need to strengthen our retirement programs. And yes, we've got to ask the wealthiest Americans and biggest corporations to pay their fair share. <p>Look, Virginia, I want to make very clear: I understand nobody likes paying taxes. I understand. I don't like&mdash;I pay a lot of taxes. [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, you can look, it's public, the amount of taxes I pay. It's serious. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I'm not taking advantage of a bunch of loopholes. So I understand that. But we've always lived based on the principle that everybody has got to do their fair share. And we've got to make some choices. We've got to decide what are our priorities. We've got to ask ourselves what's not just best for me, but what's best for us. What's the best way to grow the economy and create jobs? <p>Should we keep tax loopholes for oil companies? <p><i>Audience members</i>. No! <p><i>The President</i>. Or should we use that money to give small-business owners a tax credit when they hire new workers? <p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes! <p><i>The President</i>. We can't afford to do both. <p>Should we keep tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires, or should we put teachers back to work, so our kids are ready to graduate from college and get a good job? We can't afford to do both. <p>We've got to make real choices about the kind of country that we want to be. That's not class warfare. That's&mdash;I'm not attacking anybody. I'm just&mdash;it's simple math. We can't afford for folks who are the most fortunate to do the least and put the largest burden on the folks who are struggling the most. That doesn't make sense. <p>Now, I put forward this plan, the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" but we can't stop there. We can't stop there. As I've said since I ran for this office, we've got to look beyond the immediate crisis and start building an economy that lasts, an economy that's not built on housing bubbles, not built on easy credit, not built on Wall Street shenanigans, but an economy that creates good middle class jobs that pay well and restore some sense of security. <p>And we need&mdash;so let me tell you what this means. I mean, we live in a world where technology has made it possible for companies to take their business anywhere. If we want them to start here and stay here and hire here, we have to be able to out-build, out-educate, and out-innovate every other country on Earth. That's what we've got to fight for. <p>And that means everybody has got to up their game. All the college students here, I know you guys are having fun in college. That's&mdash;I'm glad you're having fun, but you need to hit the books. You're competing now against kids in Bangalore and kids in Beijing, and you've got to&mdash;and you can't avoid those math classes and the engineering classes and the science classes. We've got to focus. Everybody has got to up their game. Businesses have to get more efficient and more productive. Employees have to constantly upgrade their skills. Even if you have a good job, you've got to keep on staying on top of it. Government has to become more efficient. We've got to be smarter in terms of how we help people to succeed. <p>But to do all those things, I'm going to need your help. <p><i>Audience member</i>. You got it. <p><i>The President</i>. Now, look, I know that we&mdash;this has been a long slog, dealing with this economy. And I know that when I came into office, everybody was thinking, well, 6 months, we'll get this all solved and&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;but I told you at the time, I told you at the time, we were&mdash;this was going to be a tough, long journey. And I also told you I couldn't do it on my own. <p>Every kind of proposal in the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" every proposal to put more workers on the job, more money in their pockets, every single one of these proposals has been supported by Democrats and Republicans before. And so they should be supporting them now. And that will only happen, though, if they set politics aside for a moment to deal with America's problems. And the only way they're going to do that is if they hear from you. <p>To their credit, I was glad to hear some Republicans, including your Congressman, say that they've got&mdash;they see room for us to work together. They said that they're open to some of the proposals to create American jobs. <p>Look, I know that folks sometime think they've used up benefit of the doubt, but I'm an eternal optimist. I'm an optimistic person. I'm an optimistic person. I believe in America. I believe in our democracy. I believe that if you just stay at it long enough, eventually, after they've exhausted all the options, folks do the right thing. <p>But we've got to give them a little help to do the right thing. So I'm asking all of you to lift up your voices, not just here in Richmond&mdash;anybody watching, listening, following online&mdash;I want you to call, I want you to e-mail, I want you to tweet&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I want you to fax, I want you to visit, I want you to Facebook, send a carrier pigeon. [<i>Laughter</i>] I want you to tell your Congressperson, the time for gridlock and games is over. The time for action is now. The time to create jobs is now. <p>Pass this bill. If you want construction workers on the worksite, pass this bill. If you want teachers in the classroom, pass this bill. You want small-business owners to hire new people, pass this bill. If you want veterans to get their fair share of opportunity that they helped create, pass this bill. If you want a tax break, pass this bill. <p>Prove you will fight as hard for tax cuts for workers and middle class people as you do for oil companies and rich folks. Pass this bill. Let's get something done. <p>The next election is 14 months away. We cannot wait. The American people do not have the luxury of waiting another 14 months for some action. Some of you are living paycheck to paycheck, week to week, day by day. Now is not the time for people in Washington to be worrying about their jobs, it's time for them to be worrying about your jobs. Now is the time to put Americans back to work. Now is the time to act. <p>We are not a people that just look and watch and wait to see what happens. We're Americans. We make things happen. We're tougher than these times. We are bigger than the smallness of our politics. We are patriots, and we are pioneers and innovators and entrepreneurs, who, through individual effort and through a common commitment to one another, will build an economy that is once again the engine and the envy of the world. And we will write our own destiny. <p>It's within our power. But we've got to seize the moment. So let's just shake off all the naysaying and the anxiety and the hand-wringing. Enough of that. Let's get to work. Let's show the world once again why America is the greatest nation on Earth. <p>Thank you, everybody. God bless you. God bless America.\" "
"193" "\"This weekend, we're coming together as one Nation, to mark the 10th anniversary of the September 11th <Sup> </Sup>attacks. We're remembering the lives we lost: nearly 3,000 innocent men, women, and children. We're reaffirming our commitment to always keep faith with their families. We're honoring the heroism of first-responders who risked their lives&mdash;and gave their lives&mdash;to save others. And we're giving thanks to all who serve on our behalf, especially our troops and military families, our extraordinary 9/11 generation. <p>At the same time, even as we reflect on a difficult decade, we must look forward to the future we will build together. That includes staying strong and confident in the face of any threat. And thanks to the tireless efforts of our military personnel and our intelligence, law enforcement, and homeland security professionals, there should be no doubt: Today America is stronger, and Al Qaida is on the path to defeat. <p>We've taken the fight to Al Qaida like never before. Over the past 2 &frac12; years, more senior Al Qaida leaders have been eliminated than at any time since 9/11. And thanks to the remarkable courage and precision of our forces, we finally delivered justice to Usama bin Laden. <p>We've strengthened the partnerships and tools we need to prevail in this war against Al Qaida, working closer with allies and partners, reforming intelligence to better detect and disrupt plots, investing in our special forces so terrorists have no safe haven. <p>We're constantly working to improve the security of our homeland as well, at our airports, ports, and borders; enhancing aviation security and screening; increasing support for our first-responders; and working closer than ever with States, cities, and communities. <p>A decade after 9/11, it's clear for all the world to see, the terrorists who attacked us that September morning are no match for the character of our people, the resilience of our Nation, or the endurance of our values. <p>They wanted to terrorize us, but as Americans, we refuse to live in fear. Yes, we face a determined foe, and make no mistake: They will keep trying to hit us again. But as we're showing again this weekend, we remain vigilant. We're doing everything in our power to protect our people. And no matter what comes our way, as a resilient nation, we will carry on. <p>They wanted to draw us into endless wars, sapping our strength and confidence as a nation. But even as we put relentless pressure on Al Qaida, we're ending the war in Iraq and beginning to bring our troops home from Afghanistan. Because after a hard decade of war, it is time for nation-building here at home. <p>They wanted to deprive us of the unity that defines us as a people. But we will not succumb to division or suspicion. We are Americans, and we are stronger and safer when we stay true to the values, freedoms, and diversity that makes us unique among nations. <p>And they wanted to undermine our place in the world. But a decade later, we've shown that America doesn't hunker down and hide behind walls of mistrust. We've forged new partnerships with nations around the world to meet the global challenges that no nation can face alone. And across the Middle East and North Africa, a new generation of citizens is showing that the future belongs to those that want to build, not destroy. <p>Ten years ago, ordinary Americans showed us the true meaning of courage when they rushed up those stairwells, into those flames, into that cockpit. In the decade since, a new generation has stepped forward to serve and keep us safe. In their memory, in their name, we will never waver. We will protect the country we love and pass it safer, stronger, and more prosperous to the next generation.\" "
"194" "\"God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. <p>Therefore, we will not fear, even though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea. <p>Though its waters roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with its swelling, <p>There is a river whose streams shall make glad the City of God, the holy place of the Tabernacle of the Most High. <p>God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. God shall help her just at the break of dawn. <p>The nations raged, the kingdoms were moved. He uttered his voice. The Earth melted. <p>The Lord of Hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. <p>Come behold the works of the Lord who has made desolations in the Earth. <p>He makes wars cease to the ends of the Earth. He breaks the bough and cuts the spear in two. He burns the chariot in fire. <p>Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the Earths. <p>The Lord of Hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. <p>&mdash;Psalm 46\" "
"195" "\"The Bible tells us, \\"Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.\\" <p>Ten years ago, America confronted one of our darkest nights. Mighty towers crumbled. Black smoke billowed up from the Pentagon. Airplane wreckage smoldered on a Pennsylvania field. Friends and neighbors, sisters and brothers, mothers and fathers, sons and daughters, they were taken from us with a heartbreaking swiftness and cruelty. And on September 12, 2001, we awoke to a world in which evil was closer at hand and uncertainty clouded our future. <p>In the decade since, much has changed for Americans. We've known war and recession, passionate debates and political divides. We can never get back the lives that were lost on that day or the Americans who made the ultimate sacrifice in the wars that followed. <p>And yet today it is worth remembering what has not changed. Our character as a nation has not changed. Our faith in God and in each other, that has not changed. Our belief in America, born of a timeless ideal that men and women should govern themselves, that all people are created equal and deserve the same freedom to determine their own destiny, that belief, through tests and trials, has only been strengthened. <p>These past 10 years have shown that America does not give in to fear. The rescue workers who rushed to the scene, the firefighters who charged up the stairs, the passengers who stormed the cockpit, these patriots defined the very nature of courage. Over the years, we've also seen a more quiet form of heroism: in the ladder company that lost so many men and still suits up and saves lives every day, the businesses that have been rebuilt from nothing, the burn victim who has bounced back, the families who press on. <p>Last spring, I received a letter from a woman named Suzanne Swaine. She had lost her husband and brother in the Twin Towers and said that she had been robbed of, \\"so many would-be proud moments where a father watches their child graduate, or tend a goal in a lacrosse game, or succeed academically.\\" But her daughters are in college, the other doing well in high school. \\"It has been 10 years of raising these girls on my own,\\" Suzanne wrote. \\"I could not be prouder of their strength and resilience.\\" That spirit typifies our American family. And the hopeful future for those girls is the ultimate rebuke to the hateful killers who took the life of their father. <p>These past 10 years have shown America's resolve to defend its citizens and our way of life. Diplomats serve in far off posts, and intelligence professionals work tirelessly without recognition. Two million Americans have gone to war since 9/11. They've demonstrated that those who do us harm cannot hide from the reach of justice anywhere in the world. America has been defended not by conscripts, but by citizens who choose to serve: young people who signed up straight out of high school, guardsmen and reservists, workers and businesspeople, immigrants and fourth-generation soldiers. They are men and women who left behind lives of comfort for two, three, four, five tours of duty. Too many will never come home; those that do carry dark memories from distant places and the legacy of fallen friends. <p>The sacrifices of these men and women and of our military families reminds us that the wages of war are great, that while service to our Nation is full of glory, war itself is never glorious. Our troops have been to lands unknown to many Americans a decade ago, to Kandahar and Kabul, to Mosul and Basra. But our strength is not measured in our ability to stay in these places, it comes from our commitment to leave those lands to free people and sovereign states and our desire to move from a decade of war to a future of peace. <p>These 10 years have shown that we hold fast to our freedoms. Yes, we're more vigilant against those who threaten us, and there are inconveniences that come with our common defense. Debates about war and peace, about security and civil liberties, have often been fierce these last 10 years. But it is precisely the rigor of these debates, and our ability to resolve them in a way that honors our values and our democracy, that is the measure of our strength. Meanwhile, our open markets still provide innovators the chance to create and succeed, our citizens are still free to speak their minds, and our souls are enriched in churches and temples, our synagogues and our mosques. <p>These past 10 years underscores the bonds between all Americans. We have not succumbed to suspicion, nor have we succumbed to mistrust. After 9/11, to his great credit, President Bush made clear what we reaffirm today: The United States will never wage war against Islam or any other religion. Immigrants come here from all parts of the globe. And in the biggest cities and the smallest towns, in schools and workplaces, you still see people of every conceivable race and religion and ethnicity, all of them pledging allegiance to the flag, all of them reaching for the same American Dream. <i>E pluribus unum</i>&mdash;out of many, we are one. <p>These past 10 years tell a story of our resilience. The Pentagon is repaired and filled with patriots working in common purpose. Shanksville is the scene of friendships forged between residents of that town and families who lost loved ones there. New York&mdash;New York remains the most vibrant of capitals of arts and industry and fashion and commerce. Where the World Trade Center once stood, the sun glistens off a new tower that reaches towards the sky. <p>Our people still work in skyscrapers. Our stadiums are still filled with fans, and our parks full of children playing ball. Our airports hum with travel, and our buses and subways take millions where they need to go. And families sit down to Sunday dinner, and students prepare for school. This land pulses with the optimism of those who set out for distant shores and the courage of those who died for human freedom. <p>Decades from now, Americans will visit the memorials to those who were lost on 9/11. They'll run their fingers over the places where the names of those we loved are carved into marble and stone, and they may wonder at the lives that they led. And standing before the white headstones in Arlington and in peaceful cemeteries and small-town squares in every corner of the country, they will pay respects to those lost in Iraq and Afghanistan. They'll see the names of the fallen on bridges and statues, at gardens and schools. <p>And they will know that nothing can break the will of a truly United States of America. They will remember that we've overcome slavery and civil war, we've overcome breadlines and fascism and recession and riots and communism and, yes, terrorism. They will be reminded that we are not perfect, but our democracy is durable, and that democracy&mdash;reflecting, as it does, the imperfections of man&mdash;also give us the opportunity to perfect our Union. That is what we honor on days of national commemoration, those aspects of the American experience that are enduring and the determination to move forward as one people. <p>More than monuments, that will be the legacy of 9/11: a legacy of firefighters who walked into fire and soldiers who signed up to serve; of workers who raised new towers and citizens who faced down their private fears; most of all, of children who realized the dreams of their parents. It will be said that we kept the faith, that we took a painful blow and we emerged stronger than before. <p>\\"Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.\\" <p>With a just God as our guide, let us honor those who have been lost, let us rededicate ourselves to the ideals that define our Nation, and let us look to the future with hearts full of hope. <p>May God bless the memory of those we lost, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"196" "\"<i>The President</i>. Please, everybody, have a seat, on this beautiful morning. It's wonderful to see all of you here. <p>On Thursday, I told Congress that I'll be sending them a bill called the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" Well, here it is. This is&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]. This is a bill that will put people back to work all across the country. This is the bill that will help our economy in a moment of national crisis. This is a bill that is based on ideas from both Democrats and Republicans. And this is the bill that Congress needs to pass. No games. No politics. No delays. I'm sending this bill to Congress today, and they ought to pass it immediately. <p>Standing with me this morning are men and women who will be helped by the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" I'm standing with teachers. All across America, teachers are being laid off in droves, which is unfair to our kids. It undermines our future, and it is exactly what we shouldn't be doing if we want our kids to be college-ready and then prepared for the jobs of the 21st century. We've got to get our teachers back to work. Let's pass this bill and put them in the classroom where they belong. <p>I'm standing here with veterans. We've got hundreds of thousands of brave, skilled Americans who fought for this country. The last thing they should have to do is to fight for a job when they come home. So let's pass this bill and put the men and women who served this Nation back to work. <p>We're standing here with cops and firefighters whose jobs are threatened because States and communities are cutting back. This bill will keep cops on the beat and firefighters on call. So let's pass this bill so that these men and women can continue protecting our neighborhoods, like they do every single day. <p>I'm standing with construction workers. We've got roads that need work all over the country. Our highways are backed up with traffic. Our airports are clogged. And there are millions of unemployed construction workers who can rebuild them. So let's pass this bill so road crews and diggers and pavers and workers, they can all head back to the jobsite. There's plenty of work to do. This job&mdash;this jobs bill will help them do it. Let's put them back to work, and let's pass this bill rebuilding America. <p>And there are schools throughout the country that desperately need renovating. We cannot&mdash;got an \\"amen\\" over there. [<i>Laughter</i>] We can't expect our kids to do their best in places that are literally falling apart. This is America. Every kid deserves a great school, and we can give it to them. Pass this bill, and we put construction crews back to work across the country repairing and modernizing at least 35,000 schools. <p>I'm standing here with small-business owners. They know that while corporate profits have come roaring back, a lot of small businesses haven't. They're still struggling, getting the capital they need, getting the support they need in order to grow. So this bill cuts taxes for small businesses that hire new employees and for small businesses that raise salaries for current employees. It cuts your payroll tax in half. And all businesses can write off investments they make this year and next year. Instead of just talking about America's job creators, let's actually do something for America's jobs creators. We can do that by passing this bill. <p>Now, there are a lot of other ways that this jobs bill, the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" will help this economy. It's got a $4,000 tax credit for companies that hire anybody who spent more than 6 months looking for a job. We've got to do more for folks who've been hitting the pavement every single day looking for work, but haven't found employment yet. That's why we need to extend unemployment insurance and connect people to temporary work to help upgrade their skills. <p>This bill will help hundreds of thousands of disadvantaged young people find summer jobs next year, jobs that will help set the direction for their entire lives. And the \\"American Jobs Act\\" would prevent taxes from going up for middle class families. If Congress does not act, just about every family in America will pay more taxes next year. And that would be a self-inflicted wound that our economy just can't afford right now. So let's pass this bill and give the typical working family a $1,500 tax cut instead. <p>And the \\"American Jobs Act\\" is not going to add to the debt. It's pully paid for&mdash;I want to repeat that: It is \\"fully\\" paid for. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's not going to add a dime to the deficit. Next week, I'm laying out my plan not only to pay for this jobs bill, but also to bring down the deficit further. It's a plan that lives by the same rules that families do. We've got to cut out things that we can't afford to do in order to afford the things that we really need. It's a plan that says everybody, including the wealthiest Americans and biggest corporations, have to pay their fair share. <p>The bottom line is, when it comes to strengthening the economy and balancing our books, we've got to decide what our priorities are. Do we keep tax loopholes for oil companies, or do we put teachers back to work? Should we keep tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires, or should we invest in education and technology and infrastructure, all the things that are going to help us out-innovate and out-educate and out-build other countries in the future? <p>We know what's right. We know what will help businesses start right here and stay here and hire here. We know that if we take the steps outlined in this jobs plan, that there's no reason why we can't be selling more goods, all around the world, that are stamped with those three words: \\"Made in America.\\" That's what we need to do to create jobs right now. <p>I have to repeat something I said in my speech yesterday&mdash;on Thursday. There are some in Washington who'd rather settle our differences through politics and the elections than try to resolve them now. In fact, Joe and I, as we were walking out here, we were looking at one of the Washington newspapers and it was quoting a Republican aide saying, \\"I don't know why we'd want to cooperate with Obama right now. It's not good for our politics.\\" That was very explicit. <p><i>Vice President Joe Biden</i>. It was. <p><i>The President</i>. I mean, that's the attitude in this town: \\"Yeah, we've been through these things before, but I don't know why we'd be for them right now.\\" The fact of the matter is the next election is 14 months away, and the American people don't have the luxury of waiting 14 months for Congress to take action. Folks are living week to week, paycheck to paycheck. They need action. And the notion that there are folks who would say, \\"we're not going to try to do what's right for the American people because we don't think it's convenient for our politics,\\" we've been seeing that too much around here. And that's exactly what folks are tired of. <p>And that's okay, when things are going well, you play politics. It's not okay at a time of great urgency and need all across the country. These aren't games we're playing out here. Folks are out of work. Businesses are having trouble staying open. You've got a world economy that is full of uncertainty right now, in Europe, in the Middle East. Some events may be beyond our control, but this is something we can control. Whether we not&mdash;whether or not we pass this bill, whether or not we get this done, that's something that we can control. That's in our hands. <p>You hear a lot of folks talking about uncertainty in the economy. This is a bit of uncertainty that we could avoid by going ahead and taking action to make sure that we're helping the American people. <p>So if you agree with me, if you want Congress to take action, then I'm going to need everybody here and everybody watching. You've got to make sure that your voices are heard. Help make the case. There's no reason not to pass this bill. Its ideas are bipartisan; its ideas are common sense; it will make a difference. That's not just my opinion. Independent economists and validators have said this could add a significant amount to our gross domestic product and could put people back to work all across the country. So the only thing that's stopping it is politics. And we can't afford these same political games. Not now. <p>So I want you to pick up the phone. I want you to send an e-mail. Use one of those airplane skywriters. Dust off the fax machine. Or you can just, like, write a letter. [<i>Laughter</i>] So long as you get the message to Congress: Send me the \\"American Jobs Act\\" so I can sign it into law. Let's get something done. Let's put this country back to work. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"197" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, Columbus! Oh, it is good to be back in the State of Ohio. Just a couple of people I want to make sure you know are here. First of all, my outstanding Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan, is in the house. Superintendant of Columbus City Schools, Dr. Gene T. Harris, is here. The principal of Fort Hayes Metropolitan Education Center, Milton Ruffin, is here. And the mayor of the great city of Columbus, Michael Coleman, is in the house. <p>It is a great honor to be here at Fort Hayes, one of the best high schools in Ohio. <p>I want to thank Tom for that introduction. He just gave me a quick tour, and let me just say, these buildings look great. He did a good job. I wouldn't mind taking a few classes here. You've got computers in every classroom, got state-of-the-art graphic design and science labs, new media center, music rooms. And when you combine that with outstanding teachers and a challenging curriculum, you've got the foundation for what you need to learn and graduate and compete in this 21st-century economy. <p>So, Fort Hayes, I'm here to talk about exactly that, about the economy. I came to talk about how we can get to a place where we're creating good, middle class jobs again: jobs that pay well, jobs that offer economic security. And the renovation of Fort Hayes is a great example of where those jobs can come from if we can finally get our act together in Washington, if we can get folks in that city to stop worrying so much about their jobs and start worrying about your jobs. <p>Now, yesterday I sent Congress the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" This is it right here. It's pretty thick. This is a plan that does two things: It puts people back to work, and it puts more money in the pockets of working Americans. Everything in the \\"American Jobs Act\\" is the kind of proposal that in the past has been supported by both Republicans and Democrats. Everything in it will be paid for. And every one of you can make it happen by sending a message to Congress that says: Pass this bill. <p>Ohio, if you pass this bill, then right here in this State, tens of thousands of construction workers will have a job again. This is one of the most commonsense ideas out there. All over the country, there are roads and bridges and schools just like Fort Hayes in need of repair. Some of the buildings here at Fort Hayes were originally built during the Civil War. That's old. And when buildings are that old, they start falling apart. They start leaking, and ceiling tiles start to cave in, and there's no heat in the winter or air conditioning in the summer. Some of the schools the ventilation is so poor it can make students sick. <p>How do we expect our kids to do their very best in a situation like that? The answer is we can't. Every child deserves a great school, and we can give it to them, but we got to pass this bill. <p>Your outstanding Senator, Sherrod Brown, has been fighting to make this happen. And those of you here at Fort Hayes have been making it happen. See, a few years back, you decided to renovate this school. And you didn't just repair what was broken, you rebuilt this school for the 21st century, with faster Internet and cutting-edge technology. And that hasn't just created a better, safer learning environment for the students, it also created good jobs for construction workers. <p>You just heard Tom say it's created over 250 jobs for masons and concrete workers and carpenters and plumbers and electricians, and many of those jobs are filled by the good people of Columbus, Ohio. <p>But here's the thing. There are schools all throughout Ohio that need this kind of renovation. There's a bridge in Cincinnati that connects Ohio to Kentucky that needs this kind of renovation. There are construction projects like these all across the country just waiting to get started. And there are millions of unemployed construction workers who are looking for a job. So my question to Congress is: What on Earth are we waiting for? <p>I don't know about you, but I don't want any student to study in broken-down schools. I want our kids to study in great schools. I don't want the newest airports and the fastest railroads being built in China. I want them being built right here in the United States of America. There is work to be done. There are workers ready to do it. So let's tell Congress, pass this bill right away. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Pass this bill! Pass this bill! Pass this bill! <p><i>The President</i>. Pass this jobs bill, and there will be funding to save the jobs of up to 14,000 Ohio teachers and cops and firefighters. Think about it. There are places like South Korea that are adding teachers to prepare their kids for the global economy, at the same time as we're laying off our teachers left and right; where we've got school districts that have eliminated all extracurriculars: art, sports, you name it. <p>You've got situations where&mdash;I just heard a story from Arne Duncan driving over here. I met this young man yesterday&mdash;he's a music teacher in Philly, and his budget&mdash;total budget is $100 for teaching music in a whole bunch of schools. So they're using buckets to do drums because they can't afford actual musical instruments. <p>You've seen it here in Ohio. Budget cuts are forcing superintendents here in Columbus and all over the State to make layoffs they don't want to make. It is unfair to our kids, it undermines our future, and it has to stop. Tell Congress to pass the \\"American Jobs Act\\" so we can put our teachers back in the classroom where they belong. <p>Tell them to pass this bill so we can help the people that create most of the new&mdash;we can help the people who create most of the new jobs in this country. That's America's small-business owners. It's all well and good that big corporations have seen their profits roaring back; that's good. We want them to be able to hire people as well. But smaller companies haven't come back. <p>So this bill cuts taxes for small businesses that hire new employees. It cuts taxes for small businesses that raise salaries for current employees. It cuts small-business payroll taxes in half. So let's tell Congress, instead of just talking about helping America's job creators, let's actually do something to help America's job creators. Let's pass this bill right away. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Pass this bill! Pass this bill! Pass this bill! <p><i>The President</i>. If Congress passes this jobs bill, companies will get new tax credits for hiring America's veterans. We ask these men and women to leave their careers, leave their families, risk their lives to make sure that we're protected. The last thing they should have to do is fight for a job when they come home. That's why Congress needs to pass this bill. It will help hundreds of thousands of veterans all across the country. <p>It will help hundreds of thousands of young people find summer jobs next year. It's also got a $4,000 tax credit for companies that hire anybody who's spent more than 6 months looking for a job. The \\"American Jobs Act\\" extends unemployment insurance, but it also says if you're collecting benefits, you'll get connected to temporary work as a way to build your skills and enhance your resume while you're looking for a permanent job. <p>And finally, if we get Congress to pass this bill, the typical working family will get $1,500 in tax cuts next year&mdash;$1,500 that would have been taken out of your paycheck will go right back into your pocket. But if Congress doesn't act, if Congress refuses to pass this bill, then middle class families will get hit with a tax increase at the worst possible time. Now, we can't let that happen. <p><i>Audience members</i>. No! <p><i>The President</i>. Some folks have been working pretty hard to keep tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans. Tell them they need to fight just as hard&mdash;they need to fight harder&mdash;for middle class families. Tell them to pass this jobs bill. <p>So the \\"American Jobs Act\\" will lead to new jobs for construction workers, jobs for teachers, jobs for veterans, jobs for young people, jobs for the unemployed. It will provide tax relief for every worker and small business in America. And it will not add to the deficit. It will be paid for. <p>We will pay for this plan, we'll pay down our debt, and we'll do it by following the same principle that every family follows: We'll make sure that Government lives within its means. We'll cut what we can't afford, to pay for what we really need, including some cuts we wouldn't make if we hadn't racked up so much debt over the last decade. <p>And here's the other thing, Columbus. We got to make sure that everybody pays their fair share, including the wealthiest Americans and biggest corporations. After all, we've got to decide what our priorities are. Do you want to keep tax loopholes for oil companies? <p><i>Audience members</i>. No! <p><i>The President</i>. Or do you want to renovate more schools like Fort Hayes so that construction workers have jobs again? Do you want to keep tax breaks for multimillionaires and billionaires? <p><i>Audience members</i>. No! <p><i>The President</i>. Or do you want to put teachers back to work and help small businesses and cut taxes for middle class families? <p>So, Columbus, we know what's right. We know what to do to create jobs now and in the future. We know that if we want businesses to start here and stay here and hire here, we've got to out-build and out-educate and out-innovate every country on Earth. We've got to start manufacturing. We've got to sell more goods around the world that are stamped with three proud words: Made in America. <p>We need to build an economy that lasts. And, Columbus, that starts now. That starts with your help. Democrats and Republicans have supported every kind of proposal that's in the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" and we need to tell them to support those proposals now. <p>Already, yesterday there were some Republicans quoted in Washington saying that even if they agree with the proposals in the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" they shouldn't pass it because it would give me a win. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Boo! <p><i>The President</i>. That's the kind of games-playing we've gotten used to in Washington. Think about that. They supported this stuff in the past, but they're thinking maybe they don't do it this time because Obama is promoting it. Give me a win? This isn't about giving me a win. This isn't about giving Democrats or Republicans a win. It's about giving the American people a win. It's about giving Ohio a win. It's about your jobs and your lives and your futures and giving our kids a win. <p>Maybe there's some people in Congress who'd rather settle our differences at the ballot box than work together right now. But I've got news for them: The next election is 14 months away, and the American people don't have the luxury of waiting that long. You've got folks who are living week to week, paycheck to paycheck. They need action, and they need it now. <p>So I'm asking all of you to lift your voice, not just here in Columbus, but anybody who is watching, anybody who is listening, anybody who is following online. I need you to call and e-mail and tweet and fax and visit and tell your Congressperson that the time for gridlock and the time for games is over. The time for action is now. <p>Tell them that if you want to create jobs right now, pass this bill. If you want construction workers renovating schools like this one, pass this bill. If you want to put teachers back in the classroom, pass this bill. If you want tax cuts for middle class families and small-business owners, then what to do you do? Pass this bill. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Pass this bill! <p><i>The President</i>. If you want to help our veterans share in the opportunity that they defend, pass this bill. <p>Now is the time to act. We're not a people who just watch things happen. We're Americans; we make things happen. We are tougher than the times we live in. We are bigger than the politics that we've been putting up with. We are patriots and pioneers and innovators and entrepreneurs, who, through individual effort, but also through a commitment to one another, built an economy that's the engine and the envy of the world. <p>We write our own destiny. It's within our power to write it once more. So let's meet this moment. Let's get to work. Let's show the world once again why the United States of America is the greatest country on Earth. <p>Thank you very much, Ohio. Thank you, Columbus. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America.\" "
"198" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, North Carolina! Thank you! Thank you so much! How's it going, Raleigh? It is good to be back at NC State! Good to have all these Wolves in my wolfpack. I just hope none of the students here are skipping class on account of me. [<i>Laughter</i>] Your professors can see you on TV, you know. <p>I want to thank so many people who helped to set this up, but a couple of folks in particular, I want to acknowledge. First of all, the outstanding Governor of the great State of North Carolina, Bev Perdue is in the house. Bev has been working tirelessly on behalf of the State and obviously helped to guide so much of the emergency efforts that were taking place after the hurricane. So we're grateful to her. And we also have one of the finest public servants I know. The former Governor of the great State of North Carolina, Jim Hunt is in the house. <p>I want to thank Chancellor William Woodson, chancellor of North Carolina State University, as well as Thomas Ross, president of North Carolina State University [White House correction; the University of North Carolina]. And I want to thank \\"The POWER Sound of the South\\" for their outstanding performance. Thank you. <p>Now, everybody can sit down if you want. You all have seats&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;that's fine. I got a few&mdash;except folks in the front. See, this is the hard core right here. I want to thank Erv for the introduction. Now, as he mentioned, I just visited his small business, which is called WestStar Precision. It's down the road in Apex. And like Erv said, what they do is what a lot of companies here in the Research Triangle do so well. They hire smart people. They give them the best technology. They create something of lasting value. And that's how this country built a strong and growing economy and a strong, expanding middle class. That's our history, and that's what we've got to get back to. And that's why I came to Raleigh here today. <p>I came to talk about how America can get back to a place where we're creating good middle class jobs again: jobs that pay well, jobs that offer some security, jobs that are available for all the young people who are going to be graduating from NC State. Because I know that's what the students are thinking about. And we can do that if we can finally get Washington to act, if we can get folks to stop worrying so much about their jobs and start worrying a little more about your jobs. <p>Now, on Monday, I sent Congress this piece of legislation. It's called the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" It's a plan that does two things: It puts more people back to work, and it puts more money back into the pockets of working Americans. Everything in this proposal, everything in this legislation, everything in the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" is the kind of proposal that in the past, at least, has been supported by Democrats and Republicans. Everything in it will be paid for. Anybody who wants to know more about it, you can read it on whitehouse.gov. [<i>Laughter</i>] I know you guys don't have enough to read. And every single one of you can help make this bill a reality by telling Congress to pass this bill. Pass this jobs bill. <p>Now, let me tell you why you need to pass this bill. Tell them to pass this bill so we can help the people who create most of the new jobs in this country, and that's small-business owners like Erv. Because while corporate profits have come roaring back, smaller companies haven't. So what this jobs bill does is it cuts taxes for small businesses that hire new employees. It cuts taxes for small businesses that raise the salaries of their current employees. It cuts small businesses' payroll taxes in half, and that would help 170,000 small-business owners in North Carolina alone. And if they choose to make new investments next year, it lets them write off those investments. <p>And for small-business owners who have contracts with the Federal Government, we're going to do more than that. Today I'm ordering all Federal agencies to make sure those small-business owners get paid a lot faster than they do now. In many cases, it will be twice as fast. So that puts more money in their pockets quicker, which means they can hire folks quicker. <p>Now, we've got to tell Congress to do their part. You've got some Republicans in Congress, they like to talk about how, \\"We're in favor of America's job creators.\\" Well, you know what, if you're in favor of America's jobs creators, this is your bill. This will actually help America's job creators. So we need to pass this jobs bill right away. <p>But that's not all this bill does. Pass this jobs bill, and companies will get new tax credits for hiring America's veterans. Now, we ask these men and women to leave their careers, leave their families, risk their lives to fight for us, to fight for our freedoms. The last thing they should have to do is fight for a job when they come home. That's why Congress needs to pass this bill. <p>Pass this bill because it will help hundreds of thousands of young people find summer jobs next year. It's also got a $4,000 tax credit for companies that hire anybody who's spent more than 6 months looking for a job. It extends unemployment insurance, which means it's providing help and support for folks who are out there, want to work, but haven't found a job yet. And that also puts more money into the economy because they spend that money in small businesses and in large businesses, and that means they have more customers and they'll hire more people. But we're also saying that if you're collecting unemployment insurance, you're going to get connected to temporary work as a way to keep your skills sharp while you're looking for a permanent job. <p>Pass this bill, and right here in North Carolina, about 19,000 construction workers will have a job again. This is a commonsense idea. Governor Perdue can tell you, there are a lot of roads and a lot of bridges that need fixing. There is a lot of work that needs to be done in schools and airports. All these things are in need of repair. In North Carolina alone, there are 153 structurally deficient bridges that need to be repaired. Four of them are near here, on or around the Beltline. Why would we wait to act until another bridge falls? All across North Carolina, all across the country, there are schools with leaking ceilings and lousy heating, ventilation so poor, it can make students sick. How can we expect our kids to do their best in places like that? <p>And the answer is, we can't. This is America. I don't know about you, but I don't want any of our young people studying in broken-down schools. I want our kids to study in the best schools. I don't want the newest airports or the fastest railroads being built in China. I want them being built right here in the United States of America. There are construction projects like these all across the country just waiting to get started. There are millions of unemployed construction workers looking for work. My question is, what's Congress waiting for? There's work to be done; there are workers ready to do it. Let's pass this jobs bill right away, and let's get it done. Let's go! <p>Pass this jobs bill, and there will be funding to save the jobs of up to 13,000 North Carolina teachers, cops, and firefighters. I hope some of the young people here plan to go into teaching, plan to go into education. But here's the challenge: We've got incredibly talented young people who want to teach, but while places like South Korea are adding teachers to prepare their kids for the global economy, we're laying off teachers left and right. You've seen it here in North Carolina. Budget cuts are forcing superintendents all over the State to make layoffs they don't want to make. It's unfair to our kids. It undermines their future; it undermines our future. It has to stop. If we want our kids ready for college, ready for careers in the 21st century, tell Congress to pass the \\"American Jobs Act\\" and put teachers back into the classroom where they belong. <p><i>Audience member</i>. [<i>Inaudible</i>] <p><i>The President</i>. Yes we can. We could pass this thing, but we need Congress to help us do it. <p>Now, if we pass this bill, the typical working family in North Carolina will get a $1,300 tax cut next year. Thirteen hundred dollars that would have been taken from your paycheck will now go into your pocket. That will help local businesses know that they've got customers. But if Congress doesn't act, if Congress refuses to pass this bill, middle class families will get hit with a tax increase at the worst possible time. We can't let that happen. <p>As I pointed out last Thursday, there are folks in Congress who have been fighting pretty hard to keep tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans. You need to tell them they need to fight just as hard to help middle class families. Tell them to pass this jobs bill. <p>So that's the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" It will lead to new jobs for young people, for construction workers, for teachers, for veterans, for the unemployed. It will provide tax relief for every worker and every small business in America. It will not add to the deficit. It will be paid for. <p>We will pay for this plan. We will pay down our debt. We'll do it following the same principles that every family follows. We'll make sure the Government lives within its means. We'll cut what we can't afford to pay for what we really need. And that means, we're going to have to make&mdash;we're going to have to cut some things we wouldn't make if we hadn't racked up so much debt over the last decade. <p>But it does mean that we're going to keep on doing the things that matter, like making sure that you guys who are here at NC State aren't coming up with all that debt. That's why we've made sure to increase Pell grants. That's why we've made sure to increase student loan affordability, to make sure you guys can get the education you deserve. But in order to do that, we've got to make sure everybody pays their fair share, including the wealthiest Americans and the biggest corporations. <p>Ultimately, North Carolina, this comes down to what our priorities are. Do you want to keep tax loopholes for oil companies? <p><i>Audience members</i>. No! <p><i>The President</i>. Or do you want to renovate more schools and rebuild more roads and bridges so construction workers have jobs again? Do you want to keep tax breaks for multimillionaires and billionaires? <p><i>Audience members</i>. No! <p><i>The President</i>. Or do you want to cut taxes for small-business owners and middle class families? <p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes! <p><i>The President</i>. It would be nice if we could do it all, but we can't. We've got to make choices. That's what governing is about. And we know what's right. We know what we have to do to create jobs right now and create jobs in the future. We know that if we want businesses to start here and stay here and hire here, we've got to be able to out-build and out-educate and out-innovate every country on Earth. We've got to give workers new skills for new jobs. We've got to give our young people a chance to earn a college education. And we've got to follow Erv's example. We've got to start manufacturing and selling more goods around the world stamped with three proud words: Made in America. Made in North Carolina. Made in Raleigh. <p>We need to build an economy that lasts. And, Raleigh, that starts now. <p><i>Audience member</i>. I love you, Barack! <p><i>The President</i>. I love you back. That starts&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;but if you love me, if you love me, you got to help me pass this bill. [<i>Applause</i>] If you love me, you got to help me pass this bill. It starts with your help. Democrats and Republicans have supported every kind of proposal that's in the \\"American Jobs Act\\" in the past. But we got to tell them, \\"Support it now!\\" That's where you come in. <p>Already, you've got some Republicans in Washington who've said that some of this stuff may have to wait until the next election&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>Audience members</i>. Boo! <p><i>The President</i>. &mdash;&mdash;and said maybe we can just kick our problems down the road and stretch this thing out rather than work together right now. Some of them were even quoted as saying, even if they agreed with some of the things in this bill, that they don't want to pass it because it would give me a win. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Boo! <p><i>The President</i>. Give me a win? Give me a break! [<i>Laughter</i>] That's exactly why folks are fed up with Washington. This isn't about me. This isn't about giving me a win. This isn't about giving Democrats or Republicans a win. It's not about positioning for the election. It's about giving the American people a win. That's what it's about. It's about giving small-business owners and entrepreneurs a win. It's about giving students a win. It's about giving working families a win. It's about giving all of us a win. I get fed up with that kind of game-playing. And we've been seeing it for too long, too long. We're in a national emergency. We've had&mdash;we've been grappling with a crisis for 3 years, and instead of getting folks to rise up above partisanship in a spirit that says we're all in this together, you got folks who are purposely dividing, purposely thinking just in terms of how does this play out in terms of this election. <p>Now, that's not all Republicans. There are some Republicans who get it. I was in Ohio yesterday, and their Republican Governor, who&mdash;he doesn't agree with me on a lot of stuff, but he agreed that it's a good idea to cut taxes for the middle class. He said: \\"This is not a time for partisanship. This is a time to figure out a way in which we can get things moving in this country.\\" He's absolutely right. A faction in Washington may be content to wait until the next election to do anything, but I've got news for them. The next election is 14 months away, and the American people don't have the luxury to wait that long. There are a whole bunch of students here who will graduate by then and will be looking for a job. They can't wait that long. There are a lot of folks living to paycheck to paycheck, day to day. They can't wait that long. They need action; they need action now. So, Raleigh, you need to put leaders&mdash;you need leaders who will put country before party and your jobs and your lives and your well-being and your futures above everything else. <p>So for those of you who did skip class today&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;I've got a homework assignment for you. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's right. I am asking all of you, not just here at NC State, but&mdash;not just you who are in Raleigh, but anyone watching, anyone listening, anybody following online: I need you to lift your voice. Make it heard. You can call; you can e-mail; you can tweet; you can fax; you can Facebook; you can visit; you can write a letter. When was the last time you did that? [<i>Laughter</i>] Tell your Congressperson that the time for partisanship and politics is over. It's not&mdash;now is not the time for it. The time for gridlock and games is over. The time for action is now. <p>So I just want to say&mdash;I just want to make sure everybody understands their homework assignment. Tell them, tell them that if you want to create jobs, pass this bill. If you want construction workers back on the worksite, pass this bill. If you want teachers back in the classroom, pass this jobs bill. If you want tax cuts for middle class families and small-business owners, pass this jobs bill. If you want to help our veterans share in the opportunity that they have defended, pass this bill. <p>Now is the time to act. We are not people who just watch things happening. We make things happen. We're Americans. We are tougher than the hand that we've been dealt. We're bigger than the politics we've been putting up with. We're patriots and pioneers and innovators and entrepreneurs. Through individual effort, but also through a commitment to one another, we have built an economy that is the engine and the envy of the world. We're not going to stop now. The time for hand-wringing is over. The time for moping around&mdash;we've got to kick off our bedroom slippers and put on our marching shoes. We've got to get it to work. <p>There are people who&mdash;there may be people whose refrain is, no we can't. But I believe, yes we can. We are a people who write our own destiny. And we will write our destiny once more. So let's seize this moment. Let's get to work. Let's show the world once again why the United States of America is the greatest country on Earth. <p>Thank you, North Carolina. Thank you, Raleigh. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"199" "\"Hello, everybody. <i>Buenas noches</i>. Thank you so much. Thank you, everybody. Please, please, have a seat. <p>I want to thank Congressman Gonzalez, Senator Menendez for your outstanding leadership. I want to thank the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute for inviting us here this evening. It is wonderful to be back with all of you to help kick off Hispanic Heritage Month. <p>Now, before I begin, I want to acknowledge a few people who are with us here tonight. We are honored to be joined by Her Royal Highness Princess Cristina of Spain. We are honored to be joined by our first Latina Supreme Court Justice, Sonia Sotomayor. I want to recognize House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, our great friend and champion, as well as congratulate Secretary Ken Salazar and Secretary Hilda Solis for their awards tonight and for their outstanding work. <p>I also want to give a special shout-out to my friend Rey Decerega, the program director here at CHCI. Not many people can give the President of the United States stitches in his lip and get away with it. [<i>Laughter</i>] Rey is in unique company. [<i>Laughter</i>] I sent him a photograph of the moment, as he was throwing his elbow at me, and said, he's the only person who ever did that and the Secret Service did not arrest. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I hear he's pretty tough off the basketball court too. <p>Finally, I want to thank all the members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus here tonight. And I also want to apologize for them because they spent last week listening to me talk. So you probably thought you could escape this by coming to this dinner. <p>But I'm here because we're at a critical time for our country. The fight we're having right now&mdash;the fight to put more Americans back to work, to make our country stronger in the long run, to prove that we can get something done here in Washington&mdash;this fight could not be more important for the people in this room, for the Latino community, and for millions of Americans who need help. <p>I don't have to tell you these are tough times. You know how hard this recession has hit families, especially Latino families. You know the sacrifices that folks are making every single day just to pay the mortgage, or fill up the car, or to keep the lights on, keep kids in school. <p>These are families in Los Angeles and San Antonio and Miami. But they're also families in Decatur and Des Moines. As I said when I spoke here last year, problems in the Latino community are problems for the entire American community. Our future is tied to how well the Latino community does. The reverse is also true. When our country is hurting, everyone feels the pain. <p>Right now most Americans&mdash;whether they are Black, White, Latino, Asian, Native American&mdash;they're working hard to meet their responsibilities. All they want in return is for that hard work to pay off. And they want those of us in Washington to meet our responsibilities and do our part to make their lives just a little bit easier, to create those ladders of opportunity. <p>And that's why last week, I asked Congress a simple question: In the face of a national emergency, can we finally put a stop to the political circus and actually do something to help the economy? Can we restore some of the fairness and the security that has defined this nation since our founding? <p>I believe we can, and I believe we must. And that's why, on Monday, I sent the \\"American Jobs Act\\" to Congress and asked them to pass it right away. The proposals in this legislation have, in the past, been supported by Democrats and Republicans. And all of it will be paid for. <p>And the idea behind this bill is simple: to put more people back to work and put more money into the pockets of those who are working. It will create more jobs for construction workers and teachers and veterans and the long-term unemployed. It will give tax breaks to companies who hire new workers, and to small-business owners, and to the middle class. And it will help restore confidence in our economy so businesses will invest and hire. <p>Passing this jobs bill will put people to work rebuilding our decaying roads and our bridges and will repair and modernize 35,000 schools by fixing roofs, insulating windows, and installing science labs and high-speed Internet, and getting our kids out of trailers&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;all throughout the community, especially in the Latino community, where our children&mdash;the population is growing fastest. <p>At a time when countries like China are building high-speed rail lines and gleaming new airports, we've got over a million unemployed construction workers&mdash;many of them Latino&mdash;who could be doing the same thing right here in the United States. That's not right. It's time for us to fix it. And that's why Congress should pass this bill right away. <p>Passing this jobs bill will put thousands of teachers in every state back to work helping our kids compete with their peers around the world. Because at a time when teachers are being hired in countries like South Korea, we can't be laying them off in San Diego or Philadelphia, not when our children's future is at stake. Let's put teachers back in the classroom where they belong. <p>Passing this jobs bill will cut taxes for small business&mdash;including 250,000 Latino-owned businesses. And it will give companies a tax credit if they hire American veterans, because if you risk your life serving this country, you shouldn't have to worry about finding a job when you get home. This is our chance to help make it right. <p>Passing this jobs bill will give hundreds of thousands of disadvantaged young people a summer job next year. And their parents, who desperately want to work, will have more ladders out of poverty. That's why Congress needs to pass this bill right now. <p>Passing this jobs bill will give companies up to a $4,000 tax credit if they hire someone who's been looking for a job for more than 6 months. It will build on a program in Georgia that takes the people who collect unemployment insurance and gives them temporary work as a way to build up their skills while they look for a permanent job. And this plan will also extend unemployment insurance for another year, and that benefits over 1 million Latinos and their families. They need help, and it would be a huge blow to our economy if these families stopped spending money on necessities. Let's pass this bill and keep that from happening. <p>And finally, passing this jobs bill will give the typical working family a $1,500 tax cut next year. Money that would have been taken out of your paycheck will now go into your pocket. Twenty-five million Latino workers will benefit. Some folks have been working pretty hard in Congress to keep tax breaks for wealthy Americans. The least they can do is fight just as hard for the middle class and people at the bottom. Let's get this done. Let's make sure that ordinary folks get some relief as well. <p>So this is what the \\"American Jobs Act\\" is all about: New jobs for construction workers and teachers, veterans, young people, long-term unemployed; tax credits for middle class families and for small businesses. And we'll pay for it&mdash;all of it&mdash;in a way that not only covers the cost of the plan, but helps to bring down our debt and our deficits over the long term. <p>I'll be talking more about how we're going to pay for this plan on Monday, but the bottom line is it has to be done in a balanced way where everyone shares the sacrifice and nobody is asked to bear the whole burden. <p>We need to make more spending cuts on top of the trillion dollars of cuts I've already signed into law, and that's going to be tough. We need to make modest adjustments to programs like Medicare and Medicaid that will help preserve them for the next generation while protecting current retirees. But we also need to make some real choices when it comes to our Tax Code, choices about what kind of country do we want to be. <p>Instead of asking middle class families to bear even more of a burden, let's ask big corporations to give up tax loopholes that small businesses don't get. Instead of telling seniors \\"you're on your own,\\" let's make sure our wealthiest citizens aren't paying taxes at a lower rate than their secretaries. That's not right. In this country, everybody should be getting a fair shake, and everybody should be paying their fair share. That's who we are as Americans. That's who we have to be now. <p>A jobs bill that puts Americans back to work, a balanced approach to pay for it that will lower our deficit in the long run, these are the steps Congress needs to take right now to put our country on a stronger footing. But we also know we've got to do more. If we're going to continue to grow our economy at a time when companies can set up shop anywhere in the world, we've got to do more; we've got to look a little further down the road. <p>And that starts with giving our children the best opportunity to succeed, something I know Latino families are focused on every single day. Because if we're going to outbuild and outinnovate every other country on Earth, the most important thing we can do is make sure that every single young person in this country has an opportunity to thrive. The most important investment we can make is in education. <p>That's why we launched the Race to the Top initiative, which now reaches almost one-quarter of our country's Latino students, to help encourage schools to do the very best with our kids: Identify and support students before they drop out, implement effective bilingual education programs, make English Language Learners a priority. <p>We have strengthened Pell grants, and we're investing in community colleges that help teach the skills that companies need. And that's part of the reason why the number of young Latinos enrolled in college rose by 24 percent in the last year. They can actually afford to go to school because of the help that Members of Congress who are here tonight helped deliver. We've got more Latinos attending college than ever before. And even though we're not there yet, we are going to do everything in our power&mdash;I will do everything in my power&mdash;to make the \\"DREAM Act\\" a reality. <p>This has been a long and frustrating road for all of us. Republicans helped write the \\"DREAM Act\\" because they knew it was the right thing to do for our country. That was a while back. But then last year, we passed the \\"DREAM Act\\" through the House only to see it blocked by Senate Republicans. And now, for the first time in a decade, the bill doesn't have a single Republican cosponsor, not one. Nothing about the need for the legislation changed. Nothing about the language in the legislation changed. The only thing that changed was politics in Washington. <p>That's heartbreaking. It's heartbreaking to see innocent young people denied the right to earn an education or serve in our military because of their parents' action and because of the actions of a few politicians in Washington. It's heartbreaking to see these incredibly bright, gifted people barred from contributing to our country and to our economy. <p>Because the truth is, reforming our immigration system is crucial for our economic future. This country was built and sustained by people who risked everything because they believed in the idea of America, the idea that anybody with a dream and a willingness to work can make a life for themselves here. That is part of the American Dream. That's the essence of the American Dream. <B> <p></B>That's why it doesn't make sense that we educate more foreign-born workers than any country in the world, but our broken, outdated immigration system often sends them home to invent and build and grow their companies someplace else. It doesn't make any sense that immigrant workers are forced into the shadows, earning unfair wages, at the same time that businesses are breaking the rules and getting away with it, while those that follow the rules get punished. <p>We need an immigration policy that works, one that meets the needs of our families and our businesses while honoring our tradition as a nation of immigrants and a nation of laws. Because no matter what you may hear, in this country, there is no \\"us\\" or \\"them;\\" there is only \\"us\\": one Nation, under God, indivisible. And immigrants are part of that American family and a source of our strength. <p>Now, as I mentioned when I was at La Raza a few weeks back, I wish I had a magic wand and could make this all happen on my own. There are times when&mdash;until Nancy Pelosi is Speaker again&mdash;I'd like to work my way around Congress. But the fact is, even as we work towards a day when I can sign an immigration bill, we've got laws on the books that have to be upheld. But as you know as well as anyone that&mdash;anybody else, how we enforce those laws is also important. That's why the Department of Homeland Security is applying commonsense standards for immigration enforcement. And we've made progress so that our enforcement policies prioritize criminals who endanger our communities, not students trying to achieve the American Dream. <p>But we live in a democracy, and at the end of the day, I can't do this all by myself under our democratic system. If we're going to do big things&mdash;whether it's passing this jobs bill or the \\"DREAM Act\\" or comprehensive immigration reform&mdash;we're going to have to get Congress to act. I know Nancy Pelosi is ready to act. I know the CHC is ready to act. But we got to get more folks in Congress to act. It's time to stop playing politics and start listening to the people who sent us to Washington in the first place, because the rest of America is way ahead of us on this. <p>So everybody here tonight, keep the heat on me, keep the heat on Nancy, the rest of the Democrats. We feel good about where we're at. But if we're being honest, we know the real problem isn't the Members of Congress in this room. It's the Members of Congress who put party before country because they believe the only way to resolve our differences is to wait 14 months till the next election. <p>And I've got news for them. The American people don't have the luxury of waiting 14 months. Some of them are living paycheck to paycheck, month to month, day to day. Others want to go to college right now. They want to defend their country right now. And that's why I'm asking everybody in the Latino community&mdash;not just here, but all across the country&mdash;lift up your voice. Make yourself heard. If you think it's time to pass a jobs bill that will put millions of Americans back to work, call on Congress to do the right thing. <p>If you think it's time to give businesses the incentive to hire and put more money into your pockets, make yourself heard. Tell Congress to do the right thing. And if your Congressman or woman is already on the right page, talk to somebody else's Congressman. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>If you think it's time to stop the political games and finally pass the \\"DREAM Act\\" and reform our immigration system, pick up the phone, get on the computer, tell your representatives in Washington the time for action is now. We can't wait. Not when so much is at stake. <p>These are difficult times. But remember, we've been through worse. And think about everybody here&mdash;your parents, your grandparents, your great-grandparents&mdash;they struggled in ways we can't even imagine to deliver that American Dream to you. We've always been a nation full of vision, a bold and optimistic America that does big things. We don't have a cramped vision. We don't try to exclude. We try to embrace and bring people in to this idea of America. <p>It's a vision where we live within our means, but we invest in our future; where everybody makes sacrifices, but nobody has to bear the burden alone, and everybody shares in our success; where we live up to the idea that no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter what your surname&mdash;whether your ancestors landed at Ellis Island or came over on a slave ship or crossed the Rio Grande&mdash;we are all connected, and we all rise and fall together. <p>That's the America I believe in. That's the America that you believe in. That's the America we can once more have, as long as all of us are working together. <p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"200" "\"Thank you, everybody. Please be seated. Thank you, Chaplain Kibben. Good afternoon, everyone. And on behalf of Michelle and myself, welcome to the White House. <p>It's been said that \\"where there is a brave man, in the thickest of the fight, there is the post of honor.\\" Today we pay tribute to an American who placed himself in the thick of the fight, again and again and again. In so doing, he has earned our Nation's highest military decoration, the Medal of Honor. And we are extraordinarily proud of Sergeant Dakota Meyer. <p>Today is only the third time during the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq that a recipient of the Medal of Honor has been able to accept it in person. And we are honored to be joined by one of the two other recipients, Sergeant First Class Leroy Petry, who is here. <p>I would point out something else. Of all the Medal of Honor recipients in recent decades, Dakota is also one of the youngest. He's 23 years old. And he performed the extraordinary actions for which he is being recognized today when he was just 21 years old. <p>Despite all this, I have to say Dakota is one of the most down-to-Earth guys that you will ever meet. In fact, when my staff first tried to arrange the phone call so I could tell him that I'd approved this medal, Dakota was at work, at his new civilian job, on a construction site. He felt he couldn't take the call right then, because he said, \\"If I don't work, I don't get paid.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] So we arranged to make sure he got the call during his lunch break. [<i>Laughter</i>] I told him the news, and then he went right back to work. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's the kind of guy he is. He also asked to have a beer with me, which we were able to execute yesterday. <p>Dakota is the kind of guy who gets the job done. And I do appreciate, Dakota, you taking my call. [<i>Laughter</i>] The Medal of Honor reflects the gratitude of the entire Nation. So we're joined here by Members of Congress, including somebody from your home State, the Republican leader of the Senate, Mitch McConnell. We are joined here by leaders from across my administration, including Secretary of Veterans Affairs Ric Shinseki and Navy Secretary Ray Mabus, and leaders from across our Armed Forces, including the Commandant of the Marine Corps General James Amos. <p>We're honored to welcome Dakota's father Mike, who's here; his extraordinary grandparents; and more than 120 of Dakota's family and friends, many from his home State of Kentucky. I want to welcome Dakota's comrades from the Marine Embedded Training Team 2-8, and we are humbled by the presence of the members of the Medal of Honor Society. <p>Dakota, I realize the past 2 years have not been easy for you, retelling the story of that day and standing here today. You're a very modest young man. But, as you've said, you do it for a simple reason&mdash;retelling the story&mdash;because it helps you to honor those who didn't come home, and to remind your fellow Americans that our men and women in uniform are over there fighting every single day. <p>So that's how we'll do this today. It's fitting that we do so this week, having just marked the 10th anniversary of the attacks that took our Nation to war, because in Sergeant Dakota Meyer, we see the best of a generation that has served with distinction through a decade of war. <p>Let me tell the story. I want you to imagine it's September 8, 2009, just before dawn. A patrol of Afghan forces and their American trainers is on foot, making their way up a narrow valley, heading into a village to meet with elders. And suddenly, all over the village, the lights go out. And that's when it happens. About a mile away, Dakota, who was then a corporal, and Staff Sergeant Juan Rodriguez-Chavez, could hear the ambush over the radio. It was as if the whole valley was exploding. Taliban fighters were unleashing a firestorm from the hills, from the stone houses, even from the local school. <p>And soon, the patrol was pinned down, taking ferocious fire from three sides. Men were being wounded and killed, and four Americans&mdash;Dakota's friends&mdash;were surrounded. Four times, Dakota and Juan asked permission to go in; four times they were denied. It was, they were told, too dangerous. But one of the teachers in his high school once said, \\"When you tell Dakota he can't do something, he's is going to do it.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] And as Dakota said of his trapped teammates, \\"Those were my brothers, and I couldn't just sit back and watch.\\" <p>The story of what Dakota did next will be told for generations. He told Juan they were going in. Juan jumped into a Humvee and took the wheel; Dakota climbed into the turret and manned the gun. They were defying orders, but they were doing what they thought was right. So they drove straight into a killing zone, Dakota's upper body and head exposed to a blizzard of fire from AK-47s and machine guns, from mortars and rocket-propelled grenades. <p>Coming upon wounded Afghan soldiers, Dakota jumped out and loaded each of the wounded into the Humvee, each time exposing himself to all that enemy fire. They turned around and drove those wounded back to safety. Those who were there called it the most intense combat they'd ever seen. Dakota and Juan would have been forgiven for not going back in. But as Dakota says, you don't leave anyone behind. <p>For a second time, they went back, back into the inferno; Juan at the wheel, swerving to avoid the explosions all around them; Dakota up in the turret, when one gun jammed, grabbing another, going through gun after gun. Again they came across wounded Afghans. Again, Dakota jumped out, loaded them up, and brought them back to safety. <p>For a third time, they went back, insurgents running right up to the Humvee, Dakota fighting them off. Up ahead, a group of Americans, some wounded, were desperately trying to escape the bullets raining down. Juan wedged the Humvee right into the line of fire, using the vehicle as a shield. With Dakota on the guns, they helped those Americans back to safety as well. <p>For a fourth time, they went back. Dakota was now wounded in the arm. Their vehicle was riddled with bullets and shrapnel. Dakota later confessed: \\"I didn't think I was going to die. I knew I was.\\" But still they pushed on, finding the wounded, delivering them to safety. <p>And then, for a fifth time, they went back, into the fury of that village, under fire that seemed to come from every window, every doorway, every alley. And when they finally got to those trapped Americans, Dakota jumped out. And he ran toward them, drawing all those enemy guns on himself, bullets kicking up the dirt all around him. He kept going until he came upon those four Americans, laying where they fell, together as one team. <p>Dakota and the others who had joined him knelt down, picked up their comrades and&mdash;through all those bullets, all the smoke, all the chaos&mdash;carried them out, one by one. Because, as Dakota says, \\"That's what you do for a brother.\\" <p>Dakota says he'll accept this medal in their name. So today we remember the husband who loved the outdoors, Lieutenant Michael Johnson; the husband and father they called \\"Gunny J\\"&mdash;Gunnery Sergeant Edwin Johnson; the determined marine who fought to get on that team, Staff Sergeant Aaron Kenefick; the medic who gave his life tending to his teammates, Hospitalman Third Class James Layton; and a soldier wounded in that battle who never recovered, Sergeant First Class Kenneth Westbrook. <p>Dakota, I know that you've grappled with the grief of that day, that you've said your efforts were somehow a \\"failure\\" because your teammates didn't come home. But as your Commander in Chief, and on behalf of everyone here today and all Americans, I want you to know, it's quite the opposite. You did your duty, above and beyond, and you kept the faith with the highest traditions of the Marine Corps that you love. <p>Because of your honor, 36 men are alive today. Because of your courage, four fallen American heroes came home, and&mdash;in the words of James Layton's mom&mdash;they could lay their sons to rest with dignity. Because of your commitment&mdash;in the thick of the fight, hour after hour&mdash;a former marine who read about your story said that you showed how \\"in the most desperate, final hours&hellip; our brothers and God will not forsake us.\\" And because of your humble example, our kids&mdash;especially back in Columbia, Kentucky, in small towns all across America&mdash;they'll know that no matter who you are or where you come from, you can do great things as a citizen and as a member of the American family. <p>Therein lies the greatest lesson of that day in the valley and the truth that our men and women in uniform live out every day. \\"I was part of something bigger,\\" Dakota has said, part of a team \\"that worked together, lifting each other up and working toward a common goal. Every member of our team was as important as the other.\\" So in keeping with Dakota's wishes for this day, I want to conclude by asking now-Gunnery Sergeant Rodriguez-Chavez and all those who served with Dakota&mdash;the Marines, Army, Navy&mdash;to stand and accept thanks of a grateful nation. <p>Every member of our team is as important as the other. That's a lesson that we all have to remember&mdash;as citizens and as a nation&mdash;as we meet the tests of our time, here at home and around the world. <p>To our Marines, to all our men and women in uniform, to our fellow Americans, let us always be faithful. And as we prepare for the reading of the citation, let me say, God bless you, Dakota. God bless our Marines and all who serve. And God bless the United States of America. Semper Fi. <p>[<i>At this point, Lt. Cmdr. Matthew R. Maasdam, USN, Military Aide to the President, read the citation, the President presented the medal, and Rear Admiral Margaret G. Kibben, USN, Chaplain of the U.S. Marine Corps, said a prayer</i>.] <p>Thank you all for joining us here today. We are grateful for Dakota. We are grateful for all our men and women in uniform. And I hope that all of you have not only been inspired by this ceremony, but also will enjoy the hospitality of the White House. I hear the food is pretty good. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"201" "\"Thank you so much, everybody. Please, please have a seat. I am thrilled to be here at Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology. And thank you so much for the wonderful welcome. <p>I want to thank Rebecca for the unbelievable introduction. Give Rebecca a big hand. In addition to Rebecca, on stage we've got some very important people. First of all, before we do, I want to thank your wonderful principal, Dr. Evan Glazer, who's right here. Stand up, Evan. [<i>Applause</i>] Yay! The people who are responsible for making some great progress on reforming our patent laws here today: Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont and Lamar Smith, Republican from Texas. <p>And in addition, we've got Representative Bob Goodlatte, Representative Jim Moran, Representative Melvin Watt are all here; Becky Blank, who's our Acting Secretary of Commerce; David Kappos, who's the Director of U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. And we've got some extraordinary business leaders here: Louis Foreman, CEO of Eventys; Jessica Matthews, CEO of Uncharted Play; Ellen Kullman, CEO of DuPont; John Lechleiter, CEO of Eli Lilly. And we've got another outstanding student, Karishma Popli, your classmate. <p>This is one of the best high schools in the country. And as you can see, it's filled with some pretty impressive students. I have to say, when I was a freshman in high school, none of my work was patentworthy. [<i>Laughter</i>] I was&mdash;we had an exhibit of some of the projects that you guys are doing, and the first high school student satellite, a wheelchair controlled by brain waves, robots. There's one thing&mdash;I don't know exactly how to describe it&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;but it's measuring toxicity in the oceans. It's unbelievable stuff. <p>So to the students here, I could not be more impressed by what you guys are doing. I'm hoping that I will learn something just by being close to you&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;that through osmosis&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I will soak in some knowledge. I already feel smarter just standing here. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>One President who would have loved this school is the person that it's named after, Thomas Jefferson. He was a pretty good inventor himself, and he also happened to be the first American to oversee our country's patent process. <p>And that's why we're here today. When Thomas Edison filed his patent for the phonograph, his application was approved in just 7 weeks. And these days, that process is taking an average of 3 years. Over the last decade, patent applications have nearly tripled. And because the Patent Office doesn't have the resources to deal with all of them, right now there are about 700,000 applications that haven't even been opened yet. <p>These are jobs and businesses of the future just waiting to be created. The CEOs who are represented here today, all of them are running companies that were based on creativity and invention and the ability to commercialize good ideas. And somewhere in that stack of applications could be the next technological breakthrough, the next miracle drug, the next idea that will launch the next Fortune 500 company. And somewhere in this country&mdash;maybe in this room&mdash;is the next Thomas Edison or Steve Jobs, just waiting for a chance to turn their idea into a new, thriving business. <p>So we can't afford to drag our feet any longer, not at a time when we should be doing everything we can to create good, middle class jobs that put Americans back to work. And we have always succeeded because we have been the most dynamic, innovative economy in the world. That has to be encouraged. That has to be continued. <p>We have to do everything we can to encourage the entrepreneurial spirit, wherever we find it. We should be helping American companies compete and sell their products all over the world. We should be making it easier and faster to turn new ideas into new jobs and new businesses. And we should knock down any barriers that stand in the way. Because if we're going to create jobs now and in the future, we're going to have to out-build and out-educate and out-innovate every other country on Earth. <p>We've got a lot of competition out there. And if we make it too hard for people with good ideas to attract investment and get them to market, then countries like China are going to beat us at it and beat us to it. <p>So that's why I asked Congress to send me a bill that reforms the outdated patent process, a bill that cuts away the redtape that slows down our inventors and entrepreneurs. And today I'm happy to have the opportunity to finally sign that bill. It's a bill that will put a dent in the huge stack of patent applications waiting for review. It will help startups and small-business owners turn their ideas into products three times faster than they can today. And it will improve patent quality and help give entrepreneurs the protection and the confidence they need to attract investment, to grow their businesses, and to hire more workers. <p>So I want to thank all the Members of Congress for helping to get this done. I especially want to thank Patrick Leahy and Lamar Smith, who led the process in a bipartisan way in the House and in the Senate. <p>I have to take this opportunity, while I've got some Members of Congress here, to say I've got another bill that&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I want them to get passed to help the economy right away. It's called the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" And these things are connected. This change in our patent laws is part of our agenda for making us competitive over the long term. But we've also got a short-term economic crisis, a set of challenges that we have to deal with right now. <p>And what the \\"American Jobs Act\\" does is it puts more people back to work and it puts more money into the pockets of working Americans. And everything in the proposal, everything in the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" is the kind of proposal that's been supported by Democrats and Republicans in the past. Everything in it will be paid for. And you can read the plan for yourselves during all the free time that you guys have here at Thomas Jefferson&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;on whitehouse.gov. I want Congress to pass this jobs bill right away. <p>Let me give you an example of why this is relevant. We're surrounded today by outstanding teachers, men and women who prepare our young people to compete in a global economy. If Congress passes this jobs bill, then we can get thousands of teachers all across the country who've been laid off because of difficulties at the State and local level with their budgets, we can get them back to work, back in the classroom. <p>This jobs bill will put unemployed construction workers back to work rebuilding our schools and our roads and our bridges. And it will give tax credits to companies that hire our veterans, because if you serve our country, you shouldn't have to worry about finding a job when you get home. <p>It connects the long-term unemployed to temporary work to keep their skills sharp while they're looking for a job, and it gives thousands of young people the hope of a job next summer. And it will cut taxes for every middle class family and small-business owner in America. And if you're a small-business owner that hires more workers and raises salaries, you get an extra tax credit. <p>It won't add to the deficit. And we'll pay for it by following the same rules that every family follows: Spend money on things you need, cut back on things you don't. And we'll make sure that everybody pays their fair share, including those of us who've been incredibly fortunate and blessed in this country. <p>So this bill answers the urgent need to create jobs right away. But, as I said, we can't stop there. We have to look further down the road and build an economy that lasts into the future, and that's going to depend on the talents of young people like you; an economy that creates good, middle class jobs that pay well and offer families a sense of security. <p>We live in a world that is changing so rapidly, companies like the ones represented here today, they can set up shop anywhere where there's an Internet connection. And if we want startups here and if we want established companies like a DuPont or a Eli Lilly to continue to make products here and hire here, then we're going to have to be able to compete with any other country around the world. <p>So this patent bill will encourage that innovation. But there are other steps that we can take. Today, for example, my administration is announcing a new center that will help companies reduce the time and cost of developing lifesaving drugs. When scientists and researchers at the National Institutes of Health discover a new cure or breakthrough, we're going to make it easier for startup companies to sell those products to the people who need them. We got more than 100 universities and companies to agree that they'll work together to bring more inventions to market as fast as possible. And we're also developing a strategy to create jobs in biotechnology, which has tremendous promise for health, clean energy, and the environment. <p>Now, to help this country compete for new jobs and businesses, we also need to invest in basic research and technology, so the great ideas of the future will be born in our labs and in classrooms like these. You guys have such an unbelievable head start already, but as you go to MIT and Caltech and UVA and wherever else you guys are going to go, what you're going to find is, is that the further you get along in your pursuits, the more you're going to be relying on research grants. And Government's are&mdash;always played a critical role in financing the basic research that then leads to all sorts of inventions. <p>So we're going to have to make sure that we're continuing to invest in basic research so you can do the work that you're capable of and still pay the rent, which is important, you will find out. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We need to continue to provide incentives and support to make sure that the next generation of manufacturing takes root not in China or in Europe, but right here in the United States. Because it's not enough to invent things here, our workers should also be building the products that are stamped with three proud words: Made in America. <p>And if we want companies to hire our workers, we need to make sure we give every American the skills and education that they need to compete. We've got to have more schools like Thomas Jefferson. And it's got to start even before kindergarten and preschool and before high school. The reason that you guys are doing so well is you had a foundation very early on in math and science and language arts that allowed you to succeed even at a very young age. We've got to make sure that opportunity is available for all kids. All kids, including this little guy right here&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;with the hair. Right. <p>That's why we're boosting science and technology and engineering and math education all across the country. And that's why we're also working with businesses to train more engineers and revitalize our community colleges so they can provide our workers with new skills and training. And finally, that's why we're making sure that all of our children can afford to fulfill their dream of a college education, that they can afford to go to school and that Pell grants and student loan programs ensure that they don't come out of college with mountains of debt. <p>So this is the economy we need to build, one where innovation is encouraged, education is a national mission, and new jobs and businesses take root right here in America. <p>So that's the long-term project. We still have a short-term agenda, and that is putting people to work right now. We've got to do everything we can to get this economy growing faster in the short term. That's why I'm asking Members of Congress to meet their responsibilities, send me the \\"American Jobs Act\\" right away. <p>There are folks in Washington who may be fine waiting until the next election to settle our differences and move forward. But the next election is 14 months away. The American people can't wait that long. There are a lot of people out there who are living paycheck to paycheck, even day to day. They're working hard. They're making tough choices. They're meeting their responsibilities. But they need us to do the same. <p>So I need everybody who's listening, here and across the country, tell Congress: Pass the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" We came together to pass patent reform. We should be able to come together to also put people back to work. <p>And to all the students at Thomas Jefferson, I could not be prouder of you. I expect that among you are going to be incredible scientists and engineers and business leaders. You guys are going to transform the world. And I'm just looking forward to taking advantage of the incredible science and technology that you develop in the years to come. <p>You guys are our future. And whenever I see what young people like you are doing, I know that America's future is going to be bright. <p>Thank you so much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"202" "\"I've spent some time lately traveling the country and talking with folks outside of Washington. And the number one issue for the people I meet is how can we get back to a place where we're creating good, middle class jobs that pay well and offer some security. <p>That's the idea behind the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" It's a jobs bill that does two simple things: put more people back to work, and more money back in the pockets of people who are working. <p>This jobs bill puts construction workers back to work, rebuilding our roads and bridges and modernizing our schools. This jobs bill puts teachers back in the classroom and keeps cops and firefighters on our streets. This jobs bill gives tax credits to companies that hire our veterans, because if you sign up to fight for our country, the last thing you should have to do is fight for a job when you come home. This jobs bill connects the long-term unemployed to temporary work to keep their skills sharp while they look for a job, and it gives hundreds of thousands of young people the hope of a job next summer. <p>This jobs bill cuts taxes for every small-business owner in America. It cuts them even more for small-business owners that hire new workers and raise workers' salaries. And it cuts taxes for every working family in America so you'll have more money in your pockets and businesses know they'll have more customers to buy what they sell. <p>That's the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" and you can check it out for yourself on whitehouse.gov. <p>It will create new jobs; it will cut taxes for every worker and small business in the country. And it will not add to the deficit; it will be paid for. <p>On Monday, I'll lay out my plan for how we'll do that, how we'll pay for this plan and pay down our debt, by following some basic principles, making sure we live within our means, and asking everyone to pay their fair share. <p>But right now we've got to get Congress to pass this jobs bill. Everything in the \\"American Jobs Act\\" is the kind of idea that's been supported by Democrats and Republicans before. And if they're ideas you agree with, then every one of you can help make it happen by telling your Congressperson to pass this jobs bill right away. <p>I know some of them would rather wait another year to wage another election than work together right now. But most Americans don't have the luxury of waiting. It was 3 years ago this week that a financial crisis on Wall Street made things much more difficult for working folks on Main Street. And too many are still hurting as a result. <p>So the time for action is now. No more games&mdash;no more gridlock&mdash;no more division or delay. It's time for the people you sent to Washington to put country before party, to stop worrying so much about their jobs and start worrying more about yours. <p>It's time to get to work and show the world once again why the United States of America remains the greatest nation on Earth. <p>Thanks.\" "
"203" "\"Good morning, everybody. Please have a seat. <p>A week ago today, I sent Congress the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" It's a plan that will lead to new jobs for teachers, for construction workers, for veterans, and for the unemployed. It will cut taxes for every small-business owner and virtually every working man and woman in America. And the proposals in this jobs bill are the kinds that have been supported by Democrats and Republicans in the past. So there shouldn't be any reason for Congress to drag its feet. They should pass it right away. I'm ready to sign a bill. I've got the pens all ready. <p>Now, as I said before, Congress should pass this bill knowing that every proposal is fully paid for. The \\"American Jobs Act\\" will not add to our Nation's debt. And today I'm releasing a plan that details how to pay for the jobs bill while also paying down our debt over time. <p>And this is important, because the health of our economy depends in part on what we do right now to create the conditions where businesses can hire and middle class families can feel a basic measure of economic security. But in the long run, our prosperity also depends on our ability to pay down the massive debt we've accumulated over the past decade in a way that allows us to meet our responsibilities to each other and to the future. <p>Now, during this past decade, profligate spending in Washington, tax cuts for multimillionaires and billionaires, the costs of two wars, and the recession turned a record surplus into a yawning deficit, and that left us with a big pile of IOUs. If we don't act, that burden will ultimately fall on our children's shoulders. If we don't act, the growing debt will eventually crowd out everything else, preventing us from investing in things like education or sustaining programs like Medicare. <p>So Washington has to live within its means. The Government has to do what families across this country have been doing for years. We have to cut what we can't afford to pay for what really matters. We need to invest in what will promote hiring and economic growth now, while still providing the confidence that will come with a plan that reduces our deficits over the long term. <p>These principles were at the heart of the deficit framework that I put forward in April. It was an approach to shrink the deficit as a share of the economy, but not to do so so abruptly with spending cuts that would hamper growth or prevent us from helping small businesses and middle class families get back on their feet. <p>It was an approach that said we need to go through the budget line by line looking for waste, without shortchanging education and basic scientific research and road construction because those things are essential to our future. And it was an approach that said we shouldn't balance the budget on the backs of the poor and the middle class, that for us to solve this problem, everybody, including the wealthiest Americans and biggest corporations, have to pay their fair share. <p>Now, during the debt ceiling debate, I had hoped to negotiate a compromise with the Speaker of the House that fulfilled these principles and achieved the $4 trillion in deficit reduction that leaders in both parties have agreed we need, a grand bargain that would have strengthened our economy instead of weakened it. Unfortunately, the Speaker walked away from a balanced package. What we agreed to instead wasn't all that grand. But it was a start: roughly $1 trillion in cuts to domestic spending and defense spending. <p>Everyone knows we have to do more, and a special joint committee of Congress is assigned to find more deficit reduction. So today I'm laying out a set of specific proposals to finish what we started this summer, proposals that live up to the principles I've talked about from the beginning. It's a plan that reduces our debt by more than $4 trillion and achieves these savings in a way that is fair, by asking everybody to do their part so that no one has to bear too much of the burden on their own. <p>All told, this plan cuts $2 in spending for every dollar in new revenues. In addition to the $1 trillion in spending that we've already cut from the budget, our plan makes additional spending cuts that need to happen if we're to solve this problem. We reform agricultural subsidies, subsidies that a lot of times pay large farms for crops that they don't grow. We make modest adjustments to Federal retirement programs. We reduce by tens of billions of dollars the tax money that goes to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. We also ask the largest financial firms&mdash;companies saved by tax dollars during the financial crisis&mdash;to repay the American people for every dime that we spent. And we save an additional $1 trillion as we end the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. <p>These savings are not only counted as part of our plan, but as part of the budget plan that nearly every Republican on the House voted for. <p>Finally, this plan includes structural reforms to reduce the cost of health care in programs like Medicare and Medicaid. Keep in mind, we've already included a number of reforms in the health care law, which will go a long way towards controlling these costs. But we're going to have to do a little more. This plan reduces wasteful subsidies and erroneous payments while changing some incentives that often lead to excessive health care costs. It makes prescriptions more affordable through faster approval of generic drugs. We'll work with Governors to make Medicaid more efficient and more accountable. And we'll change the way we pay for health care. Instead of just paying for procedures, providers will be paid more when they improve results, and such steps will save money and improve care. <p>These changes are phased in slowly to strengthen Medicare and Medicaid over time. Because while we do need to reduce health care costs, I'm not going to allow that to be an excuse for turning Medicare into a voucher program that leaves seniors at the mercy of the insurance industry. I'm not going to stand for balancing the budget by denying or reducing health care for poor children or those with disabilities. So we will reform Medicare and Medicaid, but we will not abandon the fundamental commitment that this country has kept for generations. <p>And by the way, that includes our commitment to Social Security. I've said before, Social Security is not the primary cause of our deficits, but it does face long-term challenges as our country grows older. And both parties are going to need to work together on a separate track to strengthen Social Security for our children and our grandchildren. <p>So this is how we can reduce spending: by scouring the budget for every dime of waste and inefficiency, by reforming Government spending, and by making modest adjustments to Medicare and Medicaid. But all these reductions in spending, by themselves, will not solve our fiscal problems. We can't just cut our way out of this hole. It's going to take a balanced approach. If we're going to make spending cuts, many of which we wouldn't make if we weren't facing such large budget deficits, then it's only right that we ask everyone to pay their fair share. <p>You know, last week, Speaker of the House John Boehner gave a speech about the economy. And to his credit, he made the point that we can't afford the kind of politics that says it's \\"my way or the highway.\\" I was encouraged by that. Here's the problem: In the same speech, he also came out against any plan to cut the deficit that includes any additional revenues whatsoever. He said&mdash;I'm quoting him&mdash;there is \\"only one option.\\" And that option&mdash;and only option&mdash;relies entirely on cuts. That means slashing education, surrendering the research necessary to keep America's technological edge in the 21st century, and allowing our critical public assets like highways and bridges and airports to get worse. It would cripple our competiveness and our ability to win the jobs of the future. And it would also mean asking sacrifice of seniors and the middle class and the poor, while asking nothing of the wealthiest Americans and biggest corporations. <p>So the Speaker says we can't have it \\"my way or the highway\\" and then basically says, \\"My way or the highway.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] That's not smart. It's not right. If we're going to meet our responsibilities, we have to do it together. <p>Now, I'm proposing real, serious cuts in spending. When you include the $1 trillion in cuts I've already signed into law, these would be among the biggest cuts in spending in our history. But they've got to be part of a larger plan that's balanced, a plan that asks the most fortunate among us to pay their fair share, just like everybody else. <p>And that's why this plan eliminates tax loopholes that primarily go to the wealthiest taxpayers and biggest corporations, tax breaks that small businesses and middle class families don't get. And if tax reform doesn't get done, this plan asks the wealthiest Americans to go back to paying the same rates that they paid during the 1990s, before the Bush tax cuts. <p>I promise that it's not because anybody looks forward to the prospects of raising taxes or paying more taxes. I don't. In fact, I've cut taxes for the middle class and for small businesses, and through the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" we'd cut taxes again to promote hiring and put more money into the pockets of people. But we can't afford these special lower rates for the wealthy, rates, by the way, that were meant to be temporary. Back when these first&mdash;these tax cuts, back in 2001, 2003, were being talked about, they were talked about as temporary measures. We can't afford them when we're running these big deficits. <p>Now, I am also ready to work with Democrats and Republicans to reform our entire Tax Code, to get rid of the decades of accumulated loopholes, special interest carve-outs, and other tax expenditures that stack the deck against small-business owners and ordinary families who can't afford Washington lobbyists or fancy accountants. Our Tax Code is more than 10,000 pages long. If you stack up all the volumes, they're almost 5 feet tall. And that means that how much you pay often depends less on what you make and more on how well you can game the system, and that's especially true of the corporate Tax Code. <p>We've got one of the highest corporate tax rates in the world, but it's riddled with exceptions and special interest loopholes. So some companies get out paying a lot of taxes, while the rest of them end up having to foot the bill. And this makes our entire economy less competitive and our country a less desirable place to do business. <p>That has to change. Our Tax Code shouldn't give an advantage to companies with the best connected lobbyists. It should give an advantage to companies that invest in the United States of America and create jobs in the United States of America. And we can lower the corporate rate if we get rid of all these special deals. <p>So I am ready, I am eager to work with Democrats and Republicans to reform the Tax Code to make it simpler, make it fairer, and make America more competitive. But any reform plan will have to raise revenue to help close our deficit. That has to be part of the formula. And any reform should follow another simple principle: Middle class families shouldn't pay higher taxes than millionaires and billionaires. That's pretty straightforward. It's hard to argue against that. Warren Buffett's secretary shouldn't pay a higher tax rate than Warren Buffett. There's no justification for it. <p>It is wrong that in the United States of America, a teacher or a nurse or a construction worker who earns $50,000 should pay higher tax rates than somebody pulling in $50 million. Anybody who says we can't change the Tax Code to correct that, anyone who has signed some pledge to protect every single tax loophole so long as they live, they should be called out. They should have to defend that unfairness, explain why somebody who's making $50 million a year in the financial markets should be paying 15 percent on their taxes, when a teacher making $50,000 a year is paying more than that, paying a higher rate. They ought to have to answer for that. And if they're pledged to keep that kind of unfairness in place, they should remember: The last time I checked, the only pledge that really matters is the pledge we take to uphold the Constitution. <p>Now, we're already hearing the usual defenders of these kinds of loopholes saying this is just \\"class warfare.\\" I reject the idea that asking a hedge fund manager to pay the same tax rate as a plumber or a teacher is class warfare. I think it's just the right the thing to do. I believe the American middle class, who have been pressured relentlessly for decades, believe it's time that they were fought for as hard as the lobbyists and some lawmakers have fought to protect special treatment for billionaires and big corporations. <p>Nobody wants to punish success in America. What's great about this country is our belief that anyone can make it and everybody should be able to try, the idea that any one of us can open a business or have an idea and make us millionaires or billionaires. This is the land of opportunity. That's great. All I'm saying is that those who have done well, including me, should pay our fair share in taxes to contribute to the Nation that made our success possible. We shouldn't get a better deal than ordinary families get. And I think most wealthy Americans would agree if they knew this would help us grow the economy and deal with the debt that threatens our future. <p>It comes down to this: We have to prioritize. Both parties agree that we need to reduce the deficit by the same amount, by $4 trillion. So what choices are we going to make to reach that goal? Either we ask the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share in taxes, or we're going to have to ask seniors to pay more for Medicare. We can't afford to do both. Either we gut education and medical research, or we've got to reform the Tax Code so that the most profitable corporations have to give up tax loopholes that other companies don't get. We can't afford to do both. <p>This is not class warfare. It's math. [<i>Laughter</i>] The money is going to have to come from someplace. And if we're not willing to ask those who've done extraordinarily well to help America close the deficit and we are trying to reach that same target of $4 trillion, then the logic, the math says everybody else has to do a whole lot more. We've got to put the entire burden on the middle class and the poor. We've got to scale back on the investments that have always helped our economy grow. We've got to settle for second-rate roads and second-rate bridges and second-rate airports and schools that are crumbling. <p>That's unacceptable to me. That's unacceptable to the American people. And it will not happen on my watch. I will not support&mdash;I will not support&mdash;any plan that puts all the burden for closing our deficit on ordinary Americans. And I will veto any bill that changes benefits for those who rely on Medicare, but does not raise serious revenues by asking the wealthiest Americans or biggest corporations to pay their fair share. We are not going to have a one-sided deal that hurts the folks who are most vulnerable. <p>Look, none of the changes I'm proposing are easy or politically convenient. It's always more popular to promise the Moon and leave the bill for after the next election or the election after that. That's been true since our founding. George Washington grappled with this problem. He said: \\"Towards the payment of debts, there must be revenue; that to have revenue there must be taxes; and no taxes can be devised which are not more or less inconvenient and unpleasant.\\" He understood that dealing with the debt is&mdash;these are his words&mdash;\\"always a choice of difficulties.\\" But he also knew that public servants weren't elected to do what was easy; they weren't elected to do what was politically advantageous. It's our responsibility to put country before party. It's our responsibility to do what's right for the future. <p>And that's what this debate is about. It's not about numbers on a ledger; it's not about figures on a spreadsheet. It's about the economic future of this country, and it's about whether we will do what it takes to create jobs and growth and opportunity while facing up to the legacy of debt that threatens everything we've built over generations. <p>And it's also about fairness. It's about whether we are, in fact, in this together and we're looking out for one another. We know what's right. It's time to do what's right. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"204" "\"Well, thank you, Rakesh, for that wonderful testimony. Thank you all to the leaders who shared their action plans and the steps that they're taking and your willingness to participate in this initiative. We are extraordinarily grateful. <p>As I said earlier, today is just the beginning of this partnership. Those who are the founding members have to go back home and work to meet the commitments that we've made and to be held accountable. The 38 nations joining us today will be working on their own action plans. And we look forward to our next meeting in Brazil next year, when our partnership welcomes more countries who share our commitment to open government. <p>I want to thank all the participants. I particularly want to thank the civil society organizations that are doing extraordinary work. <p>I very much appreciated the statement by the representative from the United Kingdom that this is not always comfortable, if done right, because governments are human institutions, which means that even with the best of intentions we are flawed and we make mistakes, and it's a natural human impulse to try to cover up mistakes and to resist the kind of openness that's been discussed here today. <p>But as Rakesh, I think, said so well, the more open we are, the more willing we are to hear constructive criticism, the more effective we can be. And ultimately, governments are here to serve the people, not to serve those in power. <p>And so I'm very grateful for all of you for participating. Thank you for embracing this challenge to make sure our governments are as open and accountable and as effective as they can be so that we can meet the aspirations of all our citizens. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"205" "\"Good afternoon, everyone. And welcome to this inaugural event of a partnership that's already transforming how governments serve their citizens in the 21st century. <p>One year ago, at the U.N. General Assembly, I stated a simple truth: That the strongest foundation for human progress lies in open economies, open societies, and in open governments. And I challenged our countries to come back this year with specific commitments to promote transparency, to fight corruption, to energize civic engagement, and to leverage new technologies so we can strengthen the foundations of freedom in our own countries. <p>Today we're joined by nations and organizations from around the world that are answering this challenge. In this Open Government Partnership, I'm pleased to be joined by leaders from the seven other founding nations of this initiative. I especially want to commend my friend, President Rousseff of Brazil, for her leadership in open government and for joining the United States as the first cochairs of this effort. <p>We're joined by nearly 40 other nations who've also embraced this challenge, with the goal of joining this partnership next year. And we're joined by civil society organizations from around the world, groups that not only help hold governments accountable, but who partnered with us and who offer new ideas and help us to make better decisions. Put simply, our countries are stronger when we engage citizens beyond the halls of government. So I welcome our civil society representatives, not as spectators, but as equal partners in this initiative. <p>This, I believe, is how progress will be achieved in the 21st century: meeting global challenges through global cooperation, across all levels of society. And this is exactly the kind of partnership that we need now, as emerging democracies from Latin America to Africa to Asia are all showing how innovations in open government can help make countries more prosperous and more just, as new generations across the Middle East and North Africa assert the old truth that government exists for the benefit of their people, and as young people everywhere, from teeming cities to remote villages, are logging on and texting and tweeting and demanding government that is just as fast, just as smart, just as accountable. <p>This is the moment that we must meet. These are the expectations that we must fulfill. And now we see governments around the world meeting this challenge, including many represented here today. Countries from Mexico to Turkey to Liberia have passed laws guaranteeing citizens the right to information. From Chile to Kenya to the Philippines, civil society groups are giving citizens new tools to report corruption. From Tanzania to Indonesia, and as I saw firsthand during my visit to India, rural villages are organizing and making their voices heard and getting the public services that they need. Governments from Brazil to South Africa are putting more information online, helping people hold public officials accountable for how they spend taxpayer dollars. <p>Here in the United States, we've worked to make government more open and responsive than ever before. We've been promoting greater disclosure of government information, empowering citizens with new ways to participate in their democracy. We are releasing more data in usable forms on health and safety and the environment, because information is power, and helping people make informed decisions and entrepreneurs turn data into new products that create new jobs. We're also soliciting the best ideas from our people in how to make government work better. And around the world, we're standing up for freedom to access information, including a free and open Internet. <p>Today the eight founding nations of our partnership are going even further, agreeing to an open government declaration rooted in several core principles. We pledge to be more transparent at every level, because more information on government activity should be open, timely, and freely available to the people. We pledge to engage more of our citizens in decisionmaking, because it makes government more effective and responsive. We pledge to implement the highest standards of integrity, because those in power must serve the people, not themselves. And we pledge to increase access to technology, because in this digital century, access to information is a right that is universal. <p>Next, to put these principles into practice, every country that seeks to join this partnership will work with civil society groups to develop an action plan of specific commitments. Today the United States is releasing our plan, which we are posting on the White House web site and at opengovpartnership.org. <p>Among our commitments, we're launching a new online tool called \\"We the People\\" to allow Americans to directly petition the White House, and we'll share that technology so that any government in the world can enable its citizens to do the same. We've developed new tools called \\"smart disclosures\\" so that the data we make public can help people make health care choices, help small businesses innovate, and help scientists achieve new breakthroughs. <p>We'll work to reform and expand protections for whistleblowers who expose government waste, fraud, and abuse. And we're continuing our leadership of the global effort against corruption by building on legislation that now requires oil, gas, and mining companies to disclose the payments that foreign governments demand of them. <p>Today I can announce that the United States will join the global initiative in which these industries, governments, and civil society all work together for greater transparency so that taxpayers receive every dollar they're due from the extraction of natural resources. <p>So these are just some of the steps that we're taking. And today is just the beginning of a partnership that will only grow, as Secretary Clinton leads our effort on behalf of the United States, as these nearly 40 nations develop their own commitments, as we share and learn from each other and build the next generation of tools to empower our citizens and serve them better. <p>So that's the purpose of open government. And I believe that's the essence of democracy. That's the commitment to which we're committing ourselves here today. And I thank all of you for joining us as we meet this challenge together. <p>I want to thank you very much for your participation. And with that, I would like to turn over the chair to my cochair, President Rousseff.\" "
"206" "\"Good morning. Mr. Secretary-General, on behalf of us all, thank you for convening this meeting to address a task that must be the work of all of us: supporting the people of Libya as they build a future that is free and democratic and prosperous. And I want to thank President Jalil for his remarks and for all that he and Prime Minister Jibril have done to help Libya reach this moment. <p>To all the heads of state, to all the countries represented here who have done so much over the past several months to ensure this day could come, I want to say thank you as well. <p>Today, the Libyan people are writing a new chapter in the life of their nation. After four decades of darkness, they can walk the streets, free from a tyrant. They are making their voices heard in new newspapers and on radio and television, in public squares and on personal blogs. They're launching political parties and civil groups to shape their own destiny and secure their universal rights. And here at the United Nations, the new flag of a free Libya now flies among the community of nations. <p>Make no mistake: Credit for the liberation of Libya belongs to the people of Libya. It was Libyan men and women and children who took to the streets in peaceful protest, who faced down the tanks and endured the snipers' bullets. It was Libyan fighters, often outgunned and outnumbered, who fought pitched battles, town by town, block by block. It was Libyan activists, in the underground, in chat rooms, in mosques, who kept a revolution alive, even after some of the world had given up hope. <p>It was Libyan women and girls who hung flags and smuggled weapons to the front. It was Libyans from countries around the world, including my own, who rushed home to help, even though they too risked brutality and death. It was Libyan blood that was spilled and Libya's sons and daughters who gave their lives. And on that August day, after all that sacrifice, after 42 long years, it was Libyans who pushed their dictator from power. <p>At the same time, Libya is a lesson in what the international community can achieve when we stand together as one. I said at the beginning of this process, we cannot and should not intervene every time there is an injustice in the world. Yet it's also true that there are times where the world could have and should have summoned the will to prevent the killing of innocents on a horrific scale. And we are forever haunted by the atrocities that we did not prevent and the lives that we did not save. But this time was different. This time, we, through the United Nations, found the courage and the collective will to act. <p>When the old regime unleashed a campaign of terror, threatening to roll back the democratic tide sweeping the region, we acted as united nations, and we acted swiftly, broadening sanctions, imposing an arms embargo. The United States led the effort to pass a historic resolution at the Security Council authorizing all necessary measures to protect the Libyan people. And when the civilians of Benghazi were threatened with a massacre, we exercised that authority. Our international coalition stopped the regime in its tracks and saved countless lives and gave the Libyan people the time and the space to prevail. <p>Important too is how this effort succeeded, thanks to the leadership and contributions of many countries. The United States was proud to play a decisive role, especially in the early days, and then in a supporting capacity. But let's remember that it was the Arab League that appealed for action. It was the world's most effective alliance, NATO, that's led a military coalition of nearly 20 nations. It's our European allies, especially the United Kingdom and France and Denmark and Norway, that conducted the vast majority of air strikes protecting rebels on the ground. It was Arab States who joined the coalition as equal partners. And it's been the United Nations and neighboring countries, including Tunisia and Egypt, that have cared for the Libyans in the urgent humanitarian effort that continues today. <p>This is how the international community should work in the 21st century: more nations bearing the responsibility and the costs of meeting global challenges. In fact, this is the very purpose of this United Nations. So every nation represented here today can take pride in the innocent lives we saved and in helping Libyans reclaim their country. It was the right thing to do. <p>Now, even as we speak, remnants of the old regime continue to fight. Difficult days are still ahead. But one thing is clear: The future of Libya is now in the hands of the Libyan people. For just as it was Libyans who tore down the old order, it will be Libyans who build their new nation. And we've come here today to say to the people of Libya: Just as the world stood by you in your struggle to be free, we will now stand with you in your struggle to realize the peace and prosperity that freedom can bring. <p>In this effort, you will have a friend and partner in the United States of America. Today I can announce that our Ambassador is on his way back to Tripoli. And this week, the American flag that was lowered before our Embassy was attacked will be raised again over a reopened American Embassy. We will work closely with the new U.N. Support Mission in Libya and with the nations here today to assist the Libyan people in the hard work ahead. <p>First and most immediately: security. So long as the Libyan people are being threatened, the NATO-led mission to protect them will continue. And those still holding out must understand, the old regime is over, and it is time to lay down your arms and join the new Libya. As this happens, the world must also support efforts to secure dangerous weapons, conventional and otherwise, and bring fighters under central, civilian control. For without security, democracy and trade and investment cannot flourish. <p>Second: the humanitarian effort. The Transitional National Council has been working quickly to restore water and electricity and food supplies to Tripoli. But for many Libyans, each day is still a struggle to recover from their wounds, reunite with their families, and return to their homes. And even after the guns of war fall silent, the ravages of war will continue. So our efforts to assist its victims must continue. In this, the United States&mdash;the United Nations will play a key role. And along with our partners, the United States will do our part to help the hungry and the wounded. <p>Third: a democratic transition that is peaceful, inclusive, and just. President Jalil has just reaffirmed the Transitional National Council's commitment to these principles, and the United Nations will play a central role in coordinating international support for this effort. We all know what is needed: a transition that is timely, new laws, and a constitution that uphold the rule of law, political parties, and a strong civil society, and for the first time in Libyan history, free and fair elections. <p>True democracy, however, must flow from its citizens. So as Libyans rightly seek justice for past crimes, let it be done in a spirit of reconciliation and not reprisals and violence. As Libyans draw strength from their faith, a religion rooted in peace and tolerance, let there be a rejection of violent extremism, which offers nothing but death and destruction. As Libyans rebuild, let those efforts tap the experience of all those with the skills to contribute, including the many Africans in Libya. And as Libyans forge a society that is truly just, let it enshrine the rights and role of women at all levels of society. For we know that the nations that uphold the human rights of all people, especially their women, are ultimately more successful and more prosperous. <p>Which brings me to the final area where the world must stand with Libya, and that is restoring prosperity. For too long, Libya's vast riches were stolen and squandered. Now that wealth must serve its rightful owners, the Libyan people. As sanctions are lifted, as the United States and the international community unfreeze more Libyan assets, and as the country's oil production is restored, the Libyan people deserve a government that is transparent and accountable. And bound by the Libyan students and entrepreneurs who have forged friendships in the United States, we intend to build new partnerships to help unleash Libya's extraordinary potential. <p>Now, none of this will be easy. After decades of iron rule by one man, it will take time to build the institutions needed for a democratic Libya. I'm sure there will be days of frustration, there will be days when progress is slow, there will be days when some begin to wish for the old order and its illusion of stability. And some in the world may ask, can Libya succeed? But if we have learned anything these many months, it is this: Don't underestimate the aspirations and the will of the Libyan people. <p>So I want to conclude by speaking directly to the people of Libya. Your task may be new, the journey ahead may be fraught with difficulty, but everything you need to build your future already beats in the heart of your nation. It's the same courage you summoned on that first February day, the same resilience that brought you back out the next day and the next, even as you lost family and friends, and the same unshakeable determination with which you liberated Benghazi, broke the siege of Misurata, and have fought through the coastal plains and the western mountains. <p>It's the same unwavering conviction that said there's no turning back, our sons and daughters deserve to be free. <p>In the days after Tripoli fell, people rejoiced in the streets and pondered the role ahead, and one of those Libyans said, \\"We have this chance now to do something good for our country, a chance we have dreamed of for so long.\\" So to the Libyan people, this is your chance. And today the world is saying with one unmistakable voice, we will stand with you as you seize this moment of promise, as you reach for the freedom, the dignity, and the opportunity that you deserve. <p>So congratulations. And thank you very much.\" "
"207" "\"Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen: It is a great honor for me to be here today. I would like to talk to you about a subject that is at the heart of the United Nations: the pursuit of peace in an imperfect world. <p>War and conflict have been with us since the beginning of civilizations. But in the first part of the 20th century, the advance of modern weaponry led to death on a staggering scale. It was this killing that compelled the founders of this body to build an institution that was focused not just on ending one war, but on averting others; a union of sovereign states that would seek to prevent conflict, while also addressing its causes. <p>No American did more to pursue this objective than President Franklin Roosevelt. He knew that a victory in war was not enough. As he said at one of the very first meetings on the founding of the United Nations, \\"We have got to make not merely peace, but a peace that will last.\\" <p>The men and women who built this institution understood that peace is more than just the absence of war. A lasting peace&mdash;for nations and for individuals&mdash;depends on a sense of justice and opportunity, of dignity and freedom. It depends on struggle and sacrifice, on compromise, and on a sense of common humanity. <p>One delegate to the San Francisco Conference that led to the creation of the United Nations put it well: \\"Many people,\\" she said, \\"have talked as if all that has to be done to get peace was to say loudly and frequently that we loved peace and we hated war. Now we have learned that no matter how much we love peace and hate war, we cannot avoid having war brought upon us if there are convulsions in other parts of the world.\\" <p>The fact is, peace is hard. But our people demand it. Over nearly seven decades, even as the United Nations helped avert a third world war, we still live in a world scarred by conflict and plagued by poverty. Even as we proclaim our love for peace and our hatred of war, there are still convulsions in our world that endanger us all. <p>I took office at a time of two wars for the United States. Moreover, the violent extremists who drew us into war in the first place, Usama bin Laden and his Al Qaida organization, remained at large. Today, we've set a new direction. <p>At the end of this year, America's military operation in Iraq will be over. We will have a normal relationship with a sovereign nation that is a member of the community of nations. That equal partnership will be strengthened by our support for Iraq: for its Government, for its security forces, for its people, and for their aspirations. <p>As we end the war in Iraq, the United States and our coalition partners have begun a transition in Afghanistan. Between now and 2014, an increasingly capable Afghan Government and security forces will step forward to take responsibility for the future of their country. As they do, we are drawing down our own forces while building an enduring partnership with the Afghan people. <p>So let there be no doubt: The tide of war is receding. When I took office, roughly 180,000 Americans were serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. By the end of this year, that number will be cut in half, and it will continue to decline. This is critical for the sovereignty of Iraq and Afghanistan. It's also critical to the strength of the United States as we build our Nation at home. <p>Moreover, we are poised to end these wars from a position of strength. Ten years ago, there was an open wound and twisted steel, a broken heart in the center of this city. Today, as a new tower is rising at Ground Zero, it symbolizes New York's renewal, even as Al Qaida is under more pressure than ever before. Its leadership has been degraded. And Usama bin Laden, a man who murdered thousands of people from dozens of countries, will never endanger the peace of the world again. <p>So yes, this has been a difficult decade. But today, we stand at a crossroads of history with the chance to move decisively in the direction of peace. To do so, we must return to the wisdom of those who created this institution. The United Nations founding charter calls upon us \\"to unite our strength to maintain international peace and security.\\" And Article 1 of this General Assembly's Universal Declaration of Human Rights reminds us that \\"All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and in rights.\\" Those bedrock beliefs&mdash;in the responsibility of states and the rights of men and women&mdash;must be our guide. <p>And in that effort, we have reason to hope. This year has been a time of extraordinary transformation. More nations have stepped forward to maintain international peace and security. And more individuals are claiming their universal right to live in freedom and dignity. <p>Think about it. One year ago, when we met here in New York, the prospect of a successful referendum in South Sudan was in doubt. But the international community overcame old divisions to support the agreement that had been negotiated to give South Sudan self-determination. And last summer, as a new flag went up in Juba, former soldiers laid down their arms, men and women wept with joy, and children finally knew the promise of looking to a future that they will shape. <p>One year ago, the people of Cote d'Ivoire approached a landmark election. And when the incumbent lost and refused to respect the results, the world refused to look the other way. U.N. peacekeepers were harassed, but they did not leave their posts. The Security Council, led by the United States and Nigeria and France, came together to support the will of the people. And Cote d'Ivoire is now governed by the man who was elected to lead. <p>One year ago, the hopes of the people of Tunisia were suppressed. But they chose the dignity of peaceful protest over the rule of an iron fist. A vendor lit a spark that took his own life, but he ignited a movement. In the face of a crackdown, students spelled out the word \\"freedom.\\" The balance of fear shifted from the ruler to those that he ruled. And now the people of Tunisia are preparing for elections that will move them one step closer to the democracy that they deserve. <p>One year ago, Egypt had known one President for nearly 30 years. But for 18 days, the eyes of the world were glued to Tahrir Square, where Egyptians from all walks of life&mdash;men and women, young and old, Muslim and Christian&mdash;demanded their universal rights. We saw in those protesters the moral force of nonviolence that has lit the world from Delhi to Warsaw, from Selma to South Africa, and we knew that change had come to Egypt and to the Arab world. <p>One year ago, the people of Libya were ruled by the world's longest serving dictator. But faced with bullets and bombs and a dictator who threatened to hunt them down like rats, they showed relentless bravery. We will never forget the words of the Libyan who stood up in those early days of the revolution and said, \\"Our words are free now. It's a feeling you can't explain.&rdquo; Day after day, in the face of bullets and bombs, the Libyan people refused to give back that freedom. And when they were threatened by the kind of mass atrocity that often went unchallenged in the last century, the United Nations lived up to its charter. The Security Council authorized all necessary measures to prevent a massacre. The Arab League called for this effort. Arab nations joined a NATO-led coalition that halted Qadhafi's forces in their tracks. <p>In the months that followed, the will of the coalition proved unbreakable, and the will of the Libyan people could not be denied. Forty-two years of tyranny was ended in 6 months. From Tripoli to Misurata to Benghazi, today, Libya is free. Yesterday the leaders of a new Libya took their rightful place beside us, and this week, the United States is reopening our Embassy in Tripoli. <p>This is how the international community is supposed to work: nations standing together for the sake of peace and security and individuals claiming their rights. Now all of us have a responsibility to support the new Libya, the new Libyan Government as they confront the challenge of turning this moment of promise into a just and lasting peace for all Libyans. <p>So this has been a remarkable year. The Qadhafi regime is over. Gbagbo, Ben Ali, Mubarak are no longer in power. Usama bin Laden is gone, and the idea that change could only come through violence has been buried with him. Something's happening in our world. The way things have been is not the way that they will be. The humiliating grip of corruption and tyranny is being pried open. Dictators are on notice. Technology is putting power into the hands of the people. The youth are delivering a powerful rebuke to dictatorship and rejecting the lie that some races, some peoples, some religions, some ethnicities do not desire democracy. The promise written down on paper, \\"All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights,\\" is closer at hand. <p>But let us remember: Peace is hard. Peace is hard. Progress can be reversed. Prosperity comes slowly. Societies can split apart. The measure of our success must be whether people can live in sustained freedom, dignity, and security. And the United Nations and its member states must do their part to support those basic aspirations. And we have more work to do. <p>In Iran, we've seen a Government that refuses to recognize the rights of its own people. As we meet here today, men and women and children are being tortured, detained, and murdered by the Syrian regime. Thousands have been killed, many during the holy time of Ramadan. Thousands more have poured across Syria's borders. The Syrian people have shown dignity and courage in their pursuit of justice, protesting peacefully, standing silently in the streets, dying for the same values that this institution is supposed to stand for. And the question for us is clear: Will we stand with the Syrian people or with their oppressors? <p>Already, the United States has imposed strong sanctions on Syria's leaders. We supported a transfer of power that is responsive to the Syrian people. And many of our allies have joined in this effort. But for the sake of Syria and the peace and security of the world, we must speak with one voice. There's no excuse for inaction. Now is the time for the United Nations Security Council to sanction the Syrian regime and to stand with the Syrian people. <p>Throughout the region, we will have to respond to the calls for change. In Yemen, men, women, and children gather by the thousands in towns and city squares every day with the hope that their determination and spilled blood will prevail over a corrupt system. America supports those aspirations. We must work with Yemen's neighbors and our partners around the world to seek a path that allows for a peaceful transition of power from President Salih and a movement to free and fair elections as soon as possible. <p>In Bahrain, steps have been taken toward reform and accountability. We're pleased with that, but more is required. America is a close friend of Bahrain, and we will continue to call on the Government and the main opposition bloc, the Wifaq, to pursue a meaningful dialogue that brings peaceful change that is responsive to the people. We believe the patriotism that binds Bahrainis together must be more powerful than the sectarian forces that would tear them apart. It will be hard, but it is possible. <p>We believe that each nation must chart its own course to fulfill the aspirations of its people, and America does not expect to agree with every party or person who expresses themselves politically. But we will always stand up for the universal rights that were embraced by this Assembly. Those rights depend on elections that are free and fair, on governance that is transparent and accountable, respect for the rights of women and minorities, justice that is equal and fair. That is what our people deserve. Those are the elements of peace that can last. <p>Moreover, the United States will continue to support those nations that transition to democracy with greater trade and investment so that freedom is followed by opportunity. We will pursue a deeper engagement with governments, but also with civil society: students and entrepreneurs, political parties and the press. We have banned those who abuse human rights from traveling to our country, and we've sanctioned those who trample on human rights abroad. And we will always serve as a voice for those who've been silenced. <p>Now, I know, particularly this week, that for many in this hall, there's one issue that stands as a test for these principles and a test for American foreign policy, and that is the conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians. <p>One year ago, I stood at this podium, and I called for an independent Palestine. I believed then and I believe now that the Palestinian people deserve a state of their own. But what I also said is that a genuine peace can only be realized between the Israelis and the Palestinians themselves. One year later, despite extensive efforts by America and others, the parties have not bridged their differences. Faced with this stalemate, I put forward a new basis for negotiations in May of this year. That basis is clear. It's well known to all of us here. Israelis must know that any agreement provides assurances for their security. Palestinians deserve to know the territorial basis of their state. <p>Now, I know that many are frustrated by the lack of progress. I assure you, so am I. But the question isn't the goal that we seek, the question is how do we reach that goal. And I am convinced that there is no shortcut to the end of a conflict that has endured for decades. Peace is hard work. Peace will not come through statements and resolutions at the United Nations. If it were that easy, it would have been accomplished by now. Ultimately, it is the Israelis and the Palestinians who must live side by side. Ultimately, it is the Israelis and the Palestinians, not us, who must reach agreement on the issues that divide them: on borders and on security, on refugees and Jerusalem. <p>Ultimately, peace depends upon compromise among people who must live together long after our speeches are over, long after our votes have been tallied. That's the lesson of Northern Ireland, where ancient antagonists bridged their differences. That's the lesson of Sudan, where a negotiated settlement led to an independent state. And that is and will be the path to a Palestinian state: negotiations between the parties. <p>We seek a future where Palestinians live in a sovereign state of their own, with no limit to what they can achieve. There's no question that the Palestinians have seen that vision delayed for too long. It is precisely because we believe so strongly in the aspirations of the Palestinian people that America has invested so much time and so much effort in the building of a Palestinian state and the negotiations that can deliver a Palestinian state. <p>But understand this as well: America's commitment to Israel's security is unshakeable. Our friendship with Israel is deep and enduring. And so we believe that any lasting peace must acknowledge the very real security concerns that Israel faces every single day. <p>Let us be honest with ourselves: Israel is surrounded by neighbors that have waged repeated wars against it. Israel's citizens have been killed by rockets fired at their houses and suicide bombs on their buses. Israel's children come of age knowing that throughout the region, other children are taught to hate them. Israel, a small country of less than 8 million people, look out at a world where leaders of much larger nations threaten to wipe it off of the map. The Jewish people carry the burden of centuries of exile and persecution and fresh memories of knowing that 6 million people were killed simply because of who they are. Those are facts. They cannot be denied. <p>The Jewish people have forged a successful state in their historic homeland. Israel deserves recognition. It deserves normal relations with its neighbors. And friends of the Palestinians do them no favors by ignoring this truth, just as friends of Israel must recognize the need to pursue a two-state solution with a secure Israel next to an independent Palestine. <p>That is the truth. Each side has legitimate aspirations, and that's part of what makes peace so hard. And the deadlock will only be broken when each side learns to stand in the other's shoes, each side can see the world through the other's eyes. That's what we should be encouraging. That's what we should be promoting. <p>This body&mdash;founded, as it was, out of the ashes of war and genocide, dedicated, as it is, to the dignity of every single person&mdash;must recognize the reality that is lived by both the Palestinians and the Israelis. The measure of our actions must always be whether they advance the right of Israeli and Palestinian children to live lives of peace and security and dignity and opportunity. And we will only succeed in that effort if we can encourage the parties to sit down, to listen to each other, and to understand each other's hopes and each other's fears. That is the project to which America is committed. There are no shortcuts. And that is what the United Nations should be focused on in the weeks and months to come. <p>Now, even as we confront these challenges of conflict and revolution, we must also recognize&mdash;we must also remind ourselves&mdash;that peace is not just the absence of war. True peace depends on creating the opportunity that makes life worth living. And to do that, we must confront the common enemies of humanity: nuclear weapons and poverty, ignorance and disease. These forces corrode the possibility of lasting peace, and together, we're called upon to confront them. <p>To lift the specter of mass destruction, we must come together to pursue the peace and security of a world without nuclear weapons. Over the last 2 years, we've begun to walk down that path. Since our Nuclear Security Summit in Washington, nearly 50 nations have taken steps to secure nuclear materials from terrorists and smugglers. Next March, a summit in Seoul will advance our efforts to lock down all of them. The new START Treaty between the United States and Russia will cut our deployed arsenals to the lowest level in half a century, and our nations are pursuing talks on how to achieve even deeper reductions. America will continue to work for a ban on the testing of nuclear weapons and the production of fissile material needed to make them. <p>And so we have begun to move in the right direction, and the United States is committed to meeting our obligations. But even as we meet our obligations, we've strengthened the treaties and institutions that help stop the spread of these weapons. And to do so, we must continue to hold accountable those nations that flout them. <p>The Iranian Government cannot demonstrate that its program is peaceful. It has not met its obligations, and it rejects offers that would provide it with peaceful nuclear power. North Korea has yet to take concrete steps towards abandoning its weapons and continues belligerent action against the South. There's a future of greater opportunity for the people of these nations if their Governments meet their international obligations. But if they continue down a path that is outside international law, they must be met with greater pressure and isolation. That is what our commitment to peace and security demands. <p>To bring prosperity to our people, we must promote the growth that creates opportunity. In this effort, let us not forget that we've made enormous progress over the last several decades. Closed societies gave way to open markets. Innovation and entrepreneurship has transformed the way we live and the things that we do. Emerging economies from Asia to the Americas have lifted hundreds of millions of people from poverty. It's an extraordinary achievement. And yet, 3 years ago, we were confronted with the worst financial crisis in eight decades. And that crisis proved a fact that has become clearer with each passing year: Our fates are interconnected. In a global economy, nations will rise or fall together. <p>And today, we confront the challenges that have followed on the heels of that crisis. Around the world, recovery is still fragile. Markets remain volatile. Too many people are out of work. Too many others are struggling just to get by. We acted together to avert a depression in 2009. We must take urgent and coordinated action once more. Here in the United States, I've announced a plan to put Americans back to work and jump-start our economy at the same time as I'm committed to substantially reducing our deficits over time. <p>We stand with our European allies as they reshape their institutions and address their own fiscal challenges. For other countries, leaders face a different challenge as they shift their economy towards more self-reliance, boosting domestic demand while slowing inflation. So we will work with emerging economies that have rebounded strongly so that rising standards of living create new markets that promote global growth. That's what our commitment to prosperity demands. <p>To combat the poverty that punishes our children, we must act on the belief that freedom from want is a basic human right. The United States has made it a focus of our engagement abroad to help people to feed themselves. And today, as drought and conflict have brought famine to the Horn of Africa, our conscience calls on us to act. Together, we must continue to provide assistance and support organizations that can reach those in need. And together, we must insist on unrestricted humanitarian access so that we can save the lives of thousands of men and women and children. Our common humanity is at stake. Let us show that the life of a child in Somalia is as precious as any other. That is what our commitment to our fellow human beings demand. <p>To stop disease that spreads across borders, we must strengthen our system of public health. We will continue the fight against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. We will focus on the health of mothers and of children. And we must come together to prevent and detect and fight every kind of biological danger, whether it's a pandemic like H1N1 or a terrorist threat or a treatable disease. <p>This week, America signed an agreement with the World Health Organization to affirm our commitment to meet this challenge. And today I urge all nations to join us in meeting the HWO's goal of making sure all nations have core capacities to address public health emergencies in place by 2012. That is what our commitment to the health of our people demands. <p>To preserve our planet, we must not put off action that climate change demands. We have to tap the power of science to save those resources that are scarce. And together, we must continue our work to build on the progress made in Copenhagen and Cancun, so that all the major economies here today follow through on the commitments that were made. Together, we must work to transform the energy that powers our economies and support others as they move down that path. That is what our commitment to the next generation demands. <p>And to make sure our societies reach their potential, we must allow our citizens to reach theirs. No country can afford the corruption that plagues the world like a cancer. Together, we must harness the power of open societies and open economies. That's why we've partnered with countries from across the globe to launch a new partnership on open government that helps ensure accountability and helps to empower citizens. No country should deny people their rights to freedom of speech and freedom of religion, but also no country should deny people their rights because of who they love, which is why we must stand up for the rights of gays and lesbians everywhere. <p>And no country can realize its potential if half its population cannot reach theirs. This week, the United States signed a new Declaration on Women's Participation. Next year, we should each announce the steps we are taking to break down the economic and political barriers that stand in the way of women and girls. This is what our commitment to human progress demands. <p>I know there's no straight line to that progress, no single path to success. We come from different cultures and carry with us different histories. But let us never forget that even as we gather here as heads of different governments, we represent citizens who share the same basic aspirations: to live with dignity and freedom, to get an education and pursue opportunity, to love our families and love and worship our God, to live in the kind of peace that makes life worth living. <p>It is the nature of our imperfect world that we are first&mdash;forced to learn these lessons over and over again. Conflict and repression will endure so long as some people refuse to do unto others as we would have them do unto us. Yet that is precisely why we have built institutions like this: to bind our fates together, to help us recognize ourselves in each other. Because those who came before us believed that peace is preferable to war and freedom is preferable to suppression and prosperity is preferable to poverty. That's the message that comes not from capitals, but from citizens, from our people. <p>And when the cornerstone of this very building was put in place, President Truman came here to New York and said, \\"The United Nations is essentially an expression of the moral nature of man's aspirations.\\" The moral nature of man's aspirations. As we live in a world that is changing at a breathtaking pace, that's a lesson that we must never forget. <p>Peace is hard, but we know that it is possible. So, together, let us be resolved to see that it is defined by our hopes and not by our fears. Together, let us make peace, but a peace, most importantly, that will last. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"208" "\"<i>Secretary-General Ban</i>. President Obama, Excellencies, distinguished heads of state and government, Your Highnesses, Your Majesties, distinguished ministers, ladies and gentlemen: Welcome to the United Nations. Welcome to our common house. <p>We are off to a flying start today, I must say. Thank you, President Obama, for your inspiring oratory, and more, for its vital importance. <p>As ever, we thank the United States and its generous people for hosting United Nations during last 66 years. This is the 66th session. Let me offer a special word of thanks to New Yorkers. In the last month, they have faced an earthquake, then a hurricane, now a perfect storm of the world's leaders, creating lot of traffic jams. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we are very much grateful for their patience. <p>Let me say straight off, this is my fifth lunch with the distinguished leaders of the world, and I'm very much grateful for your strong support. In that regard, I am very glad that it is not my last lunch, and we will have five more lunches in the coming 5 years. [<i>Applause</i>] Thank you very much. Taking this opportunity, I would like to really sincerely express my appreciation and thanks to all of the heads of state and government for your strong support. You can count on me. And it's a great and extraordinary honor to serve this great organization. <p>Mr. President, 50 years ago this week, your predecessor, President John F. Kennedy, addressed the General Assembly. He came, he said, to join with other world leaders, and I quote, \\"to look across this world of threats to a world of peace,\\" unquote. Looking out upon the world, we see no shortages of threats. And closer to home, wherever we might live, we see the familiar struggles of political life: left versus right, rich versus poor, and up versus down. Seldom, however, has the debate been more emotional or strident; yet seldom has the need for unity been greater. <p>We know the challenges. I won't reprise my speech, except to say that we do indeed have a rare and generational opportunity to make a lasting difference in people's lives. If there is a theme in all that has been said today by the leaders, it would be the imperative of unity, solidarity in realizing that opportunity. We must act together. There is no opt-out clause for global problem-solving. Every country has something to give in and to gain. <p>Excellencies, let me close with a question. By any chance, do you ever feel that you have become a slave, you have become a slave of&mdash;to this machine? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>[<i>At this point, Secretary-General Ban held up his mobile phone.</i>] <p>Somehow, I sense that I'm not alone. I have seen so many leaders having and speaking over the phone, even while at the summit meetings. Thanks to device like this, the world has been more connected. But let us not mistake&mdash;misunderstand that with being united. Being connected depends on technology. Being united depends on us: on leaders, on institutions, and on the decisions you make. <p>We have come a long way since last year. Outside this building, the new flags of Southern Sudan and Libya proudly wave in the September breeze. And today I am very pleased to recognize the presence of Southern Sudan President, His Excellency Salva Kiir, who came to New York for the first time after their independence, and President of National Transitional Council of Libya, His Excellency Abdul Jalil, who received very strong support yesterday. And they will continue to receive such support. Let us give them a big applause. <p>We can be proud of the firm stand we took for freedom and democracy in Cote d'Ivoire, North Africa, and elsewhere. We can be proud of the many lives we saved, the hungry people we fed, the children we helped to grow up healthy and strong. And we can do more to make the Arab Spring a season of hope for all, to put the sustainable back into development, to prevent the crises before they explode. <p>And so distinguished heads of state and government, Excellencies, Your Majesties, let us raise a glass to clarity of vision, to unity of purpose, to a common resolve for action, to the United Nations, and to continued success of each and every heads of state and government present here. <p>Thank you very much. Cheers. <p><i>President Obama.</i> Cheers. <p>[<i>Secretary-General Ban offered a toast.</i>] <p><i>Secretary-General Ban.</i> Cheers. <p><i>President Obama.</i> Cheers. <p><i>Secretary-General Ban.</i> Cheers. Thank you. Cheers. <p><i>President Obama. </i>Good afternoon, everyone. These lunches come right after my remarks to the General Assembly, so I've already spoken too long. [<i>Laughter</i>] I just&mdash;as the host of the United Nations, I want to welcome all of you. In particular, though, I want to cite Secretary-General Ban for his extraordinary leadership. As you begin your second term, I want to take this opportunity to thank you, not just for your leadership, but also for your lessons in life. <p>As we all know, the Secretary-General is a very modest man, but he's led a remarkable life. Born into World War II, as a young boy in the middle of the Korean war having to flee the fighting with his family, just as his home country has risen, so he has risen to leadership on the world stage. <p>A lot of us are envious of him because, in running for a second term, he ran unopposed&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and he won unanimously. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm still trying to learn what his trick is. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But, Secretary-General, that fact reflects the high esteem with which all of us hold you and your leadership. And I want to quote something that you said when you began your new term: \\"We live in a new era where no country can solve all challenges and where every country could be part of the solution.\\" I could not agree more. Today, we see the difference you've made in Cote d'Ivoire, in Sudan, in Libya, in confronting climate change and nuclear safety, in peacekeeping missions that save lives every single day. <p>So we want to salute you. We want to salute those who serve in U.N. missions around the world, at times, at great risk to themselves. We give them their mandate, but it is they who risk their lives&mdash;and give their lives&mdash;so people can live in peace and dignity. <p>So I want to propose a toast: To the leader who, every day, has to work hard to try to unite nations, and to all the men and women who sustain it, especially those brave humanitarians in blue helmets. In an era of great tumult and great change, let all of us be part of the solution. <p>[<i>President Obama offered a toast.</i>] <p><i>Secretary-General Ban</i>. Thank you very much.<i> </i><p><i>President Obama. </i>Cheers.\" "
"209" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Cincinnati! Well, it is good to see all of you. It is good&mdash;it's good to be back in Cincinnati. I have to say, I drove by the Bengals's practice, and I was scouting out some plays in case they play the Bears. [<i>Laughter</i>] Did I hear somebody boo the Bears? <p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo! [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> We've got some folks I just want to make sure are acknowledged here today. First of all, the Secretary of Transportation, Ray LaHood's in the house. Give him a round of applause. We've got the mayor of the great city of Cincinnati, Mark Mallory is here. We've got the mayor of Covington, Mayor Denny Bowman. Senator Rand Paul is here. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo! <p><i>The President.</i> We&mdash;Rand's is going to be supporting bridges, so we got to&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]. And we've got Congressman John Yarmuth in the house. <p>Now, it is good to be back. I was just in Columbus a little while ago, and I figured I couldn't get away with not giving Cincinnati a little bit of love. <p>I want to thank the good folks at Hilltop Concrete for having us here today. I especially want to thank Ron for his introduction. <p>Companies like Hilltop, construction companies, have been hit harder by this economic crisis than almost any other industry in America. And there are millions of construction workers who are still out there looking for a job. They're ready to work, but things have been a little tough. Now, that doesn't mean that there is not plenty of construction waiting to get done in this country. <p>Behind us stands the Brent Spence Bridge. It's located on one of the busiest trucking routes in North America. It sees about a hundred and fifty thousand vehicles every single day. And it's in such poor condition that it's been labeled \\"functionally obsolete.\\" Think about that: functionally obsolete. That doesn't sound good, does it? <p><i>Audience members.</i> No! <p><i>Audience member.</i> That's kind of like John Boehner. <p><i>The President.</i> It's safe to&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;it's safe to drive on, but it was not designed to accommodate today's traffic, which can stretch out for a mile. Shipping companies try to have their trucks avoid the bridge. Of course, that only ends up costing them more money as well. <p>The thing is there are bridges and roads and highways like that throughout the region. A major bridge that connects Kentucky and Indiana just closed down for safety reasons. Another aging bridge that crosses over the Ohio River in Ironton could be replaced right now. There are rail stations in Cleveland and Toledo in desperate need of repair. And the same is true in cities all across America. It makes your commute longer. It costs our billions&mdash;our businesses billions of dollars. They could be moving products faster if they had better transportation routes. And in some cases, it's not safe. <p>Now, we used to have the best infrastructure in the world here in America. We're the country that built the intercontinental railroad, the Interstate Highway System. We built the Hoover Dam. We built the Grand Central station. So how can we now sit back and let China build the best railroads and let Europe build the best highways and have Singapore build a nicer airport at a time when we've got millions of unemployed construction workers out there just ready to get on the job, ready to do the work to rebuilding America? <p>So, Cincinnati, we are better than that. We're smarter than that. And that's why I sent Congress the \\"American Jobs Act\\" 10 days ago. This bill is not that complicated. It's a bill that would put people back to work rebuilding America: repairing our roads, repairing our bridges, repairing our schools. It would lead to jobs for concrete workers like the ones here at Hilltop, jobs for construction workers and masons, carpenters, plumbers, electricians, architects, engineers, ironworkers&mdash;put folks back to work. <p>There is work to be done, and there are workers ready to do it. So let's tell Congress to pass this jobs bill right away. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Pass this bill! Pass this bill! Pass this bill! <p><i>The President.</i> Pass this bill! [<i>Laughter</i>] Pass the bill! <p>Tell them to pass the jobs bill, and not only will we start rebuilding America, but we can also put thousands of teachers back to work. <p>I was with the President of South Korea&mdash;I was up at the United Nations. We were doing a bunch of stuff. And he's told me in the past&mdash;I've asked him, I said, what's your biggest challenge? He says, oh, education. I said, well, what are you dealing with? He said, well, you know what, we're hiring so many teachers we can barely keep up, because we know that if we're going to compete in the future, we've got to have the best teachers. And we've got to have our kids in school longer. And we've got to make sure that they're learning math and science. <p>Well, while they're hiring teachers in droves, what are we doing? We're laying off teachers. It makes no sense in this new global economy where our young people's success is going to depend on the kind of education that they can get. So for us to be laying off teachers doesn't make sense for our kids, it doesn't make sense for us, it doesn't make sense for our economy. <p>Pass this jobs bill and put teachers back in the classroom where they belong. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Pass this bill! Pass this bill! Pass this bill! <p><i>The President.</i> They need to go and pass it. <p>Tell Congress to pass this jobs bill, and companies will get tax credit for hiring America's veterans. We've been through a decade of war now. Almost 2 million people have served. And think about it. They're suspending their careers, they're leaving their families, they're putting themselves in harm way, all to protect us. The last thing they should have to do is fight for a job when they come home. And if we pass this jobs bill, it makes it easier for employers to hire those veterans. That's why we need to tell Congress to do what? To pass the bill. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Pass this bill! Pass this bill! Pass this bill! <p><i>The President.</i> The \\"American Jobs Act\\" will cut taxes for the typical working family by $1,500 next year. It will cut taxes for every small business in America. It will give an extra tax cut to every small-business owner who either hires more workers or raises those workers' wages. How many people here would like a raise? <p>And we know that most small businesses are the creators of new jobs. We've got a lot of folks in Congress who love to say how they're behind America's jobs creators. Well, if that's the case, then you should be passing this bill, because that's what this bill is all about, is helping small businesses all across America. <p>Everything in this jobs bill has been supported in the past by Republicans and Democrats. Everything in this jobs bill is paid for. The idea for a big boost in construction is supported by the AFL-CIO, but it's also supported by the Chamber of Commerce. Those two don't get along on much, but they agree we should rebuild America. <p>And by the way, thanks to the reforms that we've put into place, when we start rebuilding America, we're going to change how business is done. No more earmarks. No more boondoggles. No more bridges to nowhere. We're going to cut the redtape that prevents some of these construction projects from getting started as quickly as possible. And we'll set up an independent fund to attract private dollars and issue loans based on two criteria: how badly is a construction project needed and how much good will it do for the community. Those are the only things we should be thinking about. Not politics. And by the way, that's an idea that's supported by a Massachusetts Democrat and a Texas Republican. It's a good idea. <p>So my question is, what's Congress waiting for? Why is it taking so long? Now, the bridge behind us just happens to connect the State that's home to the Speaker of the House&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo! <p><i>The President.</i> &mdash;&mdash;with the home State of the Republican leader in the Senate. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo! <p><i>The President.</i> Now, that's just a coincidence. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's purely accidental that that happened. [<i>Laughter</i>] But part of the reason I came here is because Mr. Boehner and Mr. McConnell, those are the two most powerful Republicans in Government. They can either kill this jobs bill or they can help pass this jobs bill. And I know these men care about their States. They care about businesses, they care about workers here. I can't imagine that the Speaker wants to represent a State where nearly one in four bridges are classified as substandard&mdash;one in four. I know that when Senator McConnell visited the closed bridge in Kentucky, he said that \\"roads and bridges are not partisan in Washington.\\" That's great. I know that Paul Ryan, the Republican in charge of the budget process, recently said that \\"you can't deny that infrastructure does create jobs.\\" That's what he said. <p>Well, if that's the case, there's no reason for Republicans in Congress to stand in the way of more construction projects. There's no reason to stand in the way of more jobs. <p>Mr. Boehner, Mr. McConnell, help us rebuild this bridge. Help us rebuild America. Help us put construction workers back to work. Pass this bill. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Pass this bill! Pass this bill! Pass this bill! <p><i>The President.</i> Let's pass the bill. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Pass this bill! Pass this bill! Pass this bill! <p><i>The President.</i> Now, some folks in Congress, they say, well, we don't like how it's paid for. Well, it's paid for as part of my larger plan to pay down our debt. And that plan makes some additional cuts in spending. We already cut a trillion dollars in spending. This makes an additional hundreds of billions of dollars in cuts in spending, but it also asks the wealthiest Americans and the biggest corporations to pay their fair share of taxes. <p>Now, that should not be too much to ask. And by the way, it wouldn't kick in until 2013. So when you hear folks saying, \\"Oh, we shouldn't be raising taxes right now,\\" nobody's talking about raising taxes right now. We're talking about cutting taxes right now. But it does mean that there's a long-term plan, and part of it involves everybody doing their fair share. <p>Now, this isn't to punish success. What's great about this country is our belief that anybody can make it. If you're willing to put in the sweat, if you're willing to roll up your sleeves, if you're willing to work hard, you've got a good idea, you're out there taking a risk, God bless you. You can make millions, you can make billions of dollars in America. This is the land of opportunity. That's great. All I'm saying is if you've done well&mdash;I've done well&mdash;then you should do a little something to give something back. You should want to see the country that provided you with this opportunity to be successful and be able to provide opportunity for the young people who are going to be up&mdash;coming up behind you. <p>And all I'm saying is that everything should be fair. You know, the&mdash;you learn the idea of fairness when you're 2, 3 years old, right? You're in the sandbox, and you don't want to let somebody play with your truck, and&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;your mama or your daddy go up, and they say, \\"No, hon, it's not fair, you've got to share.\\" Isn't that what they say? Things have to be fair. So all I'm saying is that Warren Buffett's secretary should not be paying a lower tax rate on her income than Warren Buffett. That doesn't make any sense. A construction worker who's making 50 or 60 grand a year shouldn't be paying higher tax rates than the guy who's making $50 million a year. And that's how it's working right now. Because they get all these loopholes and tax breaks that you don't get. <p>So for me to say let's close those loopholes, let's eliminate those tax breaks, and let's make sure that everybody's paying their fair share, there's nothing wrong with that. <p>Now, this is about priorities. It's about making choices. If we just had all kinds of money and everybody was working and we hadn't gone through the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, then maybe we wouldn't have to make choices. But right now we've got to make some choices. We've got to decide what our priorities are. If we want to pay for this jobs plan and close the deficit and invest in our infrastructure and make sure we've got the best education system in the world, the money's got to come from some place. Would you rather that the oil companies get to keep their tax loopholes? <p><i>Audience members.</i> No! <p><i>The President.</i> Or would you rather make sure that we're hiring thousands of construction workers to rebuild America? <p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes! <p><i>The President.</i> Would you rather keep in place special tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires? <p><i>Audience members.</i> No! <p><i>The President.</i> Or would you say, let's get teachers back in the classroom so our children can learn? <p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes! <p><i>The President.</i> Now, the Republicans, when I talked about this earlier in the week, they said, well, this is class warfare. You know what, if asking a billionaire to pay their fair share of taxes, to pay the same tax rate as a plumber or a teacher, is class warfare, then you know what, I'm a warrior for the middle class. I'm happy to fight for the middle class. I'm happy to fight for working people. Because the only warfare I've seen is the battle against the middle class over the last 10, 15 years. <p>It's time to build an economy that creates good, middle class jobs in this country. It's time to build an economy that honors the values of hard work and responsibility. It's time to build an economy that lasts. And, Cincinnati, that starts right now. That starts with your help. Maybe some of the people in Congress would rather settle their differences at the ballot box than work together right now. In fact, a while back, Senator McConnell said that his top priority&mdash;number-one priority&mdash;was to defeat the President. That was his top priority. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Boo! <p><i>The President.</i> Not jobs, not putting people back to work, not rebuilding America&mdash;beating me. Well, I've got news for him and every other Member of Congress who feels the same way. The next election is 14 months away, and I'll be happy to tangle sometime down the road. But the American people right now don't have the luxury of waiting to solve our problems for another 14 months. A lot of folks are living paycheck to paycheck. A lot of folks are just barely getting by. They need us to get to work right now. They need us to pass this bill. <p>So I'm asking all of you, I need everybody here to lift your voices, not just in Cincinnati, but anybody who's watching TV or anybody who's within the range of my voice, I want everybody to lift up their voices. I want you to call. I want you to e-mail. I want you to tweet. I want you to fax. I want you to visit. If you want, write a letter. It's been a while. [<i>Laughter</i>] I want you to tell your congressperson that the time for gridlock and games-playing is over. Tell them you want to create jobs, so pass this bill. <p>If you want construction workers rebuilding America, pass this bill. If you want teachers back in the classrooms, pass this bill. If you want to cut taxes for middle class families, pass this bill. If you want to help small businesses, what do you do? <p><i>Audience members.</i> Pass this bill! <p><i>The President.</i> If you want veterans to share in the opportunities of this country, what should you do? <p><i>Audience members.</i> Pass this bill! <p><i>The President.</i> Now is the time to act. Because we are not a people that just sit back and wait for things to happen. We go ahead and make things happen. We're tougher than the times we live in. We are bigger than the politics that we've been seeing these last few months. Let's meet this moment. Let's get back to work. Let's show the world once again why America is the greatest nation on Earth. <p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"210" "\"Thank you so much. Everybody, please have a seat. Well, welcome to the White House, everybody. I see a whole bunch of people who are interested in education, and we are grateful for all the work that you do each and every day. <p>I want to recognize the person to my right, somebody who I think will end up being considered one of the finest Secretaries of Education we've ever had, Arne Duncan. In addition to his passion, probably the finest basketball player ever in the Cabinet. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I also want to thank Governor Bill Haslam of Tennessee for taking the time to be here today and the great work that he's doing in Tennessee. I'm especially appreciative because I found that his daughter is getting married, and he is doing the ceremony tomorrow, so we've got to get him back on time. [<i>Laughter</i>] But we really appreciate his presence. Thank you. <p>And a good friend, somebody who I had the pleasure of serving with during the time that I was in the United States Senate, he is now the Governor of Rhode Island, Lincoln Chafee. It's wonderful to see Lincoln. Thank you all for coming. <p>And I do want to acknowledge two guys who've just worked tirelessly on behalf of education issues, who happen to be in the front row here: from the House, outstanding Congressman, George Miller, and from the Senate, the pride of Iowa, Tom Harkin. <p>Now, it is an undeniable fact that countries who out-educate us today are going to out-compete us tomorrow. But today, students are sliding against their peers around the globe. Today, our kids trail too many other countries in math, in science, in reading. And that's true, by the way, not just in inner-city schools, not just among poor kids, even among what are considered our better off suburban schools, we're lagging behind where we need to be. Today, as many as a quarter of our students aren't finishing high school. We have fallen to 16th in the proportion of young people with a college degree, even though we know that 60 percent of new jobs in the coming decade will require more than a high school diploma. <p>And what this means is if we're serious about building an economy that lasts, an economy in which hard work pays off with the opportunity for solid middle class jobs, we've got to get serious about education. We are going to have to pick up our games and raise our standards. <p>We're in the midst of an ongoing enormous economic challenge. And I spend a lot of my time thinking immediately about how we can put folks back to work and how we can stabilize the world financial markets. And those things are all important. But the economic challenges we face now are economic challenges that have been building for decades now, and the most important thing we can do is to make sure that our kids are prepared for this new economy. That's the single-most important thing we can do. So even as we focus on the near term and what we've got to do to put folks back to work, we've got to be thinking a little bit ahead and start making the tough decisions now to make sure that our schools are working the way that they need to work. <p>Now, we all know that schools can't do it alone. As parents, the task begins at home. It begins by turning off the TV and helping with homework and encouraging a love of learning from the very start of our children's lives. And I'm speaking from experience now. [<i>Laughter</i>] Malia and Sasha would often rather be watching \\"American Idol\\" or \\"SpongeBob,\\" but Michelle and I know that our first job, our first responsibility, is instilling a sense of learning&mdash;a sense of a love of learning in our kids. And so there are no shortcuts there; we have to do that job. And we can't just blame teachers and schools if we're not instilling that commitment, that dedication to learning, in our kids. <p>But as a nation, we also have an obligation to make sure that all of our children have the resources they need to learn, because they're spending a lot of time outside of the household. They're spending the bulk of their waking hours in school. And that means that we've got to make sure we've got quality schools, good teachers, the latest textbooks, the right technology. And that, by the way, is something we can do something about right away. That's why I sent the jobs bill to Congress that would put thousands of teachers back to work all across the country and modernize at least 35,000 schools. <p>Congress should pass that bill right now. We've got too many schools that are underresourced, too many teachers who want to be in the classroom who aren't because of budget constraints, not because they can't do the job. <p>So parents have a role, and schools need more resources. But money alone won't solve our education problems. I've said this before, I will repeat it: Money alone is not enough. We also need reform. We've got to make sure that every classroom is a place of high expectations and high performance. And that's been our vision since taking office. That's why instead of just pouring money into the system that's not working, we launched a competition called Race to the Top. And to all 50 States, to Governors, to school districts, we said, show us the most innovative plans to improve teacher quality and student achievement, we'll show you the money. We want to provide you more resources, but there's also got to be a commitment on your part to make the changes that are necessary so that we can see actual results. <p>And for less than 1 percent of what we spend on education each year, Race to the Top, under Arne's leadership, has led States across the country to raise their standards for teaching and learning. And by the way, these standards that we're talking about&mdash;these high standards that we're talking about&mdash;were not developed here in Washington. They were developed by Republican and Democratic Governors throughout the country. Essentially, you had a peer group, a peer review system, where everybody traded best practices and said, here's what seems to work, and let's hold all of our schools to these high standards. And since that's&mdash;Race to the Top has been launched, we've seen what's possible when reform isn't just a top-down mandate, but the work of local teachers and principals and school boards and communities working together to develop better standards. <p>And this is why, in my State of the Union Address this year, I said that Congress should reform the No Child Left Behind law based on the principles that have guided Race to the Top. <p>And I want to say that the goals behind No Child Left Behind were admirable, and President Bush deserves credit for that. Higher standards are the right goal. Accountability is the right goal. Closing the achievement gap is the right goal. And we've got to stay focused on those goals. But experience has taught us that in its implementation No Child Left Behind had some serious flaws that are hurting our children instead of helping them. Teachers too often are being forced to teach to the test. Subjects like history and science have been squeezed out. And in order to avoid having their schools labeled as failures, some States, perversely, have actually had to lower their standards in a race to the bottom instead of a race to the top. They don't want to get penalized? Let's make sure that the standards are so low that we're not going to be seen failing to meet them. That makes no sense. <p>And these problems have been obvious to parents and educators all over the country for years now. Despite the good intentions of some&mdash;two of them are sitting right here, Tom and George&mdash;Congress has not been able to fix these flaws so far. I've urged Congress for a while now, let's get a bipartisan effort, let's fix this. Congress hasn't been able to do it. So I will. Our kids only get one shot at a decent education. They cannot afford to wait any longer. So given that Congress cannot act, I am acting. <p>So starting today, we'll be giving States more flexibility to meet high standards. Keep in mind, the change we're making is not lowering standards, we're saying we're going to give you more flexibility to meet high standards. We're going to let States, schools, and teachers come up with innovative ways to give our children the skills they need to compete for the jobs of the future. Because what works in Rhode Island may not be the same thing that works in Tennessee, but every student should have the same opportunity to learn and grow, no matter what State they live in. <p>Let me repeat: This does not mean that States will be able to lower their standards or escape accountability. In fact, the way we've structured this, if States want more flexibility, they're going to have to set higher standards, more honest standards, that prove they're serious about meeting them. <p>And already, 44 States, led by some of the people on this stage, have set higher standards and proposed new ways to get there, because that's what's critical. They know what's at stake here. <p>Ricci Hall is a principal of a charter school in Worcester, Massachusetts. Where's Ricci? Oh, Ricci's not here. [<i>Laughter</i>] He was&mdash;there he is. Ricci&mdash;I wasn't sure if he was behind me. Good. Thank you. Every single student who graduated from Ricci's school in the last 3 years went on to college. Every single one. His school ranks in the top quarter of all schools in Massachusetts, and as you know, Massachusetts's schools rank very high among the 50 States. But because Ricci's school did not meet all the technical standards of No Child Left Behind, his school was labeled a failure last year. That's not right. That needs to change. What we're doing today will encourage the progress at schools like Ricci's. <p>Is John Becker here? He is? All right, here's John. [<i>Laughter</i>] I didn't think you were John. [<i>Laughter</i>] John teaches at one of the highest performing middle schools in DC, and now with these changes we're making, he's going to be able to focus on teaching his fourth graders math in a way that improves their performance instead of just teaching to a test. <p>We have superintendents like David Estrop from Springfield, Ohio. Right here. Dave will be able to focus on improving teaching and learning in his district instead of spending all his time on bureaucratic mandates from Washington that don't actually produce results. <p>So this isn't just the right thing to do for our kids, it's the right thing to do for our country. We can't afford to wait for an education system that is not doing everything it needs to do for our kids. We can't let another generation of young people fall behind because we didn't have the courage to recognize what doesn't work, admit it, and replace it with something that does. We've got to act now. We've got to act now and harness all the good ideas coming out of our States, out of our schools. We can't be tied up with ideology. We can't be worrying about partisanship. We just have to make sure that we figure out what works and we hold ourselves to those high standards. Because now is the time to give our children the skills that they need to compete in this global economy. <p>We've got a couple of students up on stage who are doing outstanding work because somebody in their schools is dedicated and committed every single day to making sure that they've got a chance to succeed. But I don't want them to be the exception. I want them to be the rule. Now is the time to make our education system the best in the world, the envy of the world. It used to be. It is going to be again, thanks to the people in this room. <p>God bless you. God bless the United States of America. <p>Thank you.\" "
"211" "\"Over the last few weeks, I've been making the case that we need to act now on the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" so we can put folks back to work and start building an economy that lasts into the future. <p>Education is an essential part of this economic agenda. It is an undeniable fact that countries who out-educate us today, will out-compete us tomorrow. Businesses will hire wherever the highly skilled and highly trained workers are located. <p>But today, our students are sliding against their peers around the globe. Today, our kids trail too many other countries in math and science and reading. As many as a quarter of our students aren't even finishing high school. And we've fallen to 16th in the proportion of our young people with a college degree, even though we know that 60 percent of new jobs in the coming decade will require more than a high school diploma. <p>What this means is that if we're serious about building an economy that lasts&mdash;an economy in which hard work pays off with the opportunity for solid middle class jobs&mdash;we had better be serious about education. We have to pick up our game and raise our standards. <p>As a nation, we have an obligation to make sure that all children have the resources they need to learn: quality schools, good teachers, the latest textbooks, and the right technology. That's why the jobs bill I sent to Congress would put tens of thousands of teachers back to work across the country and modernize at least 35,000 schools. That's why Congress should pass that bill right now. <p>But money alone won't solve our education problems. We also need reform. We need to make sure that every classroom is a place of high expectations and high performance. <p>That's been our vision since taking office. And that's why instead of just pouring money into the system that wasn't working, we launched a competition called Race to the Top. To all 50 States, we said, \\"If you show us the most innovative plans to improve teacher quality and student achievement, we'll show you the money.\\" <p>For less than 1 percent of what we spend on education each year, Race to the Top has led States across the country to raise their standards for teaching and learning. These standards were developed not by Washington, but by Republican and Democratic Governors throughout the country. And since then, we have seen what's possible when reform isn't just a top-down mandate, but the work of local teachers and principals, school boards and communities. <p>That's why in my State of the Union Address this year, I said to Congress, you need to reform the No Child Left Behind law based on the same principles that have guided Race to the Top. <p>While the goals behind No Child Left Behind were admirable, experience has taught us that the law has some serious flaws that are hurting our children instead of helping them. Teachers are being forced to teach to the test, while subjects like history and science are being squeezed out. And in order to avoid having their schools labeled as failures, some States lowered their standards in a race to the bottom. <p>These problems have been obvious to parents and educators all over this country for years. But for years, Congress has failed to fix them. So now, I will. Our kids only get one shot at a decent education. And they can't afford to wait any longer. <p>So yesterday, I announced that we'll be giving States more flexibility to meet high standards for teaching and learning. It's time for us to let States and schools and teachers come up with innovative ways to give our children the skills they need to compete for the jobs of the future. <p>This will make a huge difference in the lives of students all across the country. For example, yesterday, I was with Ricci Hall, the principal of a school in Worcester, Massachusetts. Every single student who graduated from Ricci's school in the last 3 years went on to college. But because they didn't meet the standards of No Child Left Behind, Ricci's school was labeled as failing last year. <p>That will change because of what we did yesterday. From now on, we'll be able to encourage the progress at schools like Ricci's. From now on, people like John Becker, who teaches at one of the highest-performing middle schools in DC, will be able to focus on teaching his fourth graders math in ways that improves their performance instead of just teaching to a test. Superintendents like David Estrop from Ohio will be able to focus on improving teaching and learning in his district instead of spending all his time on bureaucratic mandates from Washington that don't get results. <p>This isn't just the right thing to do for our kids; it's the right thing to do for our country and our future. It's time to put our teachers back on the job. It's time to rebuild and modernize our schools. And it's time to raise our standards, up our game, and do everything it takes to prepare our children to succeed in the global economy. Now is the time to once again make our education system the envy of the world. <p>Thanks for listening.\" "
"212" "\"Hello, CBC! Thank you so much. Thank you. Please, everybody have a seat. It is wonderful to be with all of you tonight. It's good to be with \\"the conscience of the Congress.\\" Thank you, Chairman Cleaver and brother Payne, for all that you do each and every day. Thank you, Dr. Elsie Scott, president and CEO of the CBC Foundation, and all of you for your outstanding work with your internship program, which has done so much for so many young people. And I had a chance to meet some of the young people backstage, an incredible, unbelievably impressive group. <p>You know, being here with all of you, with all the outstanding Members of the Congressional Black Caucus, reminds me of a story that one of our friends, a giant of the civil rights movement, Reverend Dr. Joseph Lowery, told one day. Dr. Lowery, I don't think he minds me telling that he turns 90 in a couple weeks. He's been causing a ruckus for about 89 of those years. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>A few years back, Dr. Lowery and I were together at Brown Chapel AME Church in Selma. [<i>Applause</i>] We've got some Selma folks in the house. And Dr. Lowery stood up in the pulpit and told the congregation the story of Shadrach and Meshach and Abed-nego in the fiery furnace. You know the story: It's about three young men bold enough to stand up for God, even if it meant being thrown in a furnace. And they survived because of their faith and because God showed up in that furnace with them. <p>Now, Dr. Lowery said that those three young men were a little bit crazy. But there's a difference, he said, between good crazy and bad crazy. Those boys, he said, were good crazy. At the time, I was running for President; it was early in the campaign. Nobody gave me much of a chance. He turned to me from the pulpit and indicated that someone like me running for President, well, that was crazy. [<i>Laughter</i>] But he supposed it was good crazy. <p>He was talking about faith, the belief in things not seen, the belief that if you persevere, a better day lies ahead. And I suppose the reason I enjoy coming to the CBC&mdash;what this weekend is all about&mdash;is you and me, we're all a little bit crazy, but hopefully, a good kind of crazy. We're a good kind of crazy because no matter how hard things get, we keep the faith, we keep fighting, we keep moving forward. <p>And we've needed faith over these last couple years. Times have been hard. It's been 3 years since we faced down a crisis that began on Wall Street and then spread to Main Street and hammered working families and hammered an already hard-hit Black community. The unemployment rate for Black folks went up to nearly 17 percent, the highest it's been in almost three decades. Forty percent, almost, of African American children living in poverty, fewer than half convinced that they can achieve Dr. King's dream. You've got to be a little crazy to have faith during such hard times. <p>It's heartbreaking, and it's frustrating. And I ran for President and the Members of the CBC ran for Congress to help more Americans reach that dream. We ran to give every child a chance, whether he's born in Chicago or she comes from a rural town in the Delta. This crisis has made that job of giving everybody opportunity a little bit harder. <p>We knew at the outset of my Presidency that the economic calamity we faced wasn't caused overnight and wasn't going to be solved overnight. We knew that long before the recession hit, the middle class in this country had been falling behind: wages and incomes had been stagnant; a sense of financial security had been slipping away. And since these problems were not caused overnight, we knew we were going to have to climb a steep hill. <p>But we got to work. With your help, we started fighting our way back from the brink. And at every step of the way, we've faced fierce opposition based on an old idea, the idea that the only way to restore prosperity can't just be to let every corporation write its own rules or give out tax breaks to the wealthiest and the most fortunate and to tell everybody that they're on their own. There has to be a different concept of what America's all about. It has to be based on the idea that I am my brother's keeper and I am my sister's keeper and we're in this together. [<i>Applause</i>] We are in this thing together. <p>We had a different vision, and so we did what was right, and we fought to extend unemployment insurance, and we fought to expand the earned-income tax credit, and we fought to expand the child tax credit, which benefited nearly half of all African American children in this country. And millions of Americans are better off because of that fight. <p>Ask the family struggling to make ends meet if that extra few hundred dollars in their mother's paycheck from the payroll tax cut we passed made a difference. They'll tell you. Ask them how much that earned-income tax credit or that child tax credit makes a difference in paying the bills at the end of the month. <p>When an army of lobbyists and special interests spent millions to crush Wall Street reform, we stood up for what was right. We said the time has come to protect homeowners from predatory mortgage lenders. The time has come to protect consumers from credit card companies that jacked up rates without warning. We signed the strongest consumer financial protection in history. That's what we did together. <p>Remember how many years we tried to stop big banks from collecting taxpayer subsidies for student loans, while the cost of college kept slipping out of reach? Together, we put a stop to that once and for all. We used those savings to make college more affordable. We invested in early childhood education and community college and HBCUs. Ask the engineering student at an HBCU who thought he might have to leave school if that extra Pell grant assistance mattered. <p>We're attacking the cycle of poverty that steals the future from too many children, not just by pouring money into a broken system, but by building on what works: with Promise Neighborhoods modeled after the good work up in Harlem; Choice Neighborhoods rebuilding crumbling public housing into communities of hope and opportunity; Strong Cities, Strong Communities, our partnership with local leaders in hard-hit cities like Cleveland and Detroit. And we overcame years of inaction to win justice for Black farmers because of the leadership of the CBC and because we had an administration that was committed to doing the right thing. <p>And against all sorts of setbacks, when the opposition fought us with everything they had, we finally made clear that in the United States of America nobody should go broke because they get sick. We are better than that. And today, insurance companies can no longer drop or deny your coverage for no good reason. In just a year and a half, about 1 million more young adults have health insurance because of this law&mdash;1 million young people. That is an incredible achievement, and we did it with your help, with the CBC's help. <p>So in these hard years, we've won a lot of fights that needed fighting, and we've done a lot of good. But we've got more work to do. So many people are still hurting. So many people are still barely hanging on. And too many people in this city are still fighting us every step of the way. <p>So I need your help. We have to do more to put people to work right now. We've got to make that everyone in this country gets a fair shake and a fair shot and a chance to get ahead. And I know we won't get where we need to go if we don't travel down this road together. I need you with me. <p>That starts with getting this Congress to pass the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" You heard me talk about this plan when I visited Congress a few weeks ago and sent the bill to Congress a few days later. Now I want that bill back, passed. I've got the pens all ready, I am ready to sign it, and I need your help to make it happen. <p>Right now we've got millions of construction workers out of a job. So this bill says, let's put those men and women back to work in their own communities rebuilding our roads and our bridges. Let's give these folks a job rebuilding our schools. Let's put these folks to work rehabilitating foreclosed homes in the hardest hit neighborhoods of Detroit and Atlanta and Washington. This is a no-brainer. <p>Why should we let China build the newest airports, the fastest railroads? Tell me why our children should be allowed to study in a school that's falling apart? I don't want that for my kids or your kids. I don't want that for any kid. You tell me how it makes sense when we know that education is the most important thing for success in the 21st century. Let's put our people back to work doing the work America needs done. Let's pass this jobs bill. <p>We've got millions of unemployed Americans and young people looking for work, but running out of options. So this jobs bill says, let's give them a pathway, a new pathway back to work. Let's extend unemployment insurance so that more than 6 million Americans don't lose that lifeline. But let's also encourage reforms that help the long-term unemployed keep their skills sharp and get a foot in the door. Let's give summer jobs for low-income youth that don't just give them their first paycheck, but arm them with the skills they need for life. <p>Tell me why we don't want the unemployed back in the workforce as soon as possible. Let's pass this jobs bill, put these folks back to work. <p>Why are we shortchanging our children when we could be putting teachers back in the classroom right now, where they belong; laying off teachers, laying off police officer, laying off firefighters all across the country because State and local budgets are tough? Why aren't we helping? We did in the first 2 years. And then this other crowd came into Congress, and now suddenly they want to stop. Tell me why we shouldn't give companies tax credits for hiring the men and women who've risked their lives for this country, our veterans. There is no good answer for that. They shouldn't be fighting to find a job when they come home. <p>These Republicans in Congress like to talk about job creators. How about doing something real for job creators? Pass this jobs bill, and every small-business owner in America, including 100,000 Black-owned businesses, will get a tax cut. You say you're the party of tax cuts. Pass this jobs bill, and every worker in America, including nearly 20 million African American workers, will get a tax cut. Pass this jobs bill and prove you'll fight just as hard for a tax cut for ordinary folks as you do for all your contributors. <p>These are questions that opponents of this jobs plan will have to answer, because the kinds of ideas in this plan in the past have been supported by both parties. Suddenly, Obama is proposing it, what happened? [<i>Laughter</i>] What happened? You all used to like to build roads. [<i>Laughter</i>] Right? What happened? Reverend, you know what happened? I don't know. They used to love to build some roads. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, I know some of our friends across the aisle won't support any new spending that's not paid for. I agree that's important. So last week, I laid out a plan to pay for the \\"American Jobs Act\\" and to bring out&mdash;down our debt over time. You say the deficit is important? Here we go. I'm ready to go. It's a plan that says if we want to create jobs and close this deficit, then we've got to ask the folks who have benefited most&mdash;the wealthiest Americans, the biggest, most profitable corporations&mdash;to pay their fair share. <p>We are not asking them to do anything extraordinary. The reform we're proposing is based on a simple principle: Middle class folks should not pay higher tax rates than millionaires and billionaires. That's not crazy, or it's good crazy. [<i>Laughter</i>] Warren Buffett's secretary shouldn't pay a higher tax rate than Warren Buffett. A teacher or a nurse or a construction worker making $50,000 a year shouldn't pay higher tax rates than somebody making $50 million. That's just common sense. <p>We're not doing this to punish success. This is the land of opportunity. I want you to go out, start a business, get rich, build something. Our country is based on the belief that anybody can make it if they put in enough sweat and enough effort. That is wonderful. God bless you. But part of the American idea is also that once we've done well we should pay our fair share, to make sure that those schools that we were learning in can teach the next generation, that those roads that we benefited from, that they're not crumbling for the next bunch of folks who are coming behind us, to keep up the Nation that made our success possible. <p>And most wealthy Americans would agree with that. But you know the Republicans are already dusting off their old talking points. That's class warfare, they say. In fact, in the next breath, they'll complain that people living in poverty&mdash;people who suffered the most over the past decade&mdash;don't pay enough in taxes. That's bad crazy. [<i>Laughter</i>] When you start saying, at a time when the top one-tenth of 1 percent has seen their incomes go up four or five times over the last 20 years and folks at the bottom have seen their incomes decline, and your response is that you want poor folks to pay more? Give me a break. If asking a billionaire to pay the same tax rate as a janitor makes me a warrior for the working class, I wear that with a badge of honor. I have no problem with that. It's about time. <p>They say it kills jobs: \\"Oh, that's going to kill jobs.\\" We're not proposing anything other than returning to the tax rates for the wealthiest Americans that existed under Bill Clinton. I played golf with Bill Clinton today. I was asking him, \\"How did that go?\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Well, it turns out, we had a lot of jobs. The well-to-do, they did even better. So did the middle class. We lifted millions out of poverty. And then we cut taxes for folks like me, and we went through a decade of zero job growth. <p>So this isn't speculation. We've tested this out. We tried their theory. Didn't work. Tried our theory. It worked. We shouldn't be confused about this. <p>This debate is about priorities. If we want to create new jobs and close the deficit and invest in our future, the money has got to come from somewhere. And so should we keep tax loopholes for big oil companies, or should we put construction workers and teachers back on the job? Should we keep tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires, or should we invest in our children's education and college aid? Should we ask seniors to be paying thousands of dollars more for Medicare, as the House Republicans proposed, or take young folks' health care away, or should we ask that everybody pay their fair share? This is about fairness. And this is about who we are as a country. This is about our commitment to future generations. <p>When Michelle and I think about where we came from&mdash;a little girl on the South Side of Chicago, son of a single mom in Hawaii&mdash;mother had to go to school on scholarships, sometimes got food stamps. Michelle's parents never owned their own home until she had already graduated, living upstairs above the aunt who actually owned the house. We are here today only because our parents and our grandparents, they broke their backs to support us. But they also understood that they would get a little bit of help from their country. Because they met their responsibilities, this country would also be responsible, would also provide good public schools, would also provide recreation parks that were safe, making sure that they could take the bus without getting beat over the head, making sure that their kids would be able to go to college even if they weren't rich. <p>We're only here because past generations struggled and sacrificed for this incredible, exceptional idea that it does not matter where you come from, it does not matter where you're born, doesn't matter what you look like; if you're willing to put in an effort, you should get a shot. You should get a shot at the American Dream. <p>And each night, when we tuck in our girls at the White House, I think about keeping that dream alive for them and for all of our children. And that's now up to us. And that's hard. This is harder than it's been in a long, long time. We're going through something we haven't seen in our lifetimes. <p>And I know at times that gets folks discouraged. I know. I listen to some of you all. [<i>Laughter</i>] I understand that. And nobody feels that burden more than I do. Because I know how much we have invested in making sure that we're able to move this country forward. But you know, more than a lot of other folks in this country, we know about hard. The people in this room know about hard. And we don't give in to discouragement. <p>Throughout our history, change has often come slowly. Progress often takes time. We take a step forward; sometimes we take two steps back. Sometimes we get two steps forward and one step back. But it's never a straight line. It's never easy. And I never promised easy. Easy has never been promised to us. But we've had faith. We have had faith. We've had that good kind of crazy that says, you can't stop marching. <p>Even when folks are hitting you over the head, you can't stop marching. Even when they're turning the hoses on you, you can't stop. Even when somebody fires you for speaking out, you can't stop. Even when it looks like there's no way, you find a way; you can't stop. Through the mud and the muck and the driving rain, we don't stop. Because we know the rightness of our cause, widening the circle of opportunity, standing up for everybody's opportunities, increasing each other's prosperity. We know our cause is just. It's a righteous cause. <p>So in the face of troopers and tear gas, folks stood unafraid. Led somebody like John Lewis to wake up after getting beaten within an inch of his life on Sunday, he wakes up on Monday: \\"We're going to go march.\\" <p>Dr. King once said: \\"Before we reach the majestic shores of the promised land, there is a frustrating and bewildering wilderness ahead. We must still face prodigious hilltops of opposition and gigantic mountains of resistance. But with patient and firm determination we will press on.\\" <p>So I don't know about you, CBC, but the future rewards those who press on. With patient and firm determination, I am going to press on for jobs. I'm going to press on for equality. I'm going to press on for the sake of our children. I'm going to press on for the sake of all those families who are struggling right now. I don't have time to feel sorry for myself. I don't have time to complain. I am going to press on. <p>I expect all of you to march with me and press on. Take off your bedroom slippers, put on your marching shoes. Shake it off. Stop complaining, stop grumbling, stop crying. We are going to press on. We've got work to do, CBC. <p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"213" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, Denver! What a beautiful day. Thank you so much. How's it going, Lancers? I hear the Lancers have a pretty good ball team. That's the story I've heard. <p>Well, listen, there are a couple of people here I want to acknowledge who are just outstanding public servants: First of all, a hometown hero who is now one of the best Secretaries of the Interior that we've ever had, Ken Salazar; one of the best Governors in the country, John Hickenlooper; two outstanding Senators, Mark Udall and Michael Bennet; Congresswoman Diana DeGette; Congressman Ed Perlmutter; your own hometown mayor, Michael Hancock; and former friend and&mdash;or current friend, former mayor&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and one of the finest public servants in Colorado history, Federico Pena. <p>So it is good to be back in Colorado, especially on a gorgeous day like this. It's always like this in late September, isn't it? Absolutely. <p>It's an honor to be here at Lincoln High School. And I want to give a special thank you to Amelia for that wonderful introduction. I was just talking to Amelia. I said&mdash;she's a senior this year. And she's planning to go to college and planning to be a doctor, and I am absolutely certain she is going to succeed in everything that she does. And she's an example, a great example, of how smarter courses and better technology can help guarantee our kids the foundation that they need to graduate and compete in this new global economy. So we couldn't be prouder of Amelia. And we couldn't be prouder of all the students here at Lincoln. <p>Now, I came here today to talk about the economy. I came to talk about how we can get to a place where we're creating good middle class jobs again, jobs that pay well and jobs that offer security. <p>We've got a lot to do to make sure that everyone in this country gets a fair shake and a fair shot and a chance to get ahead. And that's the number-one thing that I think about each and every day: your lives, your opportunities. That should be the number-one thing that every public servant in Washington is thinking about. <p>There's so much that we could accomplish together if Washington can finally start acting on behalf of the people. We've got to get that city to stop worrying so much about their jobs and their careers and start worrying about your jobs and your careers. <p>And that's why I sent Congress the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" Now, I know it's kind of thick, but it boils down to two things: putting people back to work and putting more money in the pockets of working Americans. Every single thing in the \\"American Jobs Act\\" is the kind of proposal that's been supported by Democrats and Republicans in the past. Everything in it will be paid for. <p>It's been 2 weeks since I sent it to Congress; now I want it back. I want it back passed so I can sign this bill and start putting people back to work. I've already got the pens all ready, all lined up on my desk, ready to sign the bill. And every one of you can help make it happen by sending a message to Congress, a simple message: Pass this jobs bill. <p>Look, pass this jobs bill, and right here in Colorado, thousands of construction workers will have a job again. This is one of the most commonsense ideas out there. All over the country there are roads and bridges and schools just like Lincoln that are in need of repair. One of the reasons we came here was this is the fastest growing school in one of the fastest growing school districts in Colorado. <p>So Lincoln has been adding new AP courses and new language courses, and the wonderful principal and administrators here have been making sure and the teachers here have been making sure that kids have upgraded computers and learning software that's necessary to prepare all of you students for the jobs and the economy of the future. But you know what, things like science labs take money to upgrade. The science labs here at Lincoln High were built decades ago, back in the sixties. I don't know if you've noticed, but science and technology has changed a little bit since the 1960s. The world has changed a little bit since the 1960s. So we need to do everything we can to prepare our kids to compete. We need to do everything we can to make sure our students can compete with any students, anywhere in the world. And every child deserves a great school, and we can give it to them. <p>We can rebuild our schools for the 21st century with faster Internet and smarter labs and cutting-edge technology. And that won't just create a better learning environment for students, it will create good jobs for local construction workers right here in Denver and all across Colorado and all across the country. There are schools all throughout Colorado in need of renovation. <p>But it's not just in this State. Last week, I visited a bridge in Cincinnati that connected Ohio to Kentucky. Bridges need renovations. Roads need renovations. We need to lay broadband lines in rural areas. There are construction projects like these all across this country just waiting to get started, and there are millions of unemployed construction workers ready to do the job. <p>So my question to Congress is: What on Earth are you waiting for? Let's get to work. Let's get to work. Let's get to work. <p>Why should our children be allowed to study in crumbling, outdated schools? How does that give them a sense that education's important? We should build them the best schools. That's what I want for my kids. That's what you want for your kids. That's what I want for every kid in America. <p>Why should we let China build the newest airports, the fastest railroads? We should build them right here in America, right here in Denver, right here in Colorado. There is work to be done. There are workers ready to do it. So tell Congress: Pass this jobs bill right away. <p>Let's pass this jobs bill and put teachers back in the classroom where they belong. Places like South Korea, they're adding teachers in droves to prepare their kids for the global economy. We're laying off our teachers left and right. All across the country, budget cuts are forcing superintendents to make choices they don't want to make. <p>I can tell you the last thing a Governor like John Hickenlooper wants to do is to lose teachers. It's unfair to our kids. It undermines our future. It has to stop. You tell Congress: Pass the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" and there will be funding to save jobs of thousands of Colorado teachers and cops and firefighters. It's the right thing to do. Pass the bill. <p>If Congress passes this jobs bill, companies will get new tax credits for hiring America's veterans. Think about it. These men and women, they leave their careers, they leave their families, they are protecting us and our freedom, and the last thing they should have to do is fight for a job when they come home. That's why Congress needs to pass this bill to make it easier for businesses to hire our veterans and use the skills that they've developed protecting us. <p>Pass this bill, and it will help hundreds of thousands of young people find summer jobs next year to help them build skills. It provides a $4,000 tax credit for companies that hire anybody who's spent more than 6 months looking for a job. It extends unemployment insurance, but it also says if you're collecting benefits, you'll get connected to temporary work as a way to build your skills while you're looking for a permanent job. Congress needs to pass this bill. <p>Congress needs to pass this bill so we can help the people who create most of the new jobs in this country: America's small-business owners. It's all terrific that corporate profits have come roaring back, but small companies haven't come roaring back. Let's give them a boost. Pass this bill, and every small-business owner in America gets a tax cut. If they hire new employees or they raise their employees' salaries, they get another tax cut. <p>There are some Republicans in Congress who like to talk about being the friends of America's job creators. Well, you know what, if you actually care about America's jobs creators, then you should actually help America's jobs creators with a tax cut by passing this bill right away. <p>Now, finally, if we get Congress to pass this bill, the typical working family in Colorado will get more than $1,700 in tax cuts next year; $1,700 that would have been taken out of your paycheck now goes right back in your pocket. <p>If Congress doesn't act, if Congress fails to pass this bill, middle class families will get hit with a tax increase at the worst possible time. We can't let that happen. Republicans say they're the party of tax cuts. Well, let them prove it. Tell them to fight just as hard for tax cuts for working Americans as they fight for the wealthiest Americans. Tell them to pass this jobs bill right now. <p>So let me summarize here. The \\"American Jobs Act\\" will lead to new jobs for construction workers, jobs for teachers, jobs for veterans, jobs for young people, jobs for the unemployed. It will provide tax relief for every worker and small business in America. And by the way, it will not add to the deficit. It will be paid for. <p>Last week, I laid out a plan that would not only pay for the jobs bill, but would begin to actually reduce our debt over time. It's a plan that says if we want to close&mdash;create jobs and close the deficit, then we've got to not only make some of the cuts that we've made&mdash;tough cuts that, with the help of Mark and Michael, we were able to get done&mdash;but we've also got to ask the wealthiest Americans and biggest corporations to pay their fair share. <p>Look, we need to reform our Tax Code based on a simple principle: Middle class families shouldn't pay higher tax rates than millionaires and billionaires. Warren Buffett's secretary shouldn't pay a higher tax rate than Warren Buffett. A teacher or a nurse or a construction worker making $50,000 a year shouldn't pay higher tax rates than somebody making 50 million. That's just common sense. <p>And keep in mind, I'm not saying this because we should be punishing success. This is the land of opportunity. What's great about this country is that any of these young people here, if they've got a good idea, if they go out there and they're willing to work hard, they can start a business, they can create value, great products, great services. They can make millions, make billions. That's great. That's what America is all about. Anybody can make it if they try. <p>But what's also a quintessentially American idea is that those of us who've done well should pay our fair share to contribute to the upkeep of the Nation that made our success possible, because nobody did well on their own. A teacher somewhere helped to give you the skills to succeed. Firefighters and police officers are protecting your property. You're moving your goods and products and services on roads that somebody built. That's how we all do well together. We got here because somebody else invested in us, and we've got to make sure this generation of students can go to college on student aid or scholarships like I did. We've got to make sure that we keep investing in the kind of Government research that helped to create the Internet, which countless private sector companies then used to create tens of millions of jobs. <p>And you know what? I'm positive&mdash;I've talked to them&mdash;most wealthy Americans agree with this. Of course, the Republicans in Congress, they call this \\"class warfare.\\" You know what, if asking a millionaire to pay the same tax rate as a plumber makes me a class warrior, a warrior for the working class, I will accept that. I will wear that charge as a badge of honor. <p>The only warfare I've seen is the battle that's been waged against middle class families in this country for a decade now. <p>Ultimately, Colorado, this comes down to choices and it comes down to priorities. If we want to pay for this jobs plan, put people back to work, close this deficit, invest in our future, then the money has got to come from somewhere. And so my question is: Would you rather keep tax loopholes for oil companies, or do you want construction workers to have a job rebuilding our schools and our roads and our bridges? Would you rather keep tax breaks for billionaires that they don't need, or would you rather put teachers back to work and help small businesses and cut taxes and reduce our deficit? <p>It's time to build an economy that creates good middle class jobs in this country. It's time to build an economy that honors the values of hard work and responsibility. It's time to build an economy that lasts. <p>And, Denver, that starts now. And I need your help to make it happen. I just want you to&mdash;just remember, Republicans and Democrats in the past have supported every kind of proposal that's in here. There's no reason not to pass it just because I proposed it. We need to tell them it's time to support these proposals right now. <p>There are some Republicans in Washington who have said that some of this might have to wait until the next election. <p><i>Audience members.</i> No! <p><i>The President</i>. Maybe we should just stretch this out rather than work together right now. Some even said that if they agree with the proposals in the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" they still shouldn't pass it because it might give me a win. Think about that. Give me a win? Give me a break! That's why folks in Washington&mdash;that's why folks are fed up with Washington. <p>There are some folks in Washington who don't get it. This isn't about giving me a win. This is about giving Democrats and Republicans a chance to do something for the American people. It's about giving people who are hurting a win. That's what this is about. <p>It's about giving small-business owners a win and entrepreneurs a win and students a win and working families a win, giving all of us a win. <p>The next election is nearly 14 months away. The American people don't have the luxury of waiting that long. There are folks here in Colorado who are living paycheck to paycheck, week to week. They need action, they need it now. <p>So I'm asking all of you, I need you to lift up your voices. Not just here in Denver, but anyone watching, anybody listening, anybody following online, I need you to call, e-mail, tweet, fax, visit, tell your Congressperson&mdash;unless it's the Congresspersons here, because they're already on board&mdash;tell them you are tired of gridlock, you are tired of the games. Tell them the time for action is now. Tell them you want to create jobs now. Tell them to pass the bill. <p>If you want construction workers on the job, pass the bill. If you want teachers back in the classroom, pass the bill. If you want a tax cut for small-business owners, pass the bill. If you want to help our veterans share in the opportunity that they defended, pass the bill. <p>It is time to act. We are not a people who sit back and wait for things to happen. We make things happen. We're Americans. We are tougher than the times that we live in, and we are bigger than the politics we've been seeing out of Washington. We write our own destiny. It is in our power to do so once more. So let's meet this moment, let's get to work, and let's show the world once again why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. <p>Thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Go Lancers!\" "
"214" "\"Hello, everybody. <i>Shana Tova</i>. <p>The days between Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur are a time for repentance and reflection, an opportunity to reaffirm our friendships, renew our commitments, and reflect on the values we cherish. <p>As the High Holidays begin, we look back on all the moments during the past year that give us reason to hope. Around the world, a new generation is reaching for their universal rights. Here in the United States, we've responded to our challenges by focusing on the things that really matter: friendship, family, and community. <p>But this last year was also one of hardship for people around the world. Too many of our friends and neighbors continue to struggle in the wake of a terrible economic recession. And beyond our borders, many of our closest allies, including the State of Israel, face the uncertainties of an unpredictable age. <p>That is why my administration is doing everything we can to promote prosperity here at home and security and peace throughout the world, and that includes reaffirming our commitment to the State of Israel. While we cannot know all that the New Year will bring, we do know this: The United States will continue to stand with Israel, because the bond between our two nations is unshakable. <p>As Jewish tradition teaches us, we may not complete the work, but that must never keep us from trying. In that spirit, Michelle and I wish you and your families and all who celebrate Rosh Hashanah a sweet year full of health, happiness, and peace. <p>Thank you.\" "
"215" "\"Hey! Thank you. Thank you very much. Everybody, please have a seat. Well, Madam President, that was an outstanding introduction. [<i>Laughter</i>] We are so proud of Donae for representing this school so well. <p>And in addition, I also want to acknowledge your outstanding principal, who has been here for 20 years&mdash;first as a teacher, now as an outstanding principal&mdash;Anita Berger. Please give her a big round of applause. I want to acknowledge, as well, Mayor Gray is here, the mayor of Washington, DC, is here. Please give him a big round of applause. And I also want to thank somebody who is going to go down in history as one of the finest Secretaries of Education that we've ever had, Arne Duncan is here. <p>Now, it is great to be here at Benjamin Banneker High School, one of the best high schools not only in Washington, DC, but one of the best high schools in the country. And&mdash;but we've also got students tuning in from all across America. And so I want to welcome you all to the new school year, although I know that many of you already have been in school for a while. I know that here at Banneker, you've been back at school for a few weeks now. So everything is just starting to settle in, just like for all your peers all across the country. The fall sports season is underway. Musicals and marching band routines are starting to shape up, I believe. And your first big tests and projects are probably just around the corner. <p>I know that you've also got a great deal going on outside of school. Your circle of friends might be changing a little bit. Issues that used to stay confined to hallways or locker rooms are now finding their way onto Facebook and Twitter. [<i>Laughter</i>] Some of your families might also be feeling the strain of the economy. As many of you know, we're going through one of the toughest economic times that we've gone through in our lifetime&mdash;in my lifetime. Your lifetime hasn't been that long. And so, as a consequence, you might have to pick up an after-school job to help out your family, or maybe you're babysitting for a younger sibling because mom or dad is working an extra shift. <p>So all of you have a lot on your plates. You guys are growing up faster and interacting with a wider world in a way that old folks like me, frankly, just didn't have to. So today, I don't want to be just another adult who stands up and lectures you like you're just kids, because you're not just kids. You're this country's future. You're young leaders. And whether we fall behind or race ahead as a nation is going to depend in large part on you. So I want to talk to you a little bit about meeting that responsibility. <p>It starts, obviously, with being the best student that you can be. Now, that doesn't always mean that you have to have a perfect score on every assignment. It doesn't mean that you've got to get straight As all the time, although that's not a bad goal to have. It means that you have to stay at it. You have to be determined, and you have to persevere. It means you've got to work as hard as you know how to work. And it means that you've got to take some risks once in a while. You can't avoid the class that you think might be hard because you're worried about getting the best grade if that's a subject that you think you need to prepare you for your future. You've got to wonder, you've got to question, you've got to explore, and every once in a while, you need to color outside of the lines. <p>That's what school is for: discovering new passions, acquiring new skills, making use of this incredible time that you have to prepare yourself and give yourself the skills that you're going to need to pursue the kind of careers that you want. And that's why when you're still a student you can explore a wide range of possibilities. One hour you can be an artist; the next, an author; the next, a scientist or a historian or a carpenter. This is the time where you can try out new interests and test new ideas. And the more you do, the sooner you'll figure out what makes you come alive, what stirs you, what makes you excited, the career that you want to pursue. <p>Now, if you promise not to tell anybody, I will let you in on a little secret: I was not always the very best student that I could be when I was in high school and certainly not when I was in middle school. I did not love every class I took. I wasn't always paying attention the way I should have. I remember when I was in eighth grade I had to take a class called ethics. Now, ethics is about right and wrong, but if you'd asked me what my favorite subject was back in eighth grade, it was basketball. I don't think ethics would have made it on the list. <p>But here's the interesting thing. I still remember that ethics class, all these years later. I remember the way it made me think. I remember being asked questions like: What matters in life? Or, what does it mean to treat other people with dignity and respect? What does it mean to live in a diverse nation, where not everybody looks like you do, or thinks like you do, or comes from the same neighborhood as you do? How do we figure out how to get along? <p>Each of these questions led to new questions. And I didn't always know the right answers, but those discussions and those&mdash;that process of discovery, those things have lasted. Those things are still with me today. Every day, I'm thinking about those same issues as I try to lead this Nation. I'm asking the same kinds of questions about, how do we as a diverse nation come together to achieve what we need to achieve? How do we make sure that every single person is treated with dignity and respect? What responsibilities do we have to people who are less fortunate than we are? How do we make sure that everybody is included in this family of Americans? <p>Those are all questions that date back to this class that I took back in eighth grade. And here's the thing: I still don't always know the answers to all these questions. But if I'd have just tuned out because the class sounded boring, I might have missed out on something that not only did I turn out enjoying, but has ended up serving me in good stead for the rest of my life. <p>So that's a big part of your responsibility, is to test things out. Take risks. Try new things. Work hard. Don't be embarrassed if you're not good at something right away. You're not supposed to be good at everything right away. That's why you're in school. The idea, though, is, is that you keep on expanding your horizons and your sense of possibility. Now is the time for you to do that. And those are also, by the way, the things that will make school more fun. <p>Down the road, those will be the traits that will help you succeed, as well, the traits that will lead you to invent a device that makes an iPad look like a stone tablet, or what will help you figure out a way to use the Sun and the wind to power a city and give us new energy sources that are less polluting, or maybe you'll write the next great American novel. <p>Now, to do any of those things, you have to not only graduate from high school&mdash;and I know I'm just&mdash;I'm in the amen corner with Principal Berger here&mdash;not only do you have to graduate from high school, but you're going to have to continue education after you leave. You have to not only graduate, but you've got to keep going after you graduate. <p>That might mean, for many of you, a 4-year university. I was just talking to Donae, and she wants to be an architect, and she's interning with a architectural firm, and she's already got her sights set on what school she wants to go to. But it might, for some other folks, be a community college or professional credentialing or training. But the fact of the matter is, is that more than 60 percent of the jobs in the next decade will require more than a high school diploma&mdash;more than 60 percent. That's the world you're walking into. <p>So I want all of you to set a goal to continue your education after you graduate. And if that means college for you, just getting into college is not enough. You also have to graduate. One of the biggest challenges we have right now is that too many of our young people enroll in college, but don't actually end up getting their degree, and as a consequence&mdash;our country used to have the world's highest proportion of young people with a college degree; we now rank 16th. I don't like being 16th. I like being number one. That's not good enough. So we've got to use&mdash;we've got to make sure your generation gets us back to the top of having the most college graduates relative to the population of any country on Earth. <p>If we do that, you guys will have a brighter future and so will America. We'll be able to make sure the newest inventions and the latest breakthroughs happen right here in the United States of America. It will mean better jobs and more fulfilling lives and greater opportunities not only for you, but also for your kids. <p>So I don't want anybody who's listening here today to think that you're done once you finish high school. You are not done learning. In fact, what's happening in today's economy is&mdash;it's all about lifelong learning. You have to constantly upgrade your skills and find new ways of doing things. Even if college isn't for you, even if a 4-year college isn't for you, you're still going to have to get more education after you get out of high school. You've got to start expecting big things from yourself right now. <p>I know that may sound a little intimidating. And some of you may be wondering how you can pay for college, or you might not know what you want to do with your life yet. And that's okay. Nobody expects you to have your entire future mapped out at this point. And we don't expect you to have to make it on your own. First of all, you've got wonderful parents who love you to death and want you to have a lot more opportunity than they ever had, which, by the way, means don't give them a hard time when they ask you to turn off the video games, turn off the TV, and do some homework. You need to be listening to them. I speak from experience because that's what I've been telling Malia and Sasha. Don't be mad about it, because we're thinking about your future. <p>You've also got people all across this country&mdash;including myself and Arne and people at every level of government&mdash;who are working on your behalf. We're taking every step we can to ensure that you're getting an educational system that is worthy of your potential. We're working to make sure that you have the most up-to-date schools with the latest tools of learning. We're making sure that this country's colleges and universities are affordable and accessible to you. We're working to get the best class&mdash;teachers into the classroom, as well, so they can help you prepare for college and a future career. <p>Let me say something about teachers, by the way. Teachers are the men and women who might be working harder than just about anybody these days. Whether you go to a big school or a small one, whether you attend a public or a private or a charter school, your teachers are giving up their weekends. They're waking up at dawn. They're cramming their days full of classes and extracurricular activities. And then they're going home, eating some dinner, and then they've got to stay up sometimes past midnight, grading your papers and correcting your grammar and making sure you got that algebra formula properly. <p>And they don't do it for a fancy office. They don't&mdash;they sure don't do it for the big salary. They do it for you. They do it because nothing gives them more satisfaction than seeing you learn. They live for those moments when something clicks, when you amaze them with your intellect or your vocabulary, or they see what kind of person you're becoming. And they're proud of you. And they say, I had something to do with that, that wonderful young person who is going to succeed. They have confidence in you that you will be citizens and leaders who take us into tomorrow. They know you're our future. So your teachers are pouring everything they got into you, and they're not alone. <p>But I also want to emphasize this: With all the challenges that our country is facing right now, we don't just need you for the future; we actually need you now. America needs young people's passion and their ideas. We need your energy right now. I know you're up to it because I've seen it. Nothing inspires me more than knowing that young people all across the country are already making their marks. They're not waiting; they're making a difference now. <p>There are students like Will Kim from Fremont, California, who launched a nonprofit that gives loans to students from low-income schools who want to start their own business. Think about that. So he's giving loans to other students. He set up a not-for-profit. He's raising the money doing what he loves, through dodgeball tournaments and capture-the-flag games. But he's creative. He took initiative. And now he's helping other young people be able to afford the schooling that they need. <p>There is a young man, Jake Bernstein, 17 years old, from a military family in St. Louis, worked with his sister to launch a web site devoted to community service for young people. And they've held volunteer fairs, and put up an online database, and helped thousands of families to find volunteer opportunities ranging from maintaining nature trails to serving at local hospitals. <p>And then last year, I met a young woman named Amy Chyao from Richardson, Texas. She's 16 years old, so she's the age of some of you here. During the summer, I think because somebody in her family had an illness, she decided that she was interested in cancer research. She hadn't taken chemistry yet, so she taught herself chemistry during the summer. And then she applied what she had learned and discovered a breakthrough process that uses light to kill cancer cells. Sixteen years old&mdash;it's incredible. And she's been approached by some doctors and researchers who want to work with her to help her with her discovery. <p>The point is you don't have to wait to make a difference. Your first obligation is to do well in school. Your first obligation is to make sure that you're preparing yourself for college and career. But you can also start making your mark right now. A lot of times young people may have better ideas than us old people do anyway. We just need those ideas out in the open, in and out of the classroom. <p>When I meet young people like yourselves, when I sat and talked to Donae, I have no doubt that America's best days are still ahead of us, because I know the potential that lies in each of you. Soon enough, you will be the ones leading our businesses and leading our Government. You will be the one who are making sure that the next generation gets what they need to succeed. You will be the ones that are charting the course of our unwritten history. And all that starts right now, starts this year. <p>So I want all of you who are listening, as well as everybody here at Banneker, I want you to make the most of the year that's ahead of you. I want you to think of this time as one in which you are just loading up with information and skills, and you're trying new things, and you're practicing, and you're honing&mdash;all those things that you're going to need to do great things when you get out of school. <p>Your country is depending on you. So set your sights high. Have a great school year. Let's get to work. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"216" "\"Thank you very much. Secretary Panetta, thank you for your introduction and for your extraordinary leadership. To Members of Congress, Vice President Biden, members of the Joint Chiefs, service Secretaries, distinguished guests, and men and women of the finest military in the world. <p>Most of all, Admiral Mullen, Deborah, Michael, and I also want to also acknowledge your son Jack, who's deployed today. All of you have performed extraordinary service to our country. <p>Before I begin, I want to say a few words about some important news. Earlier this morning, Anwar al-Awlaki, a leader of Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, was killed in Yemen. The death of Awlaki is a major blow to Al Qaida's most active operational affiliate. Awlaki was the leader of external operations for Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula. In that role, he took the lead in planning and directing efforts to murder innocent Americans. He directed the failed attempt to blow up an airplane on Christmas Day in 2009. He directed the failed attempt to blow up U.S. cargo planes in 2010. And he repeatedly called on individuals in the United States and around the globe to kill innocent men, women, and children to advance a murderous agenda. <p>The death of Awlaki marks another significant milestone in the broader effort to defeat Al Qaida and its affiliates. Furthermore, this success is a tribute to our intelligence community and to the efforts of Yemen and its security forces, who have worked closely with the United States over the course of several years. <p>Awlaki and his organization have been directly responsible for the deaths of many Yemeni citizens. His hateful ideology and targeting of innocent civilians has been rejected by the vast majority of Muslims and people of all faiths. And he has met his demise because the Government and the people of Yemen have joined the international community in a common effort against Al Qaida. <p>Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula remains a dangerous, though weakened, terrorist organization. And going forward, we will remain vigilant against any threats to the United States or our allies and partners. But make no mistake: This is further proof that Al Qaida and its affiliates will find no safe haven anywhere in the world. <p>Working with Yemen and our other allies and partners, we will be determined, we will be deliberate, we will be relentless, we will be resolute in our commitment to destroy terrorist networks that aim to kill Americans and to build a world in which people everywhere can live in greater peace, prosperity, and security. <p>Now, advancing that security has been the life's work of the man that we honor today. But as Mike will admit to you, he got off to a somewhat shaky start. He was a young ensign, just 23 years old, commanding a small tanker, when he collided with a buoy. [<i>Laughter</i>] As Mike later explained, in his understated way, when you're on a ship, \\"colliding with anything is not a good thing.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I tell this story because Mike has told it himself to men and women across our military. He has always understood that the true measure of our success is not whether we stumble, it's whether we pick ourselves up and dust ourselves off and get on with the job. It's whether&mdash;no matter the storms or shoals that come our way, we chart our course, we keep our eye fixed on the horizon and take care of those around us, because we all we rise and fall together. <p>That's the story of Mike Mullen. It's the story of America. And it's the spirit that we celebrate today. <p>Indeed, if there's a thread that runs through his illustrious career, it's Mike's sense of stewardship: the understanding that, as leaders, our time at the helm is but a moment in the life of our Nation; the humility, which says the institutions and people entrusted to our care look to us, yet they do not belong to us; and the sense of responsibility we have to pass them safer and stronger to those who follow. <p>Mike, as you look back as your four consequential years as Chairman and your four decades in uniform, be assured our military is stronger and our Nation is more secure because of the service that you have rendered. <p>Today, we have renewed American leadership in the world. We've strengthened our alliances, including NATO. We're leading again in Asia, and we forged a new treaty with Russia to reduce our nuclear arsenals. And every American can be grateful to Admiral Mullen, as am I, for his critical role in each of these achievements, which will enhance our national security for decades to come. <p>Today, we see the remarkable achievements of our 9/11 generation of servicemembers. They've given Iraqis a chance to determine their own future. They've pushed the Taliban out of their Afghan strongholds and finally put Al Qaida on the path to defeat. Meanwhile, our forces have responded to sudden crises with compassion, as in Haiti, and with precision, as in Libya. And it will be long remembered that our troops met these tests on Admiral Mullen's watch and under his leadership. <p>Today, we're moving forward from a position of strength. Fewer of our sons and daughters are in harm's way and more will come home. Our soldiers can look forward to shorter deployments, more time with their families, and more time training for future missions. Put simply, despite the stresses and strains of a hard decade of war, the military that Admiral Mullen passes to General Dempsey today is the best that it has ever been. <p>And today, thanks to Mike's principled leadership, our military draws its strength from more members of our American family. Soon, women will report for duty on our submarines and patriotic servicemembers who are gay and lesbian no longer have to lie about who they are to serve the country that they love. History will record that the tipping point toward this progress came when the 17th Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff went before Congress and told the Nation that it was the right thing to do. <p>Mike, your legacy will endure in a military that is stronger, but also in a nation that is more just. <p>Finally, I would add that in every discussion I've ever had with Mike, in every recommendation he's ever made, one thing has always been foremost in his mind: the lives and well-being of our men and women in uniform. I've seen it in the quiet moments with our wounded warriors and our veterans. I saw it that day in the Situation Room, as we held our breath for the safe return of our forces who delivered justice to Usama bin Laden. I saw it at Dover, as we honored our fallen heroes in their final journey home. <p>Mike, you have fulfilled the pledge you made at the beginning to represent our troops with \\"unwavering dedication.\\" And so has Deborah, who we thank for her four decades of extraordinary service, her extraordinary support to our military families, her kindness, her gentleness, her grace under pressure. She is an extraordinary woman, Mike. And we're both lucky to have married up. <p>Now the mantle of leadership passes to General Marty Dempsey, one of our Nation's most respected and combat-tested generals. Marty, after a lifetime of service, I thank you, Deanie, Chris, Megan, and Caitlin for answering the call to serve once more. <p>In this sense, today begins to complete the transition to our new leadership team. In Secretary Panetta, we have one of our Nation's finest public servants. In the new Deputy Secretary, Ash Carter, we will have an experienced leader to carry on the work of Bill Lynn, who we thank for his outstanding service. And the new Vice Chairman, Admiral Sandy Winnefeld, will round out a team where, for the first time, both the Chairman and Vice Chairman will have the experience of leading combat operations in the years since 9/11. <p>Leon, Marty, Ash, Sandy, men and women of this department, both uniformed and civilian, we still have much to do: from bringing the rest of our troops home from Iraq this year to transitioning to Afghan lead for their own security, from defeating Al Qaida to our most solemn of obligations&mdash;taking care of our forces and their families when they go to war and when they come home. <p>None of this will be easy, especially as our Nation makes hard fiscal choices. But as Commander in Chief, let me say it as clearly as I can: As we go forward we will be guided by the mission we ask of our troops and the capabilities they need to succeed. We will maintain our military superiority. We will never waver in defense of our country, our citizens, or our national security interests. And the United States of America and our Armed Forces will remain the greatest force for freedom and security that the world has ever known. <p>This is who we are as Americans. And this is who we must always be: as we salute Mike Mullen as an exemplar of this spirit, we salute him for a life of patriotic service; as we continue his legacy to keep the country that we love safe; and as we renew the sources of American strength here at home and around the world. <p>Mike, thank you, from a grateful nation.\" "
"217" "\"Hello, everyone. It's been almost 3 weeks since I sent the \\"American Jobs Act\\" to Congress, 3 weeks since I sent them a bill that would put people back to work and put money in people's pockets. This jobs bill is fully paid for. This jobs bill contains the kinds of proposals that Democrats and Republicans have supported in the past. And now I want it back. It's time for Congress to get its act together and to pass this jobs bill so I can sign it into law. <p>Some Republicans in Congress have said that they agree with certain parts of this jobs bill. If so, it's time for them to tell me what those proposals are. And if they're opposed to this jobs bill, I'd like to know what exactly they're against. Are they against putting teachers and police officers and firefighters back on the job? Are they against hiring construction workers to rebuild our roads and bridges and schools? Are they against giving tax cuts to virtually every worker and small business in America? <p>Economists from across the political spectrum have said that this jobs bill would boost the economy and spur hiring. Why would you be against that, especially at a time when so many Americans are struggling and out of work? <p>This isn't just about what I think is right. It's not just about what a group of economists think is right. This is about what the American people want. Everywhere I go, they tell me, they want action on jobs. Every day, I get letters from Americans who expect Washington to do something about the problems we face. <p>Destiny Wheeler is a 16-year-old from Georgia who wants to go to college. She wrote to me saying: \\"Nowadays it is hard to see myself pushing forward and putting my family in a better position, especially since the economy is rough and my starting situation is so poor. Yet the 'American Jobs Act' gives me hope that I might start to receive a better education, that one day job opportunities will open for me to grasp, and that one day my personal American Dream will be reached.\\" Destiny needs us to pass this jobs bill. <p>Alice Johnson is an Oregon native who, along with her husband, has been looking for a job for about 2 years. She writes: \\"I have faithfully applied for work every week . . . Of the hundreds of applications I have put in, I received interview requests for about 10 . . . I too am sick of all the fighting in Washington, DC. Please tell the Republicans that people are hurting and are hungry and need help. Pass the jobs bill!\\" Alice Johnson needs our help. <p>Cathleen Dixon sent me pictures of the aging bridge she drives under when she takes her kids to school in Chicago every day. She worries about their safety and writes, \\"I am angry that, in this country of vast resources, we claim that we cannot maintain basic infrastructure. How can we ever hope to preserve or regain our stature in this world, if we cannot find the will to protect our people and take care of our basic needs?\\" <p>I also heard from Kim Faber, who told me about the small carpet business her husband owns in New Jersey. \\"We hang on by a shoestring,\\" she writes. \\"My husband worries every day about if checks might bounce. He uses our home loan to put money in the business so they will be covered. Please pass this jobs bill. This is the job creating we need right now! It breaks my husband's heart when he has to let people go. Pass the bill!\\" Kim said it best: \\"Pass the bill!\\" <p>I know one Republican was quoted as saying that their party shouldn't pass this jobs bill because it would give me a win. This isn't about giving me a win, and it's not about them. This is about Destiny Wheeler and Alice Johnson. It's about Cathleen Dixon's children and the Faber's family business. These are the people who need a win, and I will be fighting for this jobs bill every day on their behalf. If anyone watching feels the same way, don't be shy about letting your Congressman know. It is time for the politics to end. Let's pass this jobs bill.\" "
"218" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you so much. It is great to be back. I see a lot of friends in the house. I appreciate the chance to join you tonight. I also took a trip out to California last week, where I held some productive bilateral talks with your leader, Lady Gaga. [<i>Laughter</i>] She was wearing 16-inch heels. [<i>Laughter</i>] She was 8 feet tall. [<i>Laughter</i>] It was a little intimidating. <p>Now, I don't want to give a long speech. Cyndi Lauper is in the house. I can't compete with that. But I wanted to come here tonight, first of all, to personally thank Joe for his outstanding years of leadership at HRC. What he has accomplished at the helm of this organization has been remarkable, and I want to thank all of you for the support that you've shown this organization and for your commitment to a simple idea: Every single American&mdash;gay, straight, lesbian, bisexual, transgender&mdash;every single American deserves to be treated equally in the eyes of the law and in the eyes of our society. It's a pretty simple proposition. <p>Now, I don't have to tell you that we have a ways to go in that struggle. I don't have to tell you how many are still denied their basic rights, Americans who are still made to feel like second-class citizens, who have to live a lie to keep their jobs or who are afraid to walk the street or down the hall at school. Many of you have devoted your lives to the cause of equality. So you know what we have to do. We've got more work ahead of us. <p>But we can also be proud of the progress we've made these past 2&frac12; years. Think about it. Two years ago, I stood at this podium, in this room, before many of you, and I made a pledge. I said I would never counsel patience, that it wasn't right to tell you to be patient any more than it was right for others to tell African Americans to be patient in the fight for equal rights a half century ago. But what I also said, that while it might take time, more time than anyone would like, we are going to make progress, we are going to succeed, we are going to build a more perfect Union. <p>And so let's see what happened. I met with Judy Shepard. I promised her we would pass a hate crimes bill named for her son Matthew. And with the help of my dear friend Ted Kennedy we got it done. Because it should never be dangerous&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;you should never have to look over your shoulder to be gay in the United States of America. That's why we got it done. <p>I met with Janice Langbehn, who was barred from the bedside of the woman she loved as she lay dying. And I told her that we were going to put a stop to this discrimination. And you know what? We got it done. I issued an order so that any hospital in America that accepts Medicare or Medicaid&mdash;and that means just about every hospital&mdash;has to treat gay partners just as they do straight partners. Because nobody should have to produce a legal contract to hold the hand of the person that they love. We got that done. <p>I said that we would lift that HIV travel ban. We got that done. We put in place the first comprehensive national strategy to fight HIV/AIDS. <p>Many questioned whether we'd succeed in repealing \\"don't ask, don't tell.\\" And yes, it took 2 years to get the repeal through Congress. We had to hold a coalition together. We had to keep up the pressure. We took some flak along the way. But with the help of HRC, we got it done. And \\"don't ask, don't tell\\" is history. And all over the world, there are men and women serving this country just as they always have with honor and courage and discipline and valor. We got it done. We got that done. All around the world, you've got gays and lesbians who are serving, and the only difference is now they can put up a family photo. [<i>Laughter</i>] No one has to live a lie to serve the country they love. <p>I vowed to keep up the fight against the so-called Defense of Marriage Act. There's a bill to repeal this discriminatory law in Congress, and I want to see that passed. But until we reach that day, my administration is no longer defending DOMA in the courts. I believe the law runs counter to the Constitution, and it's time for it to end once and for all. It should join \\"don't ask, don't tell\\" in the history books. <p>So yes, we have more work to do. And after so many years, even decades, of inaction you've got every right to push against the slow pace of change. But make no mistake: I want people to feel encouraged here. We are making change. We're making real and lasting change. We can be proud of the progress we've already made. <p>And I'm going to continue to fight alongside you. And I don't just mean in your role, by the way, as advocates for equality. You're also moms and dads who care about the schools your children go to. You're also students figuring out how to pay for college. You're also folks who are worried about the economy and whether or not your partner or husband or wife will be able to find a job. And you're Americans who want this country to succeed and prosper and who are tired of the gridlock and the vicious partisanship and are sick of the Washington games. Those are your fights too, HRC. <p>So I'm going to need your help. I need your help to fight for equality, to pass a repeal of DOMA, to pass an inclusive employment nondiscrimination bill so that being gay is never again a fireable offense in America. And I don't have to tell you, there are those who don't want to just stand in our way, but want to turn the clock back, who want to return to the days when gay people couldn't serve their country openly, who reject the progress that we've made, who, as we speak, are looking to enshrine discrimination into State laws and constitutions, efforts that we've got to work hard to oppose, because that's not what America should be about. <p>We're not about restricting rights and restricting opportunity. We're about opening up rights and opening up opportunity and treating each other generously and with love and respect. <p>And together, we also have to keep sending a message to every young person in this country who might feel alone or afraid because they're gay or transgender, who may be getting picked on or pushed around because they're different. We've got to make sure they know that there are adults they can talk to, that they are never alone, that there is a whole world waiting for them filled with possibility. That's why we held a summit at the White House on bullying. That's why we're going to continue to focus on this issue. This isn't just kids being kids. It's wrong. It's destructive. It's never acceptable. And I want all those kids to know that the President and the First Lady is standing right by them every inch of the way. I want them to know that we love them and care about them and they're not by themselves. That's what I want them to know. <p>Now, I also need your help in the broader fight to get this economy back on track. You may have heard, I introduced a bill called the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" It's been almost 3 weeks since I sent it up to Congress. That's 3 weeks longer than it should have taken to pass this commonsense bill. This is a bill filled with ideas that both parties have supported: tax breaks for companies that hire veterans, road projects, school renovations, putting construction crews back to work rebuilding America, tax cuts for middle class families so they can make ends meet and spend a little more at local stores and restaurants that need the business. <p>Now, you may have heard me say this a few times before, I'll say it again: Pass the bill. Enough gridlock, enough delay, enough politics. Pass this bill. Put this country back to work. HRC, you know how Congress works. I'm counting on you to have my back. Go out there and get them to pass this bill. Let's put America back to work. <p>Now ultimately, these debates we're having are about more than just politics. They're more about&mdash;they're about more than the polls and the pundits and who's up and who's down. This is a contest of values. That's what's at stake here. This is a fundamental debate about who we are as a nation. <p>I don't believe&mdash;we don't believe in a small America where we let our roads crumble, we let our schools fall apart, where we stand by while teachers are laid off and science labs are shut down and kids are dropping out. <p>We believe in a big America, an America that invests in the future, that invests in schools and highways and research and technology, the things that have helped make our economy the envy of the world. <p>We don't believe in a small America where we meet our fiscal responsibilities by abdicating every other responsibility we have and where we just divvy up the Government as tax breaks for those who need them the least and where we abandon the commitment we've made to seniors though Medicare and Social Security and we say to somebody looking for work or a student who needs a college loan or a middle class family with a child who's disabled that you're on your own. That's not who we are. <p>We believe in a big America, an America where everybody has got a fair shot and everyone pays their fair share. An America where we value success and the idea that anyone can make it in this country. But also an America that does&mdash;in which everyone does their part, including the wealthiest Americans, including the biggest corporations, to deal with the deficits that threaten our future. <p>We don't believe in a small America. We don't believe in the kind of smallness that says it's okay for a stage full of political leaders, one of whom could end up being the President of the United States, being silent when an American soldier is booed. We don't believe in that. We don't believe in standing silent when that happens. We don't believe in them being silent since. You want to be Commander in Chief? You can start by standing up for the men and women who wear the uniform of the United States, even when it's not politically convenient. <p>We don't believe in a small America. We believe in a big America, a tolerant America, a just America, an equal America that values the service of every patriot. We believe in an America where we're all in it together and we see the good in one another and we live up to a creed that is as old as our founding: <i>E pluribus unum</i>. Out of many, one. And that includes everybody. That's what we believe. That's what we're going to be fighting for. <p>I am confident that's what the American people believe in. I'm confident because of the changes we've achieved these past 2&frac12; years, the progress that some folks said was impossible. And I'm hopeful&mdash;I am hopeful&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>Audience member.</i> Fired up! <p><i>The President.</i> I'm fired up too. [<i>Laughter</i>] I am hopeful&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;I am hopeful&mdash;I am still hopeful, because of a deeper shift that we're seeing, a transformation not only written into our laws, but woven into the fabric of our society. <p>It's progress led not by Washington, but by ordinary citizens who are propelled not just by politics, but by love and friendship and a sense of mutual regard. It's playing out in legislatures like New York and courtrooms and in the ballot box. But it's also happening around water coolers and at the Thanksgiving table and on Facebook and Twitter and at PTA meetings and potluck dinners and church socials and VFW halls. <p>It happens when a father realizes he doesn't just love his daughter, but also her wife. It happens when a soldier tells his unit that he's gay, and they tell him they knew it all along and they didn't care, because he was the toughest guy in the unit. It happens when a video sparks a movement to let every single young person know they're not alone and things will get better. It happens when people look past their ultimately minor differences to see themselves in the hopes and struggles of their fellow human beings. That's where change is happening. <p>And that's not just the story of the gay rights movement. That's the story of America, the slow, inexorable march towards a more perfect union. You are contributing to that story, and I'm confident we can continue to write another chapter together. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you.\" "
"219" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Dallas! Thank you so much. Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. Have a seat. It&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you, Obama! <p><i>The President.</i> Thank you. <p>Well, it's good to be back in Texas. [<i>Applause</i>] It is good to be back in Texas. I am thrilled to have the opportunity to be with all of you. <p>I want to thank a couple of people. First of all, the mayor of Mesquite, John Monaco, is here. And the mayor of Dallas, Mike Rawlings, is in the house. And I want to thank the former mayor of Dallas, who I stole from you to be one of the best Trade Representatives this country's ever had, my dear friend Ron Kirk's in the house. <p>I also want to thank the folks over at the Children's Lab School, who gave me a tour, and I want to especially thank Kim Russell for sharing her story. Thank you, Kim. <p>Now, teachers like Kim are why I came here today, teachers like Kim and her former students. That's why I've been traveling all across this country for the last few weeks. These are the toughest times we've been through since the Great Depression. And because the problems that led to the recession weren't caused overnight, they won't be solved overnight. That's the hard truth. It took us a decade to see the culmination of some of the bad ideas that had been put into place: the lack of regulation on Wall Street, middle class folks struggling. <p>So we're not going to solve all those problems overnight. But that doesn't mean we have to sit back and do nothing about this economy. There are steps we can take right now to put people back to work. There are steps we can take right now to put money in the pockets of working Americans. There are things we can do right now to restore some of the security and fairness that has always defined this great country of ours. And that's what will happen if Congress will finally get its act together and pass the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" <p>It has now been 3 weeks since I sent this bill to Congress. It's a detailed plan to get this economy moving. It's the kind of proposals that, in the past, Democrats and Republicans have supported. There's nothing radical in these proposals. These are the kinds of things that in the past we've had bipartisan support for. It's fully paid for. And that's why I need you to help me convince the people you sent to Washington that it's time to pass this jobs bill and get America working again. <p>Now, you just heard Kim's story. There are teachers and educators like Kim all over the country. I met a first grade teacher from Minnesota at the White House who was laid off after having been named the Teacher of the Year in her school district. Her peers, students, determined she was the best teacher in her school district; she got laid off. There's a teacher over in Grand Prairie, Texas, who actually chose to resign in order to protect the job of a single mom who also taught at the school. Think about that. Here in Dallas, all across the State of Texas, you've seen too many teachers lose their jobs because of budget cuts. And thousands more could be at risk in the coming year. <p>Now, understand, this doesn't just hurt these teachers. It doesn't just hurt them and their families. It hurts our children. It undermines our future as a nation. If you've got Kim, an AP teacher, not in the classroom, those kids aren't going to have the same opportunities. And I want everybody to understand that what is at stake is nothing less than our ability to compete in this 21st-century economy. <p>Now I've&mdash;I told the story: A while back, I was visiting South Korea and had lunch with the President there. And I asked the President, I said, \\"What's your biggest challenge right now?\\" He said, \\"Well, my biggest challenge is, our parents are way too demanding.\\" He said, \\"They want their kid to learn English when they're in first grade. So in addition to all the science and all the math classes, I'm now having to ship in teachers from outside the country just to teach our kids English, starting in elementary school.\\" This is what the President of South Korea said. <p>They can't hire teachers fast enough. They call them nation builders. That's what they call teachers in Korea, nation builders, because they know that educating their children is the best way to make sure their economy is growing, make sure that good jobs are locating there, making sure they've got the scientists and the engineers and the technicians who can build things and ship them all around the world. That's what he understands. And the whole country supports him. Here in America, we're laying off teachers in droves. It makes no sense. It has to stop. [<i>Applause</i>] It has to stop. <p>Now, this bill will prevent up to 280,000 teachers from losing their jobs. This bill will support almost 40,000 jobs right here in the great State of Texas. So here's what I need you to do: Tell Congress to pass this bill and put teachers back in the classroom where they belong. <p>It's not just teachers. Tell Congress to pass the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" and there also will be funding to save the jobs of firefighters and police officers and first-responders who risk their lives to keep us safe. That's what happens if they pass this bill. <p>Pass this jobs bill, and hundreds of thousands of unemployed construction workers will get back on the job rebuilding our schools, rebuilding our roads, rebuilding our bridges, rebuilding our ports, rebuilding our airports. The other day I visited a busy bridge in Ohio; actually, it's between Ohio and Kentucky. Speaker Boehner, he's from Ohio; Republican Leader McConnell is from Kentucky. I thought it would be a good place to have an event. [<i>Laughter</i>] This bridge is classified as functionally obsolete. That's a fancy way of saying it's old and needs to be fixed. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>There's a public transit project in Houston that would help clear up one of the worst areas of traffic in the country. There are schools all over this country that are literally falling apart: roof crumbling, rain dripping in, too hot in the summer, too cold in the winter, science labs all worn out, got a couple of beakers and that's it&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;built back in the fifties before the Internet was invented. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>That's an outrage. Understand, America became an economic superpower in part because we had the best infrastructure. We built the transcontinental railroad, the Interstate Highway System, the Hoover Dam, Grand Central station. How can we sit back, and now we're seeing China build better airports than us, Europe build better railroads than us, Korea more broadband access than us, at a time when millions of unemployed construction workers could be building all that stuff right here in the United States of America? <p>My question to Congress is, what are you waiting for? The work's there to be done. There are workers ready to do it. Contractors, they're begging for work. They'll come in on time, under budget. Interest rates have never been lower. It is time for us to put those folks back to work. It's time for them to pass the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" Pass this bill. <p>If Congress passes this jobs bill, new companies will get new tax credits for hiring America's veterans. Think about it. We ask these men and women to leave their families, disrupt their careers, risk their lives for our Nation. The last thing they should have to do is to fight for a job when they come home. <p>Tell Congress, pass this bill so we can help the people who create most of the new jobs in this country: America's small businesses. Folks in the other party, they like to talk a good game about helping America's job creators: \\"Let's help America's jobs creators.\\" Okay, let's do that. This jobs bill provides tax cuts for nearly every small business in America. If you hire new employees or raise your workers' wages, you get an extra tax cut. So my message to Congress is, don't just talk about helping job creators, actually help some job creators by passing this bill. <p>Here's another reason why they need to pass this bill. On January 1st, if nothing's done, everybody here is going to get a tax hike. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Boo! [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> That's right. See, back in December, I got an agreement with the Republicans to lower the payroll tax so that there would be more money in folks' pockets and we could protect ourselves against recession. Now, since that time, we've had a tsunami in Japan; we've had the Arab Spring, which shot up gas prices; we've had problems in Europe. And so the economy has gotten weaker. <p>That tax cut is scheduled to expire by the end of this year. But if the \\"American Jobs Act\\" passes, the typical working family in Texas will have an extra $1,400 in their pockets. Now, if the bill doesn't pass, virtually every worker in America will see their taxes go up at the worst possible time. <p>So I'm not about to let that happen, Texas. Look, Republicans say they're the party of tax cuts. Tell them to prove it. Tell them to fight just as hard for tax cuts for working Americans as they do for the wealthiest Americans. Pass this bill. <p>Now, what you'll hear from some of these folks is, well, we're not going to support any new spending that's not paid for. All right, I agree with that. I think that's important. So I laid out a plan to pay for the \\"American Jobs Act\\" and then some, a plan that not only pays for the bill to put folks back to work, to raise our growth rate, but to also pay down more of our debt over time. It builds on the $1 trillion in spending cuts that I already signed this summer, making it one of the biggest spending cuts in history. <p>So look, I believe we've got to make cuts in programs that don't work and things that aren't helping the economy grow so we can pay for the things that are, right? We all believe that Government needs to live within its means. We all agree with that. But we also believe that how you bring down the deficit is important. If we want to actually close the deficit&mdash;not just talk about closing the deficit, not just using it for a campaign slogan, not just playing politics&mdash;if we want to actually close the deficit, then you've got to combine the tough cuts with a strategy to ask the wealthiest Americans and the biggest corporations to do their part, to pay their fair share. <p>Look, I'm not telling you anything you don't know. Do you really think the Tax Code is written for you? <p><i>Audience members</i>. No! <p><i>The President.</i> You think the Tax Code&mdash;maybe you've got a bunch of lobbyists in Washington. Maybe you've got a bunch of special interests in there in the back rooms trying to carve something out, I don't know. But most folks don't. So the Tax Code, the way it's structured, is not fair. And so what we've said is, let's reform our Tax Code based on a very simple principle, and it will raise more money without hurting working families. Here's the principle: Middle class families, working families, should not pay higher tax rates than millionaires or billionaires. Right? I don't know how you argue against that; seems pretty straightforward to me. Warren Buffett's secretary shouldn't pay a higher tax rate than Warren Buffett. <p>Now, when I point this out&mdash;it seems very logical to me, but when I point this out, some of the Republicans in Congress, they say, \\"Oh, you're engaging in class warfare.\\" Class warfare? Let me tell you something. Years ago, a great American had a different view. All right? I'm going to get the quote just so you know I'm not making this up. [<i>Laughter</i>] Here's&mdash;great American, said that he thought it was \\"crazy\\" that certain tax loopholes \\"made it possible for millionaires to pay nothing, while a bus driver was paying 10 percent of his salary.\\" All right? <p>You know who this guy was? Wasn't a Democrat. Wasn't some crazy socialist. It was Ronald Reagan. It was Ronald Reagan. Last time I checked, Republicans all thought Reagan made some sense. [<i>Laughter</i>] So the next time you hear one of those Republicans in Congress accusing you of class warfare, you just tell them, I'm with Ronald Reagan. [<i>Laughter</i>] I agree with Ronald Reagan that it's crazy that a bus driver pays a higher tax rate than a millionaire because of some loophole in the Tax Code. <p>And by the way, I don't mind being called a warrior for the working class. You guys need somebody fighting for you. The only warfare I've been seeing is the war against middle class families and their ability to get ahead in this economy. <p>And let me make one last point, because you'll hear this argument made. This is not about trying to punish success. This is the land of opportunity. And what's great about our country is our belief that anybody can succeed. You've got a good idea? Go out there and start a new business. You've got a great product? You invented something? I hope you make millions of dollars. We want to see more Steve Jobs and more Bill Gates. Creating value, creating jobs, that's great. <p>Your current mayor did great work in the private sector creating jobs, creating value. That's important. But remember, nobody got there on their own. I'm standing here today, Michelle's standing here today&mdash;or Michelle's not standing here today, but&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I know you wish she was. I'm standing here today, Michelle&mdash;we always remind ourselves, the reason we've had this extraordinary opportunity is because somewhere along the line, some teacher helped us. Somewhere along the line, we got a student loan. We lived in a country that could move products and services everywhere. We lived in a country where if there's a fire, somebody comes and puts out the fire. If you're burglarized, somebody is coming to try to solve the crime. I'm sure the mayor of Dallas feels the same way. We're here because somebody laid the foundation for success. So the question is, are we going to maintain that foundation and strengthen that foundation for the next generation? <p>And this is all about priorities. This is about choices. If we want to actually lower the deficit and put people back to work, if we want to invest in our future, if we want to have the best science, the best technology, the best research, if we want to continue to be inventing new drugs to solve cancer and making sure that the new cars of the future that are running on electricity are made here in America, if we want to do all those things, then the money has got to come from somewhere. I wish I could do it all for free. I wish I could say to all of you, you don't have to pay any taxes and companies can keep all their stuff and rich people don't have to do anything, and somehow it all worked out. <p>But you know what, we tried it, and it didn't work. So now you've got a choice. Would you rather keep tax loopholes for big corporations that don't need it? Or would you rather put construction workers back to work rebuilding our schools and our roads and our bridges? Would you rather I keep a tax break that I don't need and wasn't looking for, didn't ask for, and if I don't have it, I won't miss it? Or do you want to put teachers like Kim back to work and help small businesses and cut taxes for middle class families? This is a choice that we've got to make. <p>And I believe, and I think you believe, it's time we build an economy that creates good, solid, middle class jobs in this country. It's time to build an economy that values the&mdash;that honors the values of hard work and responsibility. It's time for us to build an economy that lasts, that's not just based on speculation and financial shenanigans, but rather is based on us making stuff and selling things to other people around the world instead of just importing from all around the world. That's the America I believe in. That's the America you believe in. <p>And, Dallas, that starts now. That starts with your help. Yesterday the Republican Majority Leader in Congress, Eric Cantor, said that right now he won't even let this jobs bill have a vote in the House of Representatives. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Boo! <p><i>The President.</i> This is what he said. Won't even let it be debated. Won't even give it a chance to be debated on the floor of the House of Representatives. Think about that. I mean, what's the problem? Do they not have the time? [<i>Laughter</i>] They just had a week off. [<i>Laughter</i>] I&mdash;is it inconvenient? <p>Look, I'd like Mr. Cantor to come down here to Dallas and explain what exactly in this jobs bill does he not believe in. What exactly is he opposed to? Does he not believe in rebuilding America's roads and bridges? Does he not believe in tax breaks for small businesses or efforts to help our veterans? <p>Mr. Cantor should come down to Dallas and look Kim Russell in the eye and tell her why she doesn't deserve to be back in the classroom doing what she loves, helping our kids. Come tell her students why they don't deserve to have their teacher back. <p>Come tell Dallas construction workers why they should be sitting idle instead of out there on the job. Tell small-business owners and workers in this community why you'd rather defend tax breaks for folks who don't need them&mdash;for millionaires&mdash;rather than tax cuts for middle class families. <p>And if you won't do that, at least put this jobs bill up for a vote so that the entire country knows exactly where Members of Congress stand. <p>Put your cards on the table. I realize that some Republicans in Washington are resistant, partly because I proposed it. [<i>Laughter</i>] I mean, they&mdash;if I took their party platform and proposed it, they'd suddenly be against it. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We've had folks in Congress who've said they shouldn't pass this bill because it would give me a win. So they're thinking about the next election. They're not thinking about folks who are hurting right now. They're thinking, well, how's that going to play in the next election? <p>Give me a win? Give me a break! [<i>Laughter</i>] That's why folks are fed up with Washington. This isn't about giving me a win. This isn't about giving Democrats or Republicans a win. This is about giving people who are hurting a win. It's is about giving small-business owners a win and entrepreneurs a win and students a win and working families a win. It's is about giving America a win. <p>Dallas, the next election is 13 months away. The American people don't have the luxury of waiting 13 months. A lot of folks are living week to week; some are living paycheck to paycheck; some folks are living day to day. They need action on jobs, and they need it now. They want Congress to do what they were elected to do. They want Congress to do their job. Do your job, Congress! <p>I need you all to lift your voice, not just here in Dallas, but anyone watching, anyone listening, everybody following online. I need you to call and tweet and fax and visit and e-mail your Congressperson and tell them the time for gridlock and games is over. The time for action is now. <p>Tell them that if you want to create jobs, pass this bill. If you want to put teachers back in the classroom, pass this bill. If you want construction workers back on the job, pass this bill. If you want tax cuts for the middle class and small-business owners, pass this bill. You want to help some veterans? Pass this bill. <p>Now is the time to act. We are not people who sit back in tough times. We step up in tough times. We make things happen in tough times. We've been through tougher times before, and we got through them. We're going to get through these to a brighter day, but we're going to have to act. God helps those who help themselves. We need to help ourselves right now. <p>Let's get together. Let's get to work. Let's get busy. Let's pass this bill. Let's make sure that we are shaping a destiny for our children that we are proud of, and let's remind the entire world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on the planet. <p>God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"220" "\"<i>The President.</i> Everybody have a seat. Howdy! <p><i>Audience members.</i> Howdy! <p><i>The President.</i> Welcome to the White House. Congratulations to Texas A&M Aggies on your first national championship. Now, winning a national title is a pretty big deal for anybody. And it's an even bigger deal when you think about just how far this team has come. <p>Fifty years ago, Texas A&M didn't have any women, much less a women's basketball team. When they did finally put a team together, the story goes that players had to share uniforms. At one point, they had to use the men's locker room, which probably wasn't perfectly designed for your needs. Coach Blair here would be going door to door just to ask people to watch the games. <p>This is a team that used to be known as a bunch of lovable losers. But Coach Blair wasn't going to settle for that. As he said, he came to College Station to build champions. <p>And that's exactly what he's done. Today, this team has thousands of fans cheering them in every game, including some very proud Members of Congress who are here today. They've defied expectations, they've won close games and played with a whole lot of heart. And now the Aggies are the best team in women's basketball. <p>I think the players would agree that a lot of credit goes to Coach Blair. He's led his team to six consecutive tournament appearances, which is pretty impressive by itself. But he also tries to respond personally to every piece of fan mail he gets during the season. He throws candy to the crowd before each game. I'm sure that adds to the popularity. <p><i>Head Coach Gary Blair.</i> That's right, and cavities. <p><i>The President.</i> I'm going to try that. [<i>Laughter</i>] What do you think, Barton? Do you think that's going to work if I go to the House of Representatives and just throw candy around? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>During the championship celebration, he was even telling people to buy tickets for next year. So he is a great salesperson as well as a great coach. I don't know where he gets that kind of energy, but that attitude is reflected by the players on this stage. <p>We've got Danielle Adams, who dropped 30 points in the title game&mdash;the second most in history. [<i>Applause</i>] That's what I'm talking about. She's now in the pros, tearing it up. As she said, \\"My teammates are doing everything for me, so I decided to take them on my back and just let them ride.\\" And that's what she did. <p>Then there's Tyra White, the Silent Assassin. Where did she go? There she is over there. Hit a clutch 3-pointer in the final minutes of the game to seal it for the Aggies. <p>You have the Sydneys: Colson making it happen on offense, Carter applying pressure on defense. <p>These ladies are also serious students. I hear that Danielle and Tyra both took their math exams during spring break. The team has mandatory study halls on the road. They visit schools to tell kids about the importance of hard work, because they understand that a good jump shot doesn't mean much if you can't get it done in the classroom. <p>And that's the kind of focus and the kind of discipline that makes these players such good role models for so many young women, including my daughters Malia and Sasha. <p>That's also why they're holding a clinic for some local students to teach them a few moves. Have you guys been out there practicing a little bit? Yeah? [<i>Laughter</i>] Yeah, man, shoot. So I know that they are thrilled that you guys are willing to work with them. I fully expect them to be draining some 3-pointers after they've gotten some tips from you guys. <p>So, congratulations again. Thank you for the example that you set on and off the court. We are so proud of you. Hopefully we'll get a chance to see you back soon. And as they say at A&M, Gig 'em! <p><i>Mr. Blair.</i> We have a jersey here. The 12th man at A&M means so much in the history of our school and our program. There's always somebody in the stands in case somebody gets injured. But we're the original 12th man, and I want you to wear it. And we also brought one for your wife. On your wife's it says \\"Number One.\\" <p>[<i>At this point, the President was presented with a team jersey.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> Well, yes, that's&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I think that's about right. I am 12th. <p><i>Mr. Blair.</i> But we'd just like to thank you. And it's an honor for us at Texas A&M to be here, and it's also an honor for us to work with young people like we have a chance in the clinic. <p>But thank you for your service to the country, and thank you for keeping Bob Gates on here for quite a while, because he meant a lot to our program. <p><i>The President.</i> That is a big Aggies fan right there. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Mr. Blair.</i> But thank you, sir, for everything you've done. <p><i>The President.</i> Coach, thank you so much. Thank you. <p>All right, you guys are going to strike the podium, we are going to get a good picture here.\" "
"221" "\"<i>The President.</i> This&mdash;oh, everybody have a seat. This is as much fun as I will have as President of the United States, right here. This is one of the perks of the job, right here. Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest team in NFL history, the 1985 Chicago Bears. Now, I know that may get me into some trouble in some cities that I visit. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I believe it is the truth. <p>Cynics might say that I'm only hosting the '85 Bears today because the Green Bay Packers were here a couple months ago and I was not going to be outdone. [<i>Laughter</i>] But as it turns out, after this team won the Super Bowl, it never had a chance to celebrate here in the White House. The day after Super Bowl XX, half a million Chicagoans turned out in 25-below windchill weather to welcome the champs back from New Orleans. But sadly, the day after that, we endured a national tragedy as the Space Shuttle <i>Challenger</i> exploded shortly after lift-off. <p>So the moment for the Bears to visit the White House was postponed, and the years went by. But shortly after I took office, someone at the NFL realized, hey, there's a Bears fan living in the White House. [<i>Laughter</i>] And they called my staff and asked if we could make this happen. And so today I am proud to say to the players, to the coaches, to the staff of the 1985 Bears: Welcome to the White House for this well-deserved and long-overdue recognition. <p>Now, I was mentioning as I was visiting with the players and coaches out back that in 1985, I had just moved to Chicago. So, unlike most Chicagoans, I didn't really know what it was like to be a suffering sports fan. [<i>Laughter</i>] There are a few Members of Congress and big Bears fans here from Illinois who knew what that was like. But none of us had ever seen what happened that fall. Nobody had ever seen anything like it. This city was invigorated and brought together by this team. This team ruled the city. It riveted the country. They were everywhere. They were like the Beatles. [<i>Laughter</i>] And this was before \\"SportsCenter\\" and before 24/7 sports news had really taken off. But they just captured the country's imagination. <p>We loved this team. Everybody in Chicago knew all these guys' names. We even knew the names of the offensive linemen. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, you know offensive linemen, they don't get enough love. <p>But these guys had their own poster: \\"The Black 'N' Blues Brothers.\\" When was the last time you saw a poster of an offensive line? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But what made this team so captivating wasn't just that they won, wasn't just that they dominated, it was the way they did it. Yes, they were punishing. Yes, they were dominant. But they also had a lot of fun. And you could tell they enjoyed playing together. They were, of course, led by the coach who set the tone, Hall of Famer Mike Ditka. In training camp, he said, \\"Put a chip on your shoulder in July, and keep it there till January.\\" <p>Some of you may remember that back in 2004, when I was running for the Senate, some people were trying to draft Ditka to run against me. [<i>Laughter</i>] I will admit I was a little worried&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;because he doesn't lose. Coach, I'm glad you didn't run, because I have to say I probably would have been terrible on ESPN. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And in a sign that anything is possible, even in Washington, Coach Ditka and Buddy Ryan are here together. [<i>Laughter</i>] Now, Coach Ryan's 46 defense changed football forever. Nobody had ever seen anything like it. Nobody knew what to do with it. And with the talent he had on the defensive side of the ball, there wasn't anything other teams could do about it. <p>I mean, there are guys who hit, and there are guys who hit. And these guys hit. Mike Singletary, Steve McMichael, Otis Wilson, Wilber Marshall, Dan Hampton, Gary Fencik, and Richard Dent, the Super Bowl MVP, a guy I used to actually work out with in the gym and made me feel weak. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>This was the defense that set the standard, and it is still the standard. And I was just complaining to Coach Ryan, he gave all these tips to his sons who are now coaching, and he should have passed on additional wisdom on to us. But more than 25 years later, the standard against which all other teams are compared is Coach Ryan's defense. <p>These guys lived to wreak havoc. It was like they were competing with each other to see who could get to the quarterback or the running back first. There was one game that season in which the other team's offense had the ball in Bears territory a total of 21 seconds. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, of course, this was also the second-ranked offense in the league that season. Jim McMahon&mdash;where's Jim? <p><i>James R. McMahon, Jr.</i> Just right here. Do you need me to speak? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> No, we're not going to let Jim have the mike. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm just going to say nice things about you. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Jim played quarterback with no fear and lived life with very few rules&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;a rock and roll quarterback who was on the cover of Rolling Stone. And he had kids wearing headbands and shades to school because of Jim. And he gave me a headband, and I'm not wearing it&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;but I wanted you to know that I do have it. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Willie Gault might have been the fastest man in football, probably had the highest high fives. <p>And then there was somebody we all revered, and that was Walter Payton. Even 12 years after we lost him to cancer at the too young age of 45, Chicago still loves \\"Sweetness.\\" He was without question one of the greatest to ever play the game. And after he high-stepped and leapt his way past Jim Brown's alltime rushing record, he held that record for 18 years. He was also one of best blocking backs ever, sometimes hitting other guys so hard he'd knock them out of the game. And we are so grateful that his wife Connie is here today with us, so&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]. <p>We also tragically lost Dave Duerson this year. And Dave was one of the team's hardest hitters. Hopefully, lessons from his brave struggle with the kind of brain injuries those hits might have caused will help today's players down the road. And we're grateful that his former wife Alicia is here today as well. <p>This team had nine Pro-Bowlers, four future Hall of Famers&mdash;five counting Coach Ditka. They won one 3-game stretch by a combined score of 104-3. And even though they were the youngest team in the NFL at that time, these guys were so confident that Kevin Butler, who was the kicker and still the Bears alltime leading scorer, called his then-fiancee Cathy from training camp in July to say that they had to change their wedding date because that was the Super Bowl day. [<i>Laughter</i>] They were so confident that the day after they lost their only game of the season, they recorded \\"The Super Bowl Shuffle.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] They were suggesting that I should dance \\"The Super Bowl Shuffle.\\" Can't do it. But I do remember it. And in Chicago, you could not get away from this song even if you wanted to. [<i>Laughter</i>] I think it's safe to say that this is the only team in NFL history with a gold record and a Grammy nomination. <p>So this team changed everything for every team that came on after, on and off the field. They changed the laws of football. They were gritty, they were gutsy, they were hard-working, they were fun-loving, sort of how Chicagoans like to think of themselves. And Chicago has always been a diehard football town, but this team did something to our city that we've never gotten over. We love the Bears. And as much fun as it is to finally have these guys here, we want today's Bears to come home to the White House with a championship as well. <p>But in the meantime, congratulations to all of you. Thank you for helping to bring our city together. Thank you for the incredible fun that you gave to all of us. Stick around, guys, and enjoy yourselves. But as I mentioned back there, don't break anything, and keep your eyes on McMahon. [<i>Laughter</i>] All right, Coach? <p><i>Michael K. Ditka.</i> Wait, wait. One second, one second. We want to give the President&mdash;&mdash; <p>[<i>At this point, the President was presented with a team jersey.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> Hey! <p><i>Mr. Ditka.</i> On behalf of the 1985 Chicago Bears, we consider him one of us. It was a great group of guys. We're very proud that you honored us by bringing us here. It's only 26 years after the fact, and five administrations, but thank you. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> Appreciate it, Coach. Thank you so much.\" "
"222" "\"Next week, the Senate will vote on the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" It's a bill that will put more people to work and put more money in the pockets of working Americans. And it will provide our economy with the jolt that it really needs right now. <p>This is not the time for the usual games or political gridlock in Washington. The challenges facing financial markets around the world could have very real effects on our own economy at a time when it's already fragile. But this jobs bill can help guard against another downturn here in America. <p>This isn't just my belief. This is what independent economists have said. Not just politicians, not just people in my administration, independent experts who do this for a living have said that this jobs bill will have a significant effect for our economy and middle class families all across America. But if we don't act, the opposite will be true: There will be fewer jobs and weaker growth. <p>So any Senator out there who's thinking about voting against this jobs bill needs to explain why they would oppose something that we know would improve our economic situation. If the Republicans in Congress think they have a better plan for creating jobs right now, they should prove it. Because one of the same independent economists who looked at our plan just said that their ideas, quote, \\"wouldn't mean much for the economy in the near term.\\" <p>If their plan doesn't measure up, the American people deserve to know what it is that Republicans in Congress don't like about this jobs plan. You hear a lot of our Republican friends say that one of the most important things we can do is cut taxes. Well, they should love this plan. The \\"American Jobs Act\\" would cut taxes for virtually every worker and small business in America. And if you're a small-business owner that hires new workers, raises wages, or hires a veteran, you get an additional tax cut. <p>Right now hundreds of thousands of teachers and firefighters and police officers have been laid off because of State budget cuts. This jobs bill will put a lot of these men and women back to work. Right now there are millions of laid-off construction workers who could be repairing our bridges and roads and modernizing our schools. Why wouldn't we want to put these men and women to work rebuilding America? <p>The proposals in this bill are steps we have to take if we want to build an economy that lasts, if we want to be able to compete with other countries for jobs that restore a sense of security for the middle class. But we also have to rein in our deficit and start living within our means, which is why this jobs bill is paid for by asking millionaires and billionaires to pay their fair share. <p>Some see this as class warfare. I see it as a simple choice. We can either keep taxes exactly as they are for millionaires and billionaires, or we can ask them to pay at least the same rate as a plumber or a bus driver. And in the process, we can put teachers and construction workers and veterans back on the job. We can either fight to protect their tax cuts, or we can cut taxes for virtually every worker and small business in America. But we can't afford to do both. It's that simple. <p>There are too many people hurting in this country for us to simply do nothing. The economy is too fragile for us to let politics get in the way of action. The people who represent you in Washington have a responsibility to do what's best for you, not what's best for their party or what's going to help them win an election that's more than a year away. So I need you to keep making your voices heard in Washington. I need you to remind these folks who they work for. And I need you to tell your Senators to do the right thing by passing this jobs bill right away. <p>Thanks so much.\" "
"223" "\"Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. Have a seat. <p>It is great to be back in Pittsburgh! And it is wonderful to be here at IBEW Local 5. I had a chance to take a tour of your facilities, where you're training workers with the skills they need to compete for good jobs. And I see some of the guys that I met on the tour, both the instructors and the students who are here, and it's an example of how, if we get a good collaboration between business and labor and academia, that there is no reason why we cannot continue to have the best trained workers in the world. And that's got to be one of our best priorities. <p>So I'm here to talk about how we can create new jobs, particularly jobs doing what you do best, and that's rebuilding America. I brought some folks along with me as well. We got members of my Cabinet and my administration. We've got your mayor, Luke Ravenstahl is here. Where's Luke? Right here. Your county executive, Dan Onorato, is here. And one of my dearest friends, who I stole from the Steelers to serve as the United States Ambassador to Ireland, Dan Rooney's in the house. And congratulations, Steelers. You guys did a little better than my Bears last night. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I've also brought a group of leaders with a wide range of new ideas about how we can help companies hire and grow, and we call them our White House jobs council. They come from some of the most successful businesses in the country: GE, Southwest, Intel. They come from labor; we got Rich Trumka on here from the AFL-CIO. We've got universities and people across the board who are intimately involved in growing companies, venture capitalists. Most importantly, they come from outside of Washington. <p>And I told them when we formed this council, I want to hear smart, forward-thinking ideas that will help our economy and our workers adapt to changing times. And together, they've done some extraordinary work to make those ideas happen. So I just want to personally thank every single one of the job council members for the great work that they're doing. And they issued a jobs report today. We're implementing a bunch of their ideas; it's going to make a difference all across the country. So thank you very much. <p>One of our focuses today was on entrepreneurship. And we did this because the story of America's success is written by America's entrepreneurs, men and women who took a chance on a dream and they turned that dream into a business and somehow changed the world. We just lost one of our greatest entrepreneurs and a friend, Steve Jobs, last week. And to see the outpouring of support for him and his legacy tells a story about what America's all about. We like to make things, create things, new products, new services that change people's lives. <p>And that's what people strive to do every day in this country. Now, most of the time people's dreams are simple: startups and storefronts on Main Street that let folks earn enough to support their family and make a contribution to their community. And sometimes their dreams take off and those startups become companies like Apple or FedEx or Ford, companies that end up hiring and employing hundreds of thousands of Americans and giving rise to entire new industries. And that spirit of entrepreneurship and innovation is how we became the world's leading economic power, and it's what constantly rejuvenates our economy. <p>So entrepreneurship's how we're going to create new jobs in the future. And I'm proud to say that just last month Pittsburgh won a Federal grant to promote entrepreneurship and job creation by expanding your already successful energy and health care industries in underserved parts of this city. So we're very excited about what Pittsburgh's doing here. <p>Today my jobs council laid out new actions we can take together&mdash;the private sector and Government&mdash;to help unleash a new era of entrepreneurship in America that will grow the economy and create jobs and strengthen our ability to compete with the rest of the world. But even as we help to fuel the next big American industry, we also understand that people are out of work right now. They need help right now. So everything that we talked about with respect to the job council is going to help America become more competitive, help entrepreneurs create more jobs, lay the foundation for long-term, sustainable growth. <p>But right now our economy needs a jolt. Right now. And today the Senate of the United States has a chance to do something about jobs right now by voting for the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" Now, this is a moment of truth for the U.S. Senate. <p>In front of them is a bill, a jobs bill, that independent economists have said would grow this economy and put people back to work. This is not my opinion, it's not my administration's opinion. This is people whose job it is for a living to analyze and evaluate what kind of impact certain policies would have. They've said this could grow the economy significantly and put significant numbers of Americans back to work. And no other jobs plan has that kind of support from economists, no plan from Congress, no plan from anybody. <p>It's a jobs bill with the kind of proposals that Democrats and Republicans have traditionally supported. It's a jobs bill that is entirely paid for by asking those of us who've been most fortunate, who've been incredibly blessed here in America, to contribute a little more to the country that contributed so much to our success. <p>Today is the day when every American will find out exactly where their Senator stands on this jobs bill. Republicans say that one of the most important things we can do is cut taxes. Then they should be for this plan. This jobs bill would cut taxes for virtually every worker and small business in America, every single one. <p>If you're a small-business owner that hires new workers or raises wages, you will get another tax cut. If you hire a veteran, you get a tax cut. People who have served overseas should not have to fight for a job when they come home. This jobs bill encourages small-business owners and entrepreneurs to expand and to hire. The Senate should pass it today. <p>Hundreds of thousands of teachers and firefighters and police officers have been laid off because of State budget cuts. I'm sure, Luke, you're seeing it here in Pittsburgh. You're having to figure out how do we make sure that we keep our teachers in the classroom. The jobs council is uniform in believing that the most important thing for our competitiveness long term is making sure our education system is producing outstanding young people who are ready to go to work. <p>So this jobs bill that the Senate's debating today would put a lot of these men and women back to work right now, and it will prevent a lot more from losing their jobs. <p>So folks should ask their Senators, why would you consider voting against putting teachers and police officers back to work? Ask them what's wrong with having folks who have made millions or billions of dollars to pay a little more. Nothing punitive, just going back to the kinds of tax rates that used to exist under President Clinton, so that our kids can get the education they deserve. <p>There are more than a million laid-off construction workers who could be repairing our roads and bridges and modernizing our schools right now. Right now. That's no surprise to you. Pittsburgh has a lot of bridges&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;has about 300 of them. Did you know that more than a quarter of the bridges in this State are rated structurally deficient? Structurally deficient, that's a fancy way of saying, they need to be fixed. There are nearly 6,000 bridges in Pennsylvania alone that local construction workers could be rebuilding right now. The average age of bridges around Pittsburgh is 54 years old. So we're still benefiting from the investments, the work that was done by our grandparents to make this a more successful, more competitive economy. <p>Here in Pittsburgh, 54 years old, the average age of these bridges, 13 years older than the national average. The Hulton Bridge over in Oakmont was built more than a hundred years ago. There are pieces of it that are flaking off. How much longer are we going to wait to put people back to work rebuilding bridges like that? This jobs bill will give local contractors and local construction workers the chance to get back to work rebuilding America. Why would any Senator say no to that? <p>In line with the recommendations of my jobs council, my administration is cutting redtape; we're expediting several major construction projects all across the country to launch them faster and more efficiently. We want to streamline the process, the permitting process, just get those things moving. So we're doing our job, trying to expedite the process. Now it's time for Congress to do their job. The Senate should vote for this jobs bill today. It should not wait. It should get it done. <p>Now, a lot of folks in Congress have said they won't support any new spending that's not paid for. And I think that's important. We've got to make sure we're living within our means so that we can make the vital investments in our future. That's why I signed into law $1 trillion in spending cuts over the summer. And we'll find more places to cut those things that we don't need. We can't afford everything. We got to make choices; we got to prioritize. Programs that aren't working, that aren't giving us a good bang for the buck, that aren't helping to grow the economy, that aren't putting people back to work, we're going to have to trim those back. So we're willing to make tough choices. The American people, they're already tightening their belts. They understand what it's all about to make tough choices. <p>But if we want to create jobs and close the deficit, then we can't just cut our way out of the problem. We're also going to have to ask the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share. If they don't, we only have three other choices: We can either increase the deficit, or we can ask the middle class to pay more at a time when they're just barely getting by&mdash;haven't seen their wages or incomes go up at all, in fact, have gone down over the last decade&mdash;or we can just sit back and do nothing. And I'm not willing to accept any of those three options. <p>In a&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;whenever I talk about revenue, people start complaining about, \\"Well, is he engaging in class warfare?\\" or \\"Why is he going after the wealthiest?\\" Look, because I've been fortunate and people bought a bunch of my books, I'm in that category now. [<i>Laughter</i>] And in a perfect world with unlimited resources, nobody would have to pay any taxes. But that's not the world we live in. We live in a world where we've got to make choices. <p>So the question we have to ask ourselves as a society, as a country, is, would you rather keep taxes exactly as they are for those of us who've benefited most from this country&mdash;tax breaks that we don't need and weren't even asking for&mdash;or do we want construction workers and electrical workers to have jobs rebuilding our roads and our bridges and our schools? Would we rather maintain these tax breaks for the wealthiest few, or should we give tax cuts to the entrepreneurs who might need it to start that business, launch that new idea that they've got? Or tax breaks to middle class families who are likely to spend this money now and get the economy moving again? <p>This is a matter of priorities. And it's a matter of shared sacrifice. And by the way, if you ask most wealthy Americans, they'll tell you they're willing to do more. They're willing to do their fair share to help this country that they love. <p>So it's time to build an economy that creates good, middle class jobs in this country. It's time to build an economy that honors the values of hard work and responsibility. It's time to build an economy that lasts. And that's what this jobs bill will help us do. The proposals in the \\"American Jobs Act\\" aren't just a bunch of random investments to create make-work jobs. They're things we have to do if we want to compete with other countries for the best jobs and the newest industries. We have to have the most educated workers. <p>This week, I'm going to be hosting the President of South Korea. I had lunch with him in Seoul, South Korea. He told me&mdash;I said, \\"What's your biggest problem?\\" He says, \\"The parents are too demanding. I'm having to import teachers because all our kids want to learn English when they're in first grade.\\" So they're hiring teachers in droves at a time when we're laying them off. That doesn't make any sense. <p>We've got to have the best transportation and communications networks in the world. We used to have the best stuff. We used to be the envy of the world. People would come to our countries, and they would say: \\"Look at the Hoover Dam. Look at the Golden Gate Bridge.\\" Now people go to Beijing Airport, and they say, \\"I wish we had an airport like that.\\" We can't compete that way, playing for 2d or 3d or 4th or 8th or 15th place. <p>We've got to support new research and new technology, innovative entrepreneurs, the next generation of manufacturing. Any one of the business leaders here today will tell you that's true. If we want to compete and win in this global economy, if we want this century to be another American century, we can't just go back to an economic model that's based on how much we can borrow, how much debt we can rack up, and how much we can consume. Our prosperity has to be built on what we make and what we sell around the world and on the skills of our workers and the ingenuity of our business people. <p>We have to restore the values that have always made this a great country: idea of hard work and responsibility that's rewarded; everybody, from Main Street to Wall Street, doing their fair share, playing by the same set of rules. <p>And so, Pittsburgh, that starts now, and in&mdash;I'm going to need your help. Your Senators are voting today on this jobs bill, so this is gut-check time. Any Senator who votes no should have to look you in the eye and tell you what exactly they're opposed to. These are proposals that have traditionally been bipartisan. Republicans used to want to build roads and bridges. That wasn't just a Democratic idea. We've all believed that education was important. You've got to come&mdash;if you're voting no against this bill, look a Pittsburgh teacher in the eye and tell them just why they don't deserve to get a paycheck again and, more importantly, be able to transmit all those&mdash;all that knowledge to their kids. Come tell the students why they don't deserve their teacher back, so that now they've got under&mdash;overcrowded classrooms, or arts classes or musics classes or science classes have been cut back. <p>Come and look at a construction worker here in Pittsburgh or an electrical worker in the eye, and tell them why they shouldn't be out there fixing our bridges or rebuilding our schools and equipping them with the latest science labs or the latest Internet connection. Explain why people should have to keep driving their kids across bridges with pieces falling off. <p>Or explain to a small-business owner or workers in this community why you'd rather defend tax breaks for the wealthiest few than fight for tax cuts for the middle class. I think they'd have a hard time explaining why they voted no on this bill other than the fact that I proposed it. And so&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]. <p>I realize some Republicans in Washington have said that even if they agreed with the ideas in the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" they're wary of passing it because it would give me a win. Give me a win? This is not about giving me a win. It's why folks are fed up with Washington. This is not about giving anybody a win. It's not about giving Democrats or Republicans a win. It's about giving the American people who are hurting out there a win. It's about giving small businesses, entrepreneurs, and construction workers a win. It's about giving the American people&mdash;all of us, together&mdash;a win. <p>I was talking to the jobs council&mdash;by the way, not everybody here has necessarily voted for me. [<i>Laughter</i>] But they're patriots, and they care about their country. And we were talking about how, in normal times, these are all commonsense ideas. These aren't radical ideas. These are things that traditionally everybody would be for, particularly at a time of emergency like we're in, where so many people are out of work and businesses want to see more customers. So for folks outside of Washington, being against something for the sake of politics makes absolutely no sense. It makes absolutely no sense. <p>And the next election is 13 months away. The American people don't have the luxury of waiting 13 months. They don't have the luxury of watching Washington go back and forth in the usual fashion when this economy needs to be strengthened dramatically. A lot of folks are living week to week, paycheck to paycheck, even day to day. They need action, and they need action now. They want Congress to do what they were elected to do: put country ahead of party, do what's right for our economy, do what's right for our people. In other words, they want Congress to do your job. <p>So&mdash;and I've said this to some folks in the other party. I've said, I promise you, we'll still have a lot of stuff to argue about, even if we get this thing done, about the general direction of the country and how we're going to build it and how we're going to out-educate and out-innovate and out-build other countries around the world. There will be a lot of time for political debating. But right now we need to act on behalf of the American people. <p>So for those of you who are in the audience or those of you who are watching, I need you to call, e-mail, tweet, fax, or you can write an old-fashioned letter&mdash;I don't know if people still do that&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]. Let Congress know who they work for. Remind them what's at stake when they cast their vote. Tell them that the time for gridlock and games is over. The time for action is now. And tell them to pass this bill. <p>If you want construction workers on the job, pass the bill. If you want teachers back in the classroom, pass the bill. If you want tax cuts for your family and small-business owners, pass this bill. If you want our veterans to share in the opportunity that they upheld and they defended, do the right thing, pass this bill. All right? Now's the time to act. <p>I know that this is a moment where a lot of folks are wondering whether America can move forward together the way it used to. And I'm confident we can. We're not a people who just sit by and watch things happen to us. We shape our own destiny. That's what's always set us apart. We are Americans, and we are tougher than the times we're in right now. We've been through tougher times before. We're bigger than the politics that has been constraining us. We can write our own story. We can do it again. So let's meet this moment. Let's get to work and show the rest of the world just why it is that America is the greatest country on Earth. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless America.\" "
"224" "\"Hello, everybody! Thank you so much. Thank you, everybody. Everybody, please have a seat. Well, welcome to Washington. It is an honor to be here with so many leaders and thinkers who've come together for one reason: to celebrate Latino culture and honor the contributions that so many Latinos have made&mdash;and continue to make&mdash;to our Nation. <p>I want to begin by thanking Sergeant First Class Petry for that introduction. Three months ago, I was honored to present Sergeant Petry with our Nation's highest military decoration, the Medal of Honor. And we are so proud of him. He is an inspiration to all of us. And he is the latest in a long line of Latino heroes to wear America's uniform. So I was mentioning to him that I went to Walter Reed this week and&mdash;to visit some of our wounded warriors, and a number of them remarked on how they had had a chance to meet Sergeant Petry. He had gone by to talk to some of those guys. And seeing him in uniform, proud, doing what he does, inspired them and made them certain that they were going to pull through. And so that's the kind of effect he's having on people each and every day. And we're really proud of him. So thank you very much. Thank you. <p>I also want to recognize the Members of Congress who are here. I want to thank my dear friend and outstanding Secretary of the Interior, Ken Salazar, for organizing this forum. Whenever Ken is asked how long his ancestors have been in this country, he says, \\"Oh, about 400 years.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] So his roots go way back, just like I know many of yours do. <p>And that's what today is all about. Diversity has always been America's strength. We are richer because of the men and women and children who've come to our shores and joined our Union. And we are better off because of the ideas that they've brought, and the difference that they've made, and the impact they've had on our lives. <p>And nowhere is that more true than with the Latino community. Right now there are 54 million Americans of Latino descent, one-sixth of our population: our neighbors, our coworkers, our family, our friends. You've helped us build our cities, grow our economy, defend our country. And today, for the first time in history, there is a Latina in my Cabinet and a Latina on the bench of the highest court in the land. Hilda Solis is doing an outstanding job. <p>Now, this forum is about celebrating that heritage, because too often the achievements of Latinos go unrecognized. And there are achievements that have been hard won. We know life hasn't always been easy for Latinos in this country and still isn't. The land of opportunity hasn't always been the land of acceptance. But the fact that Latinos have done so much and come so far is a testament to the vision that has sustained you. It's a vision that says, maybe I never had a chance to get a good education, but I want my daughter to go to college, maybe get a second degree. Maybe I started out working in the fields, but some day I'll own my own business. Maybe I wasn't born in this country, but I'll sign up to fight for it. Maybe I have to make sacrifices, but those sacrifices are worth it if it means a better life for my family. <p>That's the story of parents, grandparents, great-grandparents, great-great-grandparents, that determination, that perseverance, that sense of what is possible that has kept the American Dream alive and well in the Latino community. And more than any one person or any one story, those are the values that we have to remember today. <p>We need to remember those values because times are especially tough right now, and they've been tough for a while. For the better part of a decade, we've seen the rich get richer, the poor get poorer, the middle class get squeezed. That was before the crisis that began in Wall Street and made its way to Main Streets all across America, making it harder for people to find jobs, harder for families to keep their heads above water. <p>And the Latino community knows this better than most. The unemployment rate among Latinos is one of the highest in the country. And right now too many families are struggling just to get by. That's not right. I ran for President for the same reason many people came to this country in the first place: Because I believe America should be a place where you can always make it if you try; a place where every child, no matter what they look like, where they come from, should have a chance to succeed. <p>I still believe in that America. I believe we can be that America again. The truth is, the problems we face today were a long time coming and solving them will take time. In a global economy, it will require us to have the best educated workforce, the strongest commitment to research and innovation, the most reliable communications and transportation networks. <p>But with so many people hurting today, there are things we can do right now to make a difference. There are things we should do right now to put more people back to work and to restore a sense of security and fairness that's been missing for too long. <p>So that's why I put forward the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" That's why I sent Congress a jobs bill made up of the kinds of proposals that, traditionally, Democrats and Republicans have supported. Independent economists who do this for a living have said the \\"American Jobs Act\\" would lead to more growth and nearly 2 million jobs next year. No other jobs plan has that kind of support from actual economists, no plan from Congress, no plan from anybody. <p>But apparently, none of this matters to Republicans in the Senate. Because last night, even though a majority of Senators voted in favor of the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" a Republican minority got together as a group and blocked this jobs bill from passing the Senate. They said no to more jobs for teachers, no to more jobs for cops and firefighters, no to more jobs for construction workers and veterans, no to tax cuts for small-business owners and middle class Americans. <p>Now, a lot of folks in Washington and the media will look at last night's vote and say, well, that's it. Let's move on to the next fight. But I've got news for them: not this time, not with so many Americans out of work, not with so many folks in your communities hurting. We will not take no for an answer. <p>We will keep organizing, and we will keep pressuring, and we will keep voting until this Congress finally meets its responsibilities and actually does something to put people back to work and improve the economy. <p>We'll give Members of Congress a chance to vote on whether they think that we should keep teachers out of work or put them back in the classroom where they belong, teaching our kids. <p>They'll get a chance to vote on whether they think that construction workers should stay idle while our roads and bridges are falling apart or whether we should put these men and women back to work rebuilding America. <p>Republicans say that one of the most important things we can do is cut taxes. Well, they get a chance to vote on whether we should cut taxes for middle class families or let them go up. This job would cut taxes for virtually every worker and small business in America; 25 million Latinos would benefit. If you're a small-business owner who hires a new worker or raises wages, you'd get another tax cut. If you hire a veteran, like Sergeant Petry, you'd get another tax cut. Anybody who fights for our country should not have to fight for a job when they come home. <p>Now, I know some folks in Congress blocked this jobs bill because of how it's paid for. Well, we already agreed to cut nearly $1 trillion in Government spending. We've offered to cut even more in order to bring down the deficit. But we can't just cut without asking those of us who've been most fortunate in our society to pay our fair share. And that's not about punishing success, it's about making choices. If we want to create jobs and close the deficit and invest in our future, the money has got to come from somewhere. <p>And so we've got to ask ourselves a question: Would we rather keep the Tax Code with its loopholes exactly as they are for millionaires and billionaires, or do you want construction workers to have a job rebuilding roads and bridges and schools? Because you know a lot of our kids in the community are learning in trailers right now. Why wouldn't we want to put people back to work rebuilding those schools? Would you rather fight for special interest tax breaks, or do you want to fight for tax cuts for small businesses and middle class families in your neighborhood? I think I know the answer. <p>In the end, this is a debate about fairness and who we are as a country. It's a debate about what we believe in. What kind of country do we want to be? When Michelle and I tuck our daughters into bed at night, we think about the fact that we are only where we are because somebody who came before us met their responsibilities. They put the America Dream within our reach. They made sure that there were student loan programs out there, and they made sure that there were decent schools out there, that there were opportunities for everybody. That's the reason all of you are here today, because somebody made an investment 10 years ago, 20 years ago, 30 years ago, 40 years ago, to ensure that you had a chance at success. <p>Those aren't White or Black or Latino or Asian or Native American values. Those are American values. Now it's up to us&mdash;this generation&mdash;to do our part to invest now so that the next generation has a shot. <p>These are tough times, and a lot of people are living week to week, paycheck to paycheck, even day to day. They need action, and they need it now. They want Congress to work for the people who elected them in the first place. They want Congress to do their job. <p>So I need your help. I'm going to need&mdash;you are opinion leaders all across the country. I need you to e-mail and tweet and fax and write letters and get on the phone, meet face to face. Remind Members of Congress who they work for. Remind them what's at stake here. The time for games and politics is over. Too many in this country are hurting for us to stand by and do nothing. <p>This jobs bill will help the Latino community right now, and it will help the larger American community right now. We all have a stake in this recovery, and it's up to every single one of us to fight for a better future. <p>In 1966, Cesar Chavez was struggling to bring attention to the treatment of farm workers in California, and he received a telegram from a friend who knew a little something about standing up for justice. Dr. Martin Luther King wrote: \\"As brothers in the fight for equality, I extend the hand of fellowship and goodwill. We are with you in spirit and in determination that our dreams for a better tomorrow will be realized.\\" <p>And here in America, we are united by more than the color of our skin or the language that we speak. We are joined together by a shared creed, a shared set of values. We're connected by the future we want for ourselves and our children. And we determine our own destiny here. Whether your ancestors came from a&mdash;came over on a slave ship or crossed the Rio Grande or were here long before the country was founded, we're in this together. And we have the opportunity to right now&mdash;to determine our own destiny. <p>So I hope you will join me in helping us meet this moment. Let's get to work putting the American people back to work. And let's show once again why the United States of America remains the greatest nation on Earth. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"225" "\"[<i>President Obama's</i> <i>remarks were joined in progress</i>.] <p>&mdash;&mdash;representing one of America's strongest allies and global partners, the Republic of Korea. <p>I also want to acknowledge two guests in particular: another son of Korea dedicated to peace and security, the Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, is here; and our first Korean American Ambassador to the Republic of Korea, confirmed by the Senate today, Ambassador Sung Kim. <p>Now, I'm going to be very brief tonight because President Lee has had a very full day and a very wet day&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;as well as extended meetings and press conferences, a State Department banquet, and an address to the Congress, which I understand went extraordinarily well. There is a reason why people call him \\"the Bulldozer.\\" He is unstoppable. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Mr. President, today you have spoken with great eloquence about what America and our alliance has meant in your life and the life of your country. This evening I want you and your countrymen to know what Korea and its people have meant to America. <p>The essence of our alliance, I think, is embodied in a concept that is uniquely Korean. It doesn't translate that easily, but it reflects the deep affection, the bonds of the heart that cannot be broken and that grow stronger with time. Our Korean friends know it well: <i>jeong</i>. <p>In our country, we've felt this <i>jeong</i> in our vibrant Korean American communities, including in Hawaii, where I grew up, a melting pot of cultures that made me who I am and that taught me we can all live together in mutual trust and respect. <p>I felt this <i>jeong</i> during my visit to Korea on Veterans Day, the 60th anniversary of the Korean war, when our proud veterans of that war, both Korean and American, came together to celebrate a shared legacy: a free, democratic, and prosperous Republic of Korea. <p>And I felt this <i>jeong</i> in my friendship with President Lee. Mr. President, your life story&mdash;from crushing poverty to the Presidency&mdash;is an inspiration. Your success, Korea's success, speaks to the truth that with education and hard work, anything is possible. It's a spirit our countries share. You've described it in Korean, and in English it translates as: \\"Yes we can.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] It sounds good in Korean too. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Finally, I would note that in our lives President Lee and I have both been blessed to find our better halves, leaders in their own right, advocates for women and young people, who we are proud to call our First Ladies. Mr. President, as we say in America, we both married up. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And so I want to propose a toast. I believe this is mine. <p>[<i>At this point, President Obama was handed a glass.</i>] <p>To our friends President Lee and First Lady Kim, and to their delegation, most of all to the enduring alliance between our nations, a partnership of the heart that will never be broken. Cheers. <i>Gun bae</i>.\" "
"226" "\"I'm here in Detroit visiting workers at a GM plant in the heart of a resurgent American auto industry, and I brought a guest with me, President Lee of South Korea. <p>We're here because this week Congress passed landmark trade agreements with countries like Korea and assistance for American workers that will be a big win for our economy. These trade agreements will support tens of thousands of American jobs. And we'll sell more Fords, Chevys, and Chryslers abroad, stamped with three proud words: Made in America. <p>So it was good to see Congress act in a bipartisan way on something that will help create jobs at a time when millions of Americans are still out of work and need them now. But that's also why it was so disappointing to see Senate Republicans obstruct the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" even though a majority of Senators voted yes to advance this jobs bill. <p>We can't afford this lack of action, and there is no reason for it. Independent economists say that this jobs bill would give the economy a jumpstart and lead to nearly 2 million new jobs. Every idea in the jobs bill is the kind of idea both parties have supported in the past. <p>The majority of the American people support the proposals in this jobs bill. And they want action from their elected leaders to create jobs and restore some security for the middle class right now. You deserve to see your hard work and responsibility rewarded, and you certainly deserve to see it reflected in the folks you send to Washington. <p>But rather than listen to you and put folks back to work, Republicans in the House spent the past couple of days picking partisan ideological fights. They're seeing if they can roll back clean air and water protections. They're stirring up fights over a woman's right to make her own health care choices. They're not focused on the concrete actions that will put people back to work right now. <p>Well, we're going to give them another chance. We're going to give them another chance to spend more time worrying about your jobs than keeping theirs. <p>Next week, I'm urging Members of Congress to vote on putting hundreds of thousands of teachers back in the classroom, cops back on the streets, and firefighters back on the job. And if they vote no on that, they'll have to tell you why. They'll have to tell you why teachers in your community don't deserve a paycheck again. They'll have to tell your kids why they don't deserve to have their teacher back. They'll have to tell you why they're against commonsense proposals that would help families and strengthen our communities right now and in the long term. <p>In the coming weeks, we'll have them vote on the other parts of the jobs bill: putting construction workers back on the job rebuilding our roads and bridges, providing tax cuts for small businesses that hire our veterans, making sure that middle class families don't see a tax hike next year, and that the unemployed and our out-of-work youth have a chance to get back in the workforce and earn their piece of the American Dream. <p>That's what's at stake: putting people back to work, restoring economic security for the middle class, rebuilding an economy where hard work is valued and responsibility is rewarded&mdash;an economy that's built to last. And I'm going to travel all over the country over the next few weeks so that we can remind Congress that that's the most important thing. Because there's still time to create jobs and grow our economy right now. There's still time for Congress to do the right thing. We just need to act. <p>Thanks.\" "
"227" "\"Thank you very much. Thank you. Please be seated. <p>An earthquake and a hurricane may have delayed this day, but this is a day that would not be denied. <p>For this day, we celebrate Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s return to the National Mall. In this place, he will stand for all time among monuments to those who fathered this Nation and those who defended it, a black preacher with no official rank or title who somehow gave voice to our deepest dreams and our most lasting ideals, a man who stirred our conscience and thereby helped make our Union more perfect. <p>Now, Dr. King would be the first to remind us that this memorial is not for him alone. The movement of which he was a part depended on an entire generation of leaders. Many are here today, and for their service and their sacrifice, we owe them our everlasting gratitude. This is a monument to your collective achievement. <p>Some giants of the civil rights movement&mdash;like Rosa Parks and Dorothy Height, Benjamin Hooks, Reverend Fred Shuttlesworth&mdash;they've been taken from us these past few years. This monument attests to their strength and their courage, and while we miss them dearly, we know they rest in a better place. <p>And finally, there are the multitudes of men and women whose names never appear in the history books: those who marched and those who sang, those who sat in and those who stood firm, those who organized and those who mobilized, all those men and women who through countless acts of quiet heroism helped bring about changes few thought were even possible. \\"By the thousands,\\" said Dr. King, \\"faceless, anonymous, relentless young people, Black and White . . . have taken our whole Nation back to those great wells of democracy which were dug deep by the Founding Fathers in the formulation of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence.\\" To those men and women, to those foot soldiers for justice, know that this monument is yours as well. <p>Nearly half a century has passed since that historic March on Washington, a day when thousands upon thousands gathered for jobs and for freedom. That is what our schoolchildren remember best when they think of Dr. King, his booming voice across this Mall, calling on America to make freedom a reality for all of God's children, prophesizing of a day when the \\"jangling discord of our Nation\\" would be transformed into \\"a beautiful symphony of brotherhood.\\" <p>It is right that we honor that march, that we lift up Dr. King's \\"I Have a Dream\\" speech, for without that shining moment, without Dr. King's glorious words, we might not have had the courage to come as far as we have. Because of that hopeful vision, because of Dr. King's moral imagination, barricades began to fall and bigotry began to fade. New doors of opportunity swung open for an entire generation. Yes, laws changed, but hearts and minds changed as well. <p>Look at the faces here around you, and you see an America that is more fair and more free and more just than the one Dr. King addressed that day. We are right to savor that slow but certain progress, progress that's expressed itself in a million ways, large and small, across this Nation every single day, as people of all colors and creeds live together, and work together, and fight alongside one another, and learn together, and build together, and love one another. <p>So it is right for us to celebrate today Dr. King's dream and his vision of unity. And yet it is also important on this day to remind ourselves that such progress did not come easily, that Dr. King's faith was hard won, that it sprung out of a harsh reality and some bitter disappointments. <p>It is right for us to celebrate Dr. King's marvelous oratory, but it is worth remembering that progress did not come from words alone. Progress was hard. Progress was purchased through enduring the smack of billy clubs and the blast of firehoses. It was bought with days in jail cells and nights of bomb threats. For every victory during the height of the civil rights movement, there were setbacks, and there were defeats. <p>We forget now, but during his life, Dr. King wasn't always considered a unifying figure. Even after rising to prominence, even after winning the Nobel Peace Prize, Dr. King was vilified by many, denounced as a rabble-rouser and an agitator, a communist and a radical. He was even attacked by his own people, by those who felt he was going too fast or those who felt he was going too slow, by those who felt he shouldn't meddle in issues like the Vietnam war or the rights of union workers. We know from his own testimony the doubts and the pain this caused him and that the controversy that would swirl around his actions would last until the fateful day he died. <p>I raise all this because nearly 50 years after the March on Washington, our work, Dr. King's work, is not yet complete. We gather here at a moment of great challenge and great change. In the first decade of this new century, we have been tested by war and by tragedy, by an economic crisis and its aftermath that has left millions out of work and poverty on the rise and millions more just struggling to get by. Indeed, even before this crisis struck, we had endured a decade of rising inequality and stagnant wages. In too many troubled neighborhoods across the country, the conditions of our poorest citizens appear little changed from what existed 50 years ago: neighborhoods with underfunded schools and broken-down slums, inadequate health care, constant violence, neighborhoods in which too many young people grow up with little hope and few prospects for the future. <p>Our work is not done. And so on this day, in which we celebrate a man and a movement that did so much for this country, let us draw strength from those earlier struggles. First and foremost, let us remember that change has never been quick. Change has never been simple or without controversy. Change depends on persistence. Change requires determination. It took a full decade before the moral guidance of <i>Brown</i> v. <i>Board of Education</i> was translated into the enforcement measures of the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act, but those 10 long years did not lead Dr. King to give up. He kept on pushing, he kept on speaking, he kept on marching until change finally came. <p>And then when, even after the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act passed, African Americans still found themselves trapped in pockets of poverty across the country, Dr. King didn't say those laws were a failure, he didn't say this is too hard, he didn't say let's settle for what we got and go home. Instead, he said, let's take those victories and broaden our mission to achieve not just civil and political equality, but also economic justice; let's fight for a living wage and better schools and jobs for all who are willing to work. In other words, when met with hardship, when confronting disappointment, Dr. King refused to accept what he called the \\"isness\\" of today. He kept pushing towards the \\"oughtness\\" of tomorrow. <p>And so as we think about all the work that we must do: rebuilding an economy that can compete on a global stage; and fixing our schools so that every child&mdash;not just some, but every child&mdash;gets a world-class education; and making sure that our health care system is affordable and accessible to all and that our economic system is one in which everybody gets a fair shake and everybody does their fair share. Let us not be trapped by what is. We can't be discouraged by what is. We've got to keep pushing for what ought to be, the America we ought to leave to our children, mindful that the hardships we face are nothing compared to those Dr. King and his fellow marchers faced 50 years ago and that if we maintain our faith, in ourselves and in the possibilities of this Nation, there is no challenge we cannot surmount. <p>And just as we draw strength from Dr. King's struggles, so must we draw inspiration from his constant insistence on the oneness of man, the belief in his words that \\"we are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny.\\" It was that insistence, rooted in his Christian faith, that led him to tell a group of angry young protesters, \\"I love you as I love my own children,\\" even as one threw a rock that glanced off his neck. <p>It was that insistence, that belief that God resides in each of us, from the high to the low, in the oppressor and the oppressed, that convinced him that people and systems could change. It fortified his belief in nonviolence. It permitted him to place his faith in a government that had fallen short of its ideals. It led him to see his charge not only as freeing Black America from the shackles of discrimination, but also freeing many Americans from their own prejudices and freeing Americans of every color from the depredations of poverty. <p>And so at this moment, when our politics appear so sharply polarized and faith in our institutions so greatly diminished, we need more than ever to take heed of Dr. King's teachings. He calls on us to stand in the other person's shoes, to see through their eyes, to understand their pain. He tells us that we have a duty to fight against poverty even if we are well off, to care about the child in the decrepit school even if our own children are doing fine, to show compassion toward the immigrant family with the knowledge that most of us are only a few generations removed from similar hardships. <p>To say that we are bound together as one people and must constantly strive to see ourselves in one another is not to argue for a false unity that papers over our differences and ratifies an unjust status quo. As was true 50 years ago, as has been true throughout human history, those with power and privilege will often decry any call for change as divisive. They'll say any challenge to the existing arrangements are unwise and destabilizing. Dr. King understood that peace without justice was no peace at all, that aligning our reality with our ideals often requires the speaking of uncomfortable truths and the creative tension of nonviolent protest. <p>But he also understood that to bring about true and lasting change, there must be the possibility of reconciliation, that any social movement has to channel this tension through the spirit of love and mutuality. <p>If he were alive today, I believe he would remind us that the unemployed worker can rightly challenge the excesses of Wall Street without demonizing all who work there, that the businessman can enter tough negotiations with his company's union without vilifying the right to collectively bargain. He would want us to know we can argue fiercely about the proper size and role of government without questioning each other's love for this country, with the knowledge that in this democracy, government is no distant object, but is rather an expression of our common commitments to one another. He would call on us to assume the best in each other rather than the worst and challenge one another in ways that ultimately heal rather than wound. <p>In the end, that's what I hope my daughters take away from this monument. I want them to come away from here with a faith in what they can accomplish when they are determined and working for a righteous cause. I want them to come away from here with a faith in other people and a faith in a benevolent God. This sculpture, massive and iconic as it is, will remind them of Dr. King's strength, but to see him only as larger than life would do a disservice to what he taught us about ourselves. He would want them to know that he had setbacks, because they will have setbacks. He would want them to know that he had doubts, because they will have doubts. He would want them to know that he was flawed, because all of us have flaws. <p>It is precisely because Dr. King was a man of flesh and blood and not a figure of stone that he inspires us so. His life, his story, tells us that change can come if you don't give up. He would not give up, no matter how long it took, because in the smallest hamlets and the darkest slums, he had witnessed the highest reaches of the human spirit, because in those moments when the struggle seemed most hopeless, he had seen men and women and children conquer their fear, because he had seen hills and mountains made low and rough places made plain, and the crooked places made straight and God make a way out of no way. <p>And that is why we honor this man, because he had faith in us. And that is why he belongs on this Mall, because he saw what we might become. That is why Dr. King was so quintessentially American, because for all the hardships we've endured, for all our sometimes tragic history, ours is a story of optimism and achievement and constant striving that is unique upon this Earth. And that is why the rest of the world still looks to us to lead. This is a country where ordinary people find in their hearts the courage to do extraordinary things, the courage to stand up in the face of the fiercest resistance and despair and say this is wrong, and this is right; we will not settle for what the cynics tell us we have to accept and we will reach again and again, no matter the odds, for what we know is possible. <p>That is the conviction we must carry now in our hearts. As tough as times may be, I know we will overcome. I know there are better days ahead. I know this because of the man towering over us. I know this because all he and his generation endured, we are here today in a country that dedicated a monument to that legacy. <p>And so with our eyes on the horizon and our faith squarely placed in one another, let us keep striving, let us keep struggling, let us keep climbing toward that promised land of a nation and a world that is more fair and more just and more equal for every single child of God. <p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"228" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Millers Creek! It is good to be here in Millers Creek. It is great to be back in North Carolina. You know, if&mdash;I know it's a little warm out here, so if anybody wants to take their jacket off, please feel free. Some of you guys loosen your ties there. <p>I am thrilled to be here with all of you. I want to thank all the Blackhawks who are here. I want to thank the Blackhawks band. I want to thank the Struttin' Hawks. <p>I want to especially thank Dr. Stephen Laws for the great introduction, but also for his service. He's about to retire soon, so give him a big round of applause. The Blackhawks principal, Dr. Wayne Shepherd, is here. And I know that there are a few Mountaineers here as well, so&mdash;[<i>applause</i>].<i> </i>I also want to thank your Lieutenant Governor, Walter Dalton, and the mayor of North Wilkesboro, Robert Johnson. <p>Now, I'm down here today because I decided it was time to get out of Washington. I wanted to hit the open road and come visit some of the most beautiful parts of this great country of ours. We just had an unbelievable drive. We came across from Asheville, stopped in Marion for some barbecue, went to the general store in Boone to buy some candy. Halloween is coming up, so I had to stock up a little bit. [<i>Laughter</i>] Saw the mountains, saw some lakes, saw all the wonderful people in this part of the country. <p>And somebody asked me, why do you come back to North Carolina so much? I say, I&mdash;there is just something&mdash;the people of North Carolina are so nice. They are nice people, they are gracious, and they are kind. And even the folks who don't vote for me are nice. So I love North Carolina. But I also thought it would be good to hear from all of you, because it seems as if your voices aren't being heard in Washington right now. <p>This is a tough time for a lot of Americans. Here in North Carolina, a lot of folks have spent months looking for work. Others are doing their best just to scrape by. You give up nights with the family to save on gas or make the mortgage, folks postponing their retirement so they can send their kids to college. <p>Now, I think we all understand most of these problems were not caused overnight. We've been dealing for&mdash;some of these problems for a decade now: manufacturing leaving America to go overseas; we've had a health care system that didn't work and put burdens on families and businesses; we haven't had an energy policy in this country that makes sense and frees ourselves from dependence on foreign oil; our schools haven't done everything they need to to make sure our young people are trained and colleges become more affordable for too many young people. <p>So there are a lot of challenges that we won't solve overnight because they weren't caused overnight. It's going to take time to rebuild an America where hard work is valued and responsibility is rewarded. It's going to take time to rebuild an America where we restore a sense of security for middle class families and opportunity for folks who are trying to get into the middle class, an America with an economy that's built to last and built to compete, where we are out-educating and out-innovating and out-building every other nation on Earth. That's what we've got to build. And we've got to build an economy that works for everybody, not just some people. Not just the folks at the top, but for everybody. <p>Rebuilding this America will take time. But there are things we can do right now to put people back to work, things we can do right now to help middle class Americans get ahead, things we can do right now to give our economy the jolt that it needs. <p>So this is why I sent Congress awhile back the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" <p><i>Audience member.</i> Pass this bill! <p><i>The President.</i> Now&mdash;pass this bill. We need to pass this bill. Let me tell you about this bill. Somebody was just asking me about this bill. I said, look, this is the kind of bill that in the past would have been supported by Democrats and Republicans. It's completely paid for. It asks folks like me, who have been incredibly blessed, to pay a little bit more so that&mdash;to pay our fair share&mdash;folks making a million dollars or more&mdash;so that we can help folks who are struggling to get by. <p>Independent economists have said this jobs bill would create nearly 2 million jobs, grow the economy by nearly two extra percentage points. And that's not&mdash;that is not my opinion. That is not the opinion of somebody who works for me. That's the opinion of people whose job it is to analyze these things. Economists have said this would put people back to work. <p>But there are some folks in Washington who just aren't listening. Last week, all the Republicans in the Senate got together and blocked the jobs bill. They refused to even debate it. Now, keep in mind, one poll showed that about 63 percent of Americans support the ideas in this jobs bill. So why is it that a hundred percent of Republicans in the Senate voted against it? It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense. <p>Somebody asked me&mdash;we had a wonderful reporter come here, Dave Wagner from Charlotte, and he asked me, well, people tell me this is kind of a Republican area, so why would you come here instead of going to where there are a whole lot of Democrats? <p>I said, look, this is an American jobs act. It's not the Democratic jobs act. It's not the Republican jobs act. It's the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" We need to pass it. <p>Now, I want to be fair here. So to be fair, it turns out the Republicans, they've got their plan too. Ours is called the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" so they started out calling theirs the \\"Real American Jobs Act.\\" I said, all right, you don't get points for originality, but let's see what you got. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We took a look. It turns out the Republicans' jobs plan boils down to these ideas: they want to gut environmental regulations, they want to roll back Wall Street reform so that we end up with the same financial system we had that got us into this mess in the first place, and they want to repeal health care reform so that 30 million people won't have health insurance. That is what they call their \\"Real American Jobs Act.\\" It's inspiring stuff. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So let's do a comparison. We can do a comparison here. The Republican plan says that what's standing between us and full employment are laws that keep companies from polluting our air and our water. Our plan, on the other hand, says let's put construction workers back to work rebuilding our roads and bridges and schools. Let's put teachers back in the classroom where they belong. Let's make sure that we're not laying off police officers and firefighters, and let's help veterans get a job after they have defended this country. <p>Their plan says we'll be better off if 30 million Americans don't have health insurance. Our plan says we'll be better off if we give a tax cut to virtually every small business and every worker in America. Their plan says we need to go back to the old days when Wall Street wrote its own rules. Our plan says we need to make it easier for small businesses to grow and to hire and to push this economy forward. <p>Now, remember I said&mdash;here's the kicker. Remember I said that these independent economists had evaluated our plan. We presented it, not folks who work for us. We said, all right, what do you think this will do? They said, this will create up to 2 million jobs; that will grow the economy. One of the same economists took a look at the Republican plan, and you know what they said? They said, well, this isn't going to do much to help the economy in the short term; it could actually lead up to losing jobs, not gaining them. So much for their jobs plan. <p>So I'll let you decide which is the real American jobs plan. Because the fact is we face a choice in this country right now. I want to work with Republicans in any way possible to create jobs right now. And the fact is&mdash;let me say this&mdash;let me say this. I have bent over backwards. I have shown myself to be willing again and again to try to cooperate with Republicans. I've tried so hard to cooperate with Republicans, Democrats have been getting mad at me. [<i>Laughter</i>] But the reason I have is because my attitude is, when we're in a time that's difficult, we can't afford to play politics. When we're in a time that's difficult, we should try to find common ground. <p>Just last week, Congress passed a bipartisan trade agreement with Korea that will allow us to sell more goods into that country. Now, we've got a bunch of Hyundais and Kias here. I think that's fine. But I want to see some Koreans driving Fords and Chryslers and Chevys&mdash;open up those markets. <p>So my attitude is, it's been&mdash;it's way overdue for us to stop trying to satisfy some branch of the party and take some commonsense steps to help America and to create jobs and to help the middle class. <p>And that's why, even though they said no the first time, we're going to give them another chance. I think maybe the first time, because we had it all in one bill, maybe they didn't study it all properly. Maybe they didn't know what they were voting against. So we're going to chop it up into some bite-sized pieces and give them another chance to look out for your jobs instead of looking out for their own jobs. <p>So first thing we're going to do is, this week Congress is scheduled to take a vote on whether we're going to put hundreds of thousands of police officers and firefighters and teachers back on the job. Well, are we going to help State and local governments who are under a severe budget crunch make sure that they are not laying off teachers at a time when we know we've got to excel in education? <p>All over the country and right here in North Carolina folks are losing their jobs. Nearly 2,000 classroom positions have been eliminated this school year. And here at West Wilkes High I know some teachers weren't rehired, you've had to increase class sizes, and there's almost no money for things like textbooks. This makes no sense. I can tell you the last thing a superintendent wants to do is to lose good teachers. Your Governor has been fighting against education cuts as well. It's unfair to our kids. It undermines our future. <p>How are we going to compete when countries like Korea and Germany who are hiring teachers and preparing their kids for the global economy, and we're laying off teachers left and right? One North Carolina teacher said, \\"We didn't cause the poor economy; if anything, we built the good parts.\\" And he's absolutely right. Our teachers built the good parts of this economy. They give our kids a chance to compete. They give our kids a future. That's why we've got to look out for them. And this jobs bill does it. <p>My jobs plan would mean more than 13,000 education jobs here in North Carolina. So when the Senate votes this week, you all have to tell them it's time to put our teachers back to work. <p>We're going to give Members of Congress a chance to vote on the other components of the bill, so we're going to ask them to vote on whether construction workers should sit idly by while China is building the newest roads and bridges and airports or whether we should put our construction workers back to work rebuilding America so that we can compete in the 21st century. That's a choice that Congress is going to have to make. <p>Congress is going to have to make a decision whether they decide to help unemployed Americans who are struggling or whether we should make sure that we give them the experience and support that they need to get back in the workforce and build a better life. <p>We'll ask Congress whether we should stand pat and let people like me take advantage of corporate loopholes and pay less in taxes, or should we ask folks like me to pay my fair share so that we give tax cuts to middle class families and small businesses? <p>These are the choices that Members of Congress are going to have to make in the coming weeks. And if they vote against these proposals, if they vote against taking steps that we know will put Americans back to work, they've got to explain not to me, but to you, why they're doing it. They don't have to answer to me, but they do have to answer to you. You sent them there. They're going to have to come down here to North Carolina and tell kids why they can't have their teachers back. They're going to have to look construction workers in the eye and tell them why they shouldn't be rebuilding roads and bridges and airports. They're going to have to explain to working families why their taxes are going up while the richest Americans and largest corporations are getting a sweet deal. <p>So that's where you guys come in. Some of these folks are just not getting the message, so I've got to make sure your voices are heard. I need you to give Congress a piece of your mind. Tell these Members of Congress that they don't work for special interest, they don't work for lobbyists, they work for you. And if they're not delivering, you need to let them know. And I don't know whether you're going to get on the phone or you're going to tweet them or write them a letter or pay them a visit, but tell them to do the right thing. Tell them what's at stake here. <p>There are too many of our fellow Americans hurting, and you can't stand by and do nothing. Now is the time to act. And by the way, there's going to be an election, and we're going to have a convention right here in North Carolina. But that convention is 11 months away. The election is 13 months away. And folks can't afford to wait that long. <p>They can't sit around just listening to a bunch of political arguments. They need action, and they need it now. Because folks are living paycheck to paycheck. There are folks who are living week to week. And I don't accept the idea that in the face of that kind of hardship that we're going to stand by and do nothing. That's not who we are. We are Americans. And you know what, we keep working at things until we get them fixed. <p>Yes, we had a problem with the financial crisi, and the economy is not where it needs to be, but we can fix it. We just got to stay on it. We got to be persistent. We got to keep on trying things until folks are back to work and the economy is growing again. And we've got to muster that spirit right now: a \\"can do\\" spirit. Not a \\"no we can't\\" spirit, but a \\"yes we can\\" spirit. We don't need a \\"why we can't\\" attitude, we need a \\"why we can\\" attitude. <p>I know that sometimes everybody watches television, and you see what's going on in Washington, and you get discouraged. But I just want you to remember that we've been through tougher times before. This is a country that's been through a Revolutionary War, a Civil War. We got through slavery. We got through a depression. We got through World War I. We got through World War II. We have been through tougher times before. We are going to get through this, and we're going to get through it together. Because Americans don't quit. <p>So let's meet this moment. Let's get to work. And let's show the world once again why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. <p>God bless you. God bless North Carolina. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"229" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Asheville! It is good to be back in Asheville, North Carolina! I love Asheville. In fact, I think I should be on the tourism promotion bureau of Asheville. Every time I meet somebody, I say, have you guys gone down to Asheville? That's a nice place to be. So it is wonderful to be back in one of my favorite parts of the country. Our family has great memories of staying here, and it's always nice to get out of Washington&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and breathe some of that mountain air. <p>I want to recognize a couple of people who are here. First of all, one of the outstanding Senators in the United States Senate, your Senator, Kay Hagan, is in the house. Kay's daughter just got married this weekend, so, congratulations to Kay's daughter. We are so thrilled by that. <p>And we also have your lovely and intelligent mayor of Asheville, Terry Bellamy is in the house. The last time I was here Terry said she could play basketball. And so we went out&mdash;it turned out she was a cheerleader and not a basketball player. [<i>Laughter</i>] But she's doing an outstanding job overall. Thank you both for coming. <p>Now, as you may have noticed, I came here on a plane. It's a pretty nice plane. But I'm leaving on a bus. The bus is pretty hard to miss. And over the next few days, we are going to take this bus through North Carolina and Virginia, and I'm going to get a chance to hear from folks about how they're doing, what direction they want to take the country in. <p>And I'll be doing a little bit of talking, but mostly I'm going to do a whole lot of listening, because there doesn't seem to be much listening going on in Washington these days. People don't seem to be paying much attention to the folks who sent them there in the first place, and that's a shame. Because once you escape the partisanship and the political point-scoring in Washington, once you start really start listening to the American people, it's pretty clear what our country and your leaders should be spending their time on. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Jobs! <p><i>The President.</i> We should be talking about jobs. When you hear what's going on out in the country, when you take the time to listen, you understand that a lot of folks are hurting out there. Too many people are looking for work. Too many families are looking for that sense of security that's been slipping away for the past decade now. <p>Here in North Carolina, you've got thousands of construction workers who lost their jobs when the housing bubble went burst. Some of those construction workers are here today. They've got experience. They've got skills. All they want is to be back on the job site doing what they do best. <p>And there is plenty of work to go around. In this airport, right here in Asheville, you've got a runway that needs to be widened and repaired. You've got a taxiway that's in the wrong spot, which means that planes sometimes get too close together. So we could be doing some work right here at the Asheville airport that would help boost tourism, help to boost the economy here, put people to work right now. <p>But it's not just here in Asheville. All across the State, you've got highways that need to be built. You've got bridges that need to be fixed. You've got schools that need to be modernized. And that's what America used to do best. We used to build things: built the transcontinental railroad, built the Golden Gate Bridge, the Hoover Dam, the Grand Central Station. There's no reason why we should sit here and watch the best highways and the newest airports being built in China. We should be building them right here in the United States of America, right here in North Carolina. <p>Now, our problems were a long time in the making. We're not going to solve them overnight. But there are things we can do right now to put people back to work right now. There are things we should do right now to give the economy the jolt that it needs. So that's why I sent to Congress the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" <p>Keep in mind, Asheville, this is the kind of bill containing the kinds of proposals that in the past have received support from Democrats and Republicans. It's completely paid for by asking our wealthiest citizens, folks making more than a million dollars a year, to pay their fair share. <p>Independent economists&mdash;not my economists, but independent economists&mdash;have said this jobs bill would create nearly 2 million jobs. That's not my opinion. It's not the opinion of folks who work for me. It's the opinion of people who evaluate these kinds of things for a living. It says this bill will help put people back to work and give our economy a boost right away. <p>But apparently none of this matters to the Republicans in the Senate, because last week they got together to block this bill. They said no to putting teachers and construction workers back on the job. They said no to rebuilding our roads and our bridges and our airports. They said no to cutting taxes for middle class families and small businesses, when all they've been doing is cutting taxes for the wealthiest Americans. They said no to helping veterans find jobs. <p>Essentially, they said no to you, because it turns out one poll found that 63 percent of Americans support the ideas in this jobs bill. So 63 percent of Americans support the jobs bill that I put forward; a hundred percent of Republicans in the Senate voted against it. That doesn't make any sense, does it? <p><i>Audience members.</i> No! <p><i>The President.</i> No, it does not. <p>Now, it turns out that the Republicans have a plan too. I want to be fair. They call&mdash;they put forward this plan last week. They called it the \\"Real American Jobs Act.\\" The \\"real one,\\" that's what they called it, just in case you were wondering. [<i>Laughter</i>] So let's take a look at what the Republican American jobs act looks like. It turns out the Republican plan boils down to a few basic ideas: they want to gut regulations, they want to let Wall Street do whatever it wants, they want to drill more, and they want to repeal health care reform. That's their jobs plan. <p>So let's do a little comparison here. The Republican plan says that what's been standing in the way between us and full employment are laws that keep companies from polluting as much as they want. On the other hand, our plan puts teachers, construction workers, firefighters, and police officers back on the job. <p>Their plan says the big problem we have is that we helped to get 30 million Americans health insurance. They figure we should throw those folks off the health insurance rolls; somehow that's going to help people find jobs. Our plan says we're better off if every small business and worker in America gets a tax cut, and that's what's in my jobs bill. <p>Their plan says we should go back to the good old days before the financial crisis when Wall Street was writing its own rules. They want to roll back all the reforms that we've put into place. Our plan says we need to make it easier for small businesses to grow and hire and push this economy forward. <p>All right, so you've gotten a sense&mdash;you got their plan, and then we got my plan. My plan says we're going to put teachers back in the classroom, construction workers back to work rebuilding America, rebuilding our schools, tax cuts for small businesses, tax cuts for hiring veterans, tax cuts if you give your worker a raise. That's my plan. <p>And then you got their plan, which is let's have dirtier air, dirtier water, less people with health insurance. <p>All right so, so far at least, I feel better about my plan. [<i>Laughter</i>] But let's admit I'm a little biased. So remember those independent economists who said our plan would create jobs, maybe as many as almost 2 million jobs, grow the economy by as much as 2 percent? So one of the same economists that took a look at our plan took a look at the Republican plan, and they said, well, this won't do much to help the economy in the short term; it could actually cost us jobs. We could actually lose jobs with their plan. <p>So I'll let you decide which plan is the real \\"American Jobs Act.\\" <p><i>Audience members.</i> Four more years! Four more years! <p><i>The President.</i> Look, I appreciate the \\"4 more years,\\" but right now I'm thinking about the next 13 months. Because, yes, we've got an election coming up, but that election is a long ways away, and a lot of folks can't wait. A lot of folks are living paycheck to paycheck. A lot of folks are living week to week. You've got kids right now who've lost their teachers because at the local level you ended up having layoffs. You've got bridges right now that are crumbling and deteriorating. So we don't have time to wait. And we've got a choice right now&mdash;right now. <p>Look, I want to work with Republicans on ways to create jobs right now. And where they've got a decent idea I'm happy to work with them. Just last week, we passed a bipartisan trade agreement with Korea that will allow us to sell more goods overseas and support almost 70,000 jobs here at home. Because my attitude is, if we're buying Hyundais and Kias, I want them buying some Fords and Chryslers and Chevys. <p>So if they're serious about creating jobs, I'm ready to go. I don't think anybody doubts that I have gone out of my way to try to find areas of cooperation with these Republicans. In fact, some of you have been mad at me for trying too hard to cooperate with them, haven't you? Some of you&mdash;I get some of your letters and your e-mails. You're all like, why are you cooperating with them all the time? Because it can't be all about politics; sometimes we've got to try to actually get something done. And so I'm eager to see them stand up with a serious approach to putting people back to work. <p>It's time to focus less on satisfying some wing of the party and more on commonsense ideas that we can take to put people to work right now and help the middle class and help people get into the middle class, because there are a whole bunch of folks who are hurting out there and have never gotten the opportunity. <p>So we're going to give Members of Congress another chance to step up to the plate and do the right thing. Kay and I, we've decided, let's go ahead and let them do the right thing one more time. We're going to give them another chance to do their jobs by looking after your jobs. <p>So this week, I'm asking Members of Congress to vote&mdash;what we're going to do is we're going to break up my jobs bill. Maybe they just couldn't understand the whole all at once. [<i>Laughter</i>] So we're going to break it up into bite-size pieces so they can take a thoughtful approach to this legislation. <p>So this week, I'm going to ask Members of Congress to vote on one component of the plan, which is whether we should put hundreds of thousands of teachers back in the classroom and cops back on the street and firefighters back to work. So Members of Congress will have a chance to decide: What kind of future do our kids deserve? Should we stand up for men and women who are often digging into their own pockets to buy school supplies, when we know that the education of our children is going to determine our future as a nation? <p>They're going to have a chance to decide: Do we want to make sure that we're looking after the men and women who protect our communities every day, our first-responders, our firefighters, our police officers? And then, after they've taken that vote, we're going to give Members of Congress a chance to vote on whether we're going to put construction workers back to work. Should they be just sitting around while roads and bridges and runways fall apart, or should we put them back to work doing the work that America needs done? <p>After that, we'll give them a chance to decide whether unemployed Americans should continue to struggle, or whether we should give them the experience and support they need to get back in the workforce and build a better life. And we'll ask them to take a stand on whether we should ask people like me to pay a little more so middle class families and small businesses can pay a little less and end up creating the kinds of jobs we need in this economy. <p>So those are the choices that Members of Congress are going to face in the coming weeks. And if they vote against these proposals again&mdash;like I said, maybe they just didn't understand the whole thing, so we're breaking it up into pieces. If they vote against taking steps that we know will put Americans back to work right now&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>Audience members.</i> Right now! <p><i>The President.</i> &mdash;&mdash;right now&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>Audience members.</i> Right now! <p><i>The President.</i> &mdash;&mdash;then they're not going to have to answer to me. They're going to have to answer to you. They're going to have to come down to North Carolina and tell kids why they can't have their teachers back. They're going to come down to North Carolina and look those construction workers in the eye and tell them why they can't get to work doing the work that America needs done. They're going to have to come down here and explain to working families why their taxes are going up while the richest Americans and largest corporations keep getting sweet deals in the Tax Code. They're going to have to come down and explain to you why they don't have an answer for how we're putting Americans to work right now. <p>And if they support the Republican plan, they'll have to explain to you why they'd rather deny health care to millions of Americans and let corporations and banks write their own rules instead of supporting proposals that we know will create jobs right now. <p>So that's where all of you come in. Some of these folks just aren't getting the message, so I need you to send them a message. I need you to make your voices heard. I need you to give Congress a piece of your mind. These Members of Congress work for you. If they're not delivering, it's time to let them know. It's time to get on the phone and write a letter, tweet, pay a visit. Tell your elected leaders to do the right thing. Remind them what's at stake: putting people back to work, restoring economic security for middle class families and helping create a ladder for folks who aren't middle class yet to get into the middle class, rebuilding an economy where hard work is valued and responsibility is rewarded, building an economy that lasts for the future and for our children. <p>If we want to actually lower the deficit and invest in our future, if we want the best roads and best bridges and best airports here in the United States, if we want to continue to invest in our technology and our basic science and research so that we can continue to invent new drugs and make sure the new cars of the future that are running on electricity are made right here in North Carolina and made right here in America, if we want to do all those things, then we got to step up. We got to get to work. We got to get busy right now. <p>We can't do nothing. Too many folks are hurting out there to do nothing. We need to act right now. We are not a people who sit by and do nothing when things aren't right. We're Americans. If something is not working, we go out there and fix it. We stick with it until the problem is fixed. That's the spirit we need to muster right now. <p>Let's meet this moment. Let's get to work. Let's show the world once again why the United States is the greatest country on Earth. <p>God bless you. God bless the United States. And thank you, Asheville. Thank you, North Carolina.\" "
"230" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you very much. Everybody, please have a seat. Have a seat. Hello, Jamestown! It is great to be here in North Carolina. Great to be here at the Ragsdale YMCA. <p>I want to first of all thank Linda for the outstanding introduction. Give her a big round of applause. I want to also acknowledge your Congressman, Mel Watt, in the house. Mel is doing an outstanding job each and every day. I also want to acknowledge your mayor, Keith Volz, for the fine work that he's doing. He invited me back down here. He said there are some pretty good golf courses down here and some fine restaurants, so I'm going to have to sample both the next time I'm here. <p>I had a chance to talk to Linda and a group of other teachers before I came out here. And I just want to say thank you to her, not only for the introduction, but also for teaching. I got a chance to learn about the extraordinary work that Guilford Technical Community College is doing to train new teachers and place them in schools where kids need them the most. And one of the best ways to make a difference in the life of our Nation is to make a difference in the life of every child. So I want to thank all the teachers who are in the audience for answering the call, because you are making our Nation stronger. <p>Now, you may have heard we're taking a little road trip this week. It's a chance to get out of Washington. [<i>Laughter</i>] I must admit I'm traveling not in the usual RV. The bus we got parked outside is&mdash;Secret Service did a full going over, so it's decked out pretty good. [<i>Laughter</i>] But it's a wonderful opportunity to get out of Washington and hit the road. We stopped for a little North Carolina barbecue and sweet tea along the way. We&mdash;some hushpuppies. Don't tell Michelle exactly what was on the menu. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But the main reason we're out here, in addition to seeing the extraordinary views and meeting the wonderful people&mdash;there's just something about North Carolina. People are just gracious and kind. Even the folks who don't vote for me are nice to me. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I&mdash;that's just a&mdash;that's a nice thing about this State. <p>The most important thing I wanted to do was to hear from people like you, because it doesn't seem like your voices are being heard in Washington right now. Times are tough for a lot of Americans. And here in North Carolina, there are a lot of folks who have been spending months looking for work and still haven't found it yet. A lot of people are doing their best just to get by. Maybe they've been able to keep their job, but hours have been cut back or some of their pay and benefits have been rolled back; people who are deciding, you know what, we can't afford taking that night out with the family because we've got to save on gas or we've got to make the mortgage or we've got to postpone our retirement to make sure that our child can go to college. <p>It's tough. It's hard. And I think most Americans know that our economic problems weren't caused overnight, so they recognize they won't be solved overnight. Even before the most recent economic crisis&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;a lot of these challenges took a decade to build up, in some cases longer than a decade. Before the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, wages and incomes had been flat for the vast majority of Americans for a decade. So people were struggling even before the crisis hit. <p>What that means is it's going to take time for us to rebuild an America where hard work and responsibility are rewarded. It will take time to rebuild an America where we restore security and opportunity for folks who are in the middle class or trying to get into the middle class. It's going to take time to rebuild an economy that's built to last and built to compete, an economy that works for everybody, not just for folks at the top. <p>Rebuilding this America where everybody has got a fair shake and everybody gives their fair share, an economy where you know if you do the right thing and you're looking after your family and you're working hard and you educate yourself and you're educating your kids and you're contributing back to the community, that you know that you will be able to enjoy that piece of the American Dream&mdash;restoring that economy will take some time. But we are going to get it done, Jamestown. We are going to keep fighting, and we're going to keep working to put people back to work, to help middle class Americans get ahead and to give our economy the jolt that it needs. <p>There are things we can do right now to help our economy. And that's why I sent Congress the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" Now, this is a jobs bill with proposals of the sort that in the past have been supported by Democrats and Republicans. It's paid for by asking our wealthiest citizens, folks who make more than a million dollars a year, to pay their fair share. Independent economists have said this jobs bill would create nearly 2 million jobs. That's not my opinion, that's not the opinion of people who work for me. The people who study the economy for a living are telling us that this jobs bill would put people back to work right away and grow our economy at a time when the recovery has weakened. <p>But some folks in Washington don't seem to be listening. They don't seem to be listening. Just last week, all the Republicans in the Senate got together and blocked this jobs bill. They refused to even debate it. Now, keep in mind, one poll found that 63 percent of Americans support the ideas in this jobs bill, but a hundred percent of Republicans in the Senate voted against it. So the majority of the American people think it makes sense for us to put teachers back in the classroom and construction workers back to work and tax breaks for small businesses and tax breaks for folks who are hiring veterans, but we got a hundred percent \\"no\\" from Republicans in the Senate. <p>Now, that doesn't make any sense. Some people asked me yesterday why I was visiting Republican areas of North Carolina. I said, well, first of all, it's because I just like North Carolina. [<i>Laughter</i>] Second of all, I'm not the Democratic President or the Republican President, I'm the President. And third of all, I don't care if you're a Republican or a Democrat, because we're all Americans, and we are in this together. We don't need a Republican jobs act or a Democratic jobs act, we need a jobs act. We need to put people back to work right now. <p>As I said, the ideas we put forward are ideas that in the past have been supported by Democrats and Republicans. So the question is, what makes it different this time, other than that I proposed it? <p>Now, let me try to be fair. The Republicans did put out their own jobs bill. They called it the \\"Real American Jobs Act.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] So they don't get points for originality&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;but they put out the plan. And I said, okay, let's see what you got, because I want&mdash;nobody has a bigger interest than me in seeing Democrats and Republicans cooperate to get some stuff done. All right? I want that to happen. <p>So I said, let's see what you got. And here's what the plan boils down to: We're going to gut environmental regulations, we're going to drill more, we're going to roll back Wall Street reform, and we're going to repeal health care reform. Now, that's a plan, but it's not a jobs plan. And if you're wondering, I mean, we can just do a little bit of comparison shopping right now. We'll lift the hood and kick the tires and see our plan and their plan. <p>The Republican plan says that what's standing between us and full employment is that we're preventing companies from polluting our air and our water too much. We, on the other hand, have said that let's put teachers back in the classroom here in North Carolina and all across the country who've been laid off because budgets have been tight at the State or local level. Let's put construction workers back to work rebuilding roads and bridges and schools all across North Carolina and all across the country. And lets put veterans back on the job. All right, so those are two choices. <p>Their plan says we'll be better off if we deny 30 million Americans affordable health care choices and kick young people off their parent's health insurance plans. Our plan says we're better off if we give virtually every small business and worker in America a tax cut so that they've got more money in their pockets to hire more workers and to spend more at those wonderful restaurants that the mayor talked about. <p>Their plan says we need to go back to the good old days before the financial crisis when Wall Street wrote its own rules. Our plan says we need to make it easier for small businesses on Main Street to grow and to hire and to push the economy forward. <p>Now&mdash;so there's a contrast in approaches here. But here's the kicker. Remember that group of economists who said our jobs plan would create jobs? Well, one of those same economists took a look at the Republican plan and said that it could actually cost us jobs, that it wouldn't do much to help the economy right now when folks are hurting so bad. <p>So I&mdash;look, we can have an argument about how much regulation we should have. We can have an argument, if you want, about health care. I think we did the right thing. But don't pretend&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;but you can't pretend that creating dirtier air and water for our kids and fewer people on health care and less accountability on Wall Street is a jobs plan. <p>I think more teachers in the classroom is a jobs plan, more construction workers rebuilding our schools is a jobs plan, tax cuts for small-business owners and working families is a jobs plan. <p>That's the choice we face. And it's up to you to decide which plan is the real \\"American Jobs Act.\\" <p>I want to emphasize, I want to work with Republicans on ways to create jobs right now. I'm open to any serious idea. Just last week, Congress passed, on a bipartisan basis, a trade agreement that will allow us to start selling more goods into Korea. Because we buy an awful lot of Hyundais and Kias; I want them to buy some Fords and Chevys and Chryslers. Wherever we have the possibility to work together to move this economy forward, I'm going to seize on that opportunity. That's the kind of progress on the economy we can keep on making. But to do so, we've got to focus less on trying to satisfy one wing of one party. We've got to focus more on doing what it takes to help the American people. <p>And that's why we're going to give folks in Congress another chance. [<i>Laughter</i>] They said no the first time, but we're going to give them another chance to listen to you, to step up to the plate and do the right thing. We are going to give them another chance to do their jobs and look out for your jobs. <p>And it may be that just the bill was too big the first time; there was just too much stuff, and they weren't clear about what the jobs act would do. It was confusing to them. So what we're going to do is we're going to break it up into separate pieces&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and we're going to let them vote on each piece, one at a time. That way you can be crystal clear on where you stand on all the elements of the jobs bill. <p>The first vote that we asked Congress to take is scheduled for later this week. It's a vote that would put hundreds of thousands of police officers back on the beat, firefighters back on the job, and teachers like Linda back in the classroom where they belong. All right? So that's the first part. <p>All over the country, budget cuts are forcing schools to lay off teachers in startling numbers. Here in North Carolina, nearly 2,000 classroom positions have been eliminated for this school year. I visited a school in Millers Creek yesterday where they've had to increase class sizes. There's almost no money for things like textbooks. <p>I can tell you, the last thing a superintendent wants to do is lose teachers. Your Governor has been fighting these education cuts. But it is unfair to our kids and it undermines our future not to invest in education. <p>I had the President of South Korea here, and they are hiring teachers in droves. He's importing teachers from other countries to teach their kids. Their attitude is, we want our kids learning English when they're in first grade. And we're laying off teachers here in North Carolina? We're not going to be able to compete. Our kids will fall behind. <p>One North Carolina teacher said, \\"We didn't cause the poor economy. If anything, we built the good parts.\\" And that teacher is absolutely right. Our teachers build the good parts of our economy. It gives our children the skills they need to compete. It gives our children a future that is bright. We've got to invest in our education system. So our plan would mean about 13,000 education jobs right here in North Carolina alone. That's why I need you all to tell the Senate, let's put our teachers back to work. <p>All right, so that's part number one. Part number two: We're going to give Members of Congress a chance to vote on whether our construction workers should sit around doing nothing while China builds the newest airports and the fastest railroads. That doesn't seem to me like the American way. We used to always have the best stuff. Right? People from all around the world would come to America to see the Golden Gate Bridge and the Hoover Dam and Grand Central station and the interstate highways. We have dropped in terms of infrastructure in this country. We're no longer number one. And that's not how we built ourselves into a great economic superpower. <p>So Congress will have a chance to say whether unemployed Americans should continue to struggle or whether we are going to put them back to work making our schools state of the art, making sure that our roads and bridges aren't crumbling. They're going to have a chance to vote on whether or not we're going to give people who are long-term unemployed a chance to get back on the job and reform our unemployment insurance system and build a better life. They're going to get a chance to take a stand on whether we should ask people like me to pay our fair share so that middle class families and small businesses can get a tax cut. <p>I want to&mdash;let me just say this. I'm going to make a point here about taxes, because there's been a lot of misinformation out there. I was watching the football game last night, and they had some ad that didn't really make much sense. [<i>Laughter</i>] So let me just be crystal clear just in case your friends or neighbors ask about this. What we have said is, in order to pay for the jobs plan and to close our deficit, we should ask the very wealthiest Americans, top 2 percent, to pay a little bit more. I can afford it. Warren Buffett, he can afford it. And the fact of the matter is, is that some of the wealthiest Americans pay a lower tax rate than middle class Americans. <p>Now&mdash;so the question is, are we going to set up a tax system that is fair, that helps us shrink the deficit, helps us to pay off our debts, and helps put people back to work? But I want to be clear: The vast majority of Americans would see a tax cut under this jobs bill. We've been cutting taxes. We haven't been raising taxes, we've been cutting taxes. And we can continue to keep taxes low for middle class and working families if we ask those at the very top to do their fair share. And a lot of them are willing to do it if they feel like it's going to make the country stronger and reduce our deficit and put people back to work. <p>So don't be bamboozled. [<i>Laughter</i>] Don't fall for this notion that somehow the jobs act is proposing to raise your taxes. It's just not true. Under this&mdash;here's what will happen. If we don't pass the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" if we do not pass the provision in there that extends the payroll tax cut that we passed in December, most people here, your taxes will go up by a thousand dollars. So voting no against the jobs bill is voting in favor of middle class families' income taxes going up. And that's a fact. Don't take my word for it; all the reporters here, they can check on the facts on this thing. That's the truth. <p>And I've got to emphasize this: When you talk to most people who've done well, who've been blessed by this country, they're patriots. They want to do the right thing. They're willing to do more. They want their money well spent; they want to make sure that it's not being wasted. That's why we cut a trillion dollars out of the Federal budget this summer. It's why I'm proposing to cut more to close the deficit. But people are willing to do a little bit more because everybody understands we are in this together. That's how America has always moved forward. <p>So look, here's the bottom line. Congress has a choice to make in the coming weeks. If they vote against the proposals I'm talking about, if they vote against taking steps that we know will put Americans back to work right now, they don't have to answer to me, they're going to have to answer to you. They're going to have to come down here to North Carolina and tell kids why they can't have their teachers back in the classroom. They're going to have to tell those construction workers, look them in the eye and say, you know what, sorry, we can't afford to rebuild those broken-down roads and those crumbling bridges. They're going to have to explain to working families why their taxes are going up while the richest Americans and the largest corporations keep on getting a sweet deal. <p>And that's where you come in. You are the ones who are going to be able to persuade them to think differently. We need your voices heard. I need you to give Congress a piece of your mind. Mel Watt's already doing fine, so you don't need to talk to Mel. He's on the program. But these Members of Congress, they work for you. And if they're not delivering, it's time you let them know. You've got to get on the phone or pay them a visit or write them a letter or tweet, whatever you do&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and remind them to do the right thing. <p>Remind them of what's at stake here. Remind them that \\"no we can't\\" is no way to face tough times. When a depression hit we didn't say, \\"No we can't.\\" When World War II came, we didn't say, \\"No we can't.\\" Our grandparents and great-grandparents, they didn't say: \\"Nothing we can do about this. Let's just spend all our time arguing in Washington.\\" They didn't say, \\"It's too hard.\\" They didn't say, \\"We give up.\\" They said, \\"Let's roll up our sleeves, let's fight back.\\" And America won. When the space race started, Kennedy didn't say, \\"We can't go to the moon; that's too far.\\" He said: \\"Come on, America. Let's go.\\" America won. We can win the space race. When we confront tough times, we don't give in to what is, we think about what ought to be. <p>There are too many Americans who are hurting right now for us to just sit by and do nothing. Now is the time to act. Now is the time to say, \\"Yes we can.\\" We can create jobs. We can restore the middle class. We can reduce our deficits. We can build an economy that works for everybody. We are not a people who just sit around doing nothing when things aren't right. We are Americans, and we stand up and we decide that the problem's going to be fixed. And that's the spirit we need to muster right now. <p>Let's meet this moment. Let's get to work. And let's remind everybody just why the United States of America is the greatest country on Earth. <p>Thank you. God bless you. God bless North Carolina. God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"231" "\"Hope you're enjoying the beautiful North Carolina day. We are here to talk to both teachers and soon-to-be teachers and folks who are training teachers and talking about the importance of education to the economy. <p>I think all of us are aware at this point that, in this 21st-century global economy, how well we do as a country is going to depend on how well we train our young people. And it starts early. So we're at a terrific early childhood education program here at the community college, where people who are interested in training very young children are getting the skills that they need. But we've also got a couple of teachers: one in fourth grade, one in ninth grade. <p>And so one of the concerns that I've had over the course of the last several months&mdash;in fact, the last couple of years&mdash;are the layoffs that we've seen in education and the cutbacks we've seen in education all across the country. States and local governments are under a big crunch. And at precisely the time when we need to be emphasizing education and putting our resources into education, we're seeing cutbacks all across the board. Teachers are losing their jobs. Schools are having to cut back on vital programs that are helping young people. <p>And the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" the bill that I put before Congress, would help to curb some of those trends. What we do is to provide $30 billion to make sure that we've got teachers back in the classrooms, to make sure that we're not seeing additional teacher layoffs, that wonderful programs such as the ones that are taking place here are properly and adequately funded, and to make sure that, at the same time, we're also rebuilding some of the schools around the country that are in a bad state of repair and where young people aren't getting the kind of support that they need in order to achieve. <p>So I'm going to spend a little time having a conversation here with the teachers and soon-to-be teachers. They're going to talk about their experiences, what's working, what they're excited about, but also the concerns that they've seen in terms of cutbacks in education. <p>And I hope that Members of Congress are going to be doing a little bit of listening to teachers and educators. We have a tendency to say great things about how important education is in the abstract, but we don't always put our money where our mouth is. And it's absolutely critical right now to make sure that we don't see the kinds of cutbacks that we've been seeing. If that becomes a long-term trend, we're going to fall behind countries like China, Korea, Germany, that are continually making significant investments in teachers. <p>So I want to thank all of you guys for taking the time to join me. I very much appreciate what you're doing.\" "
"232" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello! Thank you. Hello, Eagles! Well, it is good to be here. Thank you very much. It's great to be back in Virginia. It is great to be here at Greensville County High School. <p>I want to thank Jami Clements not only for the gracious introduction, but congratulate her on being selected as Greensville County Teacher of the Year. We're proud of everything that Jami has accomplished here at the school, but we also want to thank her for her service in our Armed Forces, and that is an extraordinary combination of service: teaching and serving. And I know that the students feel very lucky to have her in the classroom. And I like that she's teaching biology, because we need some scientists out there. <p>In addition, I want to acknowledge, first of all the superintendent of schools, Philip Worrell. Give your superintendent a big round of applause. And I want to acknowledge the principal, Wayne Scott. And finally, I want to thank your mayor, Mr. Sam Adams, for being with us here today. <p>Now, some of you may have heard we're taking a little road trip at the beginning of this week. The RV is a little bigger than most. [<i>Laughter</i>] We've got it parked outside. But I decided it was time to get out of Washington and hit the open road. So we landed in Asheville, North Carolina&mdash;and that truly is God's country&mdash;and we drove through beautiful mountain roads and stopped for some barbecue and a little sweet tea. And we went to Boone County, North Carolina, and they had a general store there with big barrels of candy, and so we stocked up for Halloween. And don't tell Michelle&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;but we bought a lot of candy. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But most importantly, the reason that we have been traveling on the road is because I wanted to hear from folks like you. It doesn't seem like your voices are heard enough in Washington. They don't seem to be listening. So I figured if I brought the press here, then they could hear you. <p>Because times are tough for a lot of Americans. Here in Virginia, there are a lot of folks who've spent months, maybe some folks spent years, looking for work. Others are doing their best just to get by. Maybe they're giving up going out to a restaurant; they just can't afford it. They've got to save on gas. End of the month they're worried about making the mortgage payment. Some people are postponing retirement to make sure that their children can go to college. Hours have been cut back. Family businesses on the brink of being shut down. So it's hard. <p>And I think most Americans know that our economic problems weren't caused overnight. Obviously, we're going through the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, and the aftermath hit Main Streets all across the country. But even before the financial crisis hit, people had seen their wages flat, their incomes flat. <p>Had a chance to meet some farmers back here today&mdash;crops are good this year, but family farms have been going through tough times: health care skyrocketing in terms of cost, college tuition skyrocketing. <p>We don't have an energy policy in this country, so we're still dependent on foreign oil. When gas shoots up, suddenly everybody doesn't know what to do. These are problems that built up over a decade or more. They won't be solved overnight. It's going to take time to rebuild an America where hard work is valued and responsibility is rewarded, where people don't feel like they've got the deck stacked against them, where everybody is getting a fair shot and everybody is contributing their fair share. <p>It is going to take time to rebuild an America where we restore security for the middle class and opportunity for folks trying to get in the middle class, an economy that works for everybody and not just for folks at the top. That's our goal. <p>And it will take time to rebuild an economy that is competitive in the 21st century, that's built to last&mdash;one where we can out-build and out-compete, out-educate, out-innovate other nations&mdash;which means we've got to step up on our education. We've got to invest in basic science. We've got to improve our infrastructure. We've got to close our deficits. We've got to get our fiscal house in order. We've got a lot of work to do. It's going to take time. <p>But I'm here to tell you we are going to get it done. We are going to keep fighting. We're going to keep striving. We're going to focus on putting people back to work and helping middle class Americans get ahead, and we will give the economy the jolt that it needs. <p>And there are things that we can be doing right now to help the American people. That's why I sent Congress the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" This is a jobs bill that contains the kind of proposals that in the past have been supported by both Democrats and Republicans. It's a bill that's paid for. It will not add to the deficit. It will not be going on the credit card. It will be paid for by asking our wealthiest citizens, our most fortunate, people like me, people who are making more than a million dollars, to pay their fair share. <p>Independent economists have looked at this jobs bill, and they've said it will create nearly 2 million jobs. That's not my opinion, that's not the opinion of folks who work for me, that's the opinion of people who study the economy for a living. They tell us this will grow the economy and put people back to work right away. <p>So the question is, if it's paid for, won't add to the deficit, won't result in increasing your taxes, will instead result in lowering your taxes, will put people back to work at a time when the unemployment rate is too high, why wouldn't we do it? Why wouldn't we pass it? It turns out the folks in Washington aren't listening to you. <p>Last week, all the Republicans in the United States Senate got together and they blocked this jobs bill. They refused to even debate it, even though a majority of Senators wanted it debated. But in the Senate you've got this rule where you got to get these days 60 votes to get something through. Just a majority doesn't seem to be enough. <p>Meanwhile, one poll found that 63 percent of Americans support the ideas in this jobs bill. And yet a hundred percent of Republicans in the Senate voted against it. Does that make any sense? <p><i>Audience members</i>. No! <p><i>The President.</i> Now, some people asked me yesterday why I'm visiting some place in North Carolina and Virginia that are mostly Republican. [<i>Laughter</i>] What I said was, \\"I'm not the Democratic President, I'm not the Republican President, I'm the President.\\" I'm everybody's President. I don't care if you're a Republican or a Democrat. This is not the Republican jobs act, this is not called the Democratic jobs act, this is the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" And everybody would be better off if we passed it. <p>Now, in fairness, let me say that after I sent Congress the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" Republicans decided, well, we'd better put out our own jobs act. So they started out calling it the \\"Real American Jobs Act.\\" That's what they called it, so they don't get points for originality. [<i>Laughter</i>] But let's examine what was in this jobs act. I said let's see what you've got. <p>As it turns out, the Republicans' plan boils down to a few basic ideas. And these are ideas we've heard before. They said, we're going to lower taxes for the wealthiest Americans and corporations. We're going to gut environmental regulations. We're going to drill more. We're going to let Wall Street do what they were doing before we got into this mess. And we're going to repeal health care reform. <p>All right, now, that is a plan, but it's not a jobs plan. That's a plan, but it's a plan to go back to doing the exact things that we were doing before we had a financial crisis that put so many people out of work. Why would we think that it would work now? <p>I mean, let's do a little comparison shopping here. Let's kick the tires a little bit on each plan. <p>The Republican plan says that the only thing that's standing between us and full employment are laws that keep ours companies from polluting our air and our water. My plan says let's put teachers back in the classroom. Let's put police and firefighters back on the job. Let's hire construction workers to rebuild America. Let's put our veterans back on the job. <p>Their plan says we'd be better off if we kick the 30 million Americans who are slated to get health care off the rolls. So the young people, for example, who are already getting health insurance by staying on their parent's plan, they'd be out of luck. I don't know how that will contribute to creating jobs. <p>Our plan says we're better off if we give a tax cut to virtually every small business and every worker in America. That's in the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" <p>Their plan says let's go back and let Wall Street do exactly what they were doing before the financial crisis. Let's roll back all the Wall Street reforms that we fought tooth and nail to pass over the objections of lobbyists and special interests in Washington. <p>Our plan says we need to make it easier for small businesses on Main Street to get financing and to hire and to push this economy forward. <p>Now&mdash;so those are the two plans. Remember those group of economists who said our plan would create jobs? Well, we asked one of them to take a look at the Republican plan. We said, well, maybe we're missing something here. Maybe we don't understand exactly what their strategy is. So we asked independent economists, please evaluate their plan. And the economist says, \\"Well, you know what, this plan would actually cost jobs. It won't do much to help the economy right now when folks are hurting, and could actually result in fewer jobs, not more jobs.\\" <p>So I don't know how you present a plan for jobs that results in less jobs&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;right? I mean, they didn't call it the \\"American No Jobs Act.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] So the question is, Virginia, do you want a plan that results in dirtier air and water for our kids and fewer people on health care and less accountability on Wall Street? Or do we want to keep pushing a plan that puts more teachers in the classroom, more construction workers rebuilding our schools, tax cuts for small-business owners and working families? <p>That's the choice that we face, and I'll let you decide which plan is the real \\"American Jobs Act.\\" <p>I just want to be clear. I want desperately to work with Republicans on ways to create jobs right now. Think about it. Nobody is more interested&mdash;other than the folks who are actually out of work&mdash;than me in seeing this economy growing strong. I'm open to any serious idea that is presented to create jobs. <p>Just last week, Congress passed a bipartisan trade deal with Korea that will allow us to sell more American goods overseas, create more jobs here. My attitude is we're buying a whole lot of Hyundais and Kias; I want to see some Koreans buying some Fords and Chryslers and Chevys. I want them to buy some fine Virginia peanuts. I know they use peanuts over there, but I'll bet they're not as good as Virginia peanuts. [<i>Laughter</i>] These are some good peanuts. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So that's the kind of progress on our economy that we can keep on making, but to do so we've got to stop playing politics all the time. We can't just try to satisfy one wing of one party. We've got to pull together, focus on creating jobs and helping the middle class right now and helping people get into the middle class. <p>So what I decided was let's give Congress another chance. We're going to give them another chance to listen to you, to step up to the plate, to do the right thing. We will give them another chance to do their jobs so that you can keep your job or get a job. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And so I was thinking about it. I was thinking, well, maybe there was just too much stuff in my bill. Maybe it was confusing to have all these component parts. So what we decided is we're going to break it up into smaller pieces so that we don't confuse anybody, and let them vote on each piece one at a time. That way, you can be crystal clear on where everybody stands on the different components of the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" <p>So the first vote we asked Congress to take is scheduled for later this week. And it's a vote that is going to put hundreds of thousands of police back on the beat and firefighters back on the job and teachers back in the classroom where they belong. <p>And you know why this is so important. I don't have to tell you this. We are competing against Germany and China and Korea and all these countries, and they are hiring teachers in droves. They are focused on making sure their children are top notch in math and science and technology. And yet here, all over the country, including here in Virginia, budget cuts are forcing schools to lay off teachers in disturbing numbers. <p>Here in Greensville County, you've lost some teachers. You could lose more if we don't pass this jobs bill, and that's not right. It's unfair to our kids. It undermines our future. We can't have other countries adding teachers to prepare their kids for the global economy while we sit by and do nothing. <p>As one teacher down in North Carolina said, \\"We didn't cause the poor economy, us teachers. If anything, we built the good parts.\\" He is right. Teachers build the good parts of our economy. They give our children a chance. They create&mdash;they give young people the skills that allow them to go out and find a good job or start a business or invent a product. Our plan would mean nearly 11,000 education jobs right here in Virginia. <p>So I need all of you to tell the Senate: Put those teachers back to work. Put those teachers back to work. Pass the jobs bill, and put those teachers back to work. <p>But we're not going to stop with that vote. We're going to have a few more votes. We'll give the Senate a chance to vote on putting unemployed construction workers back on the job. Listen, I do not want China and Germany and other countries to build the newest roads and the newest bridges and the newest airports while ours are crumbling. Farmers can't get their products to market if we've got broken-down infrastructure. Businesses can't move their products and their people if we've got infrastructure that isn't state of the art. If we don't have the best airports, if we don't have the best roads, that will hurt our economy over the long term. <p>Think about it. We are the United States of America. People used to travel from all around the world to look at what we built: the Hoover Dam, Golden Gate Bridge, Grand Central station, Interstate Highway System. Now people aren't coming to see what we built because they're building it over there. <p>So what we said was, well, the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" let's put those construction workers back to work. Let's rebuild and make sure our bridges are safe and our roads are safe and our airports are state of the art. <p>The Senate will have an opportunity to vote on that bill. Then they're going to have a chance to vote on giving unemployed Americans the support they need to get back into the workforce and build a better life. Because in this country, if you're willing to work hard, you should have the chance to get ahead. <p>And then we're going to ask the Senate to vote on a provision that says veterans&mdash;if you are a small business and you hire a veteran, you should get a tax break. Because I don't want folks who have sacrificed halfway around the world for our safety to come back here and not be able to find a job. <p>And then we're going to ask the Senate to pay for it by making sure that folks like me are paying their fair share. And if I'm paying my fair share, then you get a tax cut or a tax break. Small businesses get a tax cut. <p>And I have to say there's been a lot of misleading information about this, so let me just be perfectly clear here. Let me be painfully clear, just in case anybody asks you about it. What we are proposing is that the payroll tax cut that we passed in December gets extended, gets expanded, and that will mean an extra $1,500 in your pocket compared to if we do nothing. <p>If we don't pass this bill your taxes will go up by $1,000 for the average family. I know, everybody says, I don't want that. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And to pay for it, people like me can afford to pay a little bit more. Now, understand, we're talking about the top 1, 2 percent of people at the very top of the incomes scales. And we can afford it. We don't need a tax cut. We didn't ask for a tax break. You got corporations who are getting special deals on their Tax Codes. They don't need a special deal. Let's give a good deal to hard-working men and women who are out there struggling to make ends meet. <p>So if anybody&mdash;if you hear anybody saying, \\"Oh, Obama's plan, he's going to raise your taxes,\\" tell them, no. I'm going to keep your taxes low for 97, 98 percent of the American people. For the top 1, 2 percent, you'll go up a little bit, but you can afford it. You can afford it. A fair shot for everybody, a fair share from everybody. <p>So those are the choices that the American people are going to have to face. And those are the choices that the Members of Congress are going to have to face in the coming weeks. And if they vote against taking steps that we know will put people back to work, they're not going to have to answer to me, they're going to have to answer to you. They're going to have to come down to Virginia and tell their kids why they can't have their teachers back. They're going to have to look those construction workers in the eye and say why we shouldn't rebuild America. They're going to have to explain to working families why their taxes are going up, while the taxes of well-to-do people keep on going down. <p>So that's where you come in. I need your voices heard. I need you to give Congress a piece of your mind. <p>Tell these Members of Congress they're supposed to be working for you, not working for special interests, not working for campaign contributions. They're working for you, the American people. And they need to deliver, because they're not delivering right now. <p>You've got to get on the phone&mdash;you got to get on the phone and write letters and pay visits and tweet&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;whatever you do, and remind your elected leaders to do the right thing. Tell them what's at stake. <p>Remind them that \\"No we can't\\" is not a good motto. \\"No we can't\\" is not how we get through tough times. That's not how&mdash;this is a country that's gone through a Revolutionary War. This is a country that's gone through a Civil War. This is a country that went through two World Wars, a Great Depression, and we didn't just fold, we didn't just give up. Our grandparents, our great-grandparents, they didn't just say, \\"No, we can't.\\" They didn't say, \\"This is too hard.\\" They didn't say, \\"We give up.\\" They didn't settle on the status quo. They rolled up their sleeves. They went after it. They said, \\"America can do whatever we put our minds to when we are unified.\\" <p>President Kennedy didn't look up at the Moon and say \\"Oh, that's too far! We can't go there.\\" He said, \\"We can make it.\\" And we did, because that's the American spirit when it is unleashed. <p>I know we've been going through tough times. But that's not an excuse for us to just sit back. That should be a motivation for us to try that much harder. There are too many of our fellow Americans who are hurting too bad for us to just sit by and do nothing. Now is the time for us to act. Now is the time for us to say, \\"Yes we can.\\" We don't sit back and do nothing when things aren't right. We set our minds to it, and we fix it. We make things work. We stick with it. And that's the spirit we've got to bring right now. <p>So I just want to say to all of you, Virginia, I hope and I pray that all of us can get together and stay focused on what it takes to continue to make this a great nation. I don't want us to be playing politics all the time. I want us to meet this moment. I want us to get to work. And I want us to show the world once again why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. <p>Thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"233" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, everybody! <p><i>Audience members</i>. Hello! <p><i>The President</i>. It is good to be in Chesterfield County. Thank you so much for the wonderful welcome. <p><i>Audience member</i>. We love you! <p><i>The President</i>. Well, I love you back. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It is great to be in Virginia. It is great to be here at Fire Station Number 9 with some of Chesterfield's finest. <p><i>Audience member</i>. Hooah! <p><i>The President</i>. There you go. <p>First of all, I want to thank Chief Urquhart not only for the introduction, but for the great service that he's been providing for 22 years, is it? <p><i>Chesterfield Fire and EMS Battalion Chief Vincent A. Urquhart</i>. Yes, sir. <p><i>The President</i>. Twenty-two years. Give him a big round of applause. And I want to say thank you to the chief of Chesterfield County Fire and EMS, Loy Senter. Give him a big round of applause. I appreciate opening up the firehouse here today. But if the bell goes off, just ignore me, do your thing. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We've been on a little road trip over the last few days. I've got a pretty nice ride; it's not your normal RV. And it's parked outside. We've been seeing some sights; we've been eating some good food. Most importantly, we've been getting a chance to hear from the American people. And it's always nice to spend a few days outside of Washington, because it doesn't seem like your voices are being heard the way they need to be heard in Washington. <p>Times are tough all over, and a lot of folks here in Virginia have spent months looking for work. Others are just barely making it, and they're having to make hard choices, and they're having to make sacrifices. It's hard obviously watching friends or family or neighbors who are struggling. And all of us, I think, are mindful of the fact that the economy is not where it needs to be. <p>I think most people understand that the economy and its problems didn't happen overnight, so we're not going to solve all these challenges overnight. It's going to take time to rebuild the kind of America in which everybody has a fair shot, everybody is paying their fair share, where responsibility is rewarded, where the deck is not stacked against middle class families&mdash;in fact, we have a middle class that is growing again and solid again and secure again, and people who are striving to get in the middle class have ladders of opportunity. That's what we're striving for. <p>We're going to keep on fighting, we're going to keep on working to make sure that we've got the kind of economy that works for everybody and not just some. And here's the good news: There are things we can do right now that will make a difference. There are things that we can do right now that will put people back to work. There are things we can do right now that will make sure that we are competitive in this global economy. <p>Some of the challenges we face we're going to have to work on for a while: improving our schools, making sure that we've got the best infrastructure in the world, making sure that we're bringing down our deficit, making sure that we're continuing to invest in science and technology. But there are things we can do right now that will make a difference. <p>And that's why I sent to Congress the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" It's a jobs bill&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;you can go ahead and clap. Go ahead, nothing wrong with it. <p>This is a jobs bill that contains the kind of proposals that in the past, at least, have been supported by Democrats and Republicans alike. It's paid for. It will not add to our deficit. And it's paid for by asking the wealthiest of us&mdash;people like me&mdash;to be able to put in a little bit more so that we can make sure that folks who are struggling get the help they need and that the economy overall is improving. <p>Independent economists have said it will create nearly 2 million jobs. That's not my opinion. That's not the opinion of people who work for me and have to tell me what I want to hear. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is the opinion of independent economists. They say it will help the economy grow. People who study the economy for a living say this would give the economy the jolt that it needs. <p>Now, a number of people have been asking during the course of this road trip, \\"Why have you been visiting some of the most Republican parts of North Carolina and Virginia?\\" And what I've had to remind them is that I'm not the Democratic President, I'm not the Republican President, I'm the President of the United States of America. And I don't care what party you belong to, we're all Americans, and we're all in this together. <p>And that's why we didn't call this the Democratic jobs plan or the Republican jobs plan, we called it the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" We need to put people to work right now. I think most Americans understand that. A recent poll showed that 63 percent of the American people support what's in the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" Unfortunately, we've had a hundred percent of Senate Republicans vote against it. A majority think it's a good idea to keep firefighters on the job. <p>As tough as the economy may be, I think people may not be aware, for the last 19 months we've had private sector job growth. We've seen more than 2 million jobs created in the private sector. The problem is that State and local governments have been very hard pressed, and so they are cutting back on firefighters, police officers, teachers. And that's one of the biggest challenges we have, not only because these folks sacrifice for us and provide extraordinary service to us, but also, they go to restaurants, and they go to the hardware store, and they pay a mortgage. And so if folks in the&mdash;if we've got firefighters or police officers or teachers who are being laid off, that hurts the small-business person down the street. That means that somebody may have their home foreclosed on, and that brings property values down for everybody. <p>So the provisions that we've got in the bill are ones that most people support: keeping firefighters in the job, keeping cops on the job, putting teachers back in the classroom, giving tax cuts to families, giving tax cuts to small businesses, giving tax cuts to businesses who hire our veterans. I just came from Hampton, and we were down there talking to folks who have served our country&mdash;this 9/11 generation&mdash;and are coming back after making all those sacrifices and are finding themselves fighting for work. We've got to do something about that. <p>The question is why Congress isn't willing to move. Now, I just want to be fair. I sent Congress the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" and then my Republican friends put out a plan of their own, and they started out calling it the \\"Real American Jobs Act.\\" So they don't get points for originality. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I did say, well, let's see what you've got. What are your ideas? And the primary ideas in their jobs plan was to roll back regulations that keep our air and water clean, to go back to the system we had in Wall Street that caused this crisis in the first place, to end the health care reform that we passed that will provide 30 million people health insurance and make sure that insurance companies can't take advantage of you. <p>Now, that is a plan, but it's not a jobs plan. We can have an argument about health care, or we can have an argument about environmental regulations, but we can't pretend that that's going to actually put people back to work. And that's the number-one priority that the American people have right now. <p>Their plan says that somehow if we eliminate regulations that keep our air and water clean for our kids, that that's going to help job growth. My plan says, let's hire construction workers and put them back to work rebuilding roads and bridges and schools and fire stations all across the country. <p>Their plan says that if we roll back health care reform, that somehow jobs are going to be created. My plan says, let's give a tax cut to small businesses to hire the long-term unemployed and our veterans and make sure that they've got a little more money to keep their doors open, expand their payroll, expand their inventory, get this economy moving. <p>Their plan says, let's go back to a system on Wall Street where there were the kinds of rules that allowed people to take reckless bets that ended up affecting all of Main Street. My attitude is, to strengthen this economy we've got to make sure that those rules are actually enforced, not watered down, and in the meantime, let's work to make sure that we're keeping taxes low for middle class families who are still struggling to get by. <p>So I just want to repeat: dirtier air, dirtier water, fewer people on health care, less accountability on Wall Street&mdash;that is not a jobs plan. <p>I understand that some of my Republican friends feel very strongly about these ideas. I'm happy to have a debate. But in the meantime, let's focus on what will actually put people back to work. Keeping first-responders on the job, that's a jobs plan. Putting more teachers in the classroom, that's a jobs plan. <p>So what we decided to do, since a hundred percent of Republicans in the Senate voted against this plan the first time, is we're going to give them another chance to listen to you. We're going to let them vote on each of these ideas separately, and we'll see if they fight just as hard for your jobs as they fight for their own jobs. <p>So the first vote we're going to ask is&mdash;Congress to take this week would put hundreds of thousands of firefighters back on the job, police officers back on the street, teachers back in the classroom. <p>Now, Chesterfield's been lucky. It isn't facing layoffs right now. But a lot of these guys have seen their pay frozen. You've got cities in States like Michigan and New Jersey that have had to lay off big chunks of their forces. That means that firefighters can't always get to fires before they become major fires, and that makes their job more dangerous. It means police officers can't respond to every crime. And when giving our children the best education possible we know is the ingredient for success in this new information- and technology-rich economy, how can we be laying off teachers when other countries are hiring teachers in droves? It's unfair to our kids. It undermines our future. <p>So this week Congress is going to get to vote on whether or not hundreds of thousands of police officers and teachers and firefighters get back on the job. And I don't know if these Members of Congress&mdash;maybe they haven't met some of these firefighters. I don't think they want to tell them that their jobs aren't worth saving. Some of these guys are pretty big. [<i>Laughter</i>] Captain Kemp is an ex-marine, which means he's still a marine. And these guys are risking their lives every day on our behalf. These jobs are worth fighting for. <p>Folks in Congress are also going to get a chance to decide later in the month whether our construction workers should sit around doing nothing while China builds the best railroads, the best schools, the best airports in the world. <p>We used to have the best stuff. Think about&mdash;the world used to say, let's travel to America. Let's see the Golden Gate Bridge. Let's see the Hoover Dam. Let's see these amazing things that America built. Are we going to be the generation where we stop building, where we've got rundown roads and bridges that are deemed obsolete? That's not who America is. <p>So Congress will have a chance to see if they want to put Americans back to work doing the work that America needs done. <p>They say that they value our veterans. When I went before the joint Congress to present this \\"American Jobs Act,\\" I said, let's give tax breaks to companies that are hiring our veterans. And we just got 25,000&mdash;a pledge of 25,000 jobs from companies all across the country, aiming for a goal of a hundred thousand veterans being hired by the end of 2013. <p>So when I talked about this part of the plan before the joint session of Congress, everybody rose up, Democrats and Republicans alike. So the question now is, if you all stood and applauded, how are you going to vote? It's not enough to applaud and go to a Veterans Day parade. People need help. And you've got a chance to help them right now. <p>These are the choices that Congress will be presented with in the next few weeks. And if they vote against these proposals, if they no&mdash;say no to steps we know that will put people back to work right now, they're not going to have to answer to me, they're going to have to answer to you. They're going to have to come down here and tell folks in Virginia and all across the country why people are going to have to cope with fewer first-responders, why your kids can't have teachers back in the classroom. They're going to have to look construction workers in the eye and tell them why they're sitting idle instead of rebuilding infrastructure that we know needs to be rebuilt. <p>And they're going to have to explain why we couldn't afford to do it when we know that we can pay for all of this, plus keep taxes on middle class families low, prevent them from going up, and all we have to do in order to pay for it is make sure that people like me are paying our fair share of taxes and that companies no longer are getting special tax loopholes. That's it. <p>So when you hear that, \\"Well, the reason we're not supporting it, we like the ideas but we don't want to see higher taxes,\\" if we don't pass this bill, taxes for the average family will go up because the payroll tax cut that we passed in December will lapse. If we do pass this bill, for 97, 98 percent of Americans, your taxes will stay low. My taxes will go up a little bit, but I can afford it. <p>A fair shot for everybody, a fair share from everybody. That's a principle that built America. That's how we created a middle class. <p>Now, they can do the right thing in Congress and put people back right now&mdash;to work right now and reopen firehouses. But I'm going to need your help. I need you, and that's the reason I'm here. It's wonderful to have a chance to see everybody and shake hands and take pictures, but the main reason I'm here is I want you to send a message to Congress that this is important. Let them know. Get on the phone, write a letter, fax, tweet, whatever it is that people do these days&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and remind Members of Congress what's at stake here. <p>You know, it takes a special kind of bravery to be a firefighter. When that bell rings, it takes a special kind of courage to answer the call and rush, at great risk to yourself, to help your fellow citizens. And you know what, that's the same kind of spirit that I believe embodies America: looking out for one another, helping each other, being willing to make sacrifices for the greater good. When our friends and neighbors are hurting, we don't cross our arms and just do nothing. We roll up our sleeves, and we say, we're going to help, we'll figure out how to solve this problem. We are not people who sit idly by and ignore our challenges. We step up, and we meet those challenges. And that's the opportunity we have right now. <p>So I hope everybody is with us. We hope that you are willing to contact your Members of Congress. Tell them to get busy. Tell them to get to work. Tell them to put people back to work. And let's show the world once again why the United States of America is the greatest country on Earth. <p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much.\" "
"234" "\"Hello Joint Base Langley-Eustis! Thank you very much! <p>I hate following Michelle; she's so good. How lucky am I to be married to Michelle Obama? See, for you men out there who are not yet married, let me explain: The whole goal is to marry up, to try to improve your gene pool. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we're lucky to have her as First Lady of the United States, I think. <p>I am thrilled to be here. I want to thank the outstanding leaders who welcomed us here today: Secretary of the Air Force Michael Donley is here; General Mike Hostage is here; Colonels Kory Auch and Kevin Robbins and Reggie Austin are here. I want to give a shout-out to your outstanding senior enlisted leaders, including Chief Master Sergeants Kevin Howell and Marty Klukas. I want you to give a big round of applause to the Air Combat Command Heritage of America Band. <p>We've got a lot of folks in the house today. We've got Air Combat Command. We've got the 633d Air Base Wing. We've got the 1st Fighter Wing, with our amazing F-22 Raptors. I want to ride in one of those some day. [<i>Laughter</i>] We're going to have to set that up. <p>We've got the 480th Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Wing. They can cheer, but they can't talk about what they do. [<i>Laughter</i>] They'd have to kill you. And I see we've got some Army too. <p>I want to salute Melissa Lee. Thank you so much. I want to salute Kathy Hostage. I want to salute Kristen Auch and the extraordinary military spouses who are here as well. We are inspired by them. Michelle is an honorary military spouse because she has to put up with me. [<i>Laughter</i>] But she and I both share such incredible admiration for the families of those who are serving in uniform. <p>We are grateful for our veterans who are here, including some very special airmen who taught the Nation the true meaning of service and honor and equality. We are honored to be joined by several of the legendary Tuskegee Airmen in the house. That's what heroes look like, right there. <p>Finally, I want to acknowledge your Governor, Bob McDonnell, and his lovely wife Maureen for joining us here today, as well as Congressman Bobby Scott, who's in the house. And I want to thank all the business leaders who have committed to hiring our Nation's heroes. <p>Those of you here today who have worn the uniform of these United States have done so with honor and have done so with distinction. Some of the most dangerous places on the planet, you have heroically performed and done everything that's been asked of you. Already, your generation has earned a special place in America's history. For that, you've got a grateful nation. As Michelle said, don't forget how everybody understands what you've done for this country. <p>Over the past decade, nearly 3 million servicemembers like many of you, our 9/11 generation of veterans, have made the transition back to civilian life. They've taken their leadership experience, their mastery of cutting-edge technologies, their ability to adapt to changing circumstances, and they've become leaders here at home. They've become leaders in businesses all across the country. <p>Just think about how many veterans have led their comrades on life-and-death missions by the time they were 25. That's the kind of responsibility every business in America should want to take advantage of. Those are the Americans every company should want to hire. <p>Now, of course, as Michelle mentioned, there are far too many veterans who are coming home and having to struggle to find a job worthy of their talents. There are too many military spouses who have a hard time finding work after moving from base to base and city to city. <p>That's not right. It doesn't make any sense: it doesn't make sense for our veterans; it doesn't make sense for our businesses; it doesn't make sense for our families; and it doesn't make sense for America. <p>If you can save a life in Afghanistan, you can save a life in a local hospital or in a local ambulance. If you can oversee millions of dollars of assets in Iraq, you can help a business balance its books here at home. If you can juggle the demands of raising a family while a husband or wife are at war, you can juggle any demands of any job in the United States of America. <p>We ask our men and women in uniform to leave their families, our guardsmen and reservists to leave their jobs. We ask you to fight, to sacrifice, to risk your lives for our country. The last thing you should have to do is fight for a job when you come home. Not here, not in the United States of America. <p>So this has been one of my top priorities as your Commander in Chief. That's why we are fully funding the post-GI&mdash;9/11 GI bill, which is helping more than 600,000 veterans and their family members pursue a college education. It's why we fought to make sure the bill included noncollege degrees and on-the-job training. It's why I directed the Federal Government to lead by example and hire more veterans, including 100,000 as of this summer. <p>And it's also why we're here today. As Michelle mentioned back in August, I challenged American businesses. I challenged them to hire or train 100,000 post-9/11 veterans or their spouses by the end of 2013. And now, just a few months later, thanks to the many extraordinary companies who are here today, we're already a quarter of the way there. Already, they've committed to train or hire 25,000 veterans and spouses in the next 2 years. <p>And this is incredible. It's a testament to their good business sense. It's a testament to their sense of patriotism. It's a testament to the fact that these veterans and military families are some of the most talented, trained, and experienced citizens that we have. It's a testament to these businesses' commitment to this country. <p>We're living through an economic crisis that partly came about because too many individuals and institutions were only thinking about their own interests, because they embraced an ethic that said, what's good enough for me is good enough. Well, the men and women of the United States Armed Forces, they've got a different ethic. You believe, your families believe, in something greater than your own ambitions. You've embraced an ethic that says the only thing that's good enough is what's best for the United States of America. <p>And by making a commitment to these brave men and women, the companies who are represented here today have shown that they've got that same ethic. They share in that belief that we're all in this together. Those companies who are represented here today are showing that they care about this country and those who serve it, not just with words, not just with slogans, not just with TV ads, but with the choices that you're making. <p>As President and Commander in Chief, I thank you for that. And I also want to thank my extraordinary wife and Dr. Jill Biden, our Second Lady, for leading the effort to support and honor our military families and making today possible. Give them a big round of applause. She does all this, and she looks cute. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's right. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But considering how many veterans are out there looking for work, we can't stop with today's announcement. We've got more work to do. Some of you probably know that last month I sent Congress a piece of legislation called the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" Now, this is a bill that's fully paid for, and it's filled with the kind of proposals that traditionally Democrats and Republicans have supported in the past: tax cuts for every small worker&mdash;every worker and small business in America, funding to rebuild our schools and put our teachers back in the classroom so our children can get the education they deserve, a tax credit for small businesses that hire America's veterans. <p>The idea here is even though so many companies who are here today have committed to hiring our Nation's heroes, we want to make it even easier for the businesses that haven't made that commitment yet. It's the right thing to do for our veterans, and it's the right thing to do for America. You give smaller companies who may be interested in hiring, but are having a tough time&mdash;give them a tax break if they hire a veteran. Give them an even bigger tax break if they hire a disabled veteran. <p>Now, so far Congress hasn't acted on this proposal. But I want you to know that I'm pushing them a little bit. I'm going to keep pushing them a little bit. In the coming weeks, we're going to hold a series of votes in the Senate on individual pieces of my jobs bill. And one of the votes I'm going to urge Members of Congress to take is on whether or not they think it's a good idea to give companies an incentive to hire the men and women who have risked their lives for our country. And I'm hopeful we can get both parties on board for this idea. <p>When I first proposed this idea in a joint session of Congress, people stood up and applauded on both sides of the aisle. So when it comes for a vote in the Senate, I expect to get votes from both sides of the aisle. Don't just applaud about it, vote for it. Vote for it. <p>Standing up for our veterans is not a Democratic responsibility or a Republican responsibility, it is an American responsibility. It is an obligation for every citizen who enjoys the freedoms that our heroes defend. And it's time for us to meet those obligations here today. <p>This generation of veterans has learned that the challenges don't end in Kandahar or Baghdad. They continue right here at home. And today, we're saying to those veterans who fought for us, now we are fighting for you&mdash;for more jobs, for more security, for the opportunity to keep your families strong, the chance to keep America competitive economically in the 21st century. <p>These are tough times for America, but we faced tougher times before. And nobody is tougher than the men and women of America's Armed Forces. You all don't quit. Whenever we faced a challenge in this country, whether it was a depression or a civil war or when our Union was at stake, our harbor was bombed, our country was attacked on that September day, we did not falter. We did not turn back. We picked ourselves up. We pushed ourselves forward. We got on with the task of fulfilling the ideas that so many Americans have struggled for and sacrificed for and given their lives for. <p>And that's the spirit all of you represent. That's the spirit our whole Nation needs right now. You remind us, as a nation, that no problem is too hard and no challenge is too great and no destiny is beyond our reach. So let's meet this moment. Let's get together and show the world just why it is that the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. <p>God bless you. God bless our veterans. God bless the men and women in uniform, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"235" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. Today the Government of Libya announced the death of Muammar Qadhafi. This marks the end of a long and painful chapter for the people of Libya, who now have the opportunity to determine their own destiny in a new and democratic Libya. <p>For four decades, the Qadhafi regime ruled the Libyan people with an iron fist. Basic human rights were denied. Innocent civilians were detained, beaten, and killed, and Libya's wealth was squandered. The enormous potential of the Libyan people was held back, and terror was used as a political weapon. <p>Today we can definitively say that the Qadhafi regime has come to an end. The last major regime strongholds have fallen. The new Government is consolidating the control over the country. And one of the world's longest serving dictators is no more. <p>One year ago, the notion of a free Libya seemed impossible. But then the Libyan people rose up and demanded their rights, and when Qadhafi and his forces started going city to city, town by town, to brutalize men, women, and children, the world refused to stand idly by. <p>Faced with the potential of mass atrocities and a call for help from the Libyan people, the United States and our friends and allies stopped Qadhafi's forces in their tracks. A coalition that included the United States, NATO, and Arab nations persevered through the summer to protect Libyan civilians. And meanwhile, the courageous Libyan people fought for their own future and broke the back of the regime. <p>So this is a momentous day in the history of Libya. The dark shadow of tyranny has been lifted. And with this enormous promise, the Libyan people now have a great responsibility: to build an inclusive and tolerant and democratic Libya that stands as the ultimate rebuke to Qadhafi's dictatorship. We look forward to the announcement of the country's liberation, the quick formation of an interim Government, and a stable transition to Libya's first free and fair elections. And we call on our Libyan friends to continue to work with the international community to secure dangerous materials and to respect the human rights of all Libyans, including those who have been detained. <p>Now, we're under no illusions. Libya will travel a long and winding road to full democracy. There will be difficult days ahead. But the United States, together with the international community, is committed to the Libyan people. You have won your revolution. And now we will be a partner as you forge a future that provides dignity, freedom, and opportunity. <p>For the region, today's events prove once more that the rule of an iron fist inevitably comes to an end. Across the Arab world, citizens have stood up to claim their rights. Youth are delivering a powerful rebuke to dictatorship, and those leaders who try to deny their human dignity will not succeed. <p>For us here in the United States, we are reminded today of all those Americans that we lost at the hands of Qadhafi's terror. Their families and friends are in our thoughts and in our prayers. We recall their bright smiles, their extraordinary lives, and their tragic deaths. We know that nothing can close the wound of their loss, but we stand together as one nation by their side. <p>For nearly 8 months, many Americans have provided extraordinary service in support of our efforts to protect the Libyan people and to provide them with a chance to determine their own destiny. Our skilled diplomats have helped to lead an unprecedented global response. Our brave pilots have flown in Libya's skies, our sailors have provided support off Libya's shores, and our leadership at NATO has helped guide our coalition. Without putting a single U.S. servicemember on the ground, we achieved our objectives, and our NATO mission will soon come to an end. <p>This comes at a time when we see the strength of American leadership across the world. We've taken out Al Qaida leaders, and we've put them on the path to defeat. We're winding down the war in Iraq and have begun a transition in Afghanistan. And now, working in Libya with friends and allies, we've demonstrated what collective action can achieve in the 21st century. <p>Of course, above all, today's&mdash;belongs to the people of Libya. This is a moment for them to remember all those who suffered and were lost under Qadhafi and look forward to the promise of a new day. And I know the American people wish the people of Libya the very best in what will be a challenging but hopeful days, weeks, months, and years ahead. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"236" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the White House. This is one of my favorite events. We are here to recognize the winners of the Citizens Medal, one of the highest honors a civilian can receive. This is the second year the nominations process has been open to the public, and I notice that once again the women outnumber the men. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm beginning to see a pattern here. <p>You know, on Sunday, I helped dedicate the National Martin Luther King, Jr., Memorial. And this afternoon, as I'm spending time with these extraordinary people, I'm reminded of the fact that during the last speech that Dr. King ever gave, he retold the story of the Good Samaritan. And most of you know the story. We know it begins with a man lying injured on a road. And Dr. King said that the first people who saw him asked themselves, \\"If I stop to help this man, what will happen to me?\\" So they made excuses for not stopping. They said the man was faking his injury, or it wasn't their problem. But according to Dr. King, the Good Samaritan reversed the question. \\"If I do not stop to help this man, what will happen to him?\\" <p>The 13 Americans that we honor today have all faced in their own ways the moment that Dr. King described, that Good Samaritan moment when you see a neighbor in need and you have to ask yourself the question. They come from different backgrounds, and they've devoted their lives to different causes, but they are united by the choice that they've made. They could have made excuses to doing nothing. Instead, they chose to help. <p>For many of them, a lifelong mission began with a small act of kindness. In 1987, a single mom and her child&mdash;her children moved in across the street from Ida Martin. Ida saw their refrigerator was empty except for a bottle of water, so she brought them groceries. And I guess once she got started, she couldn't stop. [<i>Laughter</i>] So last year, the organization she founded answered nearly 22,000 requests for aid. <p>Then there's Milly Bloomquist from Penn Yan, New York. And for decades, she has personified the phrase \\"above and beyond.\\" At her 90th birthday party, one speaker said that Penn Yan has its own special system for handling emergencies: \\"If you're out of food, call Milly. If your heat has gone out, call Milly. If you can't pay your electricity bill, call Milly. If you need a winter coat, call Milly.\\" <p>The right choice is rarely the easy one. And for some of those we honor here today, the choice to help was especially hard because it came in the wake of tragedy. Steve and Liz Alderman lost their son Peter on 9/11. Roger Kemp's daughter Ali was murdered nearly a decade ago. Janice Langbehn was denied the right to visit her partner Lisa as she lay dying in the hospital. <p>As a father and husband, I can't begin to imagine the grief that they must have felt in that moment, their anger and their sense that the world was not fair. But they refused to let that anger define them. They each became, in Janice's words, an \\"accidental activist.\\" And thanks to their work, there are parents and partners who will never have to go through what they went through. <p>Now, I'm happy to say that there was a pretty stiff competition for these medals. Citizens from all walks of life submitted nearly 6,000 nominations online, and it took us 4 months to select the winners. In the end, these 13 individuals were chosen not just for the work they do, but for the example that they set. <p>Over the past year, we've been reminded time and time again that our lives can be altered by events beyond our control. A tornado or a hurricane can devastate a community. An earthquake halfway around the world can threaten businesses here at home. An economic crisis that begins in one corner of the housing market can spread to leave millions of Americans out of work. <p>So we don't always get to choose the challenges that we face. But how we respond is entirely up to us. We are each on that Good Samaritan road, the road that Dr. King spoke of more than 40 years ago. We can see that there are people who need our help. And while we come from different backgrounds, we all face the same, simple question: Will we help them, or will we not? <p>In some ways, in these difficult times, it's easier than ever to walk on by. We can tell ourselves, \\"I've got enough problems of my own.\\" \\"I can't make a big enough difference.\\" \\"If my neighbors are less fortunate, maybe it's their fault.\\" But as Americans, that's not who we are. Because while, yes, we are a nation of individuals, we're also a community; I am my brother's keeper, I am my sister's keeper. That's a creed we all share. <p>So this afternoon, I am proud to share the stage with these extraordinary citizens. I also know that for our Government to truly honor them, we have to do more than hand out medals. We have to follow their example. And that won't always be easy. As individuals, as communities, and as a country, we all face the temptation to find excuses not to help. In these decisive moments, then, we need to choose between doing something and doing nothing. And I hope we will remember the stories of these extraordinary men and women as we make that choice. I hope they inspire us to put ourselves in another person's shoes. And I hope that years from now, when they retell the story of our time, they will say that we too lent a hand to our neighbor in need. <p>I should just point out that a few people&mdash;like Molly&mdash;when I said we could not be prouder of what they've accomplished, bristled a little bit and said, \\"I'm not done yet.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] So these guys are still out there making a difference. And they'll be right there with us if we end up doing the right thing. All right? <p>So congratulations to all of the winners of the Citizens Medal. I've got some outstanding military aides here, and one of them is going to read the citations, one at a time, and then I'll present a medal to each of the honorees. <p>[<i>At this point, the military aide to the President read the citations, and the President presented the medals.</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> What a remarkable group of Americans. <p>I want to thank all of you for joining us here today, all the friends and family who are here to celebrate our Citizens Medals winners, because I think that, not to speak for them, but I suspect they'd say that they couldn't have done what they did without the incredible support of all the people who are here. The colleagues and the loved ones who submitted nominations online, I'm sure they're appreciative, and obviously, you made a pretty convincing case. <p>I think our honorees recognize that our work is not yet done. And so I just want to repeat, I hope that their incredible work ends up setting an example for all of us, both in public service and in our daily lives. <p>And I know that some folks today who are here also represent the Corporation for National and Community Service. Every day, you help Americans make their country a better place, and I want to thank all of you for your hard work. <p>So with that, we've got, my understanding is, some pretty good food here&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;maybe even a little music, as we celebrate these extraordinary individuals. Please give them one more big round of applause.\" "
"237" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. As a candidate for President, I pledged to bring the war in Iraq to a responsible end, for the sake of our national security and to strengthen American leadership around the world. After taking office, I announced a new strategy that would end our combat mission in Iraq and remove all of our troops by the end of 2011. <p>As Commander in Chief, ensuring the success of this strategy has been one of my highest national security priorities. Last year, I announced the end to our combat mission in Iraq. And to date, we've removed more than 100,000 troops. Iraqis have taken full responsibility for their country's security. <p>A few hours ago, I spoke with Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki. I reaffirmed that the United States keeps its commitments. He spoke of the determination of the Iraqi people to forge their own future. We are in full agreement about how to move forward. <p>So today I can report that, as promised, the rest of our troops in Iraq will come home by the end of the year. After nearly 9 years, America's war in Iraq will be over. <p>Over the next 2 months, our troops in Iraq&mdash;tens of thousands of them&mdash;will pack up their gear and board convoys for the journey home. The last American soldier [soldiers; White House correction] will cross the border out of Iraq with their held&mdash;heads held high, proud of their success, and knowing that the American people stand united in our support for our troops. That is how America's military efforts in Iraq will end. <p>But even as we mark this important milestone, we're also moving into a new phase in the relationship between the United States and Iraq. As of January 1 and in keeping with our strategic framework agreement with Iraq, it will be a normal relationship between sovereign nations, an equal partnership based on mutual interests and mutual respect. <p>In today's conversation, Prime Minister Maliki and I agreed that a meeting of the higher coordinating committee of the strategic framework agreement will convene in the coming weeks. And I invited the Prime Minister to come to the White House in December, as we plan for all the important work that we have to do together. This will be a strong and enduring partnership. With our diplomats and civilian advisers in the lead, we'll help Iraqis strengthen institutions that are just, representative, and accountable. We'll build new ties of trade and of commerce, culture and education that unleash the potential of the Iraqi people. We'll partner with an Iraq that contributes to regional security and peace, just as we insist that other nations respect Iraq's sovereignty. <p>As I told Prime Minister Maliki, we will continue discussions on how we might help Iraq train and equip its forces, again, just as we offer training and assistance to countries around the world. After all, there will be some difficult days ahead for Iraq, and the United States will continue to have an interest in an Iraq that is stable, secure, and self-reliant. Just as Iraqis have persevered through war, I'm confident that they can build a future worthy of their history as a cradle of civilization. <p>Here at home, the coming months will be another season of homecomings. Across America, our service men and women will be reunited with their families. Today I can say that our troops in Iraq will definitely be home for the holidays. <p>This December will be a time to reflect on all that we've been though in this war. I'll join the American people in paying tribute to the more than 1 million Americans who have served in Iraq. We'll honor our many wounded warriors and the nearly 4,500 American patriots&mdash;and their Iraqi and coalition partners&mdash;who gave their lives to this effort. <p>And finally, I would note that the end of war in Iraq reflects a larger transition. The tide of war is receding. The drawdown in Iraq allowed us to refocus our fight against Al Qaida and achieve major victories against its leadership, including Usama bin Laden. Now, even as we remove our last troops from Iraq, we're beginning to bring our troops home from Afghanistan, where we've begun a transition to Afghan security in [and; White House correction] leadership. When I took office, roughly 180,000 troops were deployed in both these wars. And by the end of this year that number will be cut in half. And make no mistake: It will continue to go down. <p>Meanwhile, yesterday marked the definitive end of the Qadhafi regime in Libya. And there, too, our military played a critical role in shaping a situation on the ground in which the Libyan people can build their own future. Today, NATO is working to bring this successful mission to a close. <p>So to sum up, the United States is moving forward from a position of strength. The long war in Iraq will come to an end by the end of this year. The transition in Afghanistan is moving forward, and our troops are finally coming home. As they do, fewer deployments and more time training will help keep our military the very best in the world. And as we welcome home our newest veterans, we'll never stop working to give them and their families the care, the benefits, and the opportunities that they have earned. <p>This includes enlisting our veterans in the greatest challenge that we now face as a nation: creating opportunity and jobs in this country. Because after a decade of war, the nation that we need to build&mdash;and the nation that we will build&mdash;is our own, an America that sees its economic strength restored just as we've restored our leadership around the globe. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"238" "\"Welcome, everybody. Please have a seat. It is a great pleasure to be with so many outstanding innovators and inventors. And I'm glad we could convince them all to take a day off&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;to accept our Nation's highest honor when it comes to inventions and innovation, and that is the National Medals of Science and the National Medals of Technology and Innovation. <p>It's safe to say that this is a group that makes all of us really embarrassed about our old science projects. [<i>Laughter</i>] You know, the volcano with the stuff coming out&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;with the baking soda inside. Apparently, that was not a cutting-edge achievement&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;even though our parents told us it was really terrific. <p>But thanks to the men and women on the stage, we are one step closer to curing diseases like cancer and Parkinson's. Because of their work, soldiers can see the enemy at night and grandparents can see the pictures of their grandchildren instantly and constantly. Planes are safer, satellites are cheaper, and our energy grid is more efficient, thanks to the breakthroughs that they have made. <p>And even though these folks have not sought out the kind of celebrity that lands you on the cover of People magazine, the truth is that today's honorees have made a bigger difference in our lives than most of us will ever realize. When we fill up our cars, talk on our cell phones, or take a lifesaving drug, we don't always think about the ideas and the effort that made it all possible. We don't always ask ourselves how many sleepless nights went by and how many family dinners were sacrificed. But the folks behind me, they know. They worked those long nights. They made those sacrifices. They took on those challenges and ran those experiments and devoted their lives to expanding the reach of human understanding. <p>And that's why we recognize them today. Because America has always been a place where good ideas can thrive and dreams can become real, where innovation is encouraged and the greatest minds in the world are free to push the very limits of science and technology. <p>To understand that, you don't have to look any further than the people on this stage. Three-quarters of our honorees were born outside of the United States. From China, Germany, India, Canada, and England, they searched for the best universities and the most advanced labs, and they found them here, because America is the best place in the world to do the work that they do. <p>And now more than ever, it's critical that we make the investments necessary to keep it that way. We live in a global economy where companies and factories can be located anywhere there's an Internet connection. And to compete in that economy, we can't cut corners by paying workers less or building cheaper products. We won't be able to engage in a race to the bottom; that's not who we are. <p>The key to our success has always been and always will be our unparalleled ability to think up new ideas, create new industries, and lead the way in discovery and innovation. And that's how the future will be won. <p>Right now, unfortunately, barely more than 1 in 10 of all undergraduate students are enrolled in what we call the STEM subjects&mdash;science, technology, engineering, and math&mdash;areas that will be critical if America is going to compete for the jobs of the future. And that's troubling, because no matter how many great minds we attract from around the world, it won't be enough if we can't grow some here at home. <p>That's why we've worked to make college more affordable, why we've set a goal to train 100,000 new teachers in the next decade, and started a Race to the Top to encourage schools to improve the way they teach these subjects. That's why we're working with businesses to train more engineers and help community colleges provide more workers with the skills that businesses need. <p>And just as we're working to cultivate the next generation of thinkers, we're also working to fast track the next generation of doers. We've made historic investments in technology and research, made the most meaningful reforms to our patent process in 50 years, and made it easier for entrepreneurs to turn new ideas into new businesses and new jobs. I want to thank someone who helped make that happen. NASA Administrator Charles Bolden is here, and we're very pleased to have him as well. <p>As the men and the women on this stage will tell you, nobody gets here on their own. Each of them succeeded because they had a great teacher, a great mentor, or a great partner. Some of them don't have to look far for inspiration. In fact, I hear that Jackie Barton's husband won the same award she's getting today in 2006&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and they plan on displaying their medals next to each other on a mantle at home, which, I would imagine, will intimidate dinner guests. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And just as each of today's honorees has had someone in their lives who lit a spark or kept that spark burning, they've paid it back by inspiring somebody else. When Peter Stang won this award, he made sure to thank the 100 postdoctoral and Ph.D. students he's mentored over the years, because, as he said, \\"this recognizes their work as well.\\" When Jay Baliga first got interested in physics by picking up a book at the local bookstore, he remembered that, and he now tells his students to go beyond the curriculum and come up with ideas of their own. When Richard Tapia remembers what it's like growing up as a son of Mexican immigrants and the first one in his family to go to college, today, he is a world-class mathematician, but he, because of those memories, helps more young people&mdash;especially women and minorities&mdash;to get involved in math and in science. <p>And in the end, that's what this today is all about. One of the best ways we can inspire more young people to think big, dream big dreams, is by honoring the people who already do, folks who are smart and aren't afraid to show it, but also folks who have taken that brilliance and gone out and changed the world. <p>Because that next generation is already coming; they're already knocking on the door. A couple of weeks ago, I got a chance to meet the winners of the Google Science Fair. I want to point out that all three of them were girls. And they had beat out&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]. Right? They had beat out 10,000 other applicants from over 90 countries. So I had them over to the Oval Office, and they explained their projects to me, and I pretended that I understood. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>One of the winners, Shree Bose, did her first experiment in second grade by trying to turn spinach blue. [<i>Laughter</i>] In fourth grade, she built a remote-controlled garbage can. And for this science fair, at the age of 17, she discovered a promising new way to improve treatment for ovarian cancer&mdash;at 17. And she also told me very matter-of-factly that she'll be going to medical school and getting a doctorate, and I suspect she will do so. [<i>Laughter</i>] She did not lack confidence. <p>And it's young people like Shree, but also the people on this stage, who make me incredibly hopeful about the future. Even at a time of great uncertainty, their stories remind us that there are still discoveries waiting to be made and unlimited potential waiting to be tapped. All we have to do is encourage it and support it. <p>So I want to congratulate today's honorees for their extraordinary and inspiring work. We could not be prouder of all of you. <p>And now it is my privilege to present the National Medals of Science and the National Medals of Technology and Innovation. <p>[<i>At this point, the military aide to the President read the citations, and the President presented the medals.</i>] <p>Well, let's, please, give one more big round of applause to the National Medals of Science, the National Medals of Technology and Innovation. We are very proud of them. And I hope all the young people who are either watching or who are here today take inspiration from the extraordinary work that they do. <p>I will say that the only problem with these wonderful awards is my military aides really have to practice reading the citations&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;because they are multisyllabic. [<i>Laughter</i>] But you did good. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>All right, with that, I hope everybody enjoys this wonderful celebration and reception, and again, thank you so much for helping to make the world a better place. <p>Thank you, everybody.\" "
"239" "\"This week, we had two powerful reminders of how we've renewed American leadership in the world. I was proud to announce that, as promised, the rest of our troops in Iraq will come home by the end of this year. And in Libya, the death of Muammar Qadhafi showed that our role in protecting the Libyan people and helping them break free from a tyrant was the right thing to do. <p>In Iraq, we've succeeded in our strategy to end the war. Last year, I announced the end of our combat mission in Iraq. We've already removed more than 100,000 troops, and Iraqi forces have taken full responsibility for the security of their own country. Thanks to the extraordinary sacrifices of our men and women in uniform, the Iraqi people have the chance to forge their own future. And now the rest of our troops will be home for the holidays. <p>In Libya, our brave pilots and crews helped prevent a massacre, save countless lives, and give the Libyan people the chance to prevail. Without putting a single U.S. servicemember on the ground, we achieved our objectives. Soon our NATO mission will come to a successful end, even as we continue to support the Libyan people and people across the Arab world who seek a democratic future. <p>These successes are part of the larger story. After a decade of war, we're turning the page and moving forward with strength and confidence. The drawdown in Iraq allowed us to refocus on Afghanistan and achieve major victories against Al Qaida and Usama bin Laden. As we remove the last of our troops from Iraq, we're beginning to bring our troops home from Afghanistan. <p>To put this in perspective, when I took office, roughly 180,000 troops were deployed in these wars. By the end of this year, that number will be cut in half and an increasing number of our troops will continue to come home. <p>As we end these wars, we're focusing on our greatest challenge as a nation: rebuilding our economy and renewing our strength at home. Over the past decade, we spent a trillion dollars on war, borrowed heavily from overseas, and invested too little in the greatest source of our national strength, our own people. Now, the nation we need to build is our own. <p>We have to tackle this challenge with the same urgency and the same unity that our troops brought to their fight. That's why we have to do everything in our power to get our economy moving again. That's why I'm calling on Congress to pass the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" so we can rebuild our country&mdash;our schools, our roads, our bridges&mdash;and put our veterans, construction workers, teachers, cops, and firefighters back to work. And that's why I hope all of us can draw strength from the example of our men and women in uniform. <p>They've met their responsibilities to America. Now it's time to meet ours. It's time to come together and show the world why the United States of America remains the greatest source for freedom and opportunity that the world has ever known.\" "
"240" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Vegas! Thank you. Thank you so much. It is good to be back in Las Vegas. It is good to be back in Nevada. I love coming to Vegas. The only people who love coming more is my staff. [<i>Laughter</i>] I would not be surprised if some of them miss the plane accidentally. [<i>Laughter</i>] But is wonderful to be with all of you. <p>I want to especially thank Stephen for the incredible work that he is doing right now, because as a consequence of his work, we are going to see more tourism dollars in Las Vegas, more tourism dollars in Nevada, more tourism dollars in the United States of America. So please give him a big round of applause for all his efforts. <p>I see a lot of friends here, folks who have been with me for a long time. And to all of you, I just want to say thank you. But I'm here today not just because I need your help again. I am here because the country needs your help. I'm here because if you thought that the last election was critical to our future, then I can promise you that what happens in the coming year is going to be even more consequential. It's going to matter to our kids; it's going to matter to our grandkids. <p>For the past 3 years, we've been wrestling with two kind of crises. We've been dealing with an economic crisis that left far too many folks without a job, far too many folks struggling with housing. But we've also been dealing with a political crisis. <p>All across the country, people are crying out for action. A lot of folks have spent months looking for work. Others are doing their best just to get by, having to make tough decisions every single day. Maybe they don't go out to a restaurant because they can't afford the gas. Maybe they give up their retirement for now so that they can send their child to college. And you know, these Americans are not asking for a lot. They're not looking for handouts. They don't think government can or should solve all their problems. But they do believe what most of you believe: that America should be a place where no matter where you come from, no matter what you look like, you can make it if you try; that this economy works best when it works for everybody, not just for those at the very top; that if opportunity exists for all Americans, then all of us do well&mdash;the folks in the middle and the folks at the top, as well as folks at the bottom. <p>Most Americans believe that hard work should pay off, that responsibility should be rewarded, that everybody in this country deserves a fair shake and everybody has a responsibility to do their fair share. And these beliefs aren't Democratic values. They're not Republican values. They are American values, and they're the bedrock of what this country has always stood for. That's why I ran for President in the first place. That's why so many of you supported me, poured your hearts into this campaign, because you believed that it was time for our politics to reflect our values. <p>Now, 3 years later, it's clear that a big chunk of Washington has not gotten the message yet. Just look at what's been going on since I introduced my jobs bill in September. Now, this is a bill that is filled with proposals that, traditionally, Democrats and Republicans have supported in the past: tax cuts for workers and small businesses; funding to rebuild our roads and our bridges and our airports, our infrastructure, our transportation system; putting construction workers back on the job; hiring back teachers and cops, firefighters; giving incentives so that veterans are able to find work when they come home, because, I promise you, if you've laid down your life or risked your life for this country, you should not have to fight for a job when you come home. <p>So those are the proposals contained in this bill. It's a bill that's fully paid for by asking those of us who make more than $1 million to pay a little more in taxes. Independent economists, people who look at this stuff for a living, say that it's the only plan out there right now that would create jobs in the short term as well as lay a foundation for economic growth in the long term. One economist said it would create nearly 2 million jobs next year&mdash;2 million. And by the way, that economist did not work for me. And polls show that an overwhelming majority of Americans support the proposals that are in this bill: Democrats, Independents, and Republicans. <p>So we've got huge challenges in places like Nevada. We've got a jobs bill out there that is paid for and addresses those challenges. The question is, why, despite all the support, despite all the experts who say this jobs bill couldn't come at a more important time, when so many people are hurting, why the Republicans in Washington have said no? They keep voting against it. Now, maybe it's just because I am the one sponsoring it. I don't know. But last week, we had a separate vote on a part of the jobs bill that would put 400,000 teachers, firefighters, and police officers back on the job, paid for by asking people who make more than $1 million to pay one-half of 1 percent in additional taxes. For somebody making $1.1 million a year, that's an extra $500&mdash;five hundred bucks. And with that, we could have saved 400,000 jobs. <p>Most people making more than $1 million, if you talk to them, they'll say, I'm willing to pay $500 extra to help the country. They're patriots. They believe we're all in this thing together. But all the Republicans in the Senate said no. Their leader, Mitch McConnell, said that&mdash;and I'm going to make sure I quote this properly&mdash;saving the jobs of teachers and cops and firefighters was just, I quote, \\"a bailout\\"&mdash;a bailout. These aren't bad actors who somehow screwed up the economy. They didn't act irresponsibly. These are the men and women who teach our children, who patrol our streets, who run into burning buildings and save people. They deserve our support. <p>This is the fight that we're going to have right now, and I suspect this is the fight that we're going to have to have over the next year. The Republicans in Congress and the Republican candidates for President have made their agenda very clear. They have two basic economic principles: first, tax cuts for the very wealthiest and the biggest corporations, paid for by gutting investments in education and research and infrastructure and programs like Medicare. That's agenda item number one. Second is just about every regulation that's out there they want to get rid of: clean air, clean water, you name it. <p>Now, I agree that there are some rules and regulations that put an unnecessary burden on business at a time when we can't afford it. I mean, we've seen this in our travel bureau, where the bureaucracy for getting a visa to come visit Vegas is too long. We want to get them here quicker; they can stay longer and spend more. And that's why, in addition to what we're doing with the travel bureau, we've already identified 500 regulatory reforms that will save billions of dollars over the next few years&mdash;billions of dollars over the next few years. But unfortunately, so far at least, we have not gotten any willingness on the other side to say that some regulations we can't give up. <p>We are not going to win the race in this competitive 21st century-economy by having the cheapest labor or the most polluted air. That's a race to the bottom that we can't win. There's always going to be a country out there that can exploit its workers more or pollute its air more or pollute its water more, have lower worker safety standards. There's always going to be somebody out there to win that competition. The competition we need to win is because we have the best scientists and we've got the best universities and we've got the best workers and we have the best infrastructure and we've got the best resorts and we've got the best ideas and we've got the best system and it's the most transparent and it's the most accountable. That's how we're going to win the competition for the future. And that's what's at stake right now in this race. <p>And the worst part is that the ideas that the other side are propagating we've tried. I mean, it would be one thing if, you know what, the economy is not doing very well, let's try something new. Let's try a whole radical new agenda. But what they're proposing we tried for 10 years. Remember? Does anybody remember? <p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes! <p><i>The President.</i> We cut taxes for our wealthiest citizens. We didn't enforce worker safety rules. We didn't enforce antipollution standards. We didn't enforce regulations on Wall Street. And where did we end up? We ended up with a decade in which income and wages for middle class families flatlined and people tried to make up for it by propping up a housing bubble. And when it went bust we had the worst financial crisis and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. That's the end of the road if you travel that path. <p>So we've got a different set of ideas here. We have a different set of values. And I repeat, they are not Democratic values alone. Abraham Lincoln, in the midst of a civil war, started land-grant colleges and the Homestead Act and built the intercontinental railroad, started the National Academy of Sciences. He understood&mdash;the first Republican President&mdash;that you've got to invest in the future in order to win it. <p>Dwight Eisenhower built the Interstate Highway System, invested in math and science in our schools. My grandfather benefited from a GI bill, like millions of others who came home heroes. And somebody said, you know what, if we give them opportunity, if we give them a chance, there is no doubt that everybody will be better off. <p>I would not be standing here today if somebody had not made an investment and said, you know what, not everybody is going to be born wealthy, not everybody is going to be born well-connected; why don't we make sure that we've got college scholarships out there and student loans so that people can go to college and give something back to this country. <p>So those are the values that we're going to be fighting for. And I have confidence that those are the values of the American people. And I know those are your values. And it's because you were willing to invest so much, not in me, but in an idea that we can have a politics that is different, have a politics that's focused on not just the here and now, not just focused on party, but is focused on country, not just focused on the next election, but focused on the next generation. It's because you made that investment that we've already made some remarkable changes. <p>I mean, things are tough right now, but I want everybody to remember what we have accomplished because of you. [<i>Applause</i>] What we've accomplished because of you. As tough as things are right now, we were able to stabilize this economy and make sure it didn't go into a great depression, because of you. Because of your efforts, we were able to pass health care reform, and 30 million people are going to get health insurance in this country. <p>I just had somebody who's here tonight&mdash;or here this afternoon&mdash;mention the fact that their daughter is very sick. And my prayers are with the family. But he said, \\"She is 23 years old right now. Because of the Affordable Care Act, right now she is able to stay on my insurance.\\" And that is a huge relief for families across the country. A million extra young people have health insurance because of you, and we haven't even finished implementing that plan. <p>Because of you, as promised, the war in Iraq will end by the end of this year and all our troops will be home&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;all of them. And by the way, the country is stronger, and it is safer. And we are making a transition in Afghanistan, and Al Qaida is on the run, and we have decimated their leadership because of you. Because of you, anybody can serve in our military now, regardless of who they love. \\"Don't ask, don't tell\\" is history because of you. <p>Because of you, there are millions of young people who are getting Pell grants and larger scholarships, because we're no longer subsidizing big banks who were basically just a pass-through for student loans. That money is directly going to the students now, and that's making a huge difference all across the country. <p>So we've made an enormous difference already, but we've got so much more work to do. We've got to pass comprehensive immigration reform. We've got to make sure that we have a system that reflects the fact that we're a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants. <p>We're going to have to have an energy policy in this country that makes sense, because I am tired of the U.S. economy being held hostage to the spot oil market. We've got to develop clean energy that will not only put money back in the pocket of consumers, but will also save our environment. <p>We still have to implement health care reform. We still have to implement financial regulatory reform. We have set up a consumer watchdog that is going to make sure no more hidden fees, no more abusive mortgage practices that had such a devastating effect here in Nevada. But we've got to make sure that it's actually implemented. And the other side, one of their main agendas is to roll it back. <p>And most of all, we've got to grow an economy that is based not on bubbles, not on shifting sands, not on financial maneuvers, but it's based on innovation and based on investment and based on entrepreneurship. We can do those things. We can close the deficit and make the investment in the future that we need. But I'm only going to be able to do it if you're there with me. [<i>Applause</i>] I'm only going to be able to do that if you're there with me. <p>You know, the&mdash;I turned 50 this summer. [<i>Laughter</i>] My hair is a little grayer now. You noticed that, huh? Yes. My girls say it's distinguished. [<i>Laughter</i>] Michelle says it just makes me look old. [<i>Laughter</i>] We've gone through some enormous challenges over the last 3 years, and as much good as we have done, I think there's so much left to do that, understandably, a lot of people feel a little disenchanted. A lot of people feel discouraged. <p>That old \\"Hope\\" poster is fading. It's getting dog-eared along the edges there. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I just want to remind all of you that we never said this was going to be easy. We never said that change was going to happen overnight. The problems that we confront didn't happen overnight; we weren't going to solve them overnight. The challenges we face in terms of rebuilding an economy that works for everybody, making sure that once again we have the best education system in the world, making sure that once again anybody out there who has a good idea can go out there and make it, making sure that we've got a balanced approach to reducing our deficit and getting our fiscal house in order, all those things we knew were going to take some time. <p>And so the main challenge that I have for all of you here today is to make sure that you remember why we got on this path in the first place, why we took this journey from the start. We didn't do it because it was going to be easy. You supported a candidate named Barack Hussein Obama. Polls didn't need to tell you that that was going to be hard. You didn't do it because you thought that change would happen overnight. You didn't do it because you were easily discouraged. <p>These days people look back at the campaign, and they say, oh, that campaign was perfect, you know? It's like, well, no it wasn't. [<i>Laughter</i>] We had all kinds of setbacks. We defied the odds. So many of you remember. And we'll do it again. [<i>Applause</i>] But we will do it again. I still believe in you, and I believe in the American people. And I'm absolutely convinced that as long as we keep our eyes on where we need to go, here in Nevada and all across the country, that indomitable American spirit, that thing that that has gotten through&mdash;has gotten us through every single tough time we've ever been in&mdash;from Revolutionary War to Civil War, slavery, the women's rights movement, the union movement&mdash;every step of the way&mdash;world wars and great depressions&mdash;we've always come out stronger on the other side. <p>There's something about the American people where, when we are tested, when times are tough, it turns out we are tougher. And when our politics isn't working, then the American people rise up and make sure they work. <p>This is one of those moments. This is one of those times. And if you keep hoping, and you're willing to put your work and your effort behind it, I have no doubt that not only will we win this election, but more importantly, we're going to win the future, and this country is going to be greater than it's ever been. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"241" "\"<i>The President.</i> Good afternoon, everybody. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Good afternoon! <p><i>The President.</i> Thank you for letting me block your driveways. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Audience member.</i> You're welcome. <p><i>The President.</i> Well, it is wonderful to be with all of you. And I want to thank Jose and Lissette and their wonderful children for letting us set up right in front of their house, and we just had a wonderful visit. <p>Without a doubt, the most urgent challenge that we face right now is getting our economy to grow faster and to create more jobs. I know it, the people of Nevada know it, and I think most Americans also understand that the problems we face didn't happen overnight, and so we're not going to solve them all overnight either. What people don't understand though is why some elected officials in Washington don't seem to same the&mdash;share the same sense of urgency that people all around the country are. <p>Last week, for the second time this month, Republicans in the Senate blocked a jobs bill from moving forward, a bill that would have meant nearly 400,000 teachers, firefighters, and first-responders being back on the job. It was the kind of proposal that in the past, at least, Republicans and Democrats have supported. It was paid for, and it was supported by an overwhelming majority of the American people. But they still said no. <p>Your Senator, Majority Leader Harry Reid, he's been fighting nonstop to help get the economy going. But he's not getting some help from some of the members of the Nevada delegation. So we need them to get their act together. Because the truth is, the only way that we can truly attack our economic challenges, the only way we can put hundreds of thousands of people back to work right now, is with bold action from Congress. <p>That's why I'm going to keep forcing these Senators to vote on commonsense, paid-for jobs proposals. But last month, when I addressed a joint session of Congress about our jobs crisis, I also said that I intend to do everything in my power to act on behalf of the American people, with or without Congress. <p>So I'm here to say to all of you and to say to the people of Nevada and the people of Las Vegas, we can't wait for an increasingly dysfunctional Congress to do its job. Where they won't act, I will. <p>In recent weeks, we decided to stop waiting for Congress to fix No Child Left Behind and decided to give States the flexibility they need to help our children meet higher standards. We took steps on our own to reduce the time it takes for small businesses to get paid when they have a contract with the Federal Government. And without any help from Congress, we eliminated outdated regulations that will save hospitals and patients billions of dollars. <p>Now, these steps aren't substitutes for the bold action that we need to create jobs and grow the economy, but they will make a difference. So we're not going to wait for Congress. <p>I've told my administration to keep looking every single day for actions we can take without Congress, steps that can save consumers money, make Government more efficient and responsive, and help heal the economy. And we're going to be announcing these executive actions on a regular basis. <p>Now, today what I wanted to focus on is housing, which is something obviously on the minds of a lot of folks here in Nevada. Probably the single greatest cause of the financial crisis and this brutal recession has been the housing bubble that burst 4 years ago. Since then, average home prices have fallen by nearly 17 percent. Nationwide, more than 10 million homeowners are underwater. That means that they owe more on their homes than those houses are worth. And here in Las Vegas, the city that's been hit hardest of all, almost the entire housing market is under severe stress. <p>Now, this is a painful burden for middle class families, and it's also a drag on our economy. When a home loses its value, a family loses a big chunk of their wealth. Paying off mortgage debt means that consumers are spending less and businesses are making less and jobs are harder to come by. And as long as this goes on, our recovery can't take off as quickly as it would after a normal recession. <p>So the question is not whether or not we do something about it. We have to do something about it. The question is, what do we do, and how fast do we move? One idea that I've proposed is contained in the jobs act that is before Congress right now, and it's called Project Rebuild. <p>A lot of homeowners in neighborhoods like this one have watched the values of their home decline not just because the housing bubble burst, but also because of the foreclosure sign next door or the vacant home across the street. Right now there are hundreds of thousands of vacant homes like these and more than a million unemployed construction workers. That doesn't make any sense when there's work to be done and there are workers ready to do it. <p>So Project Rebuild connects the two by helping the private sector put construction workers to work rehabilitating vacant or abandoned homes and businesses all across the country. That will help stabilize home prices in communities like this one. And it will help families like the Bonillas to buy a new home and build a nest egg. <p>This is something that Congress can pass right now, because it's in the jobs bill. We will put construction workers back to work, and we will rebuild homes all across Nevada and all across the country. <p>If Congress passes this jobs bill, we can get Project Rebuild moving right away. If Congress acts, then people in Nevada and all across the country can get significant relief. But remember what I said: We can't just wait for Congress. Until they act, until they do what they need to do, we're going to act on our own, because we can't wait for Congress to help our families and our economy. <p>Over the past 2 years, we've already taken some steps to help families refinance their mortgages. Nearly 1 million Americans with little equity in their homes have gotten assistance so far. And we've also made it easier for unemployed homeowners to keep their homes while they're looking for a job. And we're working to turn vacant properties into rental housing, which will help reduce the supply of unsold homes and stabilize housing prices here in Las Vegas and all across the country. <p>But we can do more. There are still millions of Americans who have worked hard and acted responsibly, paying their mortgage payments on time, but now that their homes are worth less than they owe on their mortgage, they're having trouble getting refinancing, even though mortgage rates are at record lows. <p>So that's going to soon change. Last month, I directed my economic team to work with the Federal Housing Finance Agency, or FHFA, and their partners in the housing industry to identify barriers to refinancing, knock those barriers down, and explore every option available to help many American homeowners to refinance. <p>And today I am pleased to announce that the agency that is in charge is going to be taking a series of steps to help responsible homeowners refinance and take advantage of low mortgage rates. So let me just name those steps. <p>Number one, the barrier will be lifted that prohibits responsible homeowners from refinancing if their home values have fallen so low that what they owe on their mortgage is 25 percent higher than the current value of their home. And this is critically important for a place like Las Vegas, where home values have fallen by more than 50 percent over the past 5 years. <p>So let me just give you an example. If you've got a $250,000 mortgage at 6-percent interest rates, but the value of your home has fallen below $200,000, right now you can't refinance. You're ineligible. But that's going to change. If you meet certain requirements, you will have the chance to refinance at lower rates, which could save you hundreds of dollars a month and thousands of dollars a year on mortgage payments. <p>Second, there are going to be lower closing costs, and certain refinancing fees will be eliminated, fees that can sometimes cancel out the benefits of refinancing altogether. So people don't bother to refinance because they've got all these fees that they have to pay. Well, we're going to try to knock away some of those fees. <p>Third, there's going to be more competition so that consumers can shop around for the best rates. Right now some underwater homeowners have no choice but to refinance with their original lender, and some lenders frankly just refuse to refinance. So these changes are going to encourage other lenders to compete for that business by offering better terms and rates, and eligible homeowners are going to be able to shop around for the best rates and the best terms. <p>So you take these things together, this is going to help a lot more homeowners refinance at lower rates, which means consumers save money, those families save money, and it gets those families spending again. And it also makes it easier for them to make their mortgage payments so that they don't lose their home and bring down home values in the neighborhood. <p>I'm going to keep on doing everything in my power to help to stabilize the housing market, grow the economy, accelerate job growth, and restore some of the security that middle class families have felt slipping away for more than a decade. <p>Now, let me just say this in closing. These steps that I've highlighted today, they're not going to solve all the problems in the housing market here in Nevada or across the country. Given the magnitude of the housing bubble and the huge inventory of unsold homes in places like Nevada, it's going to take time to solve these challenges. We still need Congress to pass the jobs bill. We still need them to move forward on Project Rebuild so we can have more homes like this and wonderful families having opportunity to live out the American Dream. <p>But even if we do all those things, the housing market's not going to be fully healed until the unemployment rate comes down and the inventory of homes on the market also comes down. But that's no excuse for inaction. That's no excuse for just saying no to Americans who need help right now. It's no excuse for all the games and the gridlock that we've been seeing in Washington. <p>People out here don't have a lot of time or a lot of patience for some of that nonsense that's been going on in Washington. If any Member of Congress thinks there are no unemployed workers or no down-on-their-luck neighborhoods in their district that would benefit from the proposals in the jobs bill, then they better think again. They should come and talk to the families out here in Nevada. These Members of Congress who aren't doing the right thing right now, they still have a chance to take meaningful action to put people back to work and to help middle class families and homeowners like the Bonillas. <p>But we can't wait for that action. I'm not going to wait for it. So I'm going to keep on taking this message across the country. Where we don't have to wait for Congress, we're just going to go ahead and act on our own. And we're going to keep on putting pressure on Congress to do the right thing for families all across the country. And I am confident that the American people want to see action. We know what to do. The question is whether we're going to have the political will to do it. <p>All right? So thank you so much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thanks for welcoming me to your neighborhood. Thank you.\" "
"242" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody! Well, it is good to be here tonight. Everybody, please have a seat. Make yourselves comfortable. <p>Although some of them have already been acknowledged, I just want to say, first of all, thank you to Eva. She is just a powerhouse. I don't know how much&mdash;I couldn't say no if she had called me. [<i>Laughter</i>] So&mdash;and between her and Giselle and all the folks who helped to make this Futuro Fund possible, I am grateful. <p>To Melanie and Antonio&mdash;could not be more gracious hosts&mdash;and their beautiful family, thank you so much. We are grateful to you. <p>We have some great guests. Somebody who&mdash;daughter of a Teamster, fighting for working people every single day, and one of my favorite people, just a great member of my Cabinet, Hilda Solis. We are so proud of her. There are two of my majors&mdash;two&mdash;there are two of my favorite mayors as well: Mayor Villaraigosa and Mayor Castro. They work hard every single day on behalf of their constituents. So we're proud of them. One of the finest Senators we have in the country, Bob Mendendez of New Jersey is here in the house. And a personal hero of mine, Dolores Huerta is here. Where's Dolores at? Where is she? There she is back there. We love her. <p>Before I came to Los Angeles today, I was in Las Vegas. And I think as many of you know, Las Vegas has been hit as hard as any part of the country as a consequence of a housing bubble that burst. Unemployment is higher than it is any place in the country. There are more homes that are underwater than just about any place in the country. <p>And we went to announce a new program that we have for refinancing of mortgages, because so many people are having difficulty refinancing, taking advantage of these low rates. Their mortgages are now higher than what the homes are being valued for, and as a consequence, the banks won't refinance. And so we took some executive action to try to get this fixed. <p>But what was interesting was the setting. We went into this subdivision, and we visited the home of the Bonillas&mdash;Jose and Lissette. And their story is a classic American story. Jose had come here 26 years ago as an undocumented worker, and he got a job sweeping floors in a supermarket. <p>He met Lissette, who was also undocumented and was a housekeeper. And when the amnesty program came, they were able to get legal status here in this country. They had three beautiful children, and for 17 years, they lived in a one-bedroom apartment&mdash;all three&mdash;the three kids in bunk beds in one room and Jose and Lissette slept in the living room. And that's how they raised their family. But they worked incredibly hard, they saved, eventually each of them got U.S. citizenship, and Jose rose up through the ranks until he was finally a manager at this supermarket. But they still didn't have enough money for a home. And then a program that we had set up that we're now trying to replicate all across the country took homes that were vacant, that had been foreclosed on, and converted them. And so they finally got their first home. <p>And they invited in the President of the United States, after apologizing to their neighbors for blocking the streets&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;to their home, and we sat around the dining room table and talked about their life and their experience and what was happening to their friends and neighbors and those who had lost their homes and those whose families had been separated. And at one point in the conversation, Jose says: \\"Understand our dream is not complete. Our dream will not be complete until my children have all gone to college and they have a home of their own and everybody here in this country understands that they are full-fledged Americans.\\" <p>Now, what struck me in this conversation was not how unique their story is, but how typical their story is of what built this country, that spirit of being willing to take enormous risks, of coming to a new land, of charting a new course, of starting at the bottom and working your way up, of putting your blood, sweat, and tears into this distant vision for the future. That's what built this country. That's the essence of America; that's its foundation. And when I ran for President, I ran not because of the title, not because of a pursuit of power, but because I so deeply believed in those ideals and those values that helped to propel this country forward and made it a beacon for all the world. <p>That's what America is. That's why all around the world even today people still think about this country differently than they think about other countries, no matter how critical they may be sometimes, no matter how frustrated they may be. The American ideal, the American creed, is one that animates the entire world. And I ran for President because I want to make sure that this country remains that beacon and remains that ideal. And that the hopes of the Joses and the Lissettes, people all across the country, regardless of their station, regardless of what they look like, regardless of where they come from, that they're going to be able to have that piece of the American Dream. <p>Now, part of the reason that I ran was because too many people felt that dream slipping away. For a decade, we saw that dream neglected. And so even though some of us were extraordinarily fortunate, those of us at the very top were doing very well, the average family saw their wages flatline, their incomes flatline, even as the cost of everything from a college education to their health care to their groceries to their gas was going up. More and more people felt like they were working harder just to stay in the same place or not to fall behind. <p>We had a health care system that was broken. We have an energy policy that leaves us subject to the whims of the world oil market. We had a Washington that seemed less and less responsive to those values and ideals that we believe in so deeply. And this was all before the worst economic crisis and the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. <p>And so we came in knowing that those problems hadn't been created overnight; they weren't going to be solved overnight. But what we were determined to do was to start realigning Washington to our best selves, not our worst, to start pushing to make sure that folks' voices were heard and that we went back to a system in which everybody has a fair shake, everybody gets a shot, that if they're willing to try they can make it in this country, and where we ask a fair share from everybody. And that's what we've been working on over the last 3 years. And it hasn't always been easy; the other side has been fighting us every step of the way. <p>But despite that, we brought about change. Despite that, we got health care passed, and 30 million Americans are going to have health care in this country. And a million young people already have health care now that didn't have it before. Despite the resistance, we were able to not only prevent this country from going into a great depression and stabilized the financial system, but were also able to pass financial reform so that we never have the same kinds of irresponsibility on Wall Street again. And we have consumers protected, and people, including in places right here in this city, are protected from unscrupulous mortgage brokers and from credit card companies that are charging hidden fees and taking advantage of families. <p>Despite the resistance, we were able to make sure that anybody can serve this country that they love&mdash;put an end to \\"don't ask, don't tell.\\" Despite their resistance, we were able to bring about an end to a war and start bringing our troops home. Despite that resistance, we were able to stop sending $60 billion to banks for the student loan program and start sending that $60 billion to students and expand the Pell grant programs and expand access to college. <p>And all this has made a incredible difference to people all across the country. And that's before you even get into the amazing work that the Cabinet has done, of people like Hilda Solis making sure that workers are treated fairly and not exploited by their employers and, working in concert with people like Bob Menendez, making progress across a whole range of issues. <p>So we've seen change. We know what it looks like. We know what it takes. But we've got so much more work to do. And I keep a checklist in my desk, and I kind of see, all right, I made a bunch of these promises during the campaign&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and let me see, yes, I got that done&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and that one, yes. No, that one's not done yet. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So we've got about 60 percent done in 3 years but&mdash;so I'm pretty confident we can get the other 40 percent done in the next 5 years. But to do that, I'm going to need your help. To do that, I am going to need your help because this campaign, this Presidency, was never about me. It was about you. It was about the commitments you made to each other. It was about giving voice to the aspirations and the hopes and the dreams of your friends and your neighbors and your family. It's about folks in this room, all of whom have been incredibly successful, remembering that we're successful because somebody allowed us to be successful, because our parents worked hard. <p>Just meeting Eva's parents, from San Antonio, and I thought how proud they must be, but also the sacrifices they made, remembering that the history of this country is&mdash;is that we have always have had to make investments in the future, in our kids, in our grandkids. And those are commitments that you made to each other when you signed on to this campaign those 3 or 4 years ago. <p>So we've got more work to do, because the economy is still hurting right now. I've been spending the last month trying to get Congress to do something about jobs in this country. We've put together a jobs proposal that contains the best Democratic and Republican ideas. Historically, these are things that both sides support: putting construction workers back to work rebuilding our roads and our bridges and our hospitals so we've got the best infrastructure in the world; rebuilding our schools. We've got kids in trailers all across the country. They've got science labs that were built in the 1960s. What are we doing? We're in the 21st century. Put those folks back to work. Put teachers back in the classroom. We can't be laying off teachers. We've got to be hiring teachers right now so our kids are doing better than any other kids around the world in terms of math and science and technology. <p>Giving tax breaks to small businesses so they can excel and hire more people, giving them tax breaks for hiring our veterans&mdash;we ask these incredible men and women in uniform to put the pause button on their careers, to leave their families, to put themselves at risk. They shouldn't have to fight for a job when they come home. We should be doing everything we can to put them back to work right now. And yet 100 percent of Republican Senators so far have said no. Maybe it's just because I proposed it&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;because the American people support it, it's paid for, economists say it would create almost 2 million jobs. <p>So that's what we're up against. We're going to have to fight for jobs. We're going to have to fight to have the kind of energy policy that makes sure that we're freeing ourselves from dependence on foreign oil. We are going to have to fight to make sure that we're continuing to improve our schools all across the country. And yes, we are going to have to fight to make sure that immigration reform is a reality in this country. <p>I want to make a special point about this, because Giselle, she&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;she's opinionated, so she comes up to me and&mdash;before we come out&mdash;and she's like, \\"Barack, we got to\\"&mdash;I won't tell exactly what she said, because there's still press here, and it would have to be edited out. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Audience member.</i> [<i>Inaudible</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> She said, \\"That's true.\\" She said, \\"Yes, that's true.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But I want to be clear. I believe this is a nation of laws, and this is a nation of immigrants. And those two things don't contradict each other. We have a system that is broken, and we are doing everything we can administratively to try to lessen the pain and the hardship that it's causing, yes, to make sure our borders are secure, but also to say that families like the Bonillas, who are here, they are building this country. They are making it better. They are making it stronger. And we've got to give them opportunities. <p>And it makes no sense&mdash;it makes no sense for us, at a time when we're competing with talent all around the world, to have kids here who are excelling in school, who want to go to universities, who want to get an engineering degree or get a business degree and start some enterprise that could end up growing into the next Apple and the next Google, and we want to send them away? These American kids, these kids who grew up alongside our children? It makes no sense. <p>But again, I'm going to need your help, because we're not going to be able to get this done by ourselves. We're going to have to mobilize and we're going to have to organize and we've got to tap into those best instincts of the American people in order to make it happen. But we're going to get it done. We are going to get it done. Have no doubt that we're going to get it done. <p>But here's my final point. In order to get it done, we've got to have the same determination, the same focus, the same hard-headedness, the same passion that that family I saw in Las Vegas today has, the same determination that our parents and our grandparents or great-grandparents had. We've been through tougher times before in this country. We've been through slavery and Jim Crow and a Civil War and two World Wars and a Great Depression. And there have been times where most of the folks in this room wouldn't have had opportunity of the sort we have today. We've been through tougher times. <p>But somewhere along the way, somebody said it doesn't have to be like that. We can imagine something better. We are determined to create a better future. That's what the Futuro Fund is all about. And that's what this campaign has always been about. This campaign has never been about glitz and glory or just the blind pursuit of power. That's not why we got involved. That's not why you guys signed up back in 2007, 2008. You supported a candidate named Barack Hussein Obama. The odds were not in your favor. The odds were not in your favor. <p>You knew it wasn't going to be easy. [<i>Laughter</i>] If you thought it was going to be easy, you would have signed up for somebody else. You knew it wasn't going to be easy, but you also knew that if we pulled it off, it would be worth it. And so I was joking with some folks&mdash;well, not joking, really&mdash;I'm a lot grayer now than I was then. [<i>Laughter</i>] And these President years are dog years. [<i>Laughter</i>] And so there's not the same excitement. It's not quite as cool as it was. Nobody&mdash;folks, I don't know if you guys still have those \\"Hope\\" posters; they're all kind of&mdash;all kind of dog-eared. <p>But here's the message I want to deliver to you today&mdash;is, don't get weary. [<i>Laughter</i>] Don't get tired. Because I'm not tired. I may be gray, but I'm not tired. My passion is still there. My commitment is still there. My vision for this country is still there. And if you're still there, then we're going to win this election and we are going to create the kind of America that our children and our grandchildren deserve. <p>God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"243" "\"Thank you. Thank you so much. Well, it is wonderful to see all of you here tonight, and I want to thank, first of all, J.L. and Mai for hosting us in this beautiful home. And the Smiths and the Browns and the Carters, thank you guys for your friendship and your support. You guys have just been wonderful. <p>I'm not going to make a long speech. What I'd rather do is have a conversation session with a group this size. <p>And by the way, I want to excuse if anybody smells chicken on me. [<i>Laughter</i>] We stopped at Roscoe's on the way down. [<i>Laughter</i>] I think I have a spot on my tie from the hot sauce. <p>You know, a lot of you were involved in the campaign back in 2008, and it was an extraordinary time, because what we wanted to do was see if we could have a politics that reflected the best of who we are, a politics that was inclusive, a politics that was hopeful, a politics that wasn't just about tearing the other guy down, but was about lifting the whole country up. But also a politics that would focus on challenges that had been weighing down this country for decades: lack of health care for too many people and a system that was way too expensive even if you had health insurance; lack of an energy policy; a foreign policy where we were engaged in wars that weren't making us safer necessarily and costing us huge amounts in terms of lives and treasure; most importantly, an economy that wasn't working for the American people as a whole. <p>There were a lot of us who were lucky, who were blessed and were doing well. But for middle class families all across the country, you saw a flatlining of wages and incomes, while the costs of everything from college to health care to retirement were going up and up. And a lot of us who had been blessed, we know a lot of family members who still found themselves trapped and struggling in those circumstances. <p>And what I'm proud of is that over the last 3 years, we didn't know, when I first started running, that we would end up being confronted with the worst financial crisis and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. We didn't understand at that time, even after Lehman's went down, how perilous things might be. <p>But in addition to making sure that we didn't go into a great depression and stabilizing the financial system and reversing a contracting economy to one that was growing so that over the last 2 years we've seen private sector job growth just about every month and 2 million jobs created just over the last 2 years&mdash;in addition to all that&mdash;what we've also been able to do is still make progress on the things that we talked about making progress on. <p>And sometimes I think people forget how much has gotten done, whether it's passing health care for 30 million Americans who didn't have it and making sure that young people are able to stay on their parents' health insurance and insurance companies aren't dropping you when you've got coverage, to making sure that we were ending \\"don't ask, don't tell\\" so that anybody could serve this country that they love regardless of who they love, to ending the war in Iraq, to making sure that college loans and scholarships were accessible to young people all across the country, to saving the auto industry. <p>A lot of the things that we promised we'd do, we've done. And I carry around a little checklist, and I think we've gotten about 60 percent of it done so far. And that's not bad for 3 years, because I need another 5. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So we've made great progress, but we've got so much more work to do. And obviously, in Washington, the politics that I think people are hoping for is not what they're getting. It's still dysfunctional; it's still perversely partisan. You still have folks who seem to be more interested in the short term and the party and elections than they are in the long term and the future and the next generation. <p>And we are fighting hard to break through and have the decency of the American people reflected in the decisions we make. Right now we've got a big debate about a jobs bill that we're putting forward. Obviously, the biggest problem we have right now is we stabilized the economy, but with an unemployment rate that's way too high. And we're going to have to make a lot of progress if we're going to be able to put people back to work. <p>And so we put forward ideas that traditionally have been supported by Democrats and Republicans. Let's get construction workers who have been laid off, and let's put them back on the job rebuilding our roads and our bridges and our hospitals and our schools. Let's make sure that teachers are back in the classroom; we're laying them off in droves all across the country at a time when it's critical that our young people are able to succeed. Let's make sure that we're giving tax breaks to small businesses that need financing, but also small businesses who are hiring veterans, for example. These young men and women who have served us&mdash;and I get the chance to meet them every day&mdash;incredibly talented. And they've gone and fought for us, and then suddenly, they come back here, and they've got to fight for a job? It makes no sense. <p>And yet, we have not gotten a single Republican vote out of this current Senate. And it's primarily because they don't think that politically it's advantageous to do so. And I think that's a mistake, and so we're putting pressure on them. <p>Today I announced helping homeowners refinance their homes, because a lot of them are underwater now and so they're having trouble refinancing. But that could free up billions of dollars for American consumers who can then shop and go to Will's movies&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and spend money at whatever business Magic has&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and could help grow the economy overall. <p>So the only way that we're going to make progress is, I'm going to keep on making the case, I'm going to keep on pushing, but I'm also going to need to know that we've got a strong base of support behind us that is able to amplify our message, support our message, and get out there and have the same enthusiasm, the same passion as we did the first time. <p>And I've said this before: This election will not be as sexy as the first one. Back then, I was&mdash;it was still fresh and new, and I didn't have any gray hair&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and everybody loved the \\"Hope\\" posters and all that. [<i>Laughter</i>] But this time it's&mdash;we've got to grind it out a little bit. We've got to grind it out. <p>But the cause is the same and my passion is the same and my commitment is the same. And so I hope all of you will join me, because I'm confident if you do that we're going to win. And more importantly, we're going to be able to guide the country in a path that helps over the long term. <p>So, all right. Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"244" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, hello, hello! Thank you. It's good to see you. You know, I don't know if I'm supposed to do this. I'm going to move this out of here. This looks a little formal here. [<i>Laughter</i>] You guys look safe to me. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Everybody, please have a seat, have a seat. <p><i>Audience member.</i> You too. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> No, I think I'm just fine right now. I just want to, first of all, say thanks to all of you, everybody who participated, everybody who helped to organize this extraordinary event. It is great to be back in Denver. I've got some fond memories here. If I'm not mistaken, I think it was a little darker that day. [<i>Laughter</i>] But right after I gave my convention speech, I think, I came down here to say thank you to a whole bunch of folks, and some of you were there. And it is a thrill to be here. <p>If I'm not mistaken, we've got a few luminaries that I want to make sure to acknowledge. First of all, I just had a chance to meet your outstanding Lieutenant Governor, Joe Garcia. So he is right here. John Hickenlooper rode over with me. Had to leave, but on the ride over from the airport, he was&mdash;all he could talk about was how outstanding Garcia was and how cool he was. [<i>Laughter</i>] So I'm making him blush, but that's because he's not a politician, so he's not used to folks talking about him all the time. But we're very proud of the great work that he's done. <p>Are our Senators here? They were here earlier. Did they have to&mdash;is Bennet here? He just went upstairs. Well, you kow I'm telling the truth because I'm going to say it behind their backs&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;Mark Udall and Michael Bennet are doing outstanding work on behalf of the people of Colorado. We could not be prouder of all the work that they are doing, and I want to make sure that I'm not&mdash;oh, I think I'd better mention the mayor of the city of Denver, Michael Hancock, who is doing outstanding work as well. <p>So in these kinds of formats what I want to do is not give a long speech, but rather just have a conversation. So I'm just going to make a few remarks at the top. <p>I just came from Las Vegas and then Los Angeles and San Francisco, but I want to talk about what was going on in Las Vegas. We were in Las Vegas to announce a new approach to housing refinancing. Some of you may have read about it. That's ground zero in terms of what's happening in housing all across the country. And about 50 percent of the homes in Nevada are underwater. Foreclosure rates are sky high. And there are entire subdivisions that are just being emptied out and foreclosed. And we had a chance to make this announcement in front of the home of Jose and Lissette Bonilla. <p>Jose came here 26 years ago as an undocumented worker, and Lissette he met here, also didn't have legal status. They were able to take advantage of the pathway to citizenship that was created the last time that we had an immigration reform measure out there. He started out sweeping streets in a supermarket and ended up working his way up to become a manager at this supermarket. <p>They raised three beautiful kids for 17 years in a one-bedroom apartment. And because of a program that we had initiated as part of the Recovery Act, where we took foreclosed homes that had been boarded up and gutted and put folks to work rehabbing them, they finally had their first home 26 years after he had arrived. <p>And for most of his children&mdash;their children's childhood, they had slept in the living room, because they only had a one-bedroom apartment, and the kids all slept in the one bedroom. And now, each of them have their own room. And this is a small, modest place. But it was clean and it was&mdash;they had pictures of all the kids and their family along the mantle. <p>And he said to me, \\"You know, I'm not finished yet. This is part of the American Dream, but I'm not going to be finished with the American Dream until I know that my kids have gotten through college, and they have a home of their own and they're able to provide a better life for their children the same way that I've been able to provide a better life for mine. And I can't thank America enough for giving me these opportunities.\\" <p>And so after this conversation we went out and we made the announcement about the refinancing. And I've been thinking about that story ever since, because it captures the essence of who we are. Most people here&mdash;that progression maybe happened 50 years ago or 25 years ago or 100 years ago&mdash;but all of us benefited from a combination of parents and grandparents who&mdash;and great-grandparents&mdash;who were willing to defy the odds and take great risks and fight through discrimination and fight through difficulties and challenges and also a society that said, you know what, if you're willing to work hard and take responsibility, then you'll get a fair shake. <p>And that, of course, required everybody in the society to do their fair share. And somehow, then, the middle class grew, and people at the bottom had ladders into the middle class, but people at the top also did well because the folks at the bottom and the middle were doing well also. <p>And that idea of America is what has inspired the world. And for about a decade, that's what people felt had been slipping away, even before this financial crisis, even before the recession, that sense that the stack was increasingly&mdash;the deck was increasingly stacked against them and that that same progression where each successive generation is doing better and the middle class is growing stronger and if you do your part you can succeed, people have begun to doubt that. And obviously, the financial crisis and the great recession that we've gone through has made it even worse. <p>So for the last 3 years, what we've been trying to do is to rebuild that compact that we had with each other as Americans from the ground up. And it's hard, because a lot of problems were neglected for years, and we got distracted, and we made some bad decisions. <p>And when I ran in 2008, what I was committed to was making sure that those ideals and those values that helped me get to where I am, that they live out not just in communities all across America, but they're also reflected in our politics in Washington. And you guys, a lot of you got involved in the campaign because you had those same values and same ideals and same hope and same faith in the possibility that we could have a Government that was responsive to the people. And so 3 years later, we can look back and say, there are a whole bunch of changes that we've made that haven't all paid off yet, but are laying the groundwork for a better America. <p>We passed health care reform, and that means 30 million people are going to have health insurance that didn't have it before. And we've got a million young people who already have health insurance. And we're going to start making our health care system smarter and more responsive and higher quality at lower cost. <p>We passed Wall Street reform to make sure that we don't go through the same kinds of nonsense that we went through 3 years ago, and that consumers are protected from unscrupulous dealings and mortgage brokers who are peddling wares that aren't going to be any good and credit card companies who were charging hidden fees and having a consumer watchdog who is going to be looking after ordinary folks in their financial transactions. <p>We ended \\"don't ask, don't tell,\\" because we're a country that makes sure that anybody who loves this country are going to be able to serve this country. And we ended the war in Iraq as we promised, because it was time for us to bring our troops home and focus on rebuilding America. <p>And on student loans and school reform and on a whole host of issues that don't get a lot of attention&mdash;on doubling fuel efficiency standards on cars and trucks to not only free ourselves from dependence on foreign oil, but also to start reducing carbon in the atmosphere and making us more competitive, to saving the auto industry&mdash;I keep a checklist in my desk of stuff that I promised to do, and we're through about 60 percent of it&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;which isn't bad for 3 years. <p>So we know change is possible. It's hard and it's messy, and sometimes it's frustrating, but we know it's possible. But here's the thing. There are a lot of people who are still hurting, and there's still a lot more work to do. And so that other 40 percent that is not done, I'm going to need you, because I need 5 more years. I need 5 more years to get it done. <p>And frankly, this next year the American people are going to have a choice about alternative visions for where they want to take the country. And we're seeing that reflected in the debate we're having about the jobs bill right now. We've put forward a jobs bill that reflects ideas that traditionally have gotten support from Democrats and Republicans. Rebuilding our infrastructure, our roads and our bridges and airports and schools, putting construction workers back to work all across the country, to make sure that we're moving products and services and people faster and more efficiently&mdash;a huge boost to the economy&mdash;traditionally, hasn't been a Democratic issue. It's been a bipartisan issue. But they've said no. <p>We've said let's give tax cuts to small businesses; you guys are the party of tax cuts; let's give tax cuts to small businesses and ordinary folks, not just those at the very top. So far, they've said no. <p>We said let's get teachers back in the classroom. We know that in the 21st century nothing is going to be more important than our ability to educate our kids and give them the skills they need to compete. They've said no. <p>And so we're going to keep on putting pressure on them, but in the meantime, we're saying we can't wait for Congress, and we're going to go ahead and do everything we can through executive actions. Whether it's this refinancing program or tomorrow I'm going to be talking about making college more affordable for young people, we're not going to wait for Congress. But we are going to have to mobilize the American people and have them make a choice about the direction of the country that they want to see us go in. <p>And I'm confident they're going to make the right choice. I believe that&mdash;I am confident that they&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;I'm confident they want to see a big and bold and generous America, not a cramped vision that says that the only way that we can compete is by gutting regulations and breaking our commitments to the poor and the vulnerable and our seniors, and that all we do is just cut taxes for folks who don't need tax cuts and weren't even asking for them, and that somehow is going to be the path to prosperity. <p>I don't believe America is going to compete in the 21st century just by having the cheapest labor and the dirtiest air and the dirtiest water and the worst infrastructure, and that somehow that's going to allow us to succeed. And I don't think the American people are going to buy it either. <p>But because things are tough, because folks are struggling, because the unemployment rate is still way too high, a lot of folks out there have lost confidence in Washington's ability to act. And so we're going to have an uphill battle. This is going to be a different campaign than it was in 2008, because I didn't have gray hair then. [<i>Laughter</i>] I was new and fresh. [<i>Laughter</i>] And everybody had \\"Hope\\" posters. [<i>Laughter</i>] You know. <p><i>Audience member.</i> We still do. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> So I guess my main message&mdash;and then I'm going to stop&mdash;is I'm going to need you to muster up just as much enthusiasm, just as much fire, just as much tenacity as you did in 2008. <p>This campaign has never been just about me, this Presidency has never been about me, it's been about you and your capacity to bring about change in America. And I believe in you. That's why I'm running. That's why I'm still here. I have confidence in you, and I hope you have confidence in each other. <p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"245" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, Colorado! Thank you so much. The&mdash;let me start off just by saying that there are certain people who I'm not sure that I'd wish politics on them&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;but I sure am glad they are in politics, and Michael Bennet is one of them. He is one of the finest public servants in the country. <p>You know about what he did here in Denver in helping to lift up the public schools here, and you're seeing some of the foundation that he laid when he was here starting to pay off. Just before we came onstage, he told me a story about a young man who had benefited from the Denver scholarship initiative, the Denver scholarship fund, and he came to a town hall meeting. Nobody in the family had gone to college before, and now suddenly, this kid was a senior at Colorado and&mdash;Colorado College and is somebody who is&mdash;&mdash; <p>[<i>At this point, an audience member fell</i>.] <p><i>The President.</i> &mdash;&mdash;everybody all right there? Somebody fall down? No, they've been standing too long. [<i>Laughter</i>] No, no, the&mdash;I'm kidding. Do we have an EMT here? Okay. All right. Make sure she's okay. I think&mdash;no, I think she'll be fine. And, Michael, this is no reflection on the length of your introduction. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But Michael was telling a story about how this young man now was just running the place in Colorado, excelling, had a bright future, and the satisfaction that you could hear in Michael's voice about this young man's success tells you about the kind of Senator he is. <p>In Washington, there are workhorses, and there are show horses. And Michael is a workhorse, and he's working hard on behalf of the people of Colorado every single day. We could not be prouder of him, and I couldn't be prouder of calling him a friend. <p>Now, in addition to Michael, we've got another outstanding public servant here. I think he's still here. Your own mayor, Michael Hancock's in the house. We appreciate the work that he's doing. He is&mdash;you know he's tough because he's the youngest of 10 kids. [<i>Laughter</i>] And he cares deeply about the people of Denver and the people of Colorado. And I'm confident he's going to do just as outstanding a job as your current Governor, Governor Hickenlooper, who was here earlier. So we are&mdash;you guys are doing a good job electing the right people here in Colorado. That's all I can say. <p>Now, I am here not just because I need your help; I'm here, more importantly, because America needs your help. I need&mdash;I'm here because your country needs your help. I'm here because if you thought the last election was important, then wait till you get a load of this election. [<i>Laughter</i>] I can promise&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>Audience member.</i> We got your back! <p><i>The President.</i> I appreciate that. <p>I promise you that what we determine over the next 12 months is going to help shape the future of our children and our grandchildren like just about no other election that we've seen. And part of the reason is because the choices are going to be starker and the stakes are going to be higher. And Michael, I think, aptly described what's at stake. <p>For the past 3 years we've had two kinds of crises. We've had an economic crisis and a financial crisis, but we've also had a political crisis. And those crises are not yet solved. We've got more work to do. <p>Right now, all across the country, people are crying out for action. Right here in Colorado, there are folks who are hurting: people living paycheck to paycheck, day to day, people losing their homes, people seeing their businesses closed, people who are wondering if anybody is listening. Even the folks who are doing well are having to make decisions that they didn't have to make 10 years ago, that their parents didn't have to make: Maybe we can't eat out tonight because we can't pay the mortgage; maybe we have to delay retirement in order for our child to go to college. <p>These Americans are not asking for much. They don't expect government to solve all their problems. They don't want a handout. But they do believe what I'm confident everybody here believes, which is that America should be a place where you can make it if you try, where no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, if you are willing to put in the work and dream big dreams and make the effort and act responsibly, that you can succeed. That's the essence of what America has always been about. <p>Americans believe that the economy works best when it works for everybody, not just those at the top. They believe that hard work should pay off and responsibility should be rewarded, that everybody should get a fair shake and everybody should do their fair share. These aren't Democratic values. They are not Republican values. They are American values. They're the bedrock of how this country was built. <p>And they're the reason I decided to run for office and the reason I ran for President. They're the reason Michael ran for Senator. Because we believe that these values could not just be reflected in our neighborhoods and our workplaces, in our communities and our churches and our synagogues and our mosques, but they also had to be reflected in our government; that there are certain commitments we make to each other as citizens that have to be upheld. And we weren't seeing that reflected in Washington. <p>As Michael mentioned, for a lot of folks the crisis didn't start with Lehmans. We had a decade in which wages and incomes had flatlined, while the cost of everything from health care to a college education had been shooting up. Folks were working harder and harder just to stay in place. They took out loans, spouse went into the workplace. They just barely were able to keep it together. And that was before the crisis struck. <p>And so when I decided to run for office, what I said to myself was that if we can harness the energy of the American people, the decency of the American people, if we can direct the common sense of the American people and start operating not based on the next election, but thinking about the next generation, then there's no challenge we can't solve. We've been through tougher times before. But it requires us to think about our politics in a fundamentally different way. <p>Now, unfortunately, Washington doesn't seem to have gotten the message yet. For the last month, we've been debating a jobs bill. We successfully stabilized an economy that was in free fall. We prevented ourselves from going into a great depression and seeing a financial meltdown. But unemployment is brutally high. <p>And so even as we're grappling with how do we get our finances together, how do we shrink this deficit in a responsible, balanced way, our challenge also is how do we get Americans to work right now, how do we restore a sense of momentum and confidence in the economy, even as we're solving these long-term problems. <p>So I put forward a jobs bill that incorporated ideas that traditionally have gotten support from Democrats and Republicans. We said, you know what, all these construction workers that got laid off after the housing bubble burst, how about putting them to work rebuilding our roads and our bridges and our schools all across the country. Not only is it good for our workers, but it's good for our economy. America became an economic superpower because we knew how to build things. We built the Golden Gate Bridge and the Hoover Dam and the Interstate Highway System. And now we're settling for China having the best high-speed rail and Singapore having better airports? When did that happen? <p>Let's put them to work. And traditionally, building roads hasn't just been a Democratic idea&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;right? <p>We said, why don't we start putting our teachers back in the classroom? We know that our kids cannot succeed unless they get the best education in the world. And despite some extraordinary reforms that we're doing all across the country, the fact of the matter is, is that State and local governments are broke and they've been laying off teachers in droves. We said, let's give them some help right now, put teachers back to work. That's not just good for the teachers, that's good for our kids. That shouldn't be a Democratic or a Republican idea. <p>We said, let's give tax cuts to small businesses for hiring new workers or hiring veterans. We send our men and women in uniform overseas. They sacrifice careers, they sacrifice time with their families, they risk their lives. The last thing they should have to do is fight for a job when they come home. Let's give businesses more incentive to hire them. That's not a Democratic or Republican idea, that's an American idea. <p>And so in&mdash;and we said, let's pay for it. It's got to be paid for. We can't afford to add to the deficit. And we put forward a balanced proposal that said those of us who have been blessed by this country, we can afford to do a little bit more to help the many out there who are struggling. Not out of any notion of, what do the Republicans call it, class warfare? [<i>Laughter</i>] It's because somebody looked out for me when I was out there struggling. Somebody gave me opportunity. <p>That's why I'm successful. That's why Michael is successful. That's why most of us are&mdash;here have been able to do well in this country. And it's common sense for me to want to give back. That's what I think most of us understood. <p>So independent economists looked at this jobs plan; they say this is the only jobs plan out there that in the short term and medium term is actually going to produce jobs. Independent economists who don't work for me say we could get as many as 2 million jobs created if this jobs bill plans&mdash;passes. All of which&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;and by the way, when the polls are taken about the individual components of this, it turns out that the majority of Americans&mdash;not just Democrats, but Independents and Republicans&mdash;agree with many of these proposals. <p>Nevertheless, in the United States Senate, we had a hundred percent of Republicans voting no. They said no to putting teachers back in the classroom. They said no to making sure that construction workers can get back on the job. I'm now breaking up the bill into little pieces because they just didn't understand; it was too big. [<i>Laughter</i>] And so we're going to do it piece by piece and explain each time. <p>Last week, we had a separate vote on the teachers bill. It would put 400,000 teachers, firefighters, and police officers back to work. And I want you all to know, for somebody&mdash;to pay for it, we would be asking somebody who makes over a million dollars to pay just one-half of 1 percent more in taxes. Now, what this translates into is if you're making $1.1 million a year, that's an extra 500 bucks. For 400,000 jobs all across the country. Isn't that an investment that's worth making, at a time when we're struggling? <p>Mitch McConnell was asked, \\"Why wouldn't you want to do this?\\" He said, \\"Saving the jobs of teachers, firefighters, cops, that's just a bailout.\\" That's what he called it, a \\"bailout.\\" A bailout? These aren't folks who acted irresponsibly. These aren't folks who were gaming the system. These are folks who teach our kids and patrol our streets and save our homes if there's a fire. They're us. They deserve support. <p>So this is the&mdash;this is a microcosm, this is an example of the challenge that we're going to be having over the next year and the next 2 years. Where do we want to take this country? Who are we? The other side has a very clear idea of where they want to go. Michael talked about the Ryan plan, but it's not just one plan. I mean, you're seeing it in the debates among the Presidential candidates right now. They've got a particular vision, and it basically boils down to two ideas. The first idea is, we're going to cut taxes on the wealthiest individuals, the biggest corporations, and we're going to pay for that by gutting our investments in education, in basic research, in infrastructure, and weakening our social safety net. <p>Now, that's not my presentation. You can look at the numbers and what they're proposing. And that is pretty much a uniform approach that they're taking. That's idea number one. <p>The second proposal is, we're going to gut regulations, any regulations pretty much that we can see out there. We have a once-in-a-lifetime financial crisis because of irresponsibility and reckless behavior. What's your solution? Let's roll back all the regulations that might prevent reckless behavior and irresponsible actions on the part of the financial system so they can do it again. <p>The&mdash;we've made enormous strides here in Colorado and all across the country in terms of clean air and clean water. So what's their solution? Let's roll back environmental protections, basic protections. Let's not just roll back regulations. Let's roll back the entire agency responsible for making sure that companies are acting responsibly when it comes to our environment. <p>Now, we can all agree that there are regulations out there that don't make sense, that are outdated, that need to be updated. We've identified in my administration over 500 regulatory reforms that can save us billions of dollars over the next several years. We've got to&mdash;you've got to prune government because it just adds on top of itself, and after a while, nobody's paying attention to some law that was passed back in 1920 that said everybody had to have a compass on a train&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and didn't know there was GPS. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So there are reforms that have to be made. But you know what, this country is not going to compete in the 21st century based on who's got the cheapest labor and the dirtiest air and the dirtiest water. That race to the bottom is not a race we want to be on. I want a race to the top. I want a race to the future. That's what we're fighting for. <p>I reject the idea that America is going to be more successful if we abandon the 30 million people who don't have health insurance that are going to get health insurance because of the Affordable Care Act or the million young people who right now have health insurance because we passed that law and are now able to stay on their parent's health insurance until they can find a job that provides them health insurance. <p>And look, here's the other thing. The arguments that the other side's making, they're not new. We tried them. We tried them for a decade, and they didn't work. They didn't help to build the middle class. They didn't alleviate the stress on families out there that are struggling to get by. They added to the burden. They made it tougher, and it made it&mdash;they made us less competitive. <p>So not only will their vision not work, it's also not who we are. We don't have that kind of cramped vision of what America should be. We don't have a vision of America that says you're on your own. Yes, we are rugged individualists. We are strong and self-reliant. Our economy grows because of extraordinary entrepreneurs and people who are out there pursuing their dreams and pursuing their ideas. That's part of who we are. But we're also a country that understands we're in this together, that we are connected, that I will be more successful if you are successful. <p>And that is something that was understood by Abraham Lincoln when he invested in the National Academy of Sciences in the midst of the Civil War and started land-grant colleges. It was understood by Dwight Eisenhower when he built the Interstate Highway System and invested in math and science to make sure that we could win the space race. It was understood by JFK when he looked up at the Moon and he said, you know what, I know it's far away, but we can get there if we pull together. And we did. <p><i>Audience member.</i> Yes, we did. <p><i>The President.</i> Yes, we did. <p>And it was understood by Republicans in Congress when they worked with FDR to get the GI bill passed, because they said to themselves, young men who were coming back from war, like my grandfather, if we give them an education, that's not just going to be good for them, that's going to be good for the entire country. That will grow a middle class, and business will have more customers, and people will rise out of poverty, and folks at the very top will do even better because of the success of the country as a whole. It's not just a Democratic idea. <p>And it's because of that idea that I can stand here before you. Because Michelle and I, we didn't grow up in fame and fortune. But we were singularly blessed to grow up in the United States of America. And that's the idea that got me to run for President in 2008. That's the idea that got you to support me in 2008. And that's the idea that we've got to finish. That's the idea that we've got to complete. <p>And here's the last point I want to make, and that is that as difficult as change may be, change is possible. And if you doubt that change is possible, think about even as we have struggled with an incredibly difficult economy, even as we have struggled with a resistant opposition&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;you like my word choice there? [<i>Laughter</i>] Think about what we've done. <p>Let me tell you what change looks like. Change looks like the Affordable Care Act and 30 million people getting health insurance and patients knowing that when they buy health insurance, they're not going to get cheated. <p>Change is $60 billion that used to go into banks who were running the student loan program now going directly to students and millions more children out there able to get scholarships and get loans and going to college like never before. <p>Change is saying that if you love this country and you want to serve it, then it shouldn't matter who you love, you should be able to love this country, and we ended \\"don't ask, don't tell.\\" <p>Change is doubling fuel standards, mileage standards, on cars and trucks&mdash;unprecedented over the last 30 years&mdash;and in the process saving an auto industry that is now competing all around the world and making a profit for the first time in a very long time and building electric cars and the cars of the future. <p>And change is ending a war and bringing our troops home for the holidays and making sure that&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;making sure America is leading once again. Making sure that America's leading once again not only because of our extraordinary military, but also because of the skill of our diplomacy and the power of our ideals and our example. <p>That's what change is. That is what you accomplished. This election is not going to be about me. Once again, it's going to be about you. It's going to be about your commitments to each other, about our commitments as citizens to the United States of America and all that it can be. <p>When I decided to run and some of you decided to support me&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;let me just say that you didn't sign up for something easy. You didn't sign up&mdash;you know, you were supporting a candidate for President named Barack Hussein Obama. We knew that wouldn't necessarily poll well. [<i>Laughter</i>] So there were&mdash;there was an easier path to be had. But you understood then, as I hope you understand now, that this was always about your deepest dreams and aspirations for your family and your children and your grandchildren and your country. And nothing's more powerful when&mdash;than when the American people make a decision that they want to bring about the sorts of changes that reflect our best ideals. When that happens, you guys can't be stopped. <p>And so even though my hair is a little grayer now&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;even though I turned 50 and my girls say I look distinguished, but Michelle says I just look old&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;even though there have been setbacks and there have been frustrations and sometimes the pace of change is painfully slow, I want you to understand that we've got more work to do. Our job is not yet done. <p>We've got&mdash;we still have within our grasp the ability to make sure that once again America is a place where anybody can make it if they try. That's what we're fighting for. That's what this campaign will be about. That's why I will need you. <p>And so I want you all to understand that, yes, it's true I may be older, but let me tell you, my commitment is unwavering. I am as determined as ever. I am as hopeful as ever. And most importantly, I believe in you and the American people as much as I ever have. <p>So let's get to work, let's get busy, and let's prove once again why the United States of America is the greatest country on Earth. <p>God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"246" "\"Hello, San Francisco! Thank you. Thank you so much. Come on, everybody have a seat. It is wonderful to be back in San Francisco, great to be back in California. <p>I want to thank a couple of people, especially, first of all, I want to thank Jack Johnson for flying from Hawaii to perform here. Terrific. He told me the waves are good right now. [<i>Laughter</i>] So this is a big sacrifice. His nephew is going to Berkeley&mdash;Kona&mdash;and he's trying to surf here too, and it's a little colder, he's discovered. [<i>Laughter</i>] But he's going to make a go at it. <p>I also want to acknowledge the outstanding mayor of Sacramento, who I expect to try to settle the NBA strike, along with the other work he's done&mdash;Kevin Johnson's in the house. <p>And even though she had to be back in DC, I just want to make sure that everybody knows that Nancy Pelosi continues to fight on behalf of you every single day, and she's doing a great job. So we're very proud of her. <p>Now, as I look around the room, there's some people who've been supporting me since I was running for the United States Senate. And some of you are relatively new to this process. But I'm here to tell you, whether you're an old grizzled veteran&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;or new to the scene, I need your help. I need your help. But I also, more importantly, want to talk to you about how the country needs your help. <p>I'm here because if you thought the last election was crucial, then I've got to tell you that what happens in the promise&mdash;in this year is going to be more consequential, more important to the future of our kids and our grandchildren than just about any election that we've seen in a very long time. <p>For the past 3 years, we've been wrestling with two kinds of crises: the worst financial crisis and economic crisis since the Great Depression, but we've also been dealing with a profound political crisis. <p>All across the country, people are crying out for action. A lot of folks have spent months looking for work. They're living paycheck to paycheck; some are living day to day. Others are doing their best just to get by. Maybe they're giving up going out to a restaurant or going to a movie in order to make sure that they can pay the mortgage. There are folks who maybe have delayed retirement so that they can send their child to college. They're feeling enormous pressure and enormous stress. <p>And they're not looking for that much. They're not asking for that much. They aren't asking for handouts. They don't think that government can or should do everything to solve their problems. But they do believe what most of you believe, which is that America should be a place where you can make it if you try. That no matter who you are, where you come from, what circumstances you're born into, that if you're willing to put in the work and the effort and you do the right thing, that you can make it. A country where everybody has a fair shake and everybody does their fair share, that's what people are looking for. <p>And those values, which are reflected in how people deal with each other every day in the workplace and at schools and in their communities and their neighborhoods, they'd like to see those values reflected in Washington as well. And they haven't seen enough of that. <p>Most folks feel as if the economy works best when it works for everybody, not just those at the very top. They believe that hard work should pay off and that responsibility should be rewarded. And these beliefs are not Democratic values; they're not Republican values. They're American values. They're the bedrock of what this country has always stood for. <p>While I was in line, I met a gentleman who came here from India with 9 bucks in his pocket and is now the president of a community bank. This country continues to attract talent from all across the world precisely because people believe that there's something special about this place, where what you put into it means you can get that piece of the American Dream. And that's why so many of you worked on the campaign in 2008, because you had that same belief, and you didn't see it reflected in our politics. <p>Now, 3 years later, it's clear that Washington has not gotten the message yet. That's why, over the last month, I've been hammering at Congress to see if they can actually do something for folks who are hurting out here. That's why we introduced a jobs bill that could actually start putting people back to work right now. <p>And this is a bill that's filled with Democratic and Republican proposals. These are the kinds of proposals that in the past would have gotten bipartisan support: tax cuts for workers and small businesses, funding to rebuild our roads and our bridges and our schools and to put construction workers back to work, funding to hire teachers and our veterans. It's a bill that's fully paid for by asking those of us who've been most blessed in this society to do a little bit more, to pay a little bit more. <p>So it's all paid for. And independent economists&mdash;people who look at this stuff for a living, not the economists who work for me&mdash;say it's the only jobs plan out there that would create jobs right now and grow the economy right now. One economist estimated that we could see as many as 2 million jobs created as a consequence of this bill. And polls show that Americans overwhelmingly support the proposals that are in this bill, not just Democrats, but Independents and Republicans as well. <p>But despite all this support, despite the fact that these are bipartisan ideas, despite all the experts who say this would give the economy the kind of jolt that it needs right now, we've got Republicans in the Senate who keep on voting against it. <p>Last week, we had a separate vote on a part of the jobs bill that would put 400,000 teachers and firefighters and police officers back on the job. And it was paid for by asking people who make over a million dollars a year to pay one-half of 1 percent more in taxes. So for someone making $1.1 million a year, that's an extra $500&mdash;500 bucks&mdash;that would save 400,000 jobs all across the country. And not just any jobs, but jobs that are vital to the well-being of our kids and our communities. <p>Most people I know who make more than a million dollars a year would make that contribution willingly. They're patriots. They want to see America strong. But all the Republicans in the Senate, a hundred percent, voted no. <p>And their leader, Mitch McConnell, actually said that saving the jobs of teachers and cops and firefighters would be nothing more than a \\"bailout.\\" A bailout. Now, these aren't bad actors who acted irresponsibly and recklessly to destroy the economy. They are the men and women who teach our children and protect our communities and risk their lives for us every single day. They're heroes, and they deserve our support. And it would be good for all of us because it would give the entire economy a boost. <p>So this is the fight that we're having right now. And this is frankly what the next year is probably going to be about. The Republicans in Congress and the folks running for President have made their agenda crystal clear. They have two basic economic priorities, two basic proposals: tax cuts for the wealthiest individuals and biggest corporations, paid for by gutting investments in education and research and our infrastructure, all the things that helped make America an economic superpower; weaken programs like Medicare and our basic social safety net. That's one proposal. And the second proposal is to gut just about every regulation that you can think of. <p>Now, I agree that there are some rules and some regulations that put an unnecessary burden on businesses at a time when they can least afford it. And that's why we've already identified 500 regulatory reforms that will save billions of dollars over the next year. But what we can't do, and what I won't do, is to let this economic crisis be used as an excuse to wipe out the basic protections that Americans have counted on for decades. <p>I reject an argument that says we've got to roll back protections that ban hidden fees by credit card companies or rules that keep our kids from being exposed to mercury or laws that prevent the health insurance industry from exploiting people who are sick. And I reject the idea that somehow if we strip away collective bargaining rights that we'll be somehow better off. <p>We should not be in a race to the bottom, where we take pride in having the cheapest labor and the most polluted air and the least protected consumers. That is not a competition we can win. What we can win is a future in which we have the highest skilled workers and the best technology and the best manufacturing and the best education system and the best infrastructure. That's the race to the future that I want to win, and I know that's the race to the future that you want to win. <p>And the worst part of it is, is that it's not as if this is a new argument that they're making. They've been making it for decades, and we tried it for an entire decade. For an entire decade, we cut taxes for people who didn't need it and weren't asking for it, we basically suspended environmental regulations, we didn't do anything with respect to consumers, we didn't rein in health care costs and the health care industry, the financial system pretty much could go and do whatever it wanted. And the result was the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. So it's not as if we haven't tried what they're talking about. <p>And during that period, for middle class families, wages and incomes actually fell, even as the economy was growing. It's not as if we haven't tried what they're selling. We have. And it didn't work. <p>More than that, their basic idea that the only thing we can do to restore prosperity is to somehow break up Government and refund everybody their money through tax cuts and let every company write its own rules and tell every American that they're on their own. That's not who we are. That's not the essence of America. <p>Yes, we are rugged individualists. And we've got entrepreneurs here and folks who work in Silicon Valley; you've been able to take an idea and go out there and make something out of it. It's remarkable, changing the world. And many of you have been rewarded very well for that. So we take pride in our individualism and our creativity and our self-reliance. We understand that it's the drive and the initiative of our workers and our companies that make this economy prosperous. But there's always been another thread in our history that says we're all connected, that there are some things we can do better as a nation, some things we can do better together. <p>Because a big chunk of the entrepreneurs who are in this room, you got an education somewhere, and somebody paid for it. You got a college scholarship somewhere along the line, and somebody paid for it. Somewhere along the line, you were able to use platforms and technologies that had been developed because collectively we decided we were going to invest in basic research. There were rules of the road that governed our economic system that allowed you to prosper. <p>That too is not just a Democratic idea. Our very first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, in the midst of a civil war, invested in the Homestead Act and the National Academy of Sciences and built the transnational railroad and land-grant colleges. Because he understood that for America to succeed, everybody had to have a shot, and to do that, all of us had to chip in to make that investment. <p>Dwight Eisenhower understood it when he built the Interstate Highway System and invested in all the math and science education that ended up helping us send a man to the Moon. My grandfather would not have gone to college had it not been for the GI bill. And there were Republicans in Congress who supported that along with FDR to make that happen. And as a consequence, not only did millions of Americans end up entering the middle class, but we went on the largest economic boom that we'd ever seen in history. <p>It's not just a Democratic idea, it's an American idea. And that's what we're fighting for. That's what this election is all about. That's the reason I'm standing here, because somebody gave me a shot. Somebody gave me a fair shake. And that required folks before me&mdash;not just my mom, not just my grandparents, but an entire society that was committed and invested in every child having opportunity&mdash;for me to be able to stand here today. And that is true for most of you. <p>So the question is, are we going to continue that story, are we going to continue on that journey for our kids and our grandkids? That's what we're going to have to do today. If we want to compete with other countries for good, middle class jobs, then we're going to have to make America the best place on Earth to do business. And yes, that means cutting away unnecessary regulations. It means making government more efficient and more effective. Yes, it means bringing down our deficit and reducing spending that we don't need so we can make investments where we do. <p>But we can't just cut our way out of prosperity. If we want to win the future, then we've got to invest in education so that every single child has an opportunity not just to graduate from high school, but to get some secondary education and get the skills and the training they need to succeed. If we want businesses to come here, we've got to invest in new roads and bridges and airports and wireless infrastructure and a smart grid. We're not going to be able to succeed otherwise. <p>We used to have the best stuff. Anybody been to Beijing Airport lately or driven on a&mdash;on high-speed rail in Asia or Europe? What's changed? Well, we've lost our ambition, our imagination, and our willingness to do the things that built the Golden Gate Bridge and Hoover Dam and unleashed all the potential in this country. <p>If we want industries to start here, we're going to have to make sure that all the research and technology that was developed through programs like DARPA or over at NIH, that that continues. That's how the next Apple or the next Google or the next Skype ends up being created. And instead of just buying and consuming things from other countries, we need to go back to what America has always done best, and that is building and manufacturing and selling goods around the world that are stamped with three words: Made in America. That is something that we can do. <p>So we can't just go back to an economy that's built on debt or built on outsourcing or built on risky financial ventures that jeopardize our economy and threaten the security of the middle class. We need an economy that is built to last and built to compete, an economy where responsibility is rewarded and hard work pays off and everybody has a chance to get ahead. And that's what we're fighting for. That's what's at stake right now. <p>And that's why I need your help. I know times are tough right now, and this has been a difficult 3 years for a lot of Americans. And when you look at what's going on in Washington, it's easier to become cynical than ever before about the possibilities and prospects of change through our politics. But here's what I want you to remember. The one way to guarantee that change won't happen is for all of us just to give up, to give in, to go home. <p>The one thing that we absolutely know for sure is that if we don't work even harder than we did in 2008, then we're going to have a government that tells the American people, you are on your own. If you get sick, you're on your own. If you can't afford college, you're on your own. If you don't like that some corporation is polluting your air or the air that your child breathes, then you're on your own. <p>That's not the America I believe in. It's not the America you believe in. So we're going to have to fight for the America that we believe in. And that's what this campaign's going to be all about. <p>Change is hard. Change takes time. But change is possible. It took years to overcome the Great Depression and win World War II. But when we did, we emerged as the most prosperous nation on Earth with the largest middle class in history. And from the moment that we emerged from that war, then we had other struggles to fight. It took years for the civil rights movement to culminate not just in <i>Brown</i> v. <i>Board of Education</i>, but ultimately, the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act and all the things that we now take for granted. <p>It took years from the day that JFK told us we were going to the Moon for us actually to get to the Moon. But eventually, because of steady progress, we made that \\"giant leap for mankind.\\" <p>And even on this campaign journey that we've been on together&mdash;you know, I notice that people now have a revisionist history. They say: \\"Oh, that campaign was so easy. It was so smooth.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] That's not how I remember it. [<i>Laughter</i>] It was hard. And you signed up for hard, because you decided to support a candidate named Barack Hussein Obama. [<i>Laughter</i>] Nobody thought that was going to be easy. Nobody thought that was going to be easy, but you did it anyway. You thought it was worth it. <p>And today, even though we've got a hard road to travel, we can look back on the change that we've made over the past 3 years with enormous pride. Change is the first bill I signed into law that says in this country an equal day's work gets an equal day's pay, because our daughters need to have the same opportunities as all of our sons get. <p>Change is not just pulling this economy out of the possibilities of a great depression and stabilizing and making sure we didn't have a financial meltdown, but it's also making sure that we restored the American auto industry so that it is more profitable than it's been in a decade. And by the way, it's profitable making cars that are more fuel efficient than ever before. And we've now doubled fuel efficiency standards on cars and trucks, which is going to take carbon out of our atmosphere and make us less dependent on foreign oil. That's change that you produced. That's what change looks like. <p>Change is the fact that for the first time in our history, you can serve this country that you love regardless of the person that you love. We ended \\"don't ask, don't tell.\\" That is change. <p>Change is the reforms that we made in the financial system so that you can't have credit card companies charging you hidden fees and lenders deceiving homeowners into mortgages that they can't afford and Wall Street banks acting so recklessly that you end up having taxpayers bail them out. That's change. <p>Change is keeping the promise that I made when I started this campaign that this December we will have all of our troops out of Iraq, back home for the holidays. And we're transitioning out of Afghanistan. And we've refocused our efforts on the terrorists who perpetrated 9/11, which is why we've been able to decimate Al Qaida and make sure that Usama bin Laden never again walks on the face of this Earth. That's change. <p>Change is the thousands of families who are able to pay for college because we took on the banks and the lenders and made tuition more affordable. Change is the 1 million young adults who already have health insurance under the Affordable Care Act and the 30 million more that are finally going to be able to get coverage. When that law is signed, it will mean for families all across the country they won't be bankrupt if somebody in their family gets sick. <p>So change is possible. We've made change. And we've made it because of you. And so the question is how committed are you going to be to continue this process. <p>I keep a checklist in my drawer of my campaign promises. About once a week I take it out and make a little check. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we've gotten about 60 percent done so far, in 3 years. But I need another 5 to get the other 40 percent done, so we can get comprehensive immigration reform done and we can have a serious energy policy that finally deals with climate change in a serious way and make sure that we continue to grow our economy in a way that's productive and makes our kids' futures bright. <p>We've got more work to do. We've got more work to do to reform our education system. We've got more work to do to bring our deficit down in a balanced way. And I can only do it with you. You are the ones who produce change. <p>This campaign has never just been about me. It's always been about you and your commitments to each other, as fellow Americans, as neighbors and coworkers and friends. Who are we? What do we believe in? What do we care about? What are the better angels of our nature that we want to make sure are reflected in our politics day in, day out? That's what you signed up for back in 2007, 2008. <p>We didn't promise you easy. But we said that, together, we've got this vision for what we want America to look like. So we made a lot of change, but we've got a lot more work to do. And I know that I'm now a little grayer&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and it's not as trendy to be an Obama supporter as it was back in 2008. You know, I was, sort of, the new thing, you know, sort of like the new, new thing. [<i>Laughter</i>] We've had setbacks. We've had disappointments. I've made mistakes on occasion. Michelle reminds me of those frequently. [<i>Laughter</i>] The \\"Hope\\" poster is kind of faded and a little dog-eared. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But that vision is still there. That commitment is still there. That fundamental belief in the American people is still there. <p>So if you're with me, if you're all in, if we remind ourselves that America was built because each of us decided to believe in a big, generous, bold America, not a cramped, small America, if we remind ourselves that we are tougher than the times that we're in, and if we remind ourselves that we're better than the politics that we've been seeing, then I'm absolutely confident we are not just going to win this election, we're going to remind everybody around the world just why it is that America is the greatest country in the world. <p>Thank you, so much, everybody. God bless you. Thank you.\" "
"247" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you! Well, it is great to be back in Colorado. And it is great to be here at CU Denver. <p>I tend to have some pretty good memories about Denver. We had a little gathering here a few years ago at Mile High. So coming here gets me fired up. Even when it's snowing outside, I'm fired up. I don't know where else you can go sledding in Halloween. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's like, what's up with the snow this soon? I mean, is this actually late? This is late for Denver, huh? <p>I want to start by thanking Mahala for the wonderful introduction and for sharing her story, which I know resonates with a lot of young people here. I want to thank your outstanding Governor, who's here; John Hickenlooper is in the house. There he is. The mayor of Denver, Michael Hancock, is in the house. The Lieutenant Governor, Joe Garcia, is in the house. And one of the finest public servants, somebody you were wise enough to elect and then reelect as United States Senator, Michael Bennet is in the house. <p>You guys do a good job when it comes to elected officials in Colorado. I just want you to know. You have a good eye for talent. Now&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]. <p><i>Audience member.</i> We love you! <p><i>The President.</i> I love you back. I do. <p>Now, I've been doing a lot of traveling lately. And the reason I've been hitting the road so much is because the folks I'm talking to in cities and small towns and communities all across America, they're&mdash;let's face it, they're making a little more sense than the folks back in Washington. <p>Here in Colorado, you've got folks who are spending months&mdash;some, years&mdash;looking for work. We've got families who are making tough sacrifices just to pay the bills or the mortgage or college tuition. And Americans know we need to do something about it. And I know this is especially hard for a lot of young people. <p>You guys came of age at a time of profound change. Globalization and technology have all made the world much more competitive. Although this offers unmatched opportunity&mdash;I mean, the way that the world is now linked up and synched up means that you can start a business that's global from your laptop&mdash;but it also means that we are going to have to adapt to these changes. <p>And for decades, too many of our institutions&mdash;from Washington to Wall Street&mdash;failed to adapt, or they adapted in ways that didn't work for ordinary folk, for middle class families, for those aspiring to get into the middle class. We had an economy that was based more on consuming things and piling up debt than making things and creating value. We had a philosophy that said if we cut taxes for the very wealthiest, and we gut environmental regulations, and we don't enforce labor regulations, and somehow if we let Wall Street just write the rules, that somehow that was going to lead to prosperity. And instead what it did was culminate in the worst financial crisis and the deepest recession since the Great Depression. <p>Now, for the last 3 years, we've worked to stabilize the economy, and we've made some progress. An economy that was shrinking is now growing, but too slowly. We've had private sector job growth, but it's been offset by layoffs of teachers and police and firefighters of the public sector. And we've still got a long way to go. <p>And now, as you young people are getting ready to head out into the world, I know you're hearing stories from friends and classmates and siblings who are struggling to find work, and you're wondering what's in store for your future. And I know that can be scary. So the&mdash;&mdash; <p>[<i>At this point, there was a disturbance in the audience</i>.] <p><i>The President.</i> All right. Thank you, guys. We're looking at it right now, all right? No decision has been made. And I know your deep concern about it. So we will address it. <p>Now, the&mdash;so here's what I also know. And I know that's true for folks who are concerned about the environment, folks who are concerned about foreign policy, but also folks who are concerned about the economy. <p>When I look out at all of you, I feel confident because I know that as long as there are young people like you who still have hope and are still inspired by the possibilities of America, then there are going to be better days for this country. I know that we are going to come through this stronger than before. <p>And when I wake up every single morning, what I'm thinking about is how do we create an America in which you have opportunity, in which anybody can make it if they try, no matter what they look like, no matter where they come from, no matter what race, what creed, what faith. And the very fact that you are here, investing in your education, the fact that you're going to college, the fact that you're making an investment in your future tells me that you share my faith in America's future. You inspire me: your hopes and your dreams and your opportunities. <p>And so the truth is, the economic problems we face today didn't happen overnight, and they won't be solved overnight. The challenges we face on the environment or on getting comprehensive immigration reform done, on all these issues we are going to keep on pushing. And it's going to take time to restore a sense of security for middle class Americans. It's going to take time to rebuild an economy that works for everybody, not just those at the top. But there are steps we can take right now to put Americans back to work and give our economy a boost. I know it. You know it. The American people know it. <p>You've got leaders like Michael Bennet and Mark Udall and Diana DeGette that are looking out for you. But the problem is, there are some in Washington&mdash;&mdash; <p>[<i>The disturbance in the audience continued</i>.] <p><i>The President.</i> &mdash;&mdash;there are some in Washington who don't seem to share this same sense of urgency. Last week, for the second time this month, Republicans in the Senate blocked a jobs bill from moving forward. <p>Now, this is a jobs bill that would have meant nearly 400,000 teachers and firefighters and first-responders back on the job. It was the kind of proposal that in the past has gotten Democratic and Republican support. <p>It was paid for by asking those who have done the best in our society, those who have made the most, to just do a little bit more. And it was supported by an overwhelming majority of the American people. But they still said no. And it doesn't make sense. How can you say no to creating jobs at a time when so many people are looking for work? It doesn't make any sense. <p>So the truth is, the only way we can attack our economic challenges on the scale that's necessary, the only way we can put hundreds of thousands of people, millions of people, back to work is if Congress is willing to cooperate with the executive branch and we are able to do some bold action like passing the jobs bill. That's what we need. <p>And that's why I am going to keep forcing these Senators to vote on commonsense, paid-for jobs proposals. And I'm going to need you to help send them the message. You don't need to tell Michael Bennet; he's already on the page. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I'm going to need you guys to be out there calling and tweeting and all the stuff you do. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But, listen, we're not going to wait though. We're not waiting for Congress. Last month, when I addressed a joint session of Congress about our jobs crisis, I said I intend to do everything in my power right now to act on behalf of the American people, with or without Congress. We can't wait for Congress to do its job. So where they won't act, I will. <p>And that's why, in recent weeks, we've been taking a series of executive actions. We decided we couldn't stop&mdash;we couldn't just wait for Congress to fix No Child Left Behind. We went ahead and decided, let's give States the flexibility they need to meet higher standards for our kids and improve our schools. <p>We said we can't wait for Congress to help small businesses. We're going to go ahead and say to the Federal Government, pay small businesses faster if they're contractors so they've got more money and they can start hiring more people. <p>We said we're not going to wait for Congress to fix what's going on in our health care system. We eliminated regulations that will save hospitals and patients billions of dollars. And yesterday we announced a new initiative to make it easier for veterans to get jobs, putting their skills to work in hospitals and community centers. <p>On Monday, we announced a new policy that will help families whose home values have fallen, to refinance their mortgages and to save up to thousands of dollars a year. <p>All these steps aren't going to take the place of the needed action that Congress has to get going on&mdash;they're still going to have to pass this jobs bill, they've got to create jobs, they've got to grow the economy&mdash;but these executive actions we're taking can make a difference. <p>And I've told my administration, we're going to look every single day to figure out what we can do without Congress. What can we do without them? Steps that can save you money and make government more efficient and responsive and help heal this economy. So we're going to be announcing these steps on a regular basis. And that's why I came to Denver today, to do something that will be especially important to all of you here at CU Denver and millions of students&mdash;and former students&mdash;all across America. <p>Now, I mentioned that we live in a global economy, where businesses can set up shop anywhere where there's an Internet connection. So we live in a time when, over the next decade, 60 percent of new jobs will require more than a high school diploma. And other countries are hustling to out-educate us today, so they can out-compete us tomorrow. They want the jobs of the future. I want you to have those jobs. I want America to have those jobs. I want America to have the most highly skilled workers doing the most advanced work. I want us to win the future. <p>So that means we should be doing everything we can to put a college education within reach for every American. That has never been more important. It's never been more important, but let's face it, it's also never been more expensive. There was a new report today, tuition gone up again, on average, much faster than inflation, certainly much faster than wages and incomes. <p>Over the past three decades, the cost of college has nearly tripled. And that is forcing you, forcing students, to take out more loans and rack up more debt. Last year, graduates who took out loans left college owing an average of $24,000. Student loan debt has now surpassed credit card debt for the first time ever. <p>Now, living with that kind of debt means making some pretty tough choices when you're first starting out. It might mean putting off buying a house. It might mean you can't start a business idea that you've got. It may mean that you've got to wait longer to start a family, or certainly, it means you're putting off saving for retirement because you're still paying off your student loans. <p>And when a big chunk of every paycheck goes towards student loans instead of being spent on other things, that's not just tough for middle class families, it's painful for the economy, and it's harmful to our recovery because that money is not going to help businesses grow. <p>And let me say this: This is something Michelle and I know about firsthand. I've been in your shoes. We did not come from a wealthy family. I know&mdash;I was raised mostly by a single mom and my grandparents. And Michelle, she had sort of a \\"Leave it to Beaver\\" perfect family, but with&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;but she did. They're wonderful. [<i>Laughter</i>] But her dad was a blue-collar worker, and her mom stayed at home. But then when she did go to work, she worked as a secretary. So our folks didn't have a lot of money. We didn't even own our own home; we rented most of the time that we were growing up. <p>So by the time we both graduated from law school, we had between us about $120,000 worth of debt. We combined and got poorer together. [<i>Laughter</i>] So we combined our liabilities, not our assets. [<i>Laughter</i>] So we were paying more for our student loans than we paid on our mortgage each month. <p>And look, obviously, we were lucky to have gotten a great education, and we were able to land good jobs with a steady income. But it still took us almost 10 years to finally pay off all our student debt. And that wasn't easy, especially once we had Malia and Sasha, because now we're supposed to be saving for their college, but we're still paying for ours. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So the idea is, how do we make college more affordable, and how do we make sure you are burdened with less debt? Now, college&mdash;keep in mind, college isn't just one of the best investments you can make in your future. It's one of the best investments America can make in our future. So we want you in school. [<i>Applause</i>] We want you in school. But we shouldn't saddle you with debt when you're starting off. <p>So that's why, since taking office, we've made it a priority to make college more affordable, reduce your student loan debt. Last year, we fought to eliminate these taxpayer subsidies that were going to big banks. They were serving as middlemen in the student loan program. Some of you may have heard about this. So even though the loans were guaranteed by the Federal Government, we were still paying banks billions of dollars to be pass-throughs for the student loan program. <p>And we said, well, that's not a good idea. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's not a good&mdash;now, of course, there were some in Washington who opposed me on this. That's surprising. [<i>Laughter</i>] I know, shocking. [<i>Laughter</i>] So you had some Republicans in Congress who fought us tooth and nail to protect the status quo and to keep these tax dollars flowing to the big banks instead of going to middle class families. One of them said changing it would be \\"an outrage.\\" The real outrage was letting banks keep these subsidies while students were working three jobs just to try to get by. That was the outrage. And that's why we ended the practice once and for all, to put a college education within reach of more Americans. <p>Then, in last year's State of the Union Address, I asked Congress to pass a law that tells 1 million students they won't have to pay more than 10 percent of their income towards student loans. And we won that fight, too, and that law will take effect by the time&mdash;that law is scheduled to take effect by the time freshmen graduate. <p>But we decided, let's see if we can do a little bit more. So today I'm here to announce that we're going to speed things up. We're going to make these changes work for students who are in college right now. We're going to put them into effect not 3 years from now, not 2 years from now, we're going to put them into effect next year, because our economy needs it right now and your future could use a boost right now. <p>So here is what this is going to mean. Because of this change, about 1.6 million Americans could see their payments go down by hundreds of dollars a month, and that includes some of the students who are here today. What we're also going to do is we're going to take steps to consolidate student loans so that instead of paying multiple payments to multiple lenders every month, and let me tell you, I remember this. I remember writing like five different checks to five different loan agencies. And if you lost one that month, you couldn't get all the bills together, you missed a payment, and then suddenly, you were paying a penalty. We're going to make it easier for you to have one payment a month at a better interest rate. And this won't cost&mdash;it won't cost taxpayers a dime, but it will save you money, and it will save you time. <p>And we want to start giving students a simple fact sheet. We're going to call it \\"Know Before You Owe\\"&mdash;Know Before You Owe&mdash;so you have all the information you need to make your own decisions about how to pay for college. And I promise you, I wish Michelle and I had had that when we were in your shoes. <p>So these changes will make a difference for millions of Americans. It will save you money. It will help more young people figure out how to afford college. It can put more money in your pocket once you graduate. And because you'll have some certainty, knowing that it's only a certain percentage of your income that is going to pay off your student loans, we&mdash;that means you will be more confident and comfortable to buy a house or save for retirement. And that will give our economy a boost at a time when it desperately needs it. So this is not just important to our country right now, it's important to our country's future. <p>When Michelle and I tuck our girls in at night, we think about how we are only where we are because somewhere down the line, somebody decided we're going to give everybody a chance. It doesn't matter if you're not born wealthy, it doesn't matter if your dad is disabled or doesn't own his own home, it doesn't matter if you're a single mom who had to take food stamps, you're still going to get a shot. You're still going to get an education. This country gave us a chance. And because our parents and their generation worked and sacrificed, they passed on opportunity to us. And they didn't do it alone. It was something that we as a country did together. <p>And now it is our turn, because the dream of opportunity is what I want for you and I want for my daughters and I want them for your children. I want them for all young people, because no matter how tough times are, no matter how many obstacles stand in our way, we are going to make the dream that all Americans share real once again. And that starts right now. It starts with you. [<i>Applause</i>] It starts with you. <p>I am going to keep doing everything in my power to make a difference for the American people. But, Denver, I need your help. Some of these folks in Washington still aren't getting the message. I need your voices heard. I especially need your young&mdash;young people, I need you guys involved. I need you active. I need you communicating to Congress. I need you to get the word out. Like I said, tweet them. Tweet them; they're all tweeting all over the place. [<i>Laughter</i>] You tweet them back. Whatever works for you. <p>Tell them, do your job. Tell them, the President has ideas that in the past have been supported by Democrats and Republicans, there's no reason not to support them just to play politics. It's time to put country ahead of party. It's time to put the next generation ahead of the next election. It's time for all of us in Washington to do our job. It's time for them to do their job. Too many people out there are hurting. Too many people are out there hurting for us to sit around and doing nothing. <p>And we are not a people who just sit around and wait for things to happen. We're Americans, we make things happen. We fix problems. We meet our challenges. We don't hold back, and we don't quit. And that's the spirit we need right now. <p>So, Denver, let's go out and meet the moment. Let's do the right thing, and let's go, once again, show the world just why it is the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. <p>God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"248" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, hello, hello! Thank you so much. <i>Viva Italia</i>! Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you, Nancy, for that generous introduction. I am biased, but I think Nancy was one of the best Speakers of the House this country ever had. She was no doubt the best Italian American Speaker of the House we ever had. And I believe that she will be the best Speaker of the House again in 2013. <p>Now, I was just out passing out Halloween candy&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;for the kids who were coming to the White House, but now that Malia and Sasha are with their friends, they do not notice that I'm gone. [<i>Laughter</i>] They're now getting to that age, they don't care. [<i>Laughter</i>] They're pleased that I didn't embarrass them too much during the brief time I was with them. <p>So I am honored to be here to celebrate National Italian American Heritage Month and to commemorate the 150th anniversary of Italian unification. And I want to congratulate the president, the chairman, all of you who are doing so much work to keep that heritage alive for the next generation. And I'm grateful for your generous welcome. <p>Now, I want to make a confession right off the bat. I do not, in fact, have any Italian ancestry. [<i>Laughter</i>] Not all of us are that lucky. [<i>Laughter</i>] I can't sing like Frankie Avalon. [<i>Laughter</i>] Where's Frankie? I can't&mdash;he looks the same! Unbelievable. [<i>Laughter</i>] I can't cook as well as any of your grandmothers. [<i>Laughter</i>] Michelle won't let me have seconds or thirds anymore. [<i>Laughter</i>] So all I've got to offer is a last name that ends in a vowel. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is all I've got. <p>Nevertheless, it is good to see so many <i>amici. </i>[<i>Laughter</i>] I see many proud sons and daughters of the old country. I see a couple dozen proud Italian American Members of Congress here tonight. Let me offer a special welcome to the guests who join us from Italy this evening, including Italy's Ambassador to the United States, Ambassador Terzi. Thank you so much for your outstanding work. His counterpart, here as well, and he is doing an outstanding job representing us, our Ambassador to Italy, David Thorne. Italy is one of our strongest allies, a fellow founding member of NATO. We look forward to our work together with them, and we're going to be joining them next week at the G-20 to make a series of decisions that are going to be very important for the world economy. <p>I've also made sure to keep close the advice of Italian Americans by asking some of them to serve in my Cabinet. And as Nancy mentioned, we could not be prouder of Janet Napolitano, who is keeping us safe every single day, and my outstanding Secretary of Defense, Leon Panetta. And as was mentioned, even though she's not here these evening, Jill Biden is proud to come from a long line of Giacoppas. And so she sends her regards. <p>Tonight I think it's also important for us to honor the proud service of the countless Italian Americans who have fought for this country since our founding, and who wear the uniform today, from the Chief of Staff of the Army, General Ray Odierno, to a hero whom I was proud to bestow our Nation's highest military decoration, and was the first one in a very long time to personally receive the Medal of Honor, staff sergeant Salvatore Giunta. <p>So in a sense, every American joins us in celebrating this anniversary of Italian unification. What would America be without the contributions of Italy and Italian Americans? What would we be without the daring voyages of Columbus and Verrazano and Vespucci? What would our science and technology be without not just DaVinci and Galileo, but Fermi? What would movies and music be without the magic of Capra, Sinatra, or Sophia Loren, my favorite. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm just saying. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>What would sports be without the guts and the grit of DiMaggio and Lombardi and La Russa? <p><i>Audience member.</i> Piazza! <p><i>The President.</i> Piazza! [<i>Laughter</i>] The White Sox could still use you. [<i>Laughter</i>] What would this city be without the influence of Roman thought and architecture, the Piccirilli brothers who&mdash;their work on the Lincoln Memorial&mdash;Brumidi's magnificent touch on the Capitol? <p>Although, I must say, it might be nice to know what our politics would&mdash;like without the contribution of Machiavelli. [<i>Laughter</i>] We&mdash;that's been internalized a little too much here in Washington. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>America would not be what it is today without the unique contributions and the uncommon pride of Italian Americans. And like so many other groups&mdash;as Nancy said, like so many other groups, the Italians came to America in search of opportunity. They came with little. Very few were wealthy. But they came with an unwavering faith in God, an unfailing commitment to family, and an unlikely hope in the possibilities of America, the belief that in this country, you could be prosperous, you could be free, you could think and talk and worship as you please. It was a place where you could make it if you try. <p>And it wasn't always easy. Italians weren't always welcome. And when we think about today's immigrants, we have to remind ourselves that those of us who now feel comfortable in our American identity, that that wasn't always the case in the past. The opportunities our forbears hoped for wasn't always within reach right away. But they did not wait for anybody to hand it to them. They built new lives for themselves, and at the same time, they ended up building an entire nation. They enriched our heritage and our culture with their own. They helped forge the very promise of this country: That success is possible if you're willing to work for it. And those efforts built a better America for all of us. <p>Everybody in this room, just about everybody, has an ancestor or lots of ancestors who fit that story of transplanted roots that somehow grew in American soil, of families that struggled and sacrificed so that our families might know something better. Of parents who said, maybe I can't speak English, but I'll make sure my child can speak English; they might teach English someday. I might not have an education, I might not have an education, but I'm going to make sure my child has an education. I might perform backbreaking labor today, but someday my child can be a Senator or a Supreme Court Justice or Speaker of the House or a Secretary in the Cabinet or President of the United States. <p>So that's what binds us together. That is what has always made our country unique. We've always been and we will always be a nation of immigrants from all over the world. And out of many, somehow we're able to forge ourselves into one people; and this is the place where the highest hopes can be reached, and the deepest and most sincere dreams can be made real. <p>And that's the legacy our forebears left for us, and that's what we now have to leave to our children. These are tough times right now, and millions of Americans are hurting. Millions are without work, and those who have work are still all too often struggling to get by. And for many, the dream that brought so many Italian Americans to these shores feels like it's slipping away. <p>So we've got work to do. But while these times are hard, we have to remind ourselves they're not as hard as those that earlier generations faced. And the legacy of their courage and their commitment and their determination and their generosity and their willingness to think about the next generation&mdash;we have to be just as passionate and just as selfless as they were to keep that dream alive and make sure our children inherit futures that are big and bright and that this country is as generous as it's always been. <p>And that's what we have to commit to ourselves tonight. So on behalf of all Americans, I want to thank you for everything that the Italian American community has done, everything that you've done to contribute to the chronicles and the character of the greatest nation on Earth. <p>Thank you, so much. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"249" "\"This week, a new economic report confirmed what most Americans already believe to be true: Over the past three decades, the middle class has lost ground while the wealthiest few have become even wealthier. In fact, the average income for the top 1 percent of Americans has risen almost seven times faster than the income of the average middle class family. And this has happened during a period where the cost of everything from health care to college has skyrocketed. <p>Now, in this country, we don't begrudge anyone wealth or success. We encourage it. We celebrate it. But America is better off when everyone had the chance to get ahead, not just those at the very top of the income scale. The more Americans who prosper, the more America prospers. <p>Rebuilding an economy where everyone has the chance to succeed will take time. Our economic problems were decades in the making, and they won't be solved overnight. But there are steps we can take right now to put people back to work and restore some of the security that middle class Americans have lost over the last few decades. <p>Right now Congress can pass a set of commonsense jobs proposals that independent economists tell us will boost the economy right away. Proposals that will put more teachers, veterans, construction workers, and first-responders back on the job. Proposals that will cut taxes for virtually every middle class family and small business in America. These are the same kinds of proposals that both Democrats and Republicans have supported in the past. And they should stop playing politics and act on them now. <p>These jobs proposals are also paid for by asking folks who are making more than a million dollars a year to contribute a little more in taxes. These are the same folks who've seen their incomes go up so much, and I believe this is a contribution they're willing to make. One survey found that nearly 7 in 10 millionaires are willing to step up and pay a little more in order to help the economy. <p>Unfortunately, Republicans in Congress aren't paying attention. They haven't gotten the message. Over and over, they have refused to even debate the same kinds of jobs proposals that Republicans have supported in the past, proposals that today are supported not just by Democrats, but by Independent and Republican voters all across America. Somehow, though, they found time this week to debate things like whether or not we should mint coins to celebrate the Baseball Hall of Fame. And meanwhile, they're only scheduled to work three more weeks between now and the end of the year. <p>The truth is, we can no longer wait for Congress to do its job. The middle class families who have been struggling for years are tired of waiting. They need help now. So where Congress won't act, I will. <p>This week, we announced a new policy that will help families whose home values have fallen to refinance their mortgages and save thousands of dollars. We're making it easier for veterans to get jobs putting their skills to work in hospitals and community health centers. We reformed the student loan process so more young people can get out of debt faster. And we're going to keep announcing more changes like these on a regular basis. <p>These steps will make a difference. But they won't take the place of the bold action we need from Congress to get this economy moving again. And that's why I need all of you to make your voices heard. Tell Congress to stop playing politics and start taking action on jobs. If we want to rebuild an economy where every American has the chance to get ahead, then we're going to need every American to get involved. That's how real change has always happened, and that's how it'll happen today. <p>Thanks.\" "
"250" "\"<i>The President.</i> Well, thank you all for being here. <p>The United States, I think rightly, takes pride on having the most innovative and most successful drug industry in the world, and as a consequence the health of a lot of people, both here in the United States and around the world, is actively promoted. But as we also know, occasionally there are problems in our manufacture and distribution of drugs and how accessible they are to people. <p>And recently, we have seen how the potential of drug shortages for vital drugs, including some cancers, can really have a adverse impact on patients and those who are caring for patients. Sometimes we run out of or run low on certain types of drugs, and that drives up prices and it increases patient risk. <p>And I've got a couple of people here beside me who have had to navigate this problem. Jay Cuetara knows what it's like. In August, the center where he was receiving chemotherapy ran out of the drug being used to treat his cancer. And when that happens, you have pharmacy managers like Bonnie Frawley who have to scramble to make sure that their patients can somehow find the life-saving medications that are necessary. <p>So over the last 5 years, the number of these drug shortages has nearly tripled. And even though the FDA has successfully prevented an actual crisis, this is one of those slow-rolling problems that could end up resulting in disaster for patients and health care facilities all across the country. <p>Congress has been trying since February to do something about this. It has not yet been able to get it done. And it is the belief of this administration, as well as folks like Bonnie and Jay, that we can't wait for action on the Hill, we've got to go ahead and move forward. <p>So as a consequence, I'm going to be signing an Executive order today that directs the FDA to step up work to reduce the drug shortages and protect consumers. We'll still be calling on Congress to pass a bipartisan bill that will provide additional tools to the FDA and others that can make a difference. But until they act, we will go ahead and move. <p>As part of this, we're going to require that drug companies let us know earlier about the potential for drug shortages so that we can respond successfully. We're going to make sure that if we find out that prices are being driven up because shortages are being made worse by manipulations of companies or distributors, that we are making sure that we stop those practices. We're going to further empower the FDA and the Department of Justice to investigate any kinds of abuses that would lead to drug shortages. <p>So there's a combination of tools that are going to be contained in this Executive order that can make sure that life-saving drugs are available, and if we start seeing shortages, that we're able to catch those ahead of time so that Bonnie doesn't have to try to scramble as a pharmacy manager, and Jay, obviously, doesn't have to scramble as a patient. <p>This is something that needs to be done. I want to thank the leadership of both our FDA administrator and our Health and Human Services Secretary for having done outstanding work in preparing this Executive order. And again, I still urge Congress to move forward and build on this Executive order so that we can provide even more tools for our agencies. And I want to thank Bonnie and Jay for being here and for helping inspire us to get this done. <p>All right. With that I'm going to sign this bill&mdash;or this Executive order&mdash;excuse me. <p>[<i>At this point, the President signed the Executive order.</i>] <p><i>The President. </i>There you go. Thank you very much, everybody. Appreciate it. <p><i>Meeting With Quartet Representative to the Middle East Tony Blair </i><p><i>Q. </i>Tony Blair&mdash;can you tell us anything about the meeting with Tony Blair this morning? <p><i>The President.</i> I enjoyed our meeting with Tony Blair. <p>Thank you. Thank you, guys.\" "
"251" "\"<i>The President.</i> Well, one of the great pleasures of this job, but also one of my responsibilities, is making sure that we are preserving our Nation's treasures so that they can be enjoyed by our children, our grandchildren, our great-grandchildren. And over the years, over a hundred sites have been set aside as national monuments, everything from the Statue of Liberty to the Grand Canyon. <p>So today I am continuing that proud tradition by adding another monument to the list. Fort Monroe in Hampton, Virginia, has played a remarkable role in the history of our Nation. It was the site of the first slave ships to land in the New World. But during the Civil War, almost 250 years later, Fort Monroe also became a refuge for slaves that were escaping from the South and helped create the environment in which Abraham Lincoln was able to sign that document up there, the Emancipation Proclamation. <p>In September, Fort Monroe closed its doors as a military base. But thanks to the advocacy of some outstanding citizens and historians and elected officials who are represented here, as well as the great work of our Department of the Interior and Ken Salazar and the&mdash;all the people who have been involved in making this day possible, we are going to continue this legacy, making Fort Monroe a national monument. <p>This is going to give an opportunity for people from all across the country to travel to Fort Monroe and trace the history that has been so important to making America what it is. It's also going to be an incredibly important economic boost to the region. Local officials estimate that this may end up creating as many as 3,000 jobs in the region. It will add millions of dollars to the local economy in and around Hampton. And so this is a win-win. Not only is it good for the people of that region now, but it also allows us to set aside this incredibly important site for the enjoyment and appreciation of generations to come. <p>So I want to thank everybody who's here for the great work that they've done. I am looking forward to not only visiting myself, but also taking Malia and Sasha down there so they get a little bit a sense of their history. And I thank the Commonwealth of Virginia for giving us this opportunity to appreciate the remarkable history of their State, but also of this country. <p>So with that, I'm going to sign this bill&mdash;or Executive order. <p>[<i>At this point, the President signed the Executive order.</i>] <p><i>The President. </i>There you go. Thank you so much. <p>Just one last point I want to make. As I said, there's a strong economic component to this. We think we can see additional jobs in Virginia as a consequence of this. But for those Members of Congress who are here, I still need some action from Congress&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;on the \\"American Jobs Act\\" and other steps. But in the meantime, this is going to make a big difference. <p>And again, I want to thank everybody here, particularly the private citizens who put their time and money and effort into making this day possible. <p>All right? Thank you, everybody. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Thank you. <p><i>Death of Dorothy Howell Rodham </i><p><i>Q.</i> Mr. President, any thoughts on Secretary Clinton's loss? <p><i>The President.</i> Ms. Rodham was a remarkable person. Anybody who knows her history knows what a strong, determined, and gifted person she was. For her to have been able to live the life that she did and to see her daughter succeed at the pinnacle of public service in this country, I'm sure was deeply satisfying to her. <p>My thoughts, Michelle's thoughts, the entire White House's thoughts go out to the entire Clinton family. And I know that she will be remembered as somebody who helped make a difference in this country and this world. <p>All right?\" "
"252" "\"Hello, everybody. All right. Thank you so much, everybody. Please have a seat on this beautiful day. It is good to see all these construction workers out. <p>Of all the industries hammered by the economic downturn, construction has been among the hardest hit. Since the housing bubble burst, millions of construction workers have had to look for a job. So today I'm joining many of these workers to say that it makes absolutely no sense, when there's so much work to be done, that they're not doing the work; not when there are so many roads and bridges and runways waiting to be repaired and waiting to be rebuilt. <p>One of these potential projects is behind me, just a few miles from the Capitol Building. It's the Key Bridge, one of the five major bridges that connect the Commonwealth of Virginia to Washington, DC. Two of these five bridges are rated \\"structurally deficient,\\" which is a fancy way of saying that you can drive on them, but they need repair. Nearly 120,000 vehicles cross these two bridges every single day, carrying hundreds of thousands of commuters and families and children. <p>They are deficient roads, and there are deficient bridges like this all across the country. Our highways are clogged with traffic. Our railroads are no longer the fastest and most efficient in the world. Our air traffic congestion is the worst in the world. And we've got to do something about this, because our businesses and our entire economy are already paying for it. <p>Give you an example. Last month, I visited a bridge in Cincinnati on one of the busiest trucking routes in America. More than a hundred and fifty thousand vehicles cross it every single day. But it is so outdated that it's been labeled \\"functionally obsolete.\\" It worked fine when it opened 50 years ago. But today, it handles twice the traffic it was designed for, and it causes mile-long backups. That means that big shipping companies like UPS or FedEx are tempted to change routes, but it turns out that would cost them even more to take the long way. So their trucks, their vans are just sitting there, bleeding money, bleeding time. <p>Smaller businesses, they don't have a choice. They have to go across these bridges. When a major bridge that connects Kentucky and Indiana was recently closed for safety reasons, one small-business owner whose shop is nearby watched his sales fall 40 percent in just 2 weeks. Farmers, they can lose 5 cents a bushel when a rural bridge closes. <p>So all told, our aging transportation infrastructure costs American businesses and families about a hundred and thirty billion dollars a year. That's a tax on our businesses; that's a tax on our consumers. It is coming out of your pocket. It's a drag on our overall economy. And if we don't act now, it could cost America hundreds of billions of dollars and hundreds of thousands of jobs by the end of the decade. <p>So you're paying already for these substandard bridges. You're paying for these substandard roads. You could be paying to make sure that workers were rebuilding these roads, and you would save money in the long term if you did. And I'm speaking to all the American people right now. <p>Building a world-class transportation system is one of the reasons that America became an economic superpower in the first place. Today, as a share of our economy, Europe invests more than twice what we do in infrastructure; China, more than four times as much. Think about that. Europe invests, as a percentage of its overall economy, twice as much in roads and bridges and airports and ports; China, four times as much. <p>How do we sit back and watch China and Europe big&mdash;build the best bridges and high-speed railroads and gleaming new airports, and we're doing nothing, at a time when we've got more than a million unemployed construction workers who could build them right here in America right now? <p>We're better than that. We are smarter than that. We've just got to get folks in Congress to share the same sense of national urgency that mayors and Governors and the American people do all across the country. I've got to say, we've got some Members of Congress here who get it. Amy Klobuchar from Minnesota, she gets it. She's seen a bridge fall apart in her State. Senator Whitehouse from Rhode Island, he gets it. Congressman Larson from Connecticut gets it. I know the mayor of Washington, DC, gets it. But we've got to have everybody on Capitol Hill get it. <p>Last month, Republicans in the Senate blocked a jobs bill that would have meant hundreds of thousands of private sector construction jobs repairing bridges like this one. It was the kind of idea that in the past, at least, both parties have voted for, both parties have supported. It was supported by the overwhelming majority of the American people. It was paid for. And yet they said no. <p>The truth is, the only way we can attack our economic challenges on the scale that's needed is with bold action by Congress. They hold the purse strings. It's the only way we're going to put hundreds of thousands of people back to work right now. Not 5 years from now, not 10 years from now, but right now. It's the only way that we're going to rebuild an economy that's not based on financial bubbles, but on hard work, on building and making things right here in the United States of America. <p>That's the deal that every American is looking for, that we have an economy where everybody who works hard has the chance to get ahead, where the middle class regains some sense of security that has been slipping away for over a decade now. <p>So that's why I'm going to keep on pushing these Senators and some Members of the House of Representatives to vote on commonsense, paid-for jobs proposals. In the meantime, while I'm waiting for them to act, we're going to go ahead and do what we can do to help the American people find jobs. We're not going to wait for them and do nothing. I've said that I'll do everything in my power to act on behalf of the American people, with or without Congress. <p>We can't wait for Congress to do its job. If they won't act, I will. And that's why today I'm announcing that we are actually going to expedite loans and competitive grants for new projects all across the country that will create thousands of new jobs for workers like these. If there's money already in the pipeline, we want to get it out faster. And this comes on the heels of our recent efforts to cut redtape and launch several existing projects faster and more efficiently. See, construction workers, they want to do their jobs. We need Congress to do theirs. <p>But here's the good news: Congress has another chance. They already voted once against this thing; they've got another chance. This week, they've got another chance to vote for a jobs bill that will help private sector companies put hundreds of thousands of construction workers back on the job rebuilding our roads, our airports, our bridges, and our transit systems. <p>And this bill, by the way, is one that will begin to reform the way we do projects like this. No more earmarks. No more bridges to nowhere. We're going to stop the picking of projects based on political gain and start picking them based on two criteria: how badly they're needed out there and how much good they'll do for our economy. And by the way, that's an idea that came from the good work of a Texas Republican and a Massachusetts Democrat, because infrastructure shouldn't be a partisan issue. <p>My Secretary of Transportation, who is here, Ray LaHood, a great man from Peoria&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;he's the pride of Peoria&mdash;he spent a long time in Congress. He's a Republican, member of my Cabinet. He knows how badly we need to act on this issue. The other Members of Congress here, they understand that this is important to their States. I can't imagine that Speaker Boehner wants to represent a State where nearly one in four bridges is classified as \\"substandard.\\" I'm sure that the Speaker of the House would want to have bridges and roads in his State that are up to par. <p>When the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, visited that closed bridge in Kentucky that I was talking about, he admitted, look, \\"Roads and bridges are not partisan in Washington.\\" That's a quote from him. Paul Ryan, the Republican in charge of the budget process, recently said, \\"You can't deny that infrastructure does create jobs.\\" Okay, so if the Speaker of the House, the Republican leader in the Senate, all the Democrats all say that this is important to do, why aren't we doing it? What's holding us back? Let's get moving and put America back to work. <p>The ideas in this legislation are supported by the leading organizations of Republican mayors, supported by Mayor Gray, who's here. The idea would be a big boost for construction and is therefore supported by America's largest business organization and America's largest labor organization. The Chamber of Commerce and the AFL-CIO think this is a good idea to move forward on. And they don't agree on a lot. <p>And when 72 percent of the American people support the ideas in this bill&mdash;72 percent of Americans agree with this, Republicans, Democrats, and Independents&mdash;there's no excuse for a hundred percent of Washington Republicans to say no. That means that the Republicans in Washington are out of touch with Republican voters. <p>We've got to make this happen. Now, if you don't want to take my word for it, take it from one of my predecessors. It's one of the previous Presidents. He said that, and I'm quoting here, \\"the bridges and highways we fail to repair today will have to be rebuilt tomorrow at many times the cost.\\" He went on to say that rebuilding our infrastructure is &ldquo;common sense\\"&mdash;that's a quote&mdash;and, quote, \\"an investment in tomorrow that we must make today.\\" That President was Ronald Reagan. We just put up a statue of him at the airport. <p>Since when do we have Republicans voting against Ronald Reagan's ideas? [<i>Laughter</i>] There's no good reason to oppose this bill, not one. And Members of Congress who do, who vote no, are going to have to explain why to their constituencies. <p>The American people are with me with this. And it's time for folks running around spending all their time talking about what's wrong with America to spend some time rolling up their sleeves to help us make it right. There's nothing wrong in this country that we can't fix. There are no challenges that we can't meet and especially when it comes to building things in America. It was in the middle of the Civil War that Lincoln built the transcontinental railroad. It was during the Great Depression that we built the Hoover Dam that brought electricity to rural America. <p>We have built things even in the toughest of times&mdash;especially in the toughest of times, because it helps us improve our economy. It gets us going. It taps into that can-do American spirit. It gives us pride about what we can accomplish. Now it's our turn to forge the future. <p>Everybody here, we are Americans. We're not people who sit back and watch things happening. And if Congress tells you they don't have time, they've got time to do it. We've been&mdash;in the House of Representatives, what have you guys been debating? John, you've been debating a commemorative coin for baseball? [<i>Laughter</i>] You had legislation reaffirming that \\"In God We Trust\\" is our motto? That's not putting people back to work. I trust in God, but God wants to see us help ourselves by putting people back to work. <p>There's work to be done. There are workers ready to do it. The American people are behind this. Democrats, Republicans, Independents believe in this. These are ideas that have been supported by all those groups in the past. There's no reason not to do it this time. I want you to make sure your voice is heard in the Halls of Congress. I want us to put people back to work, get this economy growing again, and remind the entire world just why it is that America is the greatest country on Earth. <p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"253" "\"Good afternoon. <i>Bon apres-midi</i>. I studied French in school, and that's about as far as I got. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But, Mr. President, I understand clearly the affection with which you've once again described our alliance and the friendship between our peoples. So thank you, Nicolas, my partner, <i>mon ami</i>. Thank you. <p>To Generals Puga and Estrate and members of the French Armed Forces; to Mayor Brochand and the people of Cannes: Thank you for your wonderful hospitality and the beautiful weather&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;that I'm enjoying here today. <p>We stand here today as free and democratic peoples because of each other. It was the ideas of the enlightenment, centered here in France, that helped inspire a band of colonists across the ocean to seek our freedom. It was the success of our Revolution that helped inspire your own. In our founding documents, we pledge ourselves to the same inalienable rights, and to the truth that all men and women are created equal. We are societies where our diversity is considered a strength, where you can become President even if your name is Obama or Sarkozy. [<i>Laughter</i>] We live by a common creed: life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness&mdash;<i>liberte, egalite, fraternite</i>. <p>And for more than two centuries, we haven't simply professed these ideas, we have preserved them, by serving together and by sacrificing together. And not far from here is the hometown of Admiral de Grasse, who helped Americans secure our independence. Here at this memorial, we recall our shared sacrifices in the trenches of the First World War. Just as President Sarkozy and I have honored those who fell at Normandy, let it also be remembered that American and free French forces stormed the beaches of this southern coast. And not far from here, at Rhone, some of them rest in peace in the land that they liberated. <p>Nor have we simply defended these ideals for ourselves. Together, we have stood up for our ideals around the world. Today we pay special tribute to all those who have served and given their lives&mdash;French, American, and forces from our allies and partners&mdash;so that Afghanistan will never again become a haven for those who would attack us. They have sacrificed to keep us all safe, and we honor them all. <p>We saw this same solidarity most recently in the mission to protect the Libyan people. When the old regime threatened to massacre on a horrific scale, the world refused to stand by. The United States was proud to play a decisive role, especially in the early days, taking out Libyan air defenses and conducting precision strikes that stopped the regime in its tracks. But at the same time, this mission showed us why NATO remains the world's most effective alliance. We acted quickly, in days; the fastest mobilization in NATO history. And whether contributing forces or command staff, every single one of NATO's 28 members played a role. Eighteen nations, including Arab States, provided forces. <p>And in a historic first, our NATO allies, including France, and especially the extraordinary leadership of President Sarkozy, helped us to conduct 90 percent of our strike missions&mdash;90 percent. So that showed more nations bearing the burdens and costs of peace and security. And that's how our alliance must work in the 21st century. <p>In this mission, French and American soldiers, airmen, naval officers, served shoulder to shoulder: the commanders who planned and executed this complex operation, the pilots who prevented a massacre in Benghazi, the tanker crews from bases here in France who sustained this operation, the airmen who delivered lifesaving aid, the sailors and marines who enforced the arms embargo at sea. <p>In fact, American pilots even flew French fighter jets off a French aircraft carrier in the Mediterranean. Allies don't get any closer than that. Thanks to their extraordinary service, the last air mission over Libya ended on Monday, and that operation ended in giving the Libyan people the opportunity to live with freedom and democracy. And I might add, we succeeded in bring every single one of our servicemembers back safely, which is a remarkable achievement. <p>Every man and woman in uniform who participated in this effort can know that you have accomplished every objective. You saved the lives of countless Libyan men, women, and children. And today, the Libyan people have liberated their country and begun to forge their own future, and the world has once again seen that the longing for freedom and dignity is universal. <p>Thousands of personnel made this operation a success, but we are honored to have some of them join us today. And I would ask you in joining me in saluting Admirals Jim Stavridis and Sam Locklear, as well as General Ralph Jodice, and all our servicemembers who are here for a job well done. <p>Finally, I would note that this success is part of a larger story. After a difficult decade, the tide of war is receding. The long war in Iraq is finally coming to an end. With our allies and partners, including the extraordinary sacrifices of the French people, we've achieved major victories against Al Qaida, including Usama bin Laden. In Afghanistan, where French and American soldiers fight side by side, we've begun a transition so Afghans can take responsibility for their security and our troops can begin coming home. <p>Today, America and our allies are moving forward with confidence and with strength. And these men and women in uniform carry on a legacy that I actually can see from the windows of the White House. In one direction, there's the monument to Washington; in the other, a statue of Rochambeau, who served so well at Washington's side. And at the base of that statue are words Washington expressed to his friend after the Revolutionary War in America was won&mdash;and I've shared these words with President Sarkozy on one of our visits, so I want to conclude with them this afternoon, because they capture the spirit that we celebrate today. <p>This is what Washington said to his dear friend from France: \\"We are fellow laborers in the cause of liberty, and we have lived together as brothers should do&mdash;in harmonious friendship.\\" <p>President Sarkozy, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Armed Forces of France and the United States, for more than two centuries we have stood together in friendship, and because of our unwavering commitment to the cause of liberty, I'm confident that we'll continue to stand together, strong and free, for all the centuries to come. So <i>vive la France</i>. God bless America. And long live the alliance between our two great nations.\" "
"254" "\"Thank you very much, everybody. Please be seated. This week we commemorate Veterans Day. We honor the service and the sacrifice of all who have worn the uniform of the United States of America with honor and distinction. And above all, we commit ourselves to serving them, as well as they have served us. That's why we're here today. <p>Today's 9/11 generation of veterans has already earned a special place in our history. Over a difficult decade, they've performed heroically in some of the world's most dangerous places. They've done everything that we've asked of them. And I'm honored to have some of these extraordinary Americans here at the White House with us this morning. <p>I'm also proud to be joined by some of America's leading veterans service organizations&mdash;the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Disabled American Veterans, and Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America&mdash;as well as Members of Congress who have historically been extraordinarily supportive of our veterans. And we're here today to try to take some steps to better serve today's veterans in a rough economy. <p>Over the past decade, nearly 3 million servicemembers have transitioned back to civilian life, joining the millions who have served through the decades. And as we end the war in Iraq and we wind down the war in Afghanistan, over a million more will join them over the next 5 years. Just think about the skills these veterans have acquired, often at a very young age. Think about the leadership that they've learned, the cutting-edge technologies that they've mastered, their ability to adapt to changing and unpredictable circumstances you just can't get from a classroom. Think about how many have led others to life-and-death missions by the time they're 25 or 26 years old. <p>This is exactly the kind of leadership and responsibility that every American business should be competing to attract. This is the kind of talent we need to compete for the jobs and industries of the future. These are the kinds of Americans that every company should want to hire. <p>And yet, while our economy has added more than 350,000 private sector jobs just over the past 3 months, more than 850,000 veterans remain unemployed. Too many can't find a job worthy of their tremendous talents. Too many military spouses have a hard time finding work after moving from base to base to base. And even though the overall unemployment rate ticked down last month, unemployment among veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan continued to rise. That's not right. It doesn't make sense&mdash;not for our veterans, not for our families, not for America&mdash;and we're determined to change that. <p>I've told the story before of a soldier in the 82d Airborne who served as a combat medic in Afghanistan, and he saved lives over there. He earned a Bronze Star for his actions. But when he returned home, he couldn't even get a job as a first responder. He had to take classes through the post-9/11 GI bill&mdash;classes that he probably could have taught&mdash;just so he could qualify for the same duties at home that he was doing every single day at war. <p>You know what? If you can save a life on the battlefield, then you can save a life in an ambulance. If you can oversee a convoy or millions of dollars of assets in Iraq, you can help a business back home manage their supply chain or balance their books. If you can juggle the demands of raising a family while a loved one is at war, you can juggle the demands of almost any job in America. <p>We ask our men and women in uniform to leave their families and their jobs and risk their lives to fight for our country, and the last thing they should have to do is fight for a job when they come home. And that's why we're here today, to do everything in our power to see to it that America's veterans have the opportunities that they deserve and that they have earned. <p>Now, I've already directed the Federal Government to lead by example and to hire more veterans. And it has hired more than 120,000 so far. A couple of months ago I also challenged private companies to hire or train 100,000 post-9/11 veterans or their spouses by the end of 2013. And already companies have hired more than 12,000 and committed to train or hire 25,000 more over the next 2 years. <p>And I want to thank the extraordinary work of my wife, the First Lady, as well as Dr. Jill Biden for leading this Joining Forces effort to support our military families and our veterans. <p>Nearly 2 months ago, I sent Congress the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" It was the only jobs plan independent economists said would boost our economy and put Americans back to work right now, and it was full of the kinds of ideas that have historically been supported by both parties. It was paid for. <p>And it included two proposals that would have made a big difference for our veterans: the returning heroes tax credit, which would give businesses a tax break for each unemployed veteran that they hire, and the wounded warriors tax credit, which would give businesses a even larger tax break for hiring an unemployed veteran with a disability related to their service in uniform. And these veteran service organizations are here today because they fully support these ideas. <p>Unfortunately, we have not yet seen progress in Congress. Senate Republicans have so far chosen to block these bills and these proposals. Since then, they've also blocked a jobs bill that would keep teachers in the classroom and first responders on the street and blocked a jobs bill last week that would have put hundreds of thousands of construction workers back to work rebuilding America. Despite the fact that more than 70 percent of Americans supported the ideas in this bill, not one has yet stepped up on the other side of the aisle to say this is the right thing to do. So they've had three chances to do the right thing. Three times, they've said no. <p>I believe it's time they said yes to taking action that would boost the economy overall, because the overall economy has an impact on veterans. It's a lot easier for veterans to find jobs if the economy is growing rapidly and unemployment is dropping. And I think it's important for all of us to remember that we're all in this together. It's time we started acting like it. Bold action from Congress ultimately is the only way we're going to put hundreds of thousands of Americans back to work right now and rebuild an economy where everyone who works hard has a chance to get ahead. So I'm going to keep pushing these Senators to vote on commonsense, paid-for ways to create jobs that members of both parties have supported before. <p>But what I've also said is that I'm going to do everything in my power, as the head of the executive branch, to act on behalf of the American people, with or without Congress. We can't simply wait for Congress to do its job. As Commander in Chief, I won't wait, nor will I let politics get in the way of making sure that veterans share in the opportunity that they defend. If Congress won't act, I will. <p>And that's why, 2 weeks ago, I announced a new initiative to help trained veterans get jobs in the medical community. And today we're announcing three new initiatives to help America's returning heroes get jobs that meet their talents. <p>First, we're delivering on the expanded job search services that I promised our post-9/11 veterans 3 months ago. Starting today, post-9/11 veterans looking for work can download what we're calling the veterans Gold Card, which gives you up to 6 months of personalized job search services at career centers across the country. <p>Second, we're launching an easy-to-use online tool called My Next Move for Veterans that allows veterans to enter information about their experience and skills in the field and match it with civilian careers that put that experience to use. <p>Third, we're connecting unemployed veterans to job openings. We've partnered with leading job search companies to create a new online service called Veterans Job Bank, where employers can tag jobs postings for veterans using a simple approach designed by major search engines. And already, more than 500,000 job openings have been tagged, thanks to a company called Simply Hired, and companies like Monster and LinkedIn are helping more employers participate. <p>So all these three initiatives are up and running right now. Just visit whitehouse.gov/vets to find each one. And I'm asking these veterans service organizations to spread the word. <p>Connecting our veterans to the jobs they deserve isn't just the right thing to do for our veterans, it's the right thing to do for America. But there's still more that we can do to encourage businesses to hire veterans. And this week, Congress will have another chance to do the right thing. They'll get to vote on those tax breaks that I proposed back in September for businesses to hire veterans. Members of Congress will get to say whether or not they think it's a good idea to give companies an incentive&mdash;an additional incentive&mdash;to hire the men and women who have risked their lives for our country. <p>And when I first proposed this idea&mdash;some of you remember this was a joint session of Congress&mdash;people stood and applauded on both sides of the aisle when I announced this bill. That was one of the few times both sides stood up. [<i>Laughter</i>] So when these ideas come up for a vote this week, when the TV cameras aren't necessarily on each of them, I expect both sides of the aisle to stand up for our veterans and vote in the affirmative. <p>There's no good reason to oppose this bill. Not one. Our veterans did their jobs. It's time for Congress to do theirs. It's time for them to put country before party, put our veterans back to work, and pass this element of the jobs package that benefits our veterans and gives businesses an incentive to hire veterans. <p>Standing up for our veterans is not a Democratic responsibility or a Republican responsibility, it is a American responsibility. It's an obligation of every citizen who enjoys the freedom that these heroes defend. And it is time for us to meet those obligations right now. <p>As Commander in Chief, I want all our veterans to know that we are forever grateful for your service and for your sacrifice. And just as you fought for us, we're going to keep fighting for you, for more jobs, for more security, for the opportunity to keep your families strong and to keep America competitive in the 21st century. In other words, we're going to keep on fighting, just as you did, to show the world why the United States of America is still the greatest nation on Earth. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"255" "\"Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. It is great to be in Yeadon, great to be in the Philly area. I was told not to mention football at all. [<i>Laughter</i>] So I'm not going to say anything about football while I'm here, because I know this is a sensitive subject. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is why I have Secret Service along. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, I want to start by acknowledging some of the folks who are with me here today. First of all, I want to thank one of our finest public servants in this country, and she's just a great friend, but somebody who cares passionately about the health and the welfare of our kids and our families, Kathleen Sebelius, our Secretary of Health and Human Services. I want to acknowledge the Mayor of Yeadon; Dolores Jones-Butler is in the house. Two of my favorite Members of Congress, Chaka Fattah and Bob Brady; and one of my favorite former Members of Congress, who I think is going to be doing big things here in Pennsylvania, is here as well. I guess I can't call you Congressman, huh? [<i>Laughter</i>] That's all right? The&mdash;Congressman Murphy. <p>I had a chance to say hello to Mayor Nutter when I landed in Philly. He couldn't be with us this morning. I guess there are a few things going on here today. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I wished him well. He's a great partner of ours. <p>And I also want to say thank you to Miss Pleasantte, Dr. O'Shea, all the staff and the teachers who are here. They are just doing a great job. <p>I had a chance to visit one of the classrooms here. And I have to say, it got me a little choked up, because&mdash;Patrick, you need to remember this. Patrick's got small kids. And they are just so huggable at this age. [<i>Laughter</i>] And now&mdash;they're still huggable, but they're a little&mdash;they're 5'9\\" and 5 feet. [<i>Laughter</i>] But obviously you got a lot to handle when you're here. <p>And the teachers, the staff who are here, they wouldn't be doing this for the money. They're doing it out of love of children. All of you do it because you know that when it comes to learning and when it comes to growing, this is an absolutely critical period in a child's life. We know that 3 and 4-year-olds who go to high-quality preschools, including our best Head Start programs, are less likely to repeat a grade, they're less likely to need special education, they're more likely to graduate from high school than the peers who did not get these services. And so this makes early education one of our best investments in America's future&mdash;one of the best. <p>Right out of the gate, it helps prepare our kids for a competition that's never been tougher, a competition for good, middle class, well-paying jobs. And we're competing now with countries like China and South Korea and Europe, all of which are serious about educating their children. So at a time when a company is able to move anywhere they want in the world and a lot of times will make the decision based on where they can find the most highly skilled workforce, it is absolutely imperative that we make sure that the United States is the place where we've got the best trained, best educated young people. That is a priority. <p>And this is not, and should not be, a Democratic priority or a Republican priority. This is an American priority. It's an economic imperative. Our future depends on it. And people understand this outside of Washington, which is why we've been able to work with Democratic and Republican Governors on our efforts to strengthen education from cradle to career, not only with more money&mdash;money is important&mdash;but also with reforms that challenge schools to develop higher standards and the best practices for teaching and for learning. <p>Now, unfortunately, in Congress right now, it's a different story. The Republicans in Washington have been trying to gut our investments in education. Earlier this year, nearly every Republican in the House voted for a budget that would have cut hundreds of thousands of children from Head Start. They've tried to cut Pell grants for college students. They just voted against a jobs bill that would have put 400,000 teachers back in the classroom. <p>Their argument is that we don't have the money. And what I've said is we can make these investments in our children without adding to the deficit simply by asking people who make more than a million dollars a year to pay a little more in taxes&mdash;not right now, but starting in 2013. It's the right thing to do for our kids. It's the right thing to do for our country. But so far, they've said no. <p>It's not just on issues, by the way, that cost money. So far, Congress has failed to move on fixing No Child Left Behind, despite the fact that we've shown them bipartisan reforms that are working in States right now, reforms that are praised not only by Democrats, but also by Republicans. So after trying for months to work with Congress on education, we decided to take matters into our own hands, because our future is at stake, our children deserve action, and we can't wait for Congress any longer. <p>We can't wait to make sure that our schools give every child the chance to compete with young people from around the world. So in September, I announced that if States exceed the high standards set by No Child Left Behind, then they've got the flexibility to build on the reforms that they've already made. We can't wait to help more young people get to college. So 2 weeks ago, I announced changes that will lower student loan payments by hundreds of dollars a month for around 1.6 million Americans. <p>We can't wait to give more of our youngest children the same basic opportunities we want all children to have, that we want for our children. And that's why today I'm announcing a new rule that will improve the quality of Head Start programs around the country. <p>Now, I firmly believe that Head Start is an outstanding program and a critical investment. The children who have the chance to go to the best Head Start programs have an experience that can literally change their lives for years to come. We're making today's announcement because we believe that every child in Head Start deserves that same chance. <p>Now, under the old rules governing Head Start, there just wasn't enough accountability. If a program wasn't providing kids with quality services, there was no incentive to improve. Under the new rule, programs are going to be regularly evaluated against a set of clear, high standards. If a program meets these standards&mdash;and we believe the majority of Head Start programs will&mdash;then their grants will be renewed. But if a program isn't giving children the support they need to be ready for school, if classrooms are unsafe, if finances aren't in order, if kids aren't learning what they need to learn, then other organizations will be able compete for that grant. We're not just going to put money into programs that don't work. We will take money and put them into programs that do. <p>If a group's going to do a better job in the&mdash;for the community, then they need that support. If a group would do a better job serving the kids in our communities, then they're going to have that chance. <p>Now, this is the first time in history that Head Start programs will be truly held accountable for performance in the classroom, and we know that raising the bar isn't always an easy thing to do. But it's the right thing to do. Children in Head Start deserve the best services we have to offer, and we know that Head Start programs can meet this challenge. <p>So because of this rule and the other executive actions that we've taken to improve our education system, more children will have the chance to study hard, do well in school, graduate on time, go to college without crushing debt. More Americans will grow up to be scientists and innovators and engineers and entrepreneurs. More businesses will be able to find skilled workers. <p>Of course, there's no substitute for Congress doing its job. And I have to say, these two Congressmen are doing their job. But they need some help. Congress still needs to fix No Child Left Behind. Congress still needs to put teachers back in the classroom where they belong. <p>So Congress still needs to act. But if Congress continues to stand only for dysfunction and delay, then I'm going to move ahead without them. I have told&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;I've told my administration, I want you to keep on looking for actions that we can take without Congress, steps that can save consumers money, make Government more efficient and responsive, help heal the economy, improve our education system, improve our health care system. We want to work with Congress, but we're not going to wait. <p>I think this is the right thing to do not just as a President, but I think this is the right thing to do as a parent. Because I know there are some things I cannot guarantee my kids. But I can make sure&mdash;I can do my best to make certain that they get a chance to succeed or fail on their own merits, just like I did. I can do everything in my power to ensure that their children grow up in a country where anything is possible, as long as you're willing to work for it. <p>That's what my mom and my grandparents wanted for me. It's what I want for my children. It's the promise that every generation has made to those who came after. <p>We can't be the first generation of Americans to break that promise. So we've got to prove that we are tougher than the times that we live in and that we're bigger than the politics of the moment. We've got to meet the challenges today by preparing our children for the challenges tomorrow. <p>That's what's being done at this wonderful facility. We want to replicate these all across the country. We are proud of what you are doing. You've got a President who's got your back. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"256" "\"Well, from the day I took office, one of the commitments that I made to the American people was that we would do a better job here in Washington in rooting out wasteful spending. At a time when families have had to cut back, have had to make some tough decisions about getting rid of things that they don't need in order to make the investments that they do, we thought that it was entirely appropriate for our governments and our agencies to try to root out waste, large and small, in a systematic way. <p>Obviously, this is even more important given the deficits that we've inherited and that have grown as a consequence of this recession. This makes these efforts even more imperative. <p>Now, this does mean making some tough choices. It means cutting some programs that I think are worthy but we may not be able to afford right now. A lot of the action is in Congress and legislative and budget. I know the joint committee on trying to reduce our deficits are engaged in a very difficult conversation right now, and we want to encourage them to complete their work. But in the meantime, we don't need to wait for Congress in order to do something about wasteful spending that's out there. <p>Cutting waste, making Government more efficient, is something that leaders in both parties have worked on, from Senator Tom Coburn, a Republican, to Democrat Claire McCaskill. We haven't seen as much action out of Congress as we'd like, and that's why we launched on our own initiative the campaign to cut waste&mdash;not just to cut spending, but to make Government work better for the American people. <p>For example, we've identified thousands of Government buildings that we don't need. Some have sat empty for years. So we're getting rid of those properties, and that's going to save the American people billions of dollars. <p>As part of this campaign, I've also asked Federal employees to do their part and share their ideas on making Government more efficient and more effective. And two of them are here today, so I want to introduce them. <p>Roger Rhoads works at the Department of Commerce. Raise your hand, Roger. There's Roger. He found a way to save the Department almost $2 million a year on its cell phone bills. And I'm sure that there probably is some consumers out there that would like to talk to him and find out what they can save on their cell phone bills. <p>Celeste Steele is here. Celeste, raise your hand. Celeste works at the Department of Homeland Security, and she's helping save taxpayers tens of millions of dollars by changing the way the Department buys goods and services. <p>So we've received nearly 20,000 suggestions from Federal employees. I just completed a videoconference with the four finalists of our annual SAVE Award&mdash;20,000 submissions of ideas from Federal employees about how we can reduce waste, eliminate duplication, redundancy, paperwork. And these four finalists have some terrific ideas: putting books that have been ordered every year online instead of continuing to incur the shipping costs, to having a tool library over at NASA so that instead of buying very specialized tools over and over again for different projects, we actually keep an inventory of those tools. <p>In addition to soliciting ideas from Federal employees, I've also tasked Vice President Biden to work with the Secretaries of all our agencies to identify some systemic areas of potential improvement&mdash;travel, transportation, IT services&mdash;all of which we know can save us potentially billions of dollars. And in September, Joe convened the Cabinet and has really pushed them hard in finding savings across all our agencies. <p>So today I'm signing an Executive order that builds on their good work. It directs agencies to slash spending in each of these areas&mdash;travel, printing, IT&mdash;because we believe that we can get better results for less using technology. And overall, spending in the areas covered by this Executive order will shrink by 20 percent. And members of my Cabinet will keep reporting on their progress to Joe Biden and ultimately to me. And we're going to hold them accountable for meeting this 20-percent reduction goal. <p>These are important steps that can save taxpayers billions of dollars over the next several years. It doesn't replace the importance of the work that Congress needs to do in coming up with a balanced, bold plan to reduce our deficit, but it indicates once again that there are things that we can do right now that will actually deliver better Government more efficiently, more consumer friendly, for less money. And we're going to keep on finding every possible way that we can do that even if Congress is not acting. <p>So with that, I'm going to sign the bill, but I want to thank all the officials who are behind me here today for taking this project so seriously. <p>[<i>At this point, the President signed the Executive order.</i>] <p>There you go. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"257" "\"Everybody, please have a seat. It is wonderful to see all of you. I've got some old friends here&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;not old in years, but been knowing you. It is wonderful to see all of you. <p>I want to, first of all, thank Heather, who is doing outstanding work. Heather has my complete confidence. She has my ear. And so when you're talking to her, you're talking to me, which means she's going to be getting a lot of phone calls, I know. [<i>Laughter</i>] But she's up to the task and we're very proud of her. <p>I want to thank all of you who are here. We've got some elected officials. Mayor Nutter, congratulations. I know we had a little bit of election work going on yesterday. I was in Philly yesterday, did not say anything about football during my visit. [<i>Laughter</i>] Didn't say anything about football games. Mayor Mark Mallory is here. There he is, right there, Cincinnati. We have&mdash;I think Congressman [Congresswoman; White House correction] Donna Edwards is around here. There she is, right here. And she's been a great partner. <p>And of course, we've got leaders from all across the country. So many of you have worked so diligently during what has been one of the toughest times in our country's history in order to provide opportunity, to make sure that communities were able to hang on during difficult times, and begin to rebuild again in the wake of an extraordinary financial crisis and the deepest recession we've seen since the Great Depression. <p>Obviously, we have enormous challenges. The unemployment rate in the African American community has always historically been higher than the norm. And since the unemployment rate generally is high right now, it is way too high when it comes to the African American community. Many of the challenges that existed before the crisis have been worsened with respect to opportunities for decent housing, with respect to making sure that our schools are equipped to prepare our kids for the 21st century. <p>So we've got a lot of work to do. But the report that has been prepared that I know our teams are going to be talking about that will be released, I think is a compilation of everything we've done over the last 3 years that has not only lessened the severity of the crisis for millions of people, kept millions of folks out of poverty, made sure that millions of folks still had unemployment benefits, health care, et cetera, but also talks about the foundations that we are laying so that as the economy recovers, the African American community and communities all across the country of every stripe are going to have an opportunity to finally begin to rebuild so that we are seeing good, solid, middle class jobs with good benefits that families who are desperate for their piece of the American Dream, that they're going to be able to achieve it. <p>Now, some of these strategies are longer term: all the good work that we've done, for example, in education. The payoff is not going to be tomorrow. It's not going to be next year. It's going to be 5 years from now and 10 years from now as we steadily see improvement in the performance of our public schools. <p>When it comes to health care, we are already seeing enormous improvements in terms of funding for preventive care, for community health clinics. But full implementation is going to be taking place starting in 2013. We'll have those exchanges, and suddenly families who did not have access to health care will be in a position to get it. <p>So some of these things are going to be phased in over time, and will not bear full fruit for some years to come. But as all of you know, we've got a sense of urgency right now&mdash;the fierce urgency of now&mdash;when it comes to putting people back to work. And many of you have been engaged in pushing Congress to pass the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" This is the only plan that&mdash;out there&mdash;that independent economists have said would put people to work right now. <p>It's been estimated that it would grow the economy by as much as an additional 2 percent of GDP; put as many as 1.9 million people back to work; would be targeted at not only getting teachers back in the classroom and construction workers on the job rebuilding America, but also targeting the long-term unemployed; allowing communities that have seen more than their fair share of foreclosures to be able to take those properties and start rebuilding them; improving our infrastructure in vital ways that will spur on economic development; summer youth programs, so that our young people can start getting on track and getting in those habits of work that are so important to instill a sense of responsibility, and a payoff for behaving responsibly. <p>All those things are contained in the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" Now, as you know, so far the Senate has just said no, not because these are ideas that are partisan; these are ideas that traditionally have been supported by Democrats and Republicans alike. Their argument for why they're passing it&mdash;they haven't passed them so far has been that, well, they don't like how we're paying for it, because we ask, for example, folks who make more than a million dollars a year to pay a little bit more in taxes in order to make sure that our economy is strong. <p>The American people are behind us on this. Not just Democrats and Independents, but Republicans support many of the ideas in this bill, and so we're going to keep on pushing very hard, and we're going to need your help to continue to mobilize communities to focus on how we can put people to work right now. <p>In addition, though, we also want to continue to find ways where we don't have to wait for Congress, where are initiatives that we can take right now administratively that would make a difference in the communities that all of you represent. And so part of the function of this gathering is for all of you to share your best ideas, your best practices. What are things we can get implemented in the next 3 months? Where are areas where you see a potential difference being made? <p>I'll just give you one example. We, on our own initiative, identified the need for small businesses, who in these difficult economic times have some cash flow problems. We said, you know what, let's speed up payments to them. They've already done the work, or they're in the process of doing the work, and the Federal Government likes to sit on that money until the last day. [<i>Laughter</i>] Let's see if we can send them that check a little bit sooner so that they can put that money back to work. <p>And obviously, African American businesses typically are small businesses, so this is something that can benefit folks right away, and we can start seeing a difference in our communities. <p>I want to make sure that those are the kinds of ideas that all of you are providing to us, sharing with our Cabinet Secretaries, sharing with our staffs. And what we want to do following up on the report about what we've already done is hopefully 3 months from now, 6 months from now, we'll be able to go back and say, here's some additional steps that we took based on community input. <p>So I just want to&mdash;so use today as an opportunity to share ideas with us. We're going to have breakout sessions. Let's do some brainstorming; we want your input, we want your ideas. At the end of this&mdash;the conference, I've asked Valerie Jarrett as well as Gene Sperling, who is my chief economic coordinator, the head of the National Economic Council, to come back and hear what ideas were proposed. <p>But the last point I want to make is this&mdash;and I made this point just recently when we were dedicating the new King Memorial&mdash;we have been through tougher times before. Our parents have been through tougher times; our grandparents have been through tougher times. We know tough times. And what we also know, though, is that if we are persistent, if we are unified, and we remain hopeful, then we'll get through these tough times and better days lie ahead. <p>So I just want everybody to participate here in a spirit of persistence, determination, and unity. And if you maintain that spirit, then I'm confident that not only will the American&mdash;the African American community emerge from these difficult economic times stronger than we were before, but this entire Nation is going to come out more unified, better equipped to deal with the challenges of the 21st century than we were before. <p>So I appreciate all of you. God bless you. God bless America.\" "
"258" "\"<i>The President.</i> Well, good evening, everybody. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Good evening. <p><i>The President.</i> It is great to be back at the National Women's Law Center, surrounded by so many powerful and accomplished women. This is not a new experience for me. [<i>Laughter</i>] Some of you know my household is filled with powerful, accomplished women. <p>I want to thank Marcia and Duffy for that wonderful, heartfelt introduction and for their extraordinary leadership. Most of all, I want to recognize tonight's honorees, the women and men&mdash;there's some men in the group&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;who endured insults and beatings and risked their lives 50 years ago because they believed in a different future for their daughters and for their sons. The Freedom Riders had faith that America could still be perfected. And as has been noted, it is only because they did that I am able to stand here as President of the United States of America. Which is why, when I had a chance to see them backstage, I gave them all a kiss and a hug. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I told them that even though I was in diapers at the time, I knew something important was going on. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>What a remarkable group of people, and how blessed we are to have them here, sharing their stories and continuing to inspire us in so many ways. We are truly grateful to you. <p>Being here tonight reminds us that history is not always made&mdash;in fact, often is not made&mdash;by generals or presidents or politicians. Change doesn't always happen quickly or easily. Change happens when a group of students and activists decide to ride a bus down South, knowing full well the dangers that lie ahead. Change happens when a group of legal secretaries decides that the world needs more women attorneys, and they start an organization to fight for people like them. Change happens when one woman decides, \\"I don't want to be paid less than that man who's doing the exact same job over there. I want to be paid the same.\\" Change depends on persistence, and change depends on determination. That's how change happens. <p>That's how change happened on August 4, 1961. That's how change will happen today, especially when it comes to securing equal rights and equal opportunities for women. <p>Now, the last time I spoke here was in 2005. I was brand new to Washington. Some of you still could not pronounce my name. [<i>Laughter</i>] And when I was thinking about what to say to this group, I wasn't just thinking about the legal cases you've helped to win or the milestones that you've helped to reach. I was thinking about my daughters and the world I want them to grow up in. <p>And I think it's fair to say that a few things have changed since then. Michelle helpfully reminds me that I have more gray hair now. [<i>Laughter</i>] More people know my name, which I've come to realize is a mixed blessing. [<i>Laughter</i>] Malia and Sasha have grown into these strong, smart, remarkable young women. They are growing too fast. Malia has a cell phone now, certainly a mixed blessing. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But even after all this time, my wish for my daughters and for yours remains the same. I want them to go out into a world where there is no limit to how big they can dream, how high they can reach. And being here with all of you gives me hope and makes me determined, because although this journey is far from over, today our daughters live in a world that is fairer and more equal than it was 6 years ago, a world where more doors are open to them than ever before. <p>Today, for the first time in history, our daughters can see not one, not two, but three women sitting on the bench of the highest court in the land. They can come to the White House and see that the top four lawyers on my staff&mdash;some of the sharpest legal minds I've ever come across&mdash;are women. They can read about the extraordinary leadership of a woman in the House of Representatives who went by the title \\"Madam Speaker.\\" They can turn on the news and see that one of the most formidable Presidential candidates we've ever seen has become one of the best Secretaries of State that this country has ever known. <p>Today, women make up almost half of our workforce, the majority of students in our colleges and our graduate schools. Women are breaking barriers in every field, from science to business to sports to the Armed Forces. <p>And today, thanks to health care reform that many of you helped pass, insurance companies can no longer deny coverage based on preexisting conditions like breast cancer or charge women more because they're more likely to incur costs for things like birth&mdash;childbirth. Those same companies must cover the cost of preventive services like mammograms, domestic violence counseling, contraception. We're making sure that women in the military and our veterans get the care that they need. <p>Today, thanks to the tireless efforts of people like Lilly Ledbetter&mdash;one of my favorite people, love that woman&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;we were backstage talking, and she was just saying how grateful she was, how much of a responsibility she now felt with this bill having been passed that was named after her. I said, \\"Lilly, all that did was just&mdash;that was just icing on the cake. It was your work, your courage, your determination that changed things. All we did was ratify what you had already done.\\" And because of her and other courageous women and some of the women in this room tonight, it is easier for women to demand equal pay for equal work. <p>We passed tax credits that are keeping more women out of poverty and helping them reach the middle class. Companies are being encouraged to make workplaces more flexible so women don't have to choose between being a good employee and a good parent. One of the first things I did after taking office was to create a White House Council on Women and Girls to make sure that every agency in the Federal Government considers the needs of women and girls in every decision they make, not as a sideshow, not as a box to check, but something that is sustained each and every day. <p>So this is progress. This is progress. This is change. It's laborious. Sometimes it's frustrating. But it's real. And of course, one thing we've learned from the women's movement, from the civil rights movement, from the workers' movement, from every step that we've made to make this country more equal and more just, is that there is always more work to do. There are always more challenges to meet. And that's especially true today, with so many Americans struggling to recover from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. <p>In the early days of this crisis, women weren't hit quite as hard as men. Many of the jobs that we've lost over the last decade have been in construction and manufacturing, industries that traditionally had been dominated by men. And of the 15 job categories projected to grow the most in this country over the next decade, all but 2 are occupied primarily by women. <p>But over the last couple of years, women have continued to lose jobs, especially in the public sector. It doesn't help that mothers are the primary or cobreadwinners in 63 percent of households, even as women still earn just 77 cents for every dollar a man does. Some of these women are single moms like my mother was, struggling just to keep up with the bills or pay a mortgage they can't afford. I still remember my mother waking me up&mdash;she worked, was going to school, and still took the time to wake me up before she went to work to go over my lessons before she left. And I would complain and grumble, and she would say, \\"Well, this is no picnic for me either, buster.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>These are the quiet heroes. Their names don't make the history books. They're never complaining&mdash;well, I won't say they're never complaining&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I was thinking about that for a second&mdash;never hesitating to work that extra shift or that extra job if that's what it takes to give their children a better life. And in many ways, that's why we're all here tonight, because we know that it's up to us to keep fighting for them&mdash;all those women out there&mdash;making sure that they are treated fairly and equally. As hard as they're working, as much as they're sacrificing, as many responsibilities that they shoulder each and every day, we've got to make sure that they are getting the opportunities that they deserve, that somebody is standing up for them. Somebody is fighting for them. Somebody is looking out for them. Somebody is rooting for them. <p>Of course, let's be clear about one thing: When we talk about these issues that primarily affect women, these are not just women's issues. When women make less than men for the same work, that hurts the entire family who has to get by with less. It hurts businesses who have fewer customers with money to spend. When a health care plan denies women coverage because of a preexisting condition, that puts a strain on emergency rooms, drives up health care costs for everybody. When any of our citizens can't fulfill their potential because of factors that have nothing to do with their talent or their character or their work ethic, that diminishes us. It says something about who we are. <p>Here's a fact: If you want to look around the world, those countries that are developing fastest, that are doing the best, where their children are succeeding in school, those are societies that respect the rights of women, that are investing in our women. <p>Lifting women up lifts up our economy and lifts up our country. Now unfortunately, not everybody in Washington seems to feel the same way. In recent weeks, Republicans in the Senate have come together three times to block jobs bills that independent economists say would boost our economy and put millions back to work, including women. Each of these bills was made up of the same kinds of proposals that Democrats and Republicans have historically supported in the past, and they were fully paid for. And even though they were supported by a clear majority of the American people&mdash;Republicans, Democrats, Independents&mdash;every single Senate Republican said no. <p>Said no to putting hundreds of thousands of teachers, three-quarters of them women, back in front of the classroom where they belong. No to putting construction workers back on the job and funding a special program that gets more women involved in the construction industry. <p>Well, I've got news for Congress: We are not done yet. In the weeks ahead, they're going to get a chance to vote on whether we give a tax cut to virtually every small-business owner in America, including 900,000 women. These are folks who run the restaurants and stores and beauty shops and other small businesses that create two-thirds of all new jobs. There's no reason they shouldn't get a break. <p>The American people are with me with&mdash;on this, and Republicans in Congress should be with me too, because it's right for the country. Instead, they're spending time focusing on how to turn back the clock. Instead of figuring out how to put more Americans back to work, they've been trying to figure out how to take away preventive care that is covered under the Affordable Care Act. Instead of making life easier for women in this country, they want to let insurance companies go back to charging higher prices just because you're a woman. Instead of working to boost our economy, they're out there spending time trying to defund Planned Parenthood and prevent millions of women from getting basic health care that they desperately need&mdash;pap smears and breast exams. <p>That is not the right direction for this country. These folks know they can't win on the big issues, so they're trying to make the fight about social issues that stir up their base. They're spending their time trying to divide this country against itself rather than coming together to lift up our country. <p>And we don't have to settle for that. The American people shouldn't have to settle for that. And that's why I need your help. As leaders in your communities, I need you to tell Congress to do their jobs by worrying about the jobs of the millions of Americans they were elected to serve. I need you to make your voices heard. And for my part, I promise to keep doing everything I can to help every single American achieve their own piece of the American Dream. <p>That's not just a promise I'm making as a President. That's a promise I'm making as a grandson who saw my grandmother hit the glass ceiling at the bank where she worked, passed over for promotions in favor of men that she trained. <p>It's a promise I'm making as a husband who watched Michelle balance work and family with grace and poise, even when it hasn't been easy. <p>It's a promise I'm making as a father who wants my daughters to grow up in a world where every door is open to them, where there are no limits on what they can achieve. <p>It's a promise I'm making as the inheritor of the extraordinary sacrifices that were made by these Freedom Riders, as a friend of people like Lilly Ledbetter, who embody all that's good and decent in this country. <p>It's a promise I'm making as an American who believes that the future of our country depends on expanding the circle of opportunity for everybody, because that next generation of smart, powerful women, they're already knocking on the door. They're coming, and we need to get ready. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Last month, I got a chance to meet the winners of the Google Science Fair. This is an international competition of high school students, the cutting edge of technology and science. All three of the winners turned out to be Americans. All three were girls. They had beat out 10,000 other applicants from more than 90 countries. So I had them in the Oval Office, and they explained their projects to me&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and I pretended that I understood what they were talking about&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]. There's a picture of this conversation hanging up in the West Wing right now, and they're&mdash;I've got a puzzled look on my face&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;and they're being very patient. <p>So one of the winners, Shree Bose, discovered a promising new way to improve treatment for ovarian cancer at the age of 17. Then I asked another winner, Lauren Hodge, if she had skipped a grade in school; she was quite petite. [<i>Laughter</i>] And she informed me very politely that she had actually skipped two. [<i>Laughter</i>] Okay. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>It's people like Shree and Lauren, all of you who are here tonight, who make me hopeful about the future. There's a direct line between those women who sat in those jail cells and those young girls explaining their science project in the Oval Office. There's a direct connection. Because that's what America is about, a place where ideas are born and dreams can grow and where a student in a classroom or a passenger on a bus or a legal secretary in an office can stand up and say, \\"I am going to change the world.\\" We have always been a nation where anything is possible. <p>That's the kind of nation that we are. That's the kind of opportunity that must exist here in America. That's the kind of opportunity that must exist for every American, no matter what they look like or where they come from. We've come a long way towards making this country more open and more free for our daughters and theirs. We've got a lot more work to do. With the National Women's Law Center, I am confident that the next time I visit, we'll be even closer to guaranteeing every one of our children get the future they deserve. <p>Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"259" "\"Thank you, Ric Shinseki, for your extraordinary service to our country and your tireless commitment to our veterans; to Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta; to Chairman Dempsey and Mrs. Dempsey; to our wonderful veterans service organizations for the extraordinary work that you do for our Nation's heroes; to all who tend to and watch over this sacred cemetery; and above all, to every active duty member, guardsman, reservist, and veteran of the United States Armed Forces. <p>There are many honors and responsibilities that come with this job, but none are more humbling than serving as your Commander in Chief. And I'm proud to be with so many of you here today. <p>Here, where our heroes come to rest, we come to show our gratitude. A few moments ago, I laid a wreath to pay tribute to all who have given their lives to our country. For even though this is a day we rightly honor America's veterans, we gather today in solemn respect, mindful that we are guests here, mindful that we share this hallowed space with a family's moment of quiet grief, mindful that many veterans not far from here are tracing their fingers over black granite for friends who never came home and expect us to do all we can to bring every missing American servicemember home to their families. <p>To all our Nation's veterans: Whether you fought in Salerno or Samarra, Khe Sanh or the Korengal, you are part of an unbroken chain of men and women who have served this country with honor and distinction. On behalf of a proud and grateful nation, we thank you. <p>When I spoke here on this day 2 years ago, I said there would be a day before long when this generation of service men and women would begin to step out of uniform. And I made them a promise. I said that when your tour ends, when you see our flag, when you touch our soil, you will be home in an America that is forever here for you, just as you've been there for us. <p>For many, that day has come. Over the past decade, more than 5 million Americans have worn the uniform of the United States Armed Forces. Of these, 3 million stepped forward after the attacks of September 11th, knowing full well that they could be sent into harm's way. And in that time, they have served in some of the world's most dangerous places. Their service has been selfless. Their accomplishments have been extraordinary. <p>In Iraq, they have battled a brutal insurgency, trained new security forces, and given the Iraqi people the opportunity to forge a better future. In Afghanistan, they have pushed back the Taliban, decimated Al Qaida, and delivered the ultimate justice to Usama bin Laden. In concert with our allies, they have helped end Qadhafi's brutal dictatorship and returned Libya to its people. <p>Because of their incredible efforts, we can stand here today and say with confidence: The tide of war is receding. In just a few weeks, the long war in Iraq will finally come to an end. Our transition in Afghanistan is moving forward. My fellow Americans, our troops are coming home. <p>For many military families, this holiday season will be a season of homecomings. And over the next 5 years, more than 1 million Americans in uniform will transition back to civilian life, joining the nearly 3 million who have done so over the past decade and embraced a proud new role, the role of veteran. <p>This generation of servicemembers, this 9/11 generation, has borne the burden of our security during a hard decade of sacrifice. Our service men and women make up less than 1 percent of Americans, but also more than 1 million military spouses and 2 million children and millions more parents and relatives, all of whom have shared the strains of deployment and sacrificed on behalf of the country that we love. <p>Only 27 years old on average, these young men and women have shattered the false myth of their generation's apathy, for they came of age in an era when so many institutions failed to live up to their responsibilities. But they chose to serve a cause greater than their selves. They saw their country threatened. But they signed up to confront that threat. They felt some tug, they answered some call, and they said, let's go. And they've earned their place among the greatest of generations. <p>That is something for America to be proud of. That is the spirit America needs now, a stronger, newer spirit of service and of sacrifice. That spirit that says, \\"What can I do to help? What can I do to serve?\\" That spirit that says, \\"When my country is challenged, I will do my part to meet that challenge.\\" <p>So on this Veterans Day, let us commit ourselves to keep making sure that our veterans receive the care and benefits that they have earned, the opportunity they defend and deserve, and above all, let us welcome them home as what they are, an integral, essential part of our American family. <p>See, when our men and women sign up to become a soldier or a sailor, an airman, marine, or coast guardsman, they don't stop being a citizen. When they take off that uniform, their service to this Nation doesn't stop either. Like so many of their predecessors, today's veterans come home looking to continue serving America however they can. At a time when America needs all hands on deck, they have the skills and the strength to help lead the way. <p>Our Government needs their patriotism and sense of duty. And that's why I've ordered the hiring of more veterans by the Federal Government. Our economy needs their tremendous talents and specialized skills. So I challenged our business leaders to hire 100,000 post-9/11 veterans and their spouses over the next few years, and yesterday many of these leaders joined Michelle to announce that they will meet that challenge. <p>Our communities have always drawn strength from our veterans' leadership. Think of all who have come home and settled on in a quiet life of service&mdash;as a doctor or a police officer, an engineer or an entrepreneur, as a mom or a dad&mdash;and in the process, changed countless lives. Other veterans seek new adventures, from taking on a new business to building a team of globetrotting veterans who use skills learned in combat to help after a natural disaster. <p>There are also so many in this young generation who still feel that tug to serve, but just don't quite know where to turn. So on this Veterans Day, I ask every American, \\"Recruit our veterans.\\" If you're a business owner, hire them. If you're a community leader&mdash;a mayor, a pastor, or a preacher&mdash;call on them to join your efforts. Organize your community to make a sustained difference in the life of a veteran, because that veteran can make an incredible difference in the life of your community. <p>If you're a veteran looking for new ways to serve, check out serve.gov. If you're a civilian looking for new ways to support our veterans and our troops, join Michelle and Jill Biden at joiningforces.gov. Find out what you can do. There is no such thing as too small a difference. That effort you make may have the biggest impact. <p>I say this because recently, I received a letter from a Vietnam veteran. She wasn't writing to tell me about her own experience. She just wanted to tell me about her son Jeremy. Now, Jeremy isn't deployed, Jeremy's not a veteran or even in the military at all, as badly as he wants to follow in the footsteps of his family and enlist. You see, Jeremy has Down syndrome. <p>So Jeremy chooses to serve where he can best, with his local Vietnam Veterans of America chapter in Beaver, Pennsylvania. He calls them \\"the soldiers.\\" And one day last spring, Jeremy spent the day with several of these veterans cleaning up a local highway. <p>\\"He worked tirelessly,\\" wrote his mother. \\"He never asked to take a break. He didn't stop to talk about his beloved Steelers. He didn't even ask for anything to eat or drink. He only asked one thing, several times: 'Mom, will President Obama be proud of me for helping the soldiers?' \\" <p>Well, Jeremy, I want you to know, yes, I am proud of you. I could not be prouder of you, and your country is proud of you. Thank you for serving our veterans by helping them to continue their service to America. <p>And Jeremy's example&mdash;one young man's example&mdash;is one that we must all now follow. Because after a decade of war, the nation we now need to build is our own. And just as our greatest generation left a country recovering from depression and returned home to build the largest middle class in history, so now will the 9/11 generation play a pivotal role in rebuilding America's opportunity and prosperity in the 21st century. <p>We know it will be hard. We have to overcome new threats to our security and prosperity, and we've got to overcome the cynical voices warning that America's best days are behind us. But if there is anything our veterans teach us, it's that there is no threat we cannot meet, there is no challenge we cannot overcome. America's best days are still ahead. And the reason for that is because we are a people who defy those voices that insist otherwise. We are a country that does what is necessary for future generations to succeed. <p>You, our veterans, fight so our children won't have to. We build and we invent and we learn so that we will know greater opportunity. America leads so that the next generation, here and around the world, will know a more hopeful life on this Earth. <p>So today, I thank you all for making that possible. God bless you. God bless our veterans and our troops, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"260" "\"Hello, everybody! How you feeling tonight? We are so fortunate to be able to witness two of the greatest basketball programs in history: Michigan State Spartans, North Carolina Tar Heels; two of the best coaches of all time: Coach Izzo, Coach Williams. So we are proud to be here and see a great sporting event. <p>But the main reason we're here is, on Veterans Day, we have an opportunity to say thank you. One of the greatest privileges of this job, and one of the greatest responsibilities of this job, is to serve as your Commander in Chief. And I can tell you that every day when I interact with our military, every day when I interact with the men and women in uniform, I could not be prouder to be an American. <p>And that gratitude that we have for our men and women of the Armed Forces does not stop when they take off the uniform. When they come home, part of the long line of those who defended our freedom, we have a sacred trust to make sure that they understand how much we appreciate what they do. And that's not just on Veterans Day. That is every day of every year where we salute them and we say thank you for making the sacrifices and for their families' sacrifices on our behalf. <p>This week, throughout the week, we've been celebrating our veterans, but we have to turn our words into action. So what we've done is make sure that Congress passed legislation that makes it a little bit easier for businesses to hire our veterans. We've put in place a series of reforms to help veterans, make sure they get the counseling and the job placement that they need. <p>The First Lady along with Dr. Jill Biden have put together something called Joining Forces that has now gotten commitments&mdash;100,000 jobs for veterans and military spouses all across the country. And we are grateful for them for that effort. <p>But every American citizen can make a solemn pledge today that they will find some opportunity to provide support to our troops, to those who are still active duty, to our National Guard, to our reservists, and to our veterans. <p>And it's especially appropriate that we do it here, because the USS <i>Carl Vinson</i> has been a messenger of diplomacy and a protector of our security for a long time. And the men and women who serve on this ship have done extraordinary service in the Pacific, in the Persian Gulf, in the Indian Ocean. It was from this aircraft carrier that some of the first assaults on Iraq were launched. This ship supports what's happening in Afghanistan. <p>I think some of you may know, because it's been reported, that the men and women on the <i>Carl Vinson</i> were part of that critical mission to bring Usama bin Laden to justice. <p>So to all our veterans, to all our men and women in uniform, we say thank you. And we want you to know that we are committed to making sure that we serve you as well as you have always served us. <p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you.\" "
"261" "\"I'm speaking to you from the primary flight control of the aircraft carrier USS <i>Carl Vinson</i> in San Diego. This is one of the biggest ships in the Navy, and on Friday it was home to one of the most unique college basketball games I have ever seen. It also gave members of our military and our veterans a chance to unwind a little bit, and on this Veterans Day, I want to take this opportunity to thank all our men and women in uniform for their service and their sacrifice. <p>But this day isn't just about thanking our veterans. It's about rededicating ourselves to serving our veterans as well as they've served us. And right now that's never been more important. <p>Last month, I announced that, as promised, we will end the war in Iraq by the end of the year. Many of our military families will be welcoming loved ones home for the holidays. At the same time, we've begun to wind down the war in Afghanistan. And in the next 5 years, over a million servicemembers will transition back into civilian life, joining the 3 million who have already done so over the last decade. <p>These are men and women who have served with distinction in some of the most dangerous places on the planet. But for many of them, the challenges don't end when they take off the uniform. Today, more than 850,000 veterans remain unemployed, and too many are struggling to find a job worthy of their talents and their experience. <p>That's not right. We ask these men and women to leave their families and their jobs and risk their lives to fight for our country. The last thing they should have to do is fight for a job when they get home. <p>To give our veterans the opportunity they've earned, I've directed the Federal Government to lead by example, and already we've hired 120,000 veterans. We've also challenged private companies to hire or train 100,000 post-9/11 veterans or their spouses by the end of 2013. So far, many patriotic companies have answered the call, hiring more than 16,000 Americans. And yesterday, thanks to the hard work of Michelle and Dr. Jill Biden, companies announced their commitment to train or hire 125,000 more over the next 2 years. <p>But we still need to do more. That's why, as part of the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" I called on Congress to pass a returning heroes tax credit, which would give businesses a tax break for each unemployed veteran they hire and a wounded warriors tax credit, which would give businesses a tax break for hiring an unemployed veteran with a disability related to their service in uniform. <p>These proposals will go a long way towards putting our veterans back to work. And on Thursday, I was pleased to see the Senate put partisanship aside and came together to pass these tax credits. After all, standing up for our veterans isn't a Democratic responsibility or a Republican responsibility, it's an American responsibility. It's one that all of us have an obligation to meet. And the House should pass this bill as soon as possible so I can sign it into law. <p>As Commander in Chief, I want every veteran to know that America will always honor your service and your sacrifice, not just today, but every day. And just as you have fought for us, we're going to keep fighting for you, for more jobs, for more security, and for the opportunity to keep your families strong and America competitive in the 21st century. <p>So to all our veterans, thank you for your service. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.\" "
"262" "\"I want to welcome, once again, all the leaders gathered around this table and their trade ministers to Hawaii. Here in Hawaii, the United States wants to send a clear message: We are a Pacific nation, and we are deeply committee to shaping the future security and prosperity of the Trans-Pacific region, the fastest growing region in the world. <p>I'm very pleased to be here with my partners with whom we're pursing a very ambitious new trade agreement, the Trans-Pacific Partnership. I want to thank my fellow leaders from Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia, Brunei, Singapore, Vietnam, Chile, and Peru. <p>We just had an excellent meeting, and I'm very pleased to announce that our nine nations have reached the broad outlines of an agreement. There are still plenty of details to work out, but we are confident that we can do so. So we've directed our teams to finalize this agreement in the coming year. It is an ambitious goal, but we are optimistic that we can get it done. <p>The TPP will boost our economies, lowering barriers to trade and investment, increasing exports, and creating more jobs for our people, which is my number-one priority. Along with our trade agreements with South Korea, Panama, and Colombia, the TPP will also help achieve my goal of doubling U.S. exports, which support millions of American jobs. <p>Taken together, these eight economies would be America's fifth largest trading partner. We already do more than $200 billion in trade with them every single year, and with nearly 500 million consumers between us, there's so much more that we can do together. <p>In a larger sense, the TPP has the potential to be a model not only for the Asia-Pacific, but for future trade agreements. It addresses a whole range of issues not covered by past agreements, including market regulations and how we can make them more compatible, creating opportunities for small and medium-sized businesses in the growing global marketplace. It will include high standards to protect workers' rights and the environment. <p>And I want to thank my U.S. Trade Representative, Ambassador Kirk, and all our teams for doing tireless work to achieve the progress that we've made so far. I want to thank all my fellow leaders for their partnership and their commitment to making the TPP a reality, which will be a win for all our countries. <p>So again, I am confident that we can get this done. Together, we can boost exports, create more goods available for our consumers, create good jobs, and compete and win in the markets of the future. <p>Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your outstanding work. Thank you.\" "
"263" "\"Aloha. On behalf of Michelle and myself, welcome to Hawaii, and on behalf of the American people, welcome to the United States. <p>We have a busy day ahead of us tomorrow, and we have a luau tonight, including hula dancing, so I want to be brief. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We are 21 leaders from across the Asia-Pacific. We represent close to 3 billion people, from different continents and cultures, north, south, east, and west, men and women of every faith, color, and creed. <p>Yet whatever our differences, our citizens have sent us here with a common task: to bring our economies closer together, to cooperate, to create jobs and prosperity that our people deserve so that they can provide for their families, so that they can give their children a better future. <p>And so it was America's turn to host APEC, and I could not imagine a more fitting place than my home State of Hawaii. Here, we are literally in the center of the Pacific. Here, we're reminded of the progress that's possible when people of different backgrounds and beliefs come together. This is the most diverse State in our Nation, home to so many races and immigrants and Americans who trace their roots back to many of your countries. <p>Hawaii is not perfect, but I think Hawaii comes about as close as you'll come to a true melting pot of cultures, where people live and work together in mutual trust and mutual respect. <p>Here, we're a single <i>ohana&mdash;</i>one family. We remember that beneath the surface, behind all the different languages and some very long names, we all share the same hopes, the same struggles, and the same aspirations. And we've learned that we're more likely to realize our aspirations when we pursue them together. <p>That's the spirit of Hawaii. It's what made me who I am. It's what shapes my interactions with all of you. And it's the spirit that I hope guides us in our work this weekend. <p>And so I'd like to propose a toast with the words of a traditional Hawaiian proverb: <i>A'ohe hana nui ke alu 'ia</i>. And that means: No task is too big when done together by all. <p>Cheers. <i>Salud</i>. Everybody enjoy the evening.\" "
"264" "\"<i>The President.</i> Good evening, everybody. To all the leaders who are representing their countries here at APEC, I hope you've had a wonderful stay so far and hope you had a wonderful dinner. To members of the delegation, welcome. <p>Two years ago, when I was in Singapore and it was announced that we would be hosting the APEC summit here in Honolulu, I promised that you would all have to wear aloha shirts or grass skirts. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I was persuaded by our team to perhaps break tradition, and so we have not required you to wear your aloha shirts, although I understand that a few of you have tried them on for size, and we may yet see you in them in the next several days. <p>But one tradition that we did not want to break is the tradition of the luau. Here in Hawaii, there is a traditional gathering that we call luau, and it's basically an excuse for a good party, and it's used for every occasion. We have birthday luaus and graduation luaus. And now we have APEC luaus. And there is&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>Audience member.</i> Whoo! <p><i>The President</i>. See? Somebody's ready to party already. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>We have music. We have song. We have celebration. And we have hula dancing. And Michelle does not think I'm a very good dancer, so I will not be performing this evening. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I think we will have some wonderful examples of traditional Polynesian dance and music and song. And it will capture, I think, the extraordinary spirit of these islands, but also capture, I think, the spirit in which I hope we proceed in our important work during the course of this APEC summit. <p>We are bound together by an ocean. We are bound together by a common belief and a common concern for our people, their aspirations, their hopes, their dreams. And so I hope that all of you feel the extraordinary spirit of Hawaii and very much look forward to a wonderful set of meetings tomorrow. <p>So, with that, please enjoy.\" "
"265" "\"Good morning, everybody. It is my great pleasure to welcome all of you, officially, to the APEC leaders meeting. This is the first time in nearly 20 years that the United States has hosted this forum, and it comes at a time when America is very focused on how we can work together in a cooperative, effective way in the transpacific region. <p>And obviously, I'm particularly pleased that we're meeting in my home State of Hawaii, which reflects the deep connections between the peoples of our region. And I hope everybody had a wonderful evening last night. I've heard that some of you wanted to join in the hula dancing. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm sorry we did not give you that opportunity. <p>Now it's time to get down to work, and we have much to do. Our 21 economies, our nearly 3 billion citizens, are looking to us to bring our economies closer, to increase exports, to expand trade and opportunity that creates jobs and economic growth. That's why we're here. <p>I'm confident that we can make significant progress. We've done it before. Since APEC started, we've slashed tariffs and barriers to trade and investment. Commerce in the region has soared, creating new jobs, new markets, and raising living standards across the region. <p>And I want to emphasize that the Asia-Pacific region is absolutely critical to America's economic growth. We consider it a top priority. And we consider it a top priority because we're not going to be able to put our folks back to work and grow our economy and expand opportunity unless the Asia-Pacific region is also successful. <p>This region includes many of our top trading partners. This is where we do most of our trade and where we sell most of our exports. It's also the fastest growing region in the world. And as a consequence, the Asia-Pacific region is key to achieving my goal of doubling U.S. exports and creating new jobs. <p>Today we've got an opportunity to make progress towards our ultimate goal, which is a seamless regional economy. We're going to be focusing on three specific areas: increasing trade and investment, promoting green jobs, and streamlining and coordinating regulations so that we encourage trade and job creation. And more broadly, we'll be discussing how we can work together to spur on quicker economic growth and more sturdy and sustainable economic growth. The economies of this region have a critical role to play in addressing the imbalances and making sure that growth is balanced and sustainable in the future. <p>So I want to thank my fellow leaders for being here. I'm confident that we can continue to make significant progress during the course of this day. <p>Before we begin discussing this morning's topic, I want to congratulate Japan on the superb job it did in hosting APEC in 2010. Prime Minister Noda of Japan set a high bar for us, so we are going to try to follow your footsteps. <p>I also want to recognize the outstanding work that's been done by our officials and ministers during the course of this year to move forward an ambitious set of initiatives. <p>The focus of our host year was to make progress towards a seamless regional economy, and we have made progress in the three themes that we set out: regional economic integration, green growth, and regulatory reform. We have agreed to address a set of next-generation trade issues, including removing frictions in the global supply chains, helping small and medium-size enterprises grow and better plug into the global trading system, and adopting smart, market-oriented innovation policies. Innovation is especially critical to all of us, and we all want to take appropriate steps to encourage it, because without it we can't grow, become more productive, or create enough jobs.\" "
"266" "\"Well, Prime Minister Gillard and Leader Abbott, thank you both for your wonderfully warm words. And I thank you for showing that in Canberra, as in Washington, people may not always see eye to eye, but on this we are all united: There are no better friends than the United States and Australia. <p>Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, and distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to be brief, for we have had a busy day. I am not sure what day it is. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I'm going to subject you to a very long speech tomorrow. <p>But I do want to express my deep appreciation for the way you've welcomed me here today. I know that I am not the first guy from Chicago to come to these parts. A century ago, Walter Burley Griffin came here with a vision for this city. He said, \\"I have planned a city that is not like any other in the world.\\" And tonight I want to thank all of you and the people of Australia for the hospitality that is unlike any other in the world. <p>Our toasts earlier tonight reminded me of a story. It's from our troops&mdash;this is true story&mdash;our troops serving together in Afghanistan. Our guys, the Americans, couldn't figure out why your guys were always talking about cheese, all day long, morning, noon, and night. Why are the Aussies always talking about cheese? And then finally they realized, it was their Australian friends just saying hello, just saying cheers. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So we Americans and Australians, we may not always speak the same way or use the same words, but I think it's pretty clear, especially from the spirit of this visit and our time together this evening, that we understand each other. And we see the world in the same way, even if we do have to disagree on the merits of vegemite. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>As many of you know, I first came to Australia as a child. But despite my visits, I have to admit I never did learn to talk \\"Strine.\\" I know there is some concern here that your Australian language is being Americanized. So perhaps it's time for us to reverse the trend. Tonight, with your permission, I'd like to give it a burl. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I want to thank the Prime Minister for a very productive meeting that we had today. I think she'll agree it was a real chinwag. [<i>Laughter</i>] When Julia and I meet, we listen to each other, we learn from each other. It's not just a lot of earbashing. [<i>Laughter</i>] That's a good one&mdash;earbashing. [<i>Laughter</i>] I can use that in Washington, because there's a lot of earbashing sometimes. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>That's been the story of our two nations. Through a century of progress and struggle, we have stood together, in good times and in bad. We've faced our share of sticky wickets. [<i>Laughter</i>] In some of our darkest moments&mdash;when our countries have been threatened, when we needed a friend to count on&mdash;we've always been there for each other: at Darwin, at Midway, after 9/11, and after Bali. <p>It's that moment, in the midst of battle, when the bullets are flying and the outcome is uncertain, when Americans and Aussies look over at each other, knowing that we've got each other's backs, knowing in our hearts, \\"No worries, she'll be right.\\" [Laughter] <p>And so tonight, as we mark 60 years of this remarkable alliance, through war and peace, hardship and prosperity, we gather together among so many friends who sustain the bonds between us, and we can say with confidence and with pride: The alliance between the United States and Australia is deeper and stronger than it has ever been, spot on&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;cracker jack&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;in top nick. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"267" "\"Prime Minister Gillard, Leader Abbott, thank you both for your very warm welcome. Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, members of the House and Senate, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the honor of standing in this great chamber to reaffirm the bonds between the United States and the Commonwealth of Australia, two of the world's oldest democracies and two of the world's oldest friends. <p>To you and the people of Australia, thank you for your extraordinary hospitality. And here, in this city, this ancient meeting place, I want to acknowledge the original inhabitants of this land and one of the world's oldest continuous cultures, the first Australians. <p>I first came to Australia as a child, traveling between my birthplace of Hawaii and Indonesia, where I would live for 4 years. As an 8-year-old, I couldn't always understand your foreign language. [<i>Laughter</i>] Last night I did try to talk some \\"Strine.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Today I don't want to subject you to any earbashing. I really do love that one, and I will be introducing that into the vernacular in Washington. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But to a young American boy, Australia and its people&mdash;your optimism, your easygoing ways, your irreverent sense of humor&mdash;all felt so familiar. It felt like home. I've always wanted to return. I tried last year twice. But this is a lucky country, and today I feel lucky to be here as we mark the 60th anniversary of our unbreakable alliance. <p>The bonds between us run deep. In each other's story we see so much of ourselves: ancestors who crossed vast oceans, some by choice, some in chains; settlers who pushed west across sweeping plains; dreamers who toiled with hearts and hands to lay railroads and to build cities; generations of immigrants who with each new arrival add a new thread to the brilliant tapestry of our nations; and we are citizens who live by a common creed&mdash;no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, everyone deserves a fair chance, everyone deserves a fair go. <p>Of course, progress in our society has not always come without tensions or struggles to overcome a painful past. But we are countries with a willingness to face our imperfections and to keep reaching for our ideals. That's the spirit we saw in this chamber 3 years ago, as this nation inspired the world with a historic gesture of reconciliation with Indigenous Australians. It's the spirit of progress, in America, which allows me to stand before you today as President of the United States. And it's the spirit I'll see later today when I become the first U.S. President to visit the Northern Territory, where I'll meet the traditional owners of the land. <p>Nor has our progress come without great sacrifice. This morning I was humbled and deeply moved by a visit to your war memorial to pay my respects to Australia's fallen sons and daughters. Later today, in Darwin, I'll join the Prime Minister in saluting our brave men and women in uniform. And it will be a reminder that from the trenches of the First World War to the mountains of Afghanistan, Aussies and Americans have stood together, we have fought together, we have given lives together in every single major conflict of the past hundred years&mdash;every single one. <p>This solidarity has sustained us through a difficult decade. We will never forget the attacks of 9/11 that took the lives not only of Americans, but people from many nations, including Australia. In the United States, we will never forget how Australia invoked the ANZUS Treaty for the first time ever showing that our two nations stood as one. And none of us will ever forget those we've lost to Al Qaida's terror in the years since, including innocent Australians. <p>And that's why, as both the Prime Minister and the Opposition Leader indicated, we are determined to succeed in Afghanistan. It is why I salute Australia: outside of NATO, the largest contributor of troops to this vital mission. And it's why we honor all those who have served there for our security, including 32 Australian patriots who gave their lives, among them Captain Bryce Duffy, Corporal Ashley Birt, and Lance Corporal Luke Gavin. We will honor their sacrifice by making sure that Afghanistan is never again used as a source for attacks against our people&mdash;never again. <p>As two global partners, we stand up for the security and the dignity of people around the world. We see it when our rescue workers rush to help others in times of fire and drought and flooding rains. We see it when we partner to keep the peace, from East Timor to the Balkans, and when we pursue our shared vision: a world without nuclear weapons. We see it in the development that lifts up a child in Africa, the assistance that saves a family from famine, and when we extend our support to the people of the Middle East and North Africa, who deserve the same liberty that allows us to gather in this great hall of democracy. <p>This is the alliance we reaffirm today, rooted in our values, renewed by every generation. This is the partnership we worked to deepen over the past 3 years. And today I can stand before you and say with confidence that the alliance between the United States and Australia has never been stronger. It has been to our past&mdash;our alliance continues to be indispensable to our future. So here, among close friends, I'd like to address the larger purpose of my visit to this region: our efforts to advance security, prosperity, and human dignity across the Asia-Pacific. <p>For the United States, this reflects a broader shift. After a decade in which we fought two wars that cost us dearly in blood and treasure, the United States is turning our attention to the vast potential of the Asia-Pacific region. In just a few weeks, after nearly 9 years, the last American troops will leave Iraq, and our war there will be over. In Afghanistan, we've begun a transition, a responsible transition so Afghans can take responsibility for their future and so coalition forces can begin to draw down. And with partners like Australia, we've struck major blows against Al Qaida and put that terrorist organization on the path to defeat, including delivering justice to Usama bin Laden. <p>So make no mistake, the tide of war is receding, and America is looking ahead to the future that we must build. From Europe to the Americas, we've strengthened alliances and partnerships. At home, we're investing in the sources of our long-term economic strength: the education of our children, the training of our workers, the infrastructure that fuels commerce, the science and the research that leads to new breakthroughs. We've made hard decisions to cut our deficit and put our fiscal house in order. And we will continue to do more, because our economic strength at home is the foundation of our leadership in the world, including here in the Asia-Pacific. <p>Our new focus on this region reflects a fundamental truth: The United States has been, and always will be, a Pacific nation. Asian immigrants helped build America, and millions of American families, including my own, cherish our ties to this region. From the bombing of Darwin to the liberation of Pacific islands, from the rice paddies of Southeast Asia to a cold Korean Peninsula, generations of Americans have served here and died here so democracies could take root, so economic miracles could lift hundreds of millions to prosperity. Americans have bled with you for this progress, and we will not allow it&mdash;we will never allow it to be reversed. <p>Here, we see the future. As the world's fastest growing region, and home to more than half the global economy, the Asia-Pacific is critical to achieving my highest priority, and that's creating jobs and opportunity for the American people. With the world&mdash;with most of the world's nuclear power and some half of humanity, Asia will largely define whether the century ahead will be marked by conflict or cooperation, needless suffering or human progress. <p>As President, I have therefore made a deliberate and strategic decision: As a Pacific nation, the United States will play a larger and long-term role in shaping this region and its future by upholding core principles and in close partnership with our allies and friends. <p>Let me tell you what this means. First, we seek security, which is the foundation of peace and prosperity. We stand for an international order in which the rights and responsibilities of all nations and all people are upheld. Where international law and norms are enforced, where commerce and freedom of navigation are not impeded, where emerging powers contribute to regional security, and where disagreements are resolved peacefully. That's the future that we seek. <p>Now, I know that some in this region have wondered about America's commitment to upholding these principles. So let me address this directly. As the United States puts our fiscal house in order, we are reducing our spending. And yes, after a decade of extraordinary growth in our military budgets, and as we definitively end the war in Iraq and begin to wind down the war in Afghanistan, we will make some reductions in defense spending. <p>As we consider the future of our Armed Forces, we've begun a review that will identify our most important strategic interests and guide our defense priorities and spending over the coming decade. So here is what this region must know. As we end today's wars, I have directed my national security team to make our presence and mission in the Asia-Pacific a top priority. As a result, reductions in U.S. defense spending will not&mdash;I repeat, will not&mdash;come at the expense of the Asia-Pacific. <p>My guidance is clear. As we plan and budget for the future, we will allocate the resources necessary to maintain our strong military presence in this region. We will preserve our unique ability to project power and deter threats to peace. We will keep our commitments, including our treaty obligations to allies like Australia. And we will constantly strengthen our capabilities to meet the needs of the 21st century. Our enduring interests in the region demand our enduring presence in the region. The United States is a Pacific power, and we are here to stay. <p>Indeed, we are already modernizing America's defense posture across the Asia-Pacific. It will be more broadly distributed, maintaining our strong presence in Japan and the Korean Peninsula while enhancing our presence in Southeast Asia. Our posture will be more flexible, with new capabilities to ensure that our forces can operate freely. And our posture will be more sustainable by helping allies and partners build their capacity with more training and exercises. <p>We see our new posture here in Australia. The initiatives that the Prime Minister and I announced yesterday will bring our two militaries even closer together. We'll have new opportunities to train with other allies and partners, from the Pacific to the Indian Ocean. And it will allow us to respond faster to the full range of challenges, including humanitarian crises and disaster relief. <p>Since World War II, Australians have warmly welcomed American servicemembers who've passed through. On behalf of the American people, I thank you for welcoming those who will come next, as they ensure that our alliance stays strong and ready for the tests of our time. <p>We see America's enhanced presence in the alliance that we've strengthened: in Japan, where our alliance remains a cornerstone of regional security; in Thailand, where we're partnering for disaster relief; in the Philippines, where we're increasing ship visits and training; and in South Korea, where our commitment to the security of the Republic of Korea will never waver. Indeed, we also reiterate our resolve to act firmly against any proliferation activities by North Korea. The transfer of nuclear materials or material by North Korea to states or nonstate entities would be considered a grave threat to the United States and our allies, and we would hold North Korea fully accountable for the consequences of such action. <p>We see America's enhanced presence across Southeast Asia in our partnership with Indonesia against piracy and violent extremism and in our work with Malaysia to prevent proliferation, in the ships we'll deploy to Singapore and in our closer cooperation with Vietnam and Cambodia, and in our welcome of India as it looks east and plays a larger role as an Asian power. <p>At the same time, we'll reengage with our regional organizations. Our work in Bali this week will mark my third meeting with ASEAN leaders, and I'll be proud to be the first American President to attend the East Asia Summit. And together, I believe we can address shared challenges, such as proliferation and maritime security, including cooperation in the South China Sea. <p>Meanwhile, the United States will continue our effort to build a cooperative relationship with China. All of our nations&mdash;Australia, the United States&mdash;all of our nations have a profound interest in the rise of a peaceful and prosperous China. That's why the United States welcomes it. We've seen that China can be a partner, from reducing tensions on the Korean Peninsula to preventing proliferation. And we'll seek more opportunities for cooperation with Beijing, including greater communication between our militaries to promote understanding and avoid miscalculation. We will do this, even as we continue to speak candidly to Beijing about the importance of upholding international norms and respecting the universal human rights of the Chinese people. <p>A secure and peaceful Asia is the foundation for the second area in which America is leading again, and that's advancing our shared prosperity. History teaches us, the greatest force the world has ever known for creating wealth and opportunity is free markets. So we seek economies that are open and transparent. We seek trade that is free and fair. And we seek an open international economic system, where rules are clear and every nation plays by them. <p>In Australia and America, we understand these principles. We're among the most open economies on Earth. Six years into our landmark trade agreement, commerce between us has soared. Our workers are creating new partnerships and new products, like the advanced aircraft technologies we build together in Victoria. We're the leading investor in Australia, and you invest more in America than you do in any other nation, creating good jobs in both countries. <p>And we recognize that economic partnerships can't just be about one nation extracting another's resources. We understand that no long-term strategy for growth can be imposed from above. Real prosperity, prosperity that fosters innovation and prosperity that endures, comes from unleashing our greatest economic resource, and that's the entrepreneurial spirit, the talents of our people. <p>So even as America competes aggressively in Asian markets, we're forging the economic partnerships that create opportunity for all. Building on our historic trade agreement with South Korea, we're working with Australia and our other APEC partners to create a seamless regional economy. And with Australia and other partners, we're on track to achieve our most ambitious trade agreement yet and a potential model for the entire region, the Trans-Pacific Partnership. <p>The United States remains the world's largest and most dynamic economy. But in an interconnected world, we all rise and fall together. That's why I pushed so hard to put the G-20 at the front and center of global economic decisionmaking, to give more nations a leadership role in managing the international economy, including Australia. And together, we saved the world economy from a depression. And now our urgent challenge is to create the growth that puts people to work. <p>We need growth that is fair, where every nation plays by the rules, where workers rights are respected and our businesses can compete on a level playing field, where the intellectual property and new technologies that fuel innovation are protected, and where currencies are market driven so no nation has an unfair advantage. <p>We also need growth that is broad, not just for the few, but for the many, with reforms that protect consumers from abuse and a global commitment to end the corruption that stifles growth. We need growth that is balanced, because we will all prosper more when countries with large surpluses take action to boost demand at home. <p>And we need growth that is sustainable. This includes the clean energy that creates green jobs and combats climate change, which cannot be denied. We see it in the stronger fires, the devastating floods, and the Pacific islands confronting rising seas. And as countries with large carbon footprints, the United States and Australia have a special responsibility to lead. <p>Every nation will contribute to the solution in its own way, and I know this issue is not without controversy in both our countries. But what we can do, and what we are doing, is to work together to make unprecedented investments in clean energy, to increase energy efficiency, and to meet the commitments we made at Copenhagen and Cancun. We can do this, and we will. <p>As we grow our economies, we'll also remember the link between growth and good governance: the rule of law, transparent institutions, the equal administration of justice. Because history shows that over the long run democracy and economic growth go hand in hand. And prosperity without freedom is just another form of poverty. <p>And this brings me to the final area where we are leading: our support for the fundamental rights of every human being. Every nation will chart its own course. Yet it is also true that certain rights are universal, among them, freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, freedom of religion, and the freedom of citizens to choose their own leaders. <p>These are not American rights or Australian rights or Western rights. These are human rights. They stir in every soul, as we've seen in the democracies that have succeeded here in Asia. Other models have been tried, and they have failed: fascism and communism, rule by one man and rule by committee. And they failed for the same simple reason: They ignore the ultimate source of power and legitimacy, the will of the people. Yes, democracy can be messy and rough. I understand you mix it up quite well during question time. [<i>Laughter</i>] But whatever our differences of party or of ideology, we know in our democracies we are blessed with the greatest form of government ever known to man. <p>So as two great democracies, we speak up for those freedoms when they are threatened. We partner with emerging democracies like Indonesia to help strengthen the institutions upon which good governance depends. We encourage open government because democracies depend on an informed and active citizenry. We help strengthen civil societies because they empower our citizens to hold their governments accountable. And we advance the rights of all people&mdash;women, minorities, and indigenous cultures&mdash;because when societies harness the potential of all their citizens, these societies are more successful, they are more prosperous and they are more just. <p>These principles have guided our approach to Burma, with a combination of sanctions and engagement. And today, Aung San Suu Kyi is free from house arrest, some political prisoners have been released, and the Government has begun a dialogue. Still, violations of human rights persist. So we will continue to speak clearly about the steps that must be taken for the Government of Burma to have a better relationship with the United States. <p>This is the future we seek in the Asia-Pacific: security, prosperity, and dignity for all. That's what we stand for. That's who we are. That's the future we will pursue in partnership with allies and friends and with every element of American power. So let there be no doubt: In the Asia-Pacific in the 21st century, the United States of America is all in. <p>Still, in times of great change and uncertainty, the future can seem unsettling. Across a vast ocean, it's impossible to know what lies beyond the horizon. But if this vast region and its people teach us anything, it's the yearning for liberty and progress will not be denied. <p>It's why women in this country demanded that their voices be heard, making Australia the first nation to let women vote and run for Parliament and one day become Prime Minister. It's why the people took to the streets, from Delhi to Seoul, from Manila to Jakarta, to throw off colonialism and dictatorship and build some of the world's largest democracies. <p>It's why a soldier in a watchtower along the DMZ defends a free people in the South and why a man from the North risks his life to escape across the border. Why soldiers in blue helmets keep the peace in a new nation. And why women of courage go into brothels to save young girls from modern-day slavery, which must come to an end. <p>It's why men of peace in saffron robes faced beatings and bullets and why every day, from some of the world's largest cities to dusty rural towns, in small acts of courage the world may never see, a student posts a blog, a citizen signs a charter, an activist remains unbowed, imprisoned in his home, just to have the same rights that we cherish here today. <p>Men and women like these know what the world must never forget. The currents of history may ebb and flow, but over time they move, decidedly, decisively, in a single direction. History is on the side of the free: free societies, free governments, free economies, free people. And the future belongs to those who stand firm for those ideals, in this region and around the world. <p>This is the story of the alliance we celebrate today. This is the essence of America's leadership; it is the essence of our partnership. This is the work we will carry on together, for the security and prosperity and dignity of all people. <p>So God bless Australia, God bless America, and God bless the friendship between our two peoples. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"268" "\"<i>The President.</i> Thank you! Hello, everybody! <p><i>Audience members.</i> Hello! <p><i>The President.</i> How are you going? Well, I know that you all have a great Australian cheer. I want to hear it. So let me say first, Aussie, Aussie, Aussie! <p><i>Audience members.</i> Aussie, Aussie, Aussie! <p><i>The President.</i> I enjoyed that. [<i>Laughter</i>] It is great to be here at RAAF Darwin&mdash;I mean, \\"Dah-win.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm learning to speak \\"Strine.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] The Prime Minister said that she wanted to show me Australia at its best. And she's right, you all are all true blue. So thank you, Julia, for bringing us together today, for being such a great friend and champion of our alliance, and for this visit to Australia, which I will remember forever. <p>Now, it is good to be here in the Top End. I thank the people of Darwin for the incredibly warm welcome. And I'm proud to be the first U.S. President ever to visit the Northern Territory. <p>I want to begin by respectfully acknowledging the traditional owners of this land and their elders, past and present. You are one of the world's oldest continuous cultures, and I want you to know that your strength, your dignity is an inspiration to me and people all around the world. <p>I'm not going to give a big speech. It's a little hot. [<i>Laughter</i>] I already gave a big speech. What I really want to do is spend a little time shaking some hands. <p><i>Audience member.</i> Yeah! <p><i>The President.</i> I'm not sure I'm going to be able to reach all the way back there. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>As the Prime Minister said, we're celebrating the 60th anniversary of our great alliance. And we couldn't think of a better group to do it with than you. All of you are the backbone of our alliance. It's an honor to be here with Australia's legendary Diggers. You are some of the toughest warriors in the world. And so are another group of folks here today, our extraordinary United States marines. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Hooah! <p><i>The President.</i> Aussies and Americans like you have stood together since World War I, the war in which so much of your national character was born, your incredible ANZAC spirit. <p>But in a sense, it was here, in Darwin, where our alliance was born, during \\"Australia's Pearl Harbor.\\" Against overwhelming odds, our forces fought back, with honor and with courage. The Prime Minister and I just paid our respects at the memorial to one of the ships lost that day, the USS <i>Peary</i>. And we looked out at those beautiful blue waters where so many Australians and Americans rest where they fell, together. <p>The days after Darwin were tough. Some thought Australia might fall. But we dusted ourselves off. We picked ourselves up. We rebuilt. And thanks to the extraordinary generation of troops, we went on to victory in the Coral Sea and at Midway and at Milne Bay. <p>And when that war was won, and as another raged in Korea, our countries forged a new alliance. We pledged our \\"collective defense for the preservation of peace and security.\\" And that's a promise we've kept ever since. <p>As I said in Parliament earlier today, our alliance is rooted in the bonds between our people and the democratic values that we share and our commitment to stand with each other through thick and through thin, no matter what. <p>And that includes Afghanistan. I know many of you served there, including proud members of the 1st Brigade. Like generations before you, you've lived and served alongside your American colleagues, day in and day out. You work together so well, it's often said you can't tell where our guys end and you guys begin. Today I want to say thank you. Thank you for a job well done. Thank you for your incredible sacrifices. Thank you for your families' sacrifices. And welcome home. <p>Others among you served in Iraq and on dangerous missions around the globe. Among us today are families whose loved ones made the ultimate sacrifice in today's wars. This morning the Prime Minister and I paid our respects at the Australian War Memorial. <p>And in that magnificent space I saw the Roll of Honour, with the names of your fallen heroes, including those from Afghanistan. And to their families, I say, no words are sufficient for the depth of your sacrifice. But we will honor your loved ones by completing their mission, by making sure Afghanistan is never again used to attack our people. And I am confident that we are going to succeed. <p>Now here in Darwin and Northern Australia, we'll write the next proud chapter in our alliance. As the Prime Minister and I announced yesterday, some of our marines will begin rotating through these parts to train and exercise with you and to work as partners across the region for the security we all want. <p>Today, on behalf of the American people, I want to thank the people of this community for welcoming our men and women in uniform. We are grateful for your friendship, and we are grateful for your hospitality. <p>So we're deepening our alliance, and this is the perfect place to do it. I know the training conditions around here are tough, at least that's what I've heard: big, open spaces, harsh weather, mozzies&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;snakes, crocs. [<i>Laughter</i>] In fact, I was just presented with the most unique gift I've ever received as President, crocodile insurance. [<i>Laughter</i>] My wife Michelle will be relieved. [<i>Laughter</i>] I have to admit that when we reformed health care in America, crocodile insurance is one thing we left out. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But there's another reason we're deepening our alliance here. This region has some of the busiest sea lanes in the world, which are critical to all our economies. And in times of crisis, from the Bali bombings to East Timor to relief after a tsunami, Darwin has been a hub, moving out aid, caring for victims, making sure that we do right by the people of this region. And that's what we're going to keep doing, together. <p>Going forward, our purpose is the same as it was 60 years ago: \\"the preservation of peace and security.\\" And in a larger sense, you're answering the question once posed by the great Banjo Paterson. Of Australia, he wrote, \\"Hath she the strength for the burden laid upon her, hath she the power to protect and guard her own?\\" <p>Well, generations of Australians&mdash;and you, its men and women in uniform&mdash;have given your answer. And America has been honored to stand with you, as allies with an enduring commitment to human freedom. <p>On this 60th anniversary, we are saying together, proudly: Yes, we have the strength for the burden laid upon us, and we have the power to protect and guard our own, here in the Asia-Pacific and all around the world. <p>So thank you all for your extraordinary service. And thank you for representing the very best of our two countries. God bless Australia, God bless America, and God bless the great alliance between our two peoples. Thank you very much.\" "
"269" "\"Well, I just want to make a brief statement. This is a remarkable example of the trade investment and commercial opportunities that exist in the Asia-Pacific region. <p>For the last several days, I've been talking about how we have to make sure that we've got a presence in this region, that it can result directly in jobs at home. And what we see here&mdash;a multibillion-dollar deal between Lion Air&mdash;one of the fastest-growing airlines not just in the region, but in the world&mdash;and Boeing is going to result in over 100,000 jobs back in the United States of America over a long period of time. <p>This represents the largest deal, if I'm not mistaken, that Boeing has ever done. We are looking at over 200 planes that are going to be sold. And the U.S. administration and the Ex-Im Bank, in particular, were critical in facilitating this deal. And I want to thank all of the administration officials who were dogged in trying to get this completed. This is an example of how we are going to achieve the long-term goal that I set of doubling U.S. exports over the next several years. <p>And so I want to first of all congratulate Lion Air for their incredible success. I want to congratulate Boeing for making outstanding planes, including the one that I fly on. [<i>Laughter</i>] And this is an example of a win-win situation where the people of the region are going to be able to benefit from an outstanding airline. And our workers back home are going to be able to have job security and be able to produce an outstanding product made in America. <p>So congratulations, gentlemen. Thank you so much.\" "
"270" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. Throughout my administration and throughout this trip, I've underscored America's commitment to the Asia-Pacific region, but also I've underscored America's commitment to the future of human rights in the region. Today I'm announcing an important step forward in our efforts to move forward on both these fronts. <p>For decades, Americans have been deeply concerned about the denial of basic human rights for the Burmese people. The persecution of democratic reformers, the brutality shown towards ethnic minorities, and the concentration of power in the hands of a few military leaders has challenged our conscience and isolated Burma from the United States and much of the world. <p>However, we have always had a profound respect for the people of Burma and the promise of their country, a country with a rich history, at the crossroads of East and West; a people with a quiet dignity and extraordinary potential. For many years, both the promise and the persecution of the Burmese people has been symbolized by Aung San Suu Kyi. As the daughter of Burma's founding father and a fierce advocate for her fellow citizens, she's endured prison and house arrest, just as so many Burmese have endured repression. <p>Yet after years of darkness, we've seen flickers of progress in these last several weeks. President Thein Sein and the Burmese Parliament have taken important steps on the path toward reform. A dialogue between the Government and Aung San Suu Kyi has begun. The Government has released some political prisoners, media restrictions have been relaxed, and legislation has been approved that could open the political environment. So taken together, these are the most important steps toward reform in Burma that we've seen in years. <p>Of course, there's far more to be done. We remain concerned about Burma's closed political system, its treatment of minorities and holding of political prisoners, and its relationship with North Korea. But we want to seize what could be a historic opportunity for progress and make it clear that if Burma continues to travel down the road of democratic reform, it can forge a new relationship with the United States of America. <p>Last night I spoke to Aung San Suu Kyi directly and confirmed that she supports American engagement to move this process forward. So today I've asked Secretary Hillary Clinton to go to Burma. She will be the first American Secretary of State to travel to the country in over half a century, and she will explore whether the United States can empower a positive transition in Burma and begin a new chapter between our countries. <p>That possibility will depend upon the Burmese Government taking more concrete action. If Burma fails to move down the path of reform, it will continue to face sanctions and isolation. But if it seizes this moment, then reconciliation can prevail and millions of people may get the chance to live with a greater measure of freedom, prosperity, and dignity. And that possibility is too important to ignore. <p>Later today I'll reinforce these messages in America's meeting with ASEAN, including with President Thein Sein. Meanwhile, when she travels to Nay Pyi Taw and Rangoon, Hillary will have the chance to deliver that message to the Government, to civil society, and to democratic activists like Aung San Suu Kyi. <p>Again, there's more that needs to be done to pursue the future that the Burmese people deserve, a future of reconciliation and renewal. But today we've decided to take this step to respond to the positive developments in Burma and to clearly demonstrate America's commitment to the future of an extraordinary country, a courageous people, and universal values. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"271" "\"Today I'm speaking to you from Indonesia as I finish up my trip to the Asia-Pacific, the region where we do most of our trade and sell most of our exports. And over the past week, the progress we've made in opening markets and boosting exports here will help create more jobs and more growth in the United States. <p>Here in Indonesia, I was proud to join leaders from some of our Nation's top companies as they announced trade deals that will support nearly 130,000 American jobs and potentially increase U.S. exports by up to $39 billion. Boeing, for example, will sell more than 200 planes to Indonesia that are built with parts from suppliers in more than 40 States. And a deal to export GE engines will support jobs at plants in Ohio and North Carolina. <p>These agreements will help us reach my goal of doubling American exports by 2014, a goal we're on pace to meet. And they're powerful examples of how we can rebuild an economy that's focused on what our country has always done best, making and selling products all over the world that are stamped with three proud words: Made in America. <p>This is important, because over the last decade, we became a country that relied too much on what we bought and consumed. We racked up a lot of debt, but we didn't create many jobs at all. <p>If we want an economy that's built to last and built to compete, we have to change that. We have to restore America's manufacturing might, which is what helped us build the largest middle class in history. That's why we chose to pull the auto industry back from the brink, saving hundreds of thousands of jobs in the process. And that's why we're investing in the next generation of high-tech, American manufacturing. <p>But building an economy that lasts isn't just about making things, it's about opening new markets for people to buy them. After all, 95 percent of the world's consumers live outside our borders. And as the fastest growing region in the world, no market is more important to our economic future than the Asia-Pacific, a region where our exports already support five million American jobs. <p>This is why we recently signed a landmark trade agreement with South Korea that will support tens of thousands of American jobs. And it's why I traveled here this week. In Hawaii, I hosted leaders from across the Asia Pacific, and we agreed to make it easier for American companies to do business overseas. I also worked with President Medvedev of Russia to pursue trade that would increase exports and jobs for American manufacturers and farmers. And working with other leaders, we made progress towards our most ambitious trade agreement yet, a partnership with Pacific nations that holds the potential for more exports and more jobs in a region of nearly three billion consumers. <p>We may be going through tough times, but as I've said time and time again, the United States still has the world's most dynamic economy, the finest universities, the most innovative companies, and the hardest working people on Earth. We can compete against anybody, and we can win. As President, I intend to make sure that happens by doing everything I can to give American workers and businesses the chance to succeed.\" "
"272" "\"Thank you. It is wonderful to see all of you. Thank you for being here. Thank you, Miche, who is a pretty good speaker, so I try not to follow her. But given the incredible work that she and Jill Biden have done in advocating for our veterans, I could not be more honored to be with them. And I know Joe shares my feeling; we could not be proud of their efforts on this front. <p>Over the past 3 years, they have visited so many of our troops. They have thanked them for their service. They have comforted their spouses. They have given voice to their struggles. And they've challenged all of us at a National, State, and local level to do more for our veterans. <p>Joe Biden has been a champion for veterans for decades now. It is his birthday, so we speak in terms of decades. [<i>Laughter</i>] It was actually&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;actually, yesterday was his birthday. I won't say the number. You can ask Jill if you want. But for a man who cares as deeply about our troops as Joe does, this bill, I imagine, is a pretty good birthday gift. <p>Secretary Shinseki is here. Where's Ric? There he is. Ric's been doing an outstanding job leading our Department of Veterans Affairs. And I'm also proud to say that we are joined by some of the Nation's leading veterans' service organizations and Members of Congress who helped make this bill possible. <p>I have often said that the most humbling part of my job is serving as Commander in Chief to the world's finest military. Not a day goes by when I'm not awed by our troops, by the strength of their character, and by the depth of their commitment and the incredible sacrifices that they and their families make on behalf of our Nation's freedom and security. The men and women of our military don't just fight for each other; they don't just fight for their units or for their commanders; they fight for every single American, for the millions of fellow citizens who they have never met and who they will likely never know. <p>And just as they fight for us on the battlefield, it's up to us to fight for our troops and their families when they come home. And that's why today is such a wonderful day, because today a deeply grateful nation is doing right by our military and paying back just a little bit of what we owe to our veterans. <p>Today the message is simple: For businesses out there, if you are hiring, hire a veteran. It's the right thing to do for you, it's the right thing to do for them, and it's the right thing to do for our economy. <p>While we've added more than 350,000 private sector jobs over the last 3 months, we've got 850,000 veterans who can't find work. And even though the overall unemployment rate came down just a little bit last month, unemployment for veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan continue to rise. And that isn't right. These men and women are the best that America has to offer. They are some of the most highly trained, highly educated, highly skilled workers that we have. If they can save lives on the battlefield, then they can save a life in an ambulance. If they can manage convoys moving tons of equipment over dangerous terrain, they can manage a company's supply chain. If they can track millions of dollars of assets in Iraq, they can balance the books of any company here in the United States. <p>Our country has benefited enormously from our veterans' services overseas. And we will benefit just the same from their service here at home. And that's why, under my direction, the Federal Government has already hired more than 120,000 veterans. Thanks to the work that Jill and Michelle mentioned, some of our most patriotic businesses have pledged to hire 135,000 more veterans and military spouses. And today we're giving those businesses just one more reason to give veterans a job. <p>Back in September, I sent Congress a jobs bill. And in it, I proposed a tax credit for any business that hires a veteran who's been unemployed for at least 4 weeks. I proposed an even bigger tax break if a business hires a veteran who's been unemployed for at least 6 months. And if a business hires an unemployed veteran with a disability related to their service, I proposed doubling the tax break that we already have in place. <p>Today, because Democrats and Republicans came together, I'm proud to sign those proposals into law. And I urge every business owner out there who's hiring to hire a vet right away. <p>Now, over the past decade, nearly 3 million servicemembers have transitioned back to civilian life, joining millions who have served through the decades. And as we end the war in Iraq and we wind down the war in Afghanistan, over a million more will join them over the next 5 years. This bill is an important step towards helping those veterans transition into the workforce. And beyond the tax breaks that I mentioned, it also contains a number of other reforms, from education and training to career counseling, to job search assistance. <p>We're still going to need to do more. And that's why I've also announced a series of executive actions to help our veterans back to work. We've set up a veteran Gold Card; this is a card that post-9/11 veterans can download today, and it gives you access to a suite of career services, including 6 months of personalized counseling at the roughly 3,000 one-stop career centers located across the country. <p>We've launched an easy-to-use online tool called My Next Move that allows veterans to enter information about the skills they've acquired during their service and then matches that information with the civilian careers that will best put that unique experience to use. <p>And we've created a new online service called Veterans Job Bank, a partnership with leading search engines that directly connects unemployed veterans to job openings. So all of these initiatives are up and running right now, and you can find them at whitehouse.gov/vets. That's whitehouse.gov/vets. <p>So to our veterans: Know that we will stand with you as long as it takes for you to find a job. And to our businesses, let me say again, if you are hiring, hire a veteran. Hire a veteran today. They will make you proud, just as they've made this Nation proud. <p>Now, I'm pleased that both parties came together to make this happen. So once again, I want to thank all Members of Congress who are involved. It is important to note that in addition to our veterans, there are millions of other Americans who are still looking for work right now. They deserve the same kind of bold, bipartisan action that we've seen here today. That's what people have sent us here to do. So my message to every Member of Congress is: Keep going, keep working, keep finding more ways to put partisanship aside and put more Americans back to work. <p>Tomorrow I'm heading to New Hampshire to talk about another proposal in the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" and that's a tax cut for nearly every worker and small-business owner in America. Democrats and Republicans have traditionally supported these kinds of tax cuts. Independent economists from across the political spectrum have said this proposal is one of the best ways to boost our economy and spur hiring. It's going to be easier for us to hire our vets if the overall economy is going strong. So there's no reason not to vote for these tax cuts. <p>And if Congress doesn't act by the end of the year, then the typical family's taxes is going to go up by roughly $1,000. That's the last thing our middle class and our economy needs right now. It is the last thing that our veterans need right now. <p>So let's keep at it. No politics. No delays. No excuses. Let's keep doing everything we can to get America back to work. And on that note, it is my great pleasure to do my job and sign this bill into law. Thank you. <p>[<i>At this point, the President signed the bill.</i>]\" "
"273" "\"Good afternoon. As you all know, last summer I signed a law that will cut nearly $1 trillion of spending over the next 10 years. Part of that law also required Congress to reduce the deficit by an additional $1.2 trillion by the end of this year. <p>In September, I sent them a detailed plan that would have gone above and beyond that goal. It's a plan that would reduce the deficit by an additional $3 trillion by cutting spending, slowing the growth in Medicare and Medicaid, and asking the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share. <p>In addition to my plan, there were a number of other bipartisan plans for them to consider from both Democrats and Republicans, all of which promoted a balanced approach. This kind of balanced approach to reducing our deficit&mdash;an approach where everybody gives a little bit and everyone does their fair share&mdash;is supported by an overwhelming majority of Americans: Democrats, Independents, and Republicans. It's supported by experts and economists from all across the political spectrum. And to their credit, many Democrats in Congress were willing to put politics aside and commit to reasonable adjustments that would have reduced the costs of Medicare, as long as they were part of a balanced approach. <p>But despite the broad agreement that exists for such an approach, there are still too many Republicans in Congress who have refused to listen to the voices of reason and compromise that are coming from outside of Washington. They continue to insist on protecting $100 billion worth of tax cuts for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans at any cost, even if it means reducing the deficit with deep cuts to things like education and medical research, even if it means deep cuts in Medicare. <p>So at this point at least, they simply will not budge from that negotiating position. And so far, that refusal continues to be the main stumbling block that has prevented Congress from reaching an agreement to further reduce our deficit. <p>Now, we are not in the same situation that we were in August. There is no imminent threat to us defaulting on the debt that we owe. There are already $1 trillion worth of spending cuts that are locked in. And part of the law that I signed this summer stated that if Congress could not reach an agreement on the deficit, there would be another $1.2 trillion of automatic cuts in 2013, divided equally between domestic spending and defense spending. <p>One way or another, we will be trimming the deficit by a total of at least $2.2 trillion over the next 10 years. That's going to happen, one way or another. We've got $1 trillion locked in, and either Congress comes up with $1.2 trillion, which so far they've failed to do, or the sequester kicks in, and these automatic spending cuts will occur that bring in an additional $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction. <p>Now, the question right now is whether we can reduce the deficit in a way that helps the economy grow&mdash;that operates with a scalpel, not with a hatchet&mdash;and if not, whether Congress is willing to stick to the painful deal that we made in August for the automatic cuts. Already, some in Congress are trying to undo these automatic spending cuts. <p>My message to them is simple: No. I will veto any effort to get rid of those automatic spending cuts to domestic and defense spending. There will be no easy off-ramps on this one. <p>We need to keep the pressure up to compromise, not turn off the pressure. The only way these spending cuts will not take place is if Congress gets back to work and agrees on a balanced plan to reduce the deficit by at least $1.2 trillion. That's exactly what they need to do. That's the job they promised to do. And they've still got a year to figure it out. <p>Although Congress has not come to an agreement yet, nothing prevents them from coming up with an agreement in the days ahead. They can still come together around a balanced plan. I believe Democrats are prepared to do so. My expectation is, is that there will be some Republicans who are still interested in preventing the automatic cuts from taking place. And as I have from the beginning, I stand ready and willing to work with anybody that's ready to engage in that effort to create a balanced plan for deficit reduction. <p>Now, in the meantime, we've got a lot of work left to do this year. Before Congress leaves next month, we have to work together to cut taxes for workers and small-business owners all across America. If we don't act, taxes will go up for every single American, starting next year. And I'm not about to let that happen. Middle class Americans can't afford to lose $1,000 next year because Congress won't act. And I can only hope that Members of Congress who've been fighting so hard to protect tax breaks for the wealthy will fight just as hard to protect tax breaks for small-business owners and middle class families. <p>We still need to put construction workers back on the job rebuilding our roads and our bridges. We still need to put our teachers back in the classroom educating our kids. <p>So when everybody gets back from Thanksgiving, it's time to get some work done for the American people. All around the country, Americans are working hard to live within their means and meet their responsibilities. And I know they expect Washington to do the same. <p>Thanks.\" "
"274" "\"Everybody, please have a seat. Thank you so much. Well, good evening, everybody. I have been on the road a lot lately; I know the entertainers who are here tonight can relate. Johnny Cash was really singing our song when he said, \\"I've been everywhere, man.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] So I appreciate you all coming out for the best welcome-home party that I've had in a long time. I even see some members of my Cabinet and Members of Congress in the house. <p>Michelle and I are delighted that all of you are here for the seventh in a series of evenings we've hosted here at the White House to celebrate the music that has helped to shape our Nation. <p>Now, over the past couple of years, some of the greatest artists from Motown, from jazz, classical, Broadway have honored us with their performances. We've celebrated Latin rhythms and the music that helped define the civil rights movement. And tonight we're transforming the East Room into a bona fide country music hall. <p>As Charley Pride, who played here 2 years ago, once said: \\"There is enough room in country music for everybody.\\" And over the past 5 years, I've had the extraordinary opportunity to travel all across America. I've hopped on planes to big cities. I've ridden buses through small towns. And along the way, I've gained an appreciation for just how much country music means to so many Americans. <p>Tonight we're thrilled to welcome a couple of generations of music stars, some of whom have been singing stories of life in America since before our younger guests were born, before I was born. Artists like James Taylor, Lyle Lovett, and Kris Kristofferson are&mdash;-[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;these are among the greats that helped carry country music from regional radio to national popularity. Today, artists like Mickey and Lauren Alaina, The Band Perry, and Dierks Bentley aren't just topping the charts, they're taking country worldwide. I am so pleased to welcome back to the White House one of the enduring voices of country music, Alison Krauss. I love her. And we have Hootie in the house&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;Darius Rucker is now one of the best-loved country stars around. <p>I want also to thank Kris, Lyle, and Darius for joining Michelle this afternoon to lead a workshop on the history of country music for young musicians. It is a proud history that runs from barn stomping to the great honky-tonks to the big stage to the Grammys. It's a unique history that ties together many threads of our immigrant heritage&mdash;like the Irish fiddle, the German dulcimer, the Italian mandolin, the Spanish guitar, and the West African banjo&mdash;into music that is truly made in America. And at its most pure, that's what country music is all about: life in America. It's about storytelling, giving voice to the emotions of everyday life. Brad Paisley put it simply: \\"This is real, this is your life in a song. This is country music.\\" <p>Country music can be about love. It can be about heartache. It can sing sad times, or it can yell out that I'm just here having a good time. And it can remind us, especially when lots of our friends and neighbors are going through tough times, of what we've got to fight for and who we have to be. It reminds us that this is America. This is a place where you can make it if you try. And there is a pretty good Brooks & Dunn song about that. I recommend it. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So as we look forward to celebrating this holiday season, let's take the time to appreciate the things that matter most in our lives: country, family, and community. And let's kick it off by giving thanks for a evening of down-home country music. Have fun, and enjoy the evening.\" "
"275" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, New Hampshire! It is good to be back. Hello, Little Green! It is good to be back in New Hampshire, although I have to say that I feel a little winter coming on around here. [<i>Laughter</i>] This is what happens when you fly north. <p>It is wonderful to be here. I had a chance to see backstage Principal Mailhot, and he reminded me of what I said to him 4 years ago, almost to the day, that I was here. It was snowing that day. We were&mdash;surprising enough, there was a snowstorm in New Hampshire. [<i>Laughter</i>] And we ended up having to leave a little bit early. And we weren't able to do everything that we wanted, talking to some of the students. And we were worried that folks were going to be disappointed, and I promised him that I would be back. I just want to point out, we're keeping our promise&mdash;we are back. We are back. <p>In addition to Principal Mailhot, I want to acknowledge the superintendent, Tom Brennan, who is here with his lovely wife Wendy. Please give them a big round of applause. <p>Happy Thanksgiving a little bit early, everybody. To the&mdash;I understand we got the senior class here at Central High. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Seniors! Seniors! Seniors! <p><i>The President</i>. All right. You guys are pretty excited about being seniors, aren't you? I want to thank also somebody who is doing outstanding work each and every day, was doing it up here as a wonderful Governor, is now one of your most outstanding Senators in the country&mdash;Jeanne Shaheen is in the house. <p>So before I came to school today, I had coffee&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>Audience members</i>. Mike check! Mr. President, over 4,000 legal protestors have been arrested&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>Audience members. </i>Fired up and ready to go! Fired up and ready to go! <p><i>The President.</i> All right. No, no, no, it's okay. <p>[<i>At this point, the disruption in the audience continued</i>.] <p><i>The President</i>. That's okay. All right, okay, guys. <p><i>Audience members</i>. Obama! Obama! Obama! <p><i>The President</i>. Okay, it's okay. That's all right. Listen, the&mdash;I'm going to be talking about a whole range of things today, and I appreciate you guys making your point. Let me go ahead and make mine, all right? And I'll listen to you, you listen to me. All right? <p>Now, what I was saying was, I was having some coffee with some of your neighbors. And one of them was the Corkerys. You may know, as Mr. Corkery just said, that he's a math teacher here at Central High. And even though a visit from me tends to disrupt things a little bit&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;he did want me to remind all his students you still have homework to do. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But as Chris said, he's also a colonel, recently retired after 26 years in the military; tours of duty in Iraq, in Kuwait, in Haiti. And I couldn't thank him enough for his service, because obviously, we know our servicemembers, our veterans, they're the ones who keep us safe, they're the ones who are preserving our freedom at enormous sacrifice to themselves and their families. And in fact, this holiday season is going to be a season of homecomings for folks all across America, because by the end of next month, all of our troops will be out of Iraq. <p>Now, over coffee, we were joined by Chris's wife of 16 years, Kathy, who owns part of a local business. And they've got two sons; they're trying to save for their sons' college education. And like millions of families all across the country, they're doing the best that they can in some tough times. <p>And families like the Corkerys, families like yours, young people like the ones here today, including the ones who were just chanting at me, you're the reason I ran for office in the first place. Because it's folks like you who are why I spent so much time up here in the dead of winter 4 years ago. Because even then, we were going through a difficult decade for the middle class: more good jobs in manufacturing that was leaving our shores; more of our prosperity was built on risky financial deals and homes that weren't properly financed. And families watched their incomes fall, and wages flatline, and the cost of everything from college to health care kept on going up. And then the financial crisis hit in the closing weeks of the campaign&mdash;and that made things even tougher. <p>Today, many Americans have spent months looking for work, and others are doing the best they can to get by. There are a lot of folks out there who are giving nights up&mdash;nights out, they just can't do that anymore because they've got to save on gas or make the mortgage. There are families who are putting off retirement to make sure their kids can go to college. And then there are young people who have gone to college, gotten a whole bunch of debt, and find themselves unable to find opportunity. <p>So a lot of the folks who have been down in New York and all across the country, in the Occupy movement, there is a profound sense of frustration about the fact that the essence of the American Dream&mdash;which is if you work hard, if you stick to it, that you can make it&mdash;feels like that's slipping away. And it's not the way things are supposed to be, not here, not in America. <p>This is a place where your hard work and your responsibility is supposed to pay off. It's supposed to be a big, compassionate country where everybody who works hard should have a chance to get ahead, not just the person who owns the factory, but the men and women who work on the factory floor. <p>This is a place that's always prospered most when we stay fundamental&mdash;we stay true to a fundamental idea, the idea that we're all in this together. That's what we're fighting for. That's what is at stake right now. <p>So we've been weathering some hard years. We've been taking some tough punches. But one thing I know about folks in Manchester and folks in New Hampshire and folks all across the country is we're tough. We're fighting back. We are moving forward. And we are going to get this right so that every single American has opportunity in this country. We are not going to let&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;we are not going to have an America in which only a sliver of folks have opportunity. We're going to have an America where everybody has opportunity. And that's going to take some time, because our economic problems weren't caused overnight and they won't be solved overnight. <p>It's going to take time to rebuild an economy where hard work is valued and responsibility is rewarded. It's going to take time to rebuild an economy that restores security for the middle class and renews opportunity for folks trying to reach the middle class. It's going to take time to rebuild an economy that's not based on outsourcing or tax loopholes or risky financial deals, but one that is built to last, where we invest in education and small business and manufacturing and making things that the rest of the world is willing to buy. <p>And we're going to get it done. We're going to get there. And right now we've got to do everything we can to put our friends and neighbors back to work and help families like the Corkerys get ahead and give the economy the jolt that it needs. <p>And that's why 2 months ago I sent Congress the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" It's a jobs bill that will put more Americans to work, put more money back into the pockets of working Americans. It's full of the kinds of ideas that in the past have been supported by Democrats and Republicans. And it's paid for by asking our wealthiest citizens to pay their fair share. Independent economists said it would create nearly 2 million jobs, grow the economy by an extra 2 percent. That's not my opinion, that's not my team's opinion, that's the opinion of folks who evaluate these things for a living. But you know what, some folks in Washington don't seem to get the message that people care right now about putting folks back to work and giving young people opportunity. <p>So when this bill came up for a vote, Republicans in the Senate got together and blocked it. They refused to even debate it. A hundred percent of Republicans opposed it, even though almost two-thirds of Americans supported the ideas in this bill: Democrats, Republicans, and Independents alike. Not one Republican in Washington was willing to say it was the right thing to do. Not one. <p>Now, what we've done is we've refused to quit. So I said I will do everything in my power to act on behalf of the American people, with or without Congress. So over the past several weeks, we've taken steps on our own to give working Americans a leg up in a tough economy. <p>We announced&mdash;on our own&mdash;a new policy that will help families refinance their mortgages and save thousands of dollars. A lot of the young people who are in New York and around the country, they're worrying about student loans. On our own, without Congress, we reformed the student loan process to make it easier for more young people to pay off their debt. By the way, that was building on top of legislation we passed a year ago that said instead of sending $60 billion to banks to manage the student loan program, let's give it directly to students so that millions more young people can afford a college education. <p>We enacted several new initiatives to help our returning veterans find new jobs and get trained for those jobs. The kind of outstanding young men and women that Chris was talking about, who come home&mdash;I was up in Minnesota, met a young man who had been an emergency medic in Iraq, saving lives under the most severe circumstances. He came home, and he was having to take nursing classes all over again, even though for the last 2 years he had been saving lives in the field, didn't get any credit for it. So we're starting to make changes to say if you're qualified to save a life on the battlefield, you can save a life in an ambulance. <p>And yesterday I signed into law two new tax breaks for businesses that hire America's vets, because nobody who fights for America overseas should have to fight for a job when they come home. Now, I proposed these tax breaks back in September as part of my jobs bill, and thanks to folks like Jeanne Shaheen&mdash;and some Republicans&mdash;we actually got this part of the bill passed. We finally got them to say yes to taking action that will create jobs and boost this economy. <p>But there is a lot more that we've got to do if we're going to get folks back to work and rebuild an economy that works for everybody. And next week, Congress is going to have another chance to do the right thing. Congress is going to have another chance to say yes to helping working families like the Corkerys. <p>You see, last year, both parties came together to cut payroll taxes for the typical household by $1,000 this year. That's been showing up in your paychecks each week. You may not know it, but it's been showing up because of the action that we took. Which reminds me, by the way, the next time you hear one of these folks from the other side coming in talking about raising your taxes, you just remind them that ever since I've gotten into office, I've lowered your taxes, haven't raised them. That's worth reminding them. But this payroll tax is set to expire at the end of next month. End of next month, end of the year, this tax cut ends. And if we allow that to happen&mdash;if Congress refuses to act&mdash;then middle class families are going to get hit with a tax increase at the worst possible time. For the average family, your taxes will go up $1,000 if Congress does not act by the end of the month. <p>Now, we can't let that happen, not right now. It would be bad for the economy. It would be bad for employment. That's why my jobs bill extends that tax cut. In fact, it does it one better: It expands the tax cut. Instead of a $1,000-a-year tax cut next year, the average working family would get a tax cut of more than $1,500. And that's $1,500 that would have been taken out of your paycheck, would instead be going into your pocket. And that means you'd be spending in small businesses, and that would increase their business, which means they would potentially hire more people. <p>The \\"American Jobs Act\\" would also cut payroll taxes in half for small-business owners. Say you have 50 employees making $50,000 apiece. You'd get a tax cut of nearly $80,000. That is real money that you can use to hire new workers or buy new equipment. <p>Now, the Republicans in the Senate voted no on my jobs bill and those tax cuts. But in the spirit of Thanksgiving&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;we are going to give them another chance. [<i>Laughter</i>] Absolutely. Next week, they're going to get to take a simple vote. <p>If they vote no again, the typical family's taxes will go up $1,000 next year. If they vote yes, the typical working family will get a $1,500 tax cut. All right? So I just wanted to be clear for everybody: \\"no,\\" your taxes go up; \\"yes,\\" you get a tax cut. Which way do you think Congress should vote? <p><i>Audience members</i>. Yes! <p><i>The President</i>. Pretty simple. And we set up a straightforward tax calculator on whitehouse.gov&mdash;that's our web site&mdash;so you can see what each vote would mean for your bottom line. <p>Now, I know Republicans like to talk about we're the party of tax cuts. A lot of them have sworn an oath&mdash;we're never going to raise taxes on anybody for as long as we live&mdash;even though they have already voted against these middle class tax cuts once. But the question they'll have to answer when they get back from Thanksgiving is this: Are they really willing to break their oath to never raise taxes and raise taxes on the middle class just to play politics? <p>I sure hope not. This isn't about who wins or loses in Washington. This is about delivering a win for the American people. Now, a $1,500 tax cut for middle class families, that isn't a bandaid. That is a big deal for people. How many business owners could stand to see their customers taking $1,000 less next year? That's $1,000 less that they can spend at a small business. <p>Now, how many of you could use an extra $1,000, an extra $1,500 in your pocket? It makes a big difference for families here in New Hampshire and all across America. And keep in mind, we're going to do it responsibly, because unlike several tax cuts that were instituted over the past several years, we're going to make sure that it doesn't add to our deficit. We're asking the wealthiest Americans&mdash;the folks who got the biggest tax cuts over the past decade, the folks who made it through the recession better than most, folks who have seen their incomes go up much more quickly than anybody else over the last three decades, exponentially&mdash;we're asking them to contribute a little bit more to get our economy working for everybody. We're asking people&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;we're asking people like me to pay our fair share so middle class families can get a tax cut. And I believe that most Americans are willing to do their part. <p>The truth of the matter is, I can't tell you how many well-to-do Americans that I meet say to me, look, I want to do more because I know that the only reason I'm doing well is because somewhere along the line, somebody gave me a good education; somewhere along the line, somebody gave me a college scholarship; somewhere along the line, somebody gave me a chance. And I want to do the same thing for the young people who are coming up now. That is what America is all about. <p>So Congress has a very simple choice next week: Do you want to cut taxes for the middle class and those who are trying to get into the middle class, or do you want to protect massive tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires, many of whom want to actually help? Do you want to help working families get back on solid ground and grow this economy for all of us, or do you really want to vote to raise taxes on nearly 160 million Americans during the holidays? When push comes to shove, are you willing to fight as hard for working families as you are for the wealthiest Americans? What's that&mdash;what's it going to be? That's the choice. <p>As I look around this room and I see these young people, but I also see their parents, I'm thinking, folks in Manchester, you guys work hard. You play by the rules. You're meeting your responsibilities. And if you're working hard and you're meeting your responsibilities, at the very least, you should expect Congress to do the same. They should be doing everything in their power to make our economy stronger, not weaker. They should be doing everything they can to protect the middle class from tax hikes, not hike your taxes. <p>And this is where you can help. Now, your Members of Congress, they work for you. You've got an outstanding Senator here. She's already on the program. But to everyone who's here or watching at home or online, if your Members of Congress aren't delivering, you've got to send them a message. Make sure they're listening. <p>Tell them, \\"Don't be a Grinch.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Don't vote to raise taxes on working Americans during the holidays. Put the country before party. Put money back in the pockets of working families. Do your job. Pass our jobs bill. <p>Now, the American people are with us on this. And it's time for the folks who are running around spending all their time talking about what's wrong with America to spend some time rolling up their sleeves to help us rebuild America and rebuild our middle class and give young people opportunity. There is nothing wrong with this country that we can't fix. <p>I was just traveling in Asia over the last week, and let me tell you, this is the fastest growing region in the world. But what was amazing was how everybody still looked to America. They did a poll in Asia. They said, what do you think about America compared to China? Eight out of nine countries in Asia, they said, America is the country that we look to. <p>They understand that this experiment in democracy&mdash;this belief that everybody can make it if they try; this belief in a broad middle class that lifts everybody up, not just some&mdash;they know that that idea of America is more powerful than anything else. <p>But we've got to have folks in Washington who have that same belief, that same sense that when this economy is going well, it's going well because it's going well for everybody, and when it goes well for everybody, it's good for folks at the top as well as folks at the bottom. And it's certainly good for folks in the middle. <p>So those values that built this country, those values that all of you represent, that's what we're fighting for. That's what the \\"American Jobs Act\\" is all about, that's what the debates in Washington are all about. And we've got to constantly remind ourselves of who we are and what we believe in. <p>We are Americans, and our story has never been about doing things easy. It's been about rising to the moment when the moment is hard. It's about doing what's right. It's about making sure that everybody has a chance, not just a few. <p>So let's do the right thing. Let's meet the moment. Let's prove once again that the best days of the United States of America are still ahead of us. <p>Thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"276" "\"Hello, everybody! Well, it is wonderful to see all of you here today. Happy Thanksgiving, and welcome to the White House. <p>Tomorrow is one of the best days of the year to be an American. It's a day to count our blessings, spend time with the ones we love, and enjoy some good food and some great company. But it's also one of the worst days of the year to be a turkey. [<i>Laughter</i>] They don't have it so good. <p>The rare exception, of course, are the two birds who've joined me today. Now, is Peace here or just Liberty? Just Liberty is here, but Peace is back here somewhere. Some of you may know that recently I've been taking a series of executive actions that don't require congressional approval. [<i>Laughter</i>] Well, here's another one. We can't wait to pardon these turkeys. [<i>Laughter</i>] Literally. Otherwise they'd end up next to the mashed potatoes and stuffing. <p>I want to thank Richard Huisinga, the chairman of the National Turkey Federation, and his wonderful family for donating this year's turkey from his farm in Willmar, Minnesota. The turkey's name is Liberty&mdash;there he is&mdash;and along with his understudy named Peace, he has the distinction of being the luckiest bird on the face of the Earth. Right now, he's also probably one of the most confused. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Liberty was chosen from a flock of about 30 other contestants for the honor of being here today. And for the first time in history, these two turkeys were raised by four students from nearby Willmar High School. <p>Now, I'm told that in order to prepare Liberty and Peace for their big day, the students exposed them to loud noises and flashbulbs so that they'd be ready to face the White House press corps. This is actually true. They also received the most important part of their media training, which involves learning how to gobble without really saying anything. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So Liberty is ready for his turn in the spotlight. And after he finishes a round of cable hits and a few Sunday shows, he's going to retire to a life of leisure at Mount Vernon, the same place where George Washington spent his golden years. <p>And later today, Michelle, Malia, Sasha, and I will also be taking two unnamed turkeys, who weren't so lucky, to a local food bank here in DC that helps those in need. And I want to thank the folks at Jaindl's Turkey Farm in Orefield, Pennsylvania, for donating these dressed birds for the third year in a row. <p>A great writer once called Thanksgiving the \\"one day that is ours . . . the one day that is purely American.\\" <p>When we gather around our tables tomorrow to share the fruits of our blessings, let's remember what that means. Let's be grateful for what we have. Let's be mindful of those who have less. Let's appreciate those who hold a special place in our lives and make sure that they know it. And let's think about those who can't spend the holiday with their loved ones, especially the members of our military serving overseas. I'd like to thank all our men and women in uniform and their families for their incredible service and devotion. <p>And that's what being an American is all about. Even when times are tough, we look out for each other. We lift each other up. And we remind ourselves just how lucky we are here, together, in the greatest country on Earth. <p>So from our family to yours, I want to wish everybody a wonderful and happy and healthy Thanksgiving. <p>And now, since Liberty and Peace have been so patience, it is my privilege to grant them the official pardon. And I'm going to&mdash;I've got to give them a little symbol. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>[<i>At this point, the President made a hand gesture and pardoned the turkey</i>.] <p>All right, you are hereby pardoned. [<i>Laughter</i>] Give them a round of applause.\" "
"277" "\"From my family to yours, I'd like to wish you a happy Thanksgiving. Like millions of Americans, Michelle, Malia, Sasha, and I will spend the day eating great food, watching a little football, and reflecting on how truly lucky we are. <p>As Americans, each of us has our own list of things and people to be thankful for. But there are some blessings we all share. <p>We're especially grateful for the men and women who defend our country overseas. To all the servicemembers eating Thanksgiving dinner far from your families: The American people are thinking of you today. And when you come home, we intend to make sure that we serve you as well as you're serving America. <p>We're also grateful for the Americans who are taking time out of their holiday to serve in soup kitchens and shelters, making sure their neighbors have a hot meal and a place to stay. This sense of mutual responsibility&mdash;the idea that I am my brother's keeper; that I am my sister's keeper&mdash;has always been part of what makes our country special. And it's one of the reasons the Thanksgiving tradition has endured. <p>The very first Thanksgiving was a celebration of community during a time of great hardship, and we have followed that example ever since. Even when the fate of our Union was far from certain&mdash;during a Civil War, two World Wars, a Great Depression&mdash;Americans drew strength from each other. They had faith that tomorrow would be better than today. <p>We're grateful that they did. As we gather around the table, we pause to remember the pilgrims, pioneers, and patriots who helped make this country what it is. They faced impossible odds, and yet somehow, they persevered. Today, it's our turn. <p>I know that for many of you, this Thanksgiving is more difficult than most. But no matter how tough things are right now, we still give thanks for that most American of blessings, the chance to determine our own destiny. The problems we face didn't develop overnight, and we won't solve them overnight. But we will solve them. All it takes is for each of us to do our part. <p>With all the partisanship and gridlock here in Washington, it's easy to wonder if such unity is really possible. But think about what's happening at this very moment: Americans from all walks of life are coming together as one people, grateful for the blessings of family, community, and country. <p>If we keep that spirit alive, if we support each other and look out for each other and remember that we're all in this together, then I know that we too will overcome the challenges of our time. <p>So today I'm thankful to serve as your President and Commander and Chief. I'm thankful that my daughters get to grow up in this great country of ours. And I'm thankful for the chance to do my part, as together, we make tomorrow better than today. <p>Thanks, and have a wonderful Thanksgiving.\" "
"278" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, Scranton! Thank you. It is good to be back in Scranton. Go, Knights! The&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;it is good to be here. Thank you, Principal Schaeffer, for letting us hold this little assembly here at the high school. [<i>Laughter</i>] The principal was bragging about both the basketball team and the football team. I understand they're&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;this&mdash;right up there? All right. <p>Thank you, Donna, for the wonderful invitation. We had a chance to visit in the Festas' living room, and just a wonderful family, and their kids are doing great. So I'm really, really proud to be with all of you. <p><i>Audience member</i>. Can you come to my house? [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President</i>. What did she say? You want&mdash;next time, your house. [<i>Laughter</i>] All right? <p>Now, I will say, Donna put out some really good cookies. So&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I'm just saying. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Audience member.</i> [<i>Inaudible</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> All right. <p>Now, I also want to bring greetings from somebody you guys know pretty well, a guy named Joe Biden. Joe is in Iraq as we speak, and he's visiting with our brave men and women in uniform, thanking them for their service. And part of the reason he's going now is because pretty soon, we'll all get a chance to say thank you. This holiday season is going to be a season of homecomings, because by the end of December, all of our troops are going to be out of Iraq. They're going to be back home. <p>Now, I mention Joe, first of all, because he loves Scranton. He was born here in Scranton. He spent his early years here in Scranton. This town helped make him who he is. This is a town where he and so many of you grew up with a faith in an America where hard work matters, where responsibility matters, where if you stay true to those things, you can get ahead. Where no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, whether you own a factory or you work on the factory floor, America is a place where you can make it if you try. <p>That's why Joe and I ran for this office. You are why we spent so much time in this State a few years ago. Because even then, those ideas&mdash;the idea that's at the very heart of the American Dream&mdash;felt like it was slipping away for a lot of people. I&mdash;it was wonderful visiting with Patrick and Donna, and we were talking about the fact that Patrick's been&mdash;Patrick Festa has been teaching in the school system for 25 years now; Donna has been a graphic artist. But they're still worried about if the washer-dryer goes out or if they have to do a car repair. Things are tight. And they're pretty lucky that they've got a good job, steady jobs. For a lot of folks, it's a lot tougher. <p>And we've gone through a difficult decade for middle class Americans. More good jobs in manufacturing left our shores over the last decade. More of our prosperity was built on risky financial deals and homes that a lot of folks couldn't afford. And a lot of you watched your incomes fall or your wages flatline. Meanwhile, the costs of everything from college to health care were all going up. And then, after all that, the financial crisis hit because of the irresponsibility of some on Wall Street. And that made things a whole lot tougher. <p>Today, we all know folks who've spent months looking for work. We all know families making deep sacrifices just to get by. We all know young people who've gone to college, they've taken on a bunch of debt, now they're finding that the opportunity that they worked so hard to find is getting harder and harder to come by. So there's a sense of deep frustration among people who've done the right thing, but don't see that hard work and that responsibility pay off. And that's not the way things are supposed to be, not here in America. <p>But here today with all of you, I'm thinking about something that is probably Joe's favorite expression. And some of you know Joe's story. He went through some tough times when he was a kid. And his father used to tell him, \\"Champ, when you get knocked down, you get up.\\" You get up. <p>And Scranton, we've taken some punches these last few years. But there's one thing I know about people here in Scranton, people in Pennsylvania, and people all across America: We are tougher than the times. We are America. We get back up. We fight back. We move forward. We don't give up. We get back up. <p>And even though our economic problems weren't caused overnight and so they're not going to be solved overnight, even though it's going to take a few more years to meet all the challenges that were decades in the making, we're fighting to make things right again. We're fighting to make sure that if you are working hard and you are carrying out your responsibilities and you're looking out for your family, that you can live a good, solid, middle class life. That is what America is all about. And we are going to be fighting for that every day, every week, every month, and every year that we're in office. <p>We want an America where hard work is valued and responsibility is rewarded. We're fighting to rebuild an economy that restores security for the middle class and renews opportunity for folks that are trying to get into the middle class. We're fighting to build an economy that's not based on outsourcing and tax loopholes and risky financial schemes, but one that's built to last, one where we invest in things like education and small businesses, an economy that's built on manufacturing and building things again and selling them all around the world. <p>And we're going to keep fighting to make our economy stronger and put our friends and neighbors back to work, to give our young people opportunities greater than the opportunities that we had. <p>Now, that's what we've been doing for the last 3 years. But 2 months ago, I sent a particular piece of legislation to Congress called the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" The&mdash;now, this is a jobs bill that will put more Americans to work, put more money back into the pockets of working families. It contains ideas that historically have been supported by Democrats and Republicans. It's paid for by asking our wealthiest citizens to pay their fair share. And independent economists said that it would create up to 2 million jobs and grow the economy by as much as 2 percent. And that's what we need right now. <p>Now, here's the problem&mdash;there is a problem. Folks in Washington don't seem to be getting the message. When this jobs bill came to a vote, Republicans in the Senate got together, and they blocked it. They refused to even debate it. Even though polls showed that two-thirds of Americans of all political stripes supported the ideas in this bill, not one single Republican stepped up to say this is the right thing to do. Not one. But here's the good news, Scranton. Just like you don't quit, I don't quit. So&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;I don't quit. So I said, look, I'm going to do everything that I can do without Congress to get things done. <p>So let's just take a look over the past several weeks. We said, we can't wait. We just went ahead and started taking some steps on our own to give working Americans a leg up in a tough economy. For homeowners, I announced a new policy that will help families refinance their mortgages and save thousands of dollars. For all the young people out here, we reformed our student loan process to make it easier for more students to pay off their debts earlier. For our veterans out here&mdash;and I see some veterans in the crowd&mdash;we ordered several new initiatives to help our returning heroes find new jobs and get trained for those jobs. Because you shouldn't have to fight for a job when you come home after fighting for America. You shouldn't have to do that. <p>And in fact, last week, I was able to sign into law two new tax breaks for businesses that hire veterans, because nobody out here who is a veteran should&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>Audience member.</i> [<i>Inaudible</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> &mdash;&mdash;we have to make sure that they are getting the help that they need. <p>So&mdash;and by the way, I think we're starting to get, maybe, to the Republicans a little bit, because they actually voted for this veterans bill. I was glad to see that. I was glad that Democrats and Republicans got together with this bipartisan legislation.<B> <p></B>Now, there's a lot more to do, though, if we're going to get every American back to work who wants to work and to rebuild an economy that works for every American, which is why we're going to give Congress another chance to do the right thing with the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" We're going to give them another chance to help working families like yours. <p>Last year, both parties came together to cut payroll taxes for the typical household by a thousand dollars. Now, that's been showing up in your paychecks each week. You may not be aware of it, because times are tight. But you actually got a tax cut of a thousand dollars this year. Now, I know you hear a lot of folks on cable TV claiming that I'm this big tax-and-spend liberal. Next time you hear that, you just remind the people who are saying it that since I've taken office, I've cut your taxes. <p>Your taxes today&mdash;the average middle class family, your taxes today are lower than when I took office. Just remember that. We have cut taxes for small businesses not once, not twice, but 17 times. The average family's tax burden is among the lowest it's been in the last 60 years. <p>So the problem is not that we've been raising taxes. We've actually been trying to give families a break during these tough times. But here's the thing. That payroll tax cut that we passed in December of last year, it's set to expire at the end of this year, 1 month from now. If that happens, if Congress doesn't act to extend this tax cut, then most of you, the typical middle class family, is going to see your taxes go up by a thousand dollars at the worst possible time. <p><i>Audience member.</i> I can't afford that. <p><i>The President.</i> A young lady just said she can't afford that. It would be tough for you. It would also be a massive blow for the economy, because we're not fully out of the recession yet. Don't take my word for it; this is what every independent economist says. We can't let this tax cut lapse right now. <p>And that's why my jobs bill&mdash;part of the \\"American Jobs Act\\" was to extend this tax cut for another year. In fact, it does one better. It says, let's expand that tax cut. Instead of a thousand-dollar tax cut next year, the typical working family under my plan would get a tax cut of $1,500. Instead of it coming out of your paycheck, it would be going into your pocket. Now, that's money that you can spend on a small business right here in Scranton. If you're a small-business owner, my jobs bill will cut your payroll taxes in half. So if you've got 50 employees making $50,000 each, you'd get a tax cut of nearly $80,000. That's money that you can then use to hire some more workers and get this economy moving again. That's a good thing. <p>Now, this really should not be controversial. A lot of Republicans have agreed with this tax cut in the past. The Republican leader in the Senate said it would, quote&mdash;I'm quoting here&mdash;it would \\"put money back&mdash;a lot of money back in the hands of business and in the hands of individuals.\\" That's what he said. Another Republican leader said it would help small-business owners create jobs and help their employees spend more money, creating even more jobs. One Republican even called it a, quote, \\"conservative approach to help put our economy back on track.\\" So what's the problem? <p>The bad news is some of those same Republicans voted no on my jobs bill and those tax cuts. I don't know whether it's just because I proposed it. I don't know. They said no to cutting taxes for small-business owners and working families. One of them said just 2 years ago that this kind of tax cut would boost job creation, and now that I'm proposing it, he said we should let it expire. I mean, what happened? <p>Republicans say they're the party of tax cuts. That's what they say. A lot of them have sworn an oath to never raise taxes on anybody as long as they live. That doesn't square with their vote against these tax cuts. <p><i>Audience member.</i> [<i>Inaudible</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> Are they&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I mean, how is it that they can break their oath when it comes to raising your taxes, but not break their oath when it comes to raising taxes for wealthy people? That doesn't make any sense. I mean, I hope that they don't want to just score political points. I hope that they want to help the economy. <p>This cannot be about who wins and loses in Washington. This is about delivering a win for the American people. That's what this is about. You know, a 1,500-dollar&mdash;$1,500, that's not a bandaid for middle class families, that's a big deal. How many people here could use an extra $1,500? Yes, I thought so. <p>So I'll tell you what, Scranton. They may have voted no on these tax cuts once. But I'm already filled with the Christmas spirit. There's kind of some chill in the air. [<i>Laughter</i>] I saw some Christmas decorations at the Festas'. So I'm in a Christmas spirit. I want to give them another chance. I want to give them a chance to redeem themselves. We're going to give them another chance. <p>So as early as Friday, this Friday, in a couple of days, we're going to give them a chance to take a simple vote on these tax cuts. If they vote no, then the typical family's taxes will go up by a thousand dollars next year. If they vote yes, then the typical family will have an extra $1,500 in their pocket. So let's just be clear: If they vote no, your taxes go up; vote yes, you get a tax cut. Which way do you think Congress should vote? <p><i>Audience members.</i> Yes! <p><i>The President.</i> They should vote yes. It's pretty simple. <p>Now, if you want to see what this vote will mean for your bottom line, we have this spiffy new tax calculator on our Internet site, whitehouse.gov. So you can go on there, and you can punch in your numbers and figure out what it would mean to your family. But this is real money that would go into the economy at a time it needs it. <p>Now, I really do think your voices are already getting through, because some of the folks in Congress are starting to say, well, maybe we're open to this thing. Maybe we'll be open to these tax cuts. And that's good news. But I want to make sure that we do this responsibly. So what I've said is, to pay for this tax cut, we need to ask wealthy Americans to pay their fair share. Right? <p>We're asking&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;what we've said is, let's ask the folks who've seen their incomes rise fastest, who've gotten bigger tax breaks under Bush, let's ask them to help out a little bit, because they made it better through the recession than most of us. Let's ask them to contribute a little bit more to get the economy going again. <p>And I just want to point out, I've done pretty well over these last few years. So I've said, let me pay a little bit more. I promise you, I can afford it. [<i>Laughter</i>] I really can. We're asking people like me to sacrifice just a little bit so that you guys have a little bit of a leg up. <p>And by the way, let me say this. When you talk to most folks who are making a million dollars a year, they are willing to do more if they're asked. Warren Buffett's a good example. They're willing to do more if they're asked. <p>I&mdash;now, I mean, I don't want to exaggerate. It's not like they're volunteering, you know. [<i>Laughter</i>] But if they're asked, if they feel like it's going to help middle class families, help grow the economy, help to reduce the deficit, they're willing to help. I can't tell you how many well-to-do folks I meet who say, look, America gave me a chance to succeed. Somewhere along the line, somebody gave me a good education. Somewhere along the line, somebody gave me a college scholarship. Somewhere along the line, somebody built the information and transportation networks that have helped my business grow. Somewhere along the line, somebody gave me a shot. And so now it's my turn to do the next generation that same good thing. I've got to give something back to them as well. <p>Because, Scranton, I&mdash;this is something everybody in this audience understands. When you think about the history of Scranton and the immigrants who came here and worked hard, each successive generation doing a little bit better, you guys know that what America is about is that we're all in this together, that each of us has to do our own individual part, but we also have to be looking out for one another. <p>And that's the very simple choice that's facing Congress right now: Are you going to cut taxes for the middle class and those who are trying to get into the middle class, or are you going to protect massive tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires, many of whom don't even want those tax breaks? Are you going to ask a few hundred thousand people who have done very, very well to do their fair share, or are you going to raise taxes for hundreds of millions of people across the country&mdash;160 million Americans? Are you willing to fight as hard for middle class families as you do for those who are most fortunate? What's it going to be? <p>That's the choice in front of Congress. And I hope Members of Congress think hard about this, because their actions lately don't reflect who we are as a people. What does it say about our priorities when we'd rather protect a few really well-to-do people than fight for the jobs of teachers and firefighters? What does it say when we&mdash;about our values when we'd rather fight for corporate tax breaks than put construction workers back on the job rebuilding our roads and our bridges and our schools? What does it say about us if we're willing to cut taxes for the people who don't need them and raise them on folks who do need a tax break? <p>We are better than that. America is better than that. We celebrate individual achievement, we expect everybody to work hard, but we don't believe in every person for themselves; we believe that out of many, we come together as one. We're a people who reach for our own success, but we also reach back for the people&mdash;to bring somebody up, reach back to help others earn their own success as well. And we believe that if the folks at the bottom and the folks in the middle succeed, then American succeeds, and the folks at the top succeed as well. <p>The decisions we make today are going to determine whether or not our kids grow up in a country where those values still thrive. And, Scranton, I don't know about you, but I want our kids to grow up&mdash;I want Malia and Sasha and all your kids, I want them to come into a country that is built on those big, generous values, those&mdash;an America that reflects the values that we inherited from our parents and our grandparents. <p>So if you agree with me, I need you to tell Congress where your priorities lie. Members of Congress, they work for you. Scranton, you've got a great Senator in Senator Casey. I love Senator Casey. <p>So I want you to know, Casey's already on the program. But to everybody who is here, everybody who is watching, send your Senate a message&mdash;send your Senators a message. Tell them, \\"Don't be a grinch.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] Don't be a grinch. Don't vote to raise taxes on working Americans during the holidays. Make sure to renew unemployment insurance during the holidays. Stop saying no to steps that would make our economy stronger. Put our country before party. Put money back into the pockets of working Americans. Do your job. Pass this bill. <p>Scranton, the American people are with us on this. It is time for folks to stop running around spending all their time talking about what's wrong with America. Spend some time, roll up your sleeves, and help us rebuild America. That's what we need to do. <p>There is nothing wrong with this country that we can't fix. We're Americans, and our story has never been about things coming easy to us. That's not what Scranton's been about. That's not what Pennsylvania, that's not what America is about. It's been about rising to the moment and meeting the moment when things are hard. It's about doing what's right. So let's do what's right. Let's prove that the best days of America are still ahead of us. <p>God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"279" "\"<i>The President</i>. It's nice having your own band. Please have a seat, everyone. Merry Christmas! Merry Christmas! <p>Thank you, Secretary Salazar, for that introduction and for your hard work to preserve and protect our land and our water and our wildlife. I also want to thank Minister Rogers for the beautiful invocation, as well as Neil Mulholland and everyone at the National Park Foundation and the National Park Service who helped put this outstanding event together. I'd like to thank Carson Daly and Big Time Rush and all of tonight's performers for joining us to kick off the holiday season here at the White House. <p>For 89 years, Presidents and Americans have come together to light the National Christmas Tree. And this year is a special one. This year, we have a brand new tree. The last one stood here for more than 30 years, until we lost it in a storm earlier this year. But we all know that this tradition is much larger than any single tree. And tonight, once again, we gather here not simply to light some decorations, but to honor a story that lights the world. <p>More than 2,000 years ago, a child was born to two faithful travelers who could find rest only in a stable, among the cattle and the sheep. But this was not just any child. Christ's birth made the angels rejoice and attracted shepherds and kings from afar. He was a manifestation of God's love for us. And He grew up to become a leader with a servant's heart who taught us a message as simple as it is powerful: that we should love God and love our neighbor as ourselves. <p>That teaching has come to encircle the globe. It has endured for generations. And today, it lies at the heart of my Christian faith and that of millions of Americans. No matter who we are, or where we come from, or how we worship, it's a message that can unite all of us on this holiday season. <p>So long as the gifts and the parties are happening, it's important for us to keep in mind the central message of this season and keep Christ's words not only in our thoughts, but also in our deeds. In this season of hope, let's help those who need it most: the homeless, the hungry, the sick and shut in. In this season of plenty, let's reach out to those who struggle to find work or provide for their families. In this season of generosity, let's give thanks and honor to our troops and our veterans, and their families who've sacrificed so much for us. And let's welcome all those who are happily coming home. <p>And this holiday season, let us reaffirm our commitment to each other, as family members, as neighbors, as Americans, regardless of our color or creed or faith. Let us remember that we are one and we are a family. <p>So on behalf of Malia and Sasha and Michelle and our grandmother-in-chief, Marian&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;I wish you all the happiest holiday season, the merriest of Christmases. God bless you all, and may God bless the United States of America. <p>And with that, I'm going to invite the entire Obama clan up here to light the Christmas tree. I need some help, and there's a lot of technical aspects to this. [<i>Laughter</i>] Come on, guys. All right. <p>Okay, we're going to start counting down here. We've got the switch right here. <p><i>The First Lady</i>. All right, come on. <p><i>The President</i>. Everybody ready? And this is the new tree. I know it's not quite as big as the old tree, but it's going to take time to grow. But we're going to fill it up with some spirit and start a new tradition right now. <p>All right, everybody ready? We're going to start counting down. Five, four, three, two, one&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;whoa! There you go. That's a good-looking tree. Thank you, everyone.\" "
"280" "\"Well, thank you, Sanjay. It is an honor to be with you today and to follow President Kikwete and President Bush. To Bono and Alicia, to the ONE campaign, thank you for bringing us together. Because of your work, all across Africa there are children who are no longer starving, mothers who are no longer dying of treatable diseases, fathers who are again providing for their families. And because of all of you, so many people are now blessed with hope. <p>We've got Members of Congress who have done so much for this cause who are here today, and we want to thank them. Let me also thank President Bush for joining us from Tanzania and for his bold leadership on this issue. I believe that history will record the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief as one of his greatest legacies. And that program, more ambitious than even the leading advocates thought was possible at the time, has saved thousands and thousands and thousands of lives and spurred international action and laid the foundation for a comprehensive global plan that will impact the lives of millions. And we are proud that we have the opportunity to carry that work forward. <p>Today is a remarkable day. Today we come together as a global community, across continents, across faiths and cultures, to renew our commitment to ending the AIDS pandemic once and for all. <p>Now, if you go back and you look at the themes of past World AIDS Days, if you read them one after another, you'll see the story of how the human race has confronted one of the most devastating pandemics in our history. You'll see that in those early years, when we started losing good men and women to a disease that no one truly understood, it was about ringing the alarm, calling for global action, proving that this deadly disease was not isolated to one area or one group of people. <p>And that's part of what makes today so remarkable, because back in those early years, few could have imagined this day, that we would be looking ahead to the beginning of the end, marking a World AIDS Day that has gone from that early beginning when people were still uncertain to now a theme: \\"Getting to Zero.\\" Few could have imagined that we'd be talking about the real possibility of an AIDS-free generation. But that's what we're talking about. That's why we're here. And we arrived here because of all of you and your unwavering belief that we can, and we will, beat this disease. <p>Because we invested in antiretroviral treatment, people who would have died, some of whom are here today, are living full and vibrant lives. Because we developed new tools, more and more mothers are giving birth to children free from this disease. And because of a persistent focus on awareness, the global rate of new infections and deaths is declining. <p>So make no mistake, we are going to win this fight. But the fight is not over, not by a long shot. The rate of new infections may be going down elsewhere, but it's not going down here in America. The infection rate here has been holding steady for over a decade. There are communities in this country being devastated still by this disease. <p>When new infections among young black gay men increase by nearly 50 percent in 3 years, we need to do more to show them that their lives matter. When Latinos are dying sooner than other groups and when black women feel forgotten, even though they account for most of the new cases among women, then we've got to do more. <p>So this fight is not over. Not for the 1.2 million Americans who are living with HIV right now. Not for the Americans who are infected every day. This fight is not over for them, it's not over for their families, and as a consequence, it can't be over for anybody in this room, and it certainly isn't over for your President. <p>Since I took office, we've had a robust national dialogue on HIV/AIDS. Members of my administration have fanned out across the country to meet people living with HIV, to meet researchers, faith leaders, medical providers, and private sector partners. We've spoken to over 4,000 people. And out of all those conversations, we drafted a new plan to combat this disease. Last year, we released that plan, our first-ever national HIV/AIDS strategy. <p>We went back to basics: prevention, treatment, and focusing our efforts where the need is greatest. And we laid out a vision where every American, regardless of age, gender, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, or socioeconomic status, can get access to life-extending care. <p>And I want to be clear about something else: Since taking office, we've increased overall funding to combat HIV/AIDS to record levels. With bipartisan support, we reauthorized the Ryan White Care Act. And as I signed that bill, I was so proud to also announce that my administration was ending the ban that prohibited people with HIV from entering America. Because of that step, next year, for the first time in two decades, we will host the International AIDS Conference. <p>So we've done a lot over the past 3 years, but we can do so much more. Today I'm announcing some new commitments. We're committing an additional $15 million for the Ryan White program that supports care provided by HIV medical clinics across the country. We want to keep those doors open so they can keep saving lives. We're committing an additional $35 million for State AIDS-drug assistance programs. <p>The Federal Government can't do this alone, so I'm also calling on State governments and pharmaceutical companies and private foundations to do their part to help Americans get access to all the lifesaving treatments. <p>This is a global fight, and it's one that America must continue to lead. In looking back at the history of HIV/AIDS, you'll see that no other country has done more than this country, and that's testament to our leadership as a country. But we can't be complacent. <p>I think this is an area where we can also look back and take pride that both Republicans and Democrats in Congress have consistently come together to fund this fight, not just here, but around the world. And that's a testament to the values that we share as Americans, a commitment that extends across party lines, that's demonstrated by the fact that President Bush, President Clinton, and I are joining you all today. <p>Since I took office, we've increased support for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. We've launched a Global Health Initiative that has improved access to health care, helping bring down the cost of vaccines, and over the next 5 years, will help save the lives of 4 million more children. And all along, we kept focusing on expanding our impact. <p>Today I'm proud to announce that as of September, the United States now supports antiretroviral treatment for nearly 4 million people worldwide&mdash;4 million people. And in just the past year, we've provided 600,000 HIV-positive mothers with access to drugs so that 200,000 babies could be born HIV-free. And nearly 13 million people have received care and treatment, including more than 4 million children. So we've got some stuff to be proud of. <p>But we've got to do more. We're achieving these results not by acting alone, but by partnering with developing countries like Tanzania and with leaders like President Kikwete. <p>Now as we go forward, we've got to keep refining our strategy so that we're saving as many lives as possible. We need to listen when the scientific community focuses on prevention. That's why, as a matter of policy, we're now investing in what works, from medical procedures to promoting healthy behavior. <p>And that's why we're setting a goal of providing antiretroviral drugs to more than 1&frac12; million HIV-positive pregnant women over the next 2 years so that they have the chance to give birth to HIV-free babies. <p>We're not going to stop there. We know that treatment is also prevention. And today we're setting a new target of helping 6 million people get treatment by the end of 2013. So that's 2 million more people than our original goal. <p>And on this World AIDS Day, here's my message to everybody who is out there: To the global community, we ask you to join us. Countries that have committed to the Global Fund need to give the money that they promised. Countries that haven't made a pledge, they need to do so. That includes countries that in the past might have been recipients, but now are in a position to step up as major donors. China and other major economies are in a position now to transition in a way that can help more people. <p>To Congress, keep working together and keep the commitments you've made intact. At a time when so much in Washington divides us, the fight against this disease has united us across parties and across Presidents. And it shows that we can do big things when Republicans and Democrats put their common humanity before politics. So we need to carry that spirit forward. <p>And to all Americans, we've got to keep fighting. Fight for every person who needs our help today, but also fight for every person who didn't live to see this moment, for the Rock Hudsons and the Arthur Ashes and every person who woke us up to the reality of HIV/AIDS. We've got to fight for Ryan White and his mother Jeanne and the Ray brothers and every person who forced us to confront our destructive prejudices and our misguided fears. Fight for Magic Johnson and Mary Fisher and every man, woman, and child, who, when told they were going to die from this disease, they said: \\"No, we're not. We're going to live.\\" <p>Keep fighting for all of them because we can end this pandemic. We can beat this disease. We can win this fight. We just have to keep at it, steady, persistent: today, tomorrow, every day until we get to zero. And as long as I have the honor of being your President, that's what this administration is going to keep doing. That's my pledge. That's my commitment to all of you. And that's got to be our promise to each other, because we've come so far and we've saved so many lives, we might as well finish the fight. <p>Thank you for all you've done. God bless you. God bless America. Thank you.\" "
"281" "\"Thank you so much. Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat. It is wonderful to see all of you. Thank you, Phyliss, for the wonderful introduction. <p>I want to thank all the tribal leaders who are here for making this year's conference the most successful yet. I want to acknowledge outstanding members of my team that have helped pull this together, but more importantly, day in and day out are thinking about what we can do to make sure that all the tribes that are represented have a voice here in Washington. <p>First of all, my outstanding Secretary of the Interior, Ken Salazar, we are so proud of him; Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, Larry Echo Hawk&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;hey&mdash;and our outstanding Solicitor for the Department of Interior, Hilary Tompkins. <p>Now, today, I'm here not only as President. As I've mentioned before, I am also here as an adopted member of the Crow Nation. So I'd like to recognize my adoptive mom and dad, Sonny and Mary Black Eagle, who are backstage. They're going to be coming out here in a little bit. I'm so grateful they took me into their family. I bet they're grateful that I never went through the \\"terrible twos\\"&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;or \\"terrible teens.\\" They got me after I was a little more polished. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Ken Salazar, he works so hard on the issues that matter to all of you. And we also have Members of Congress here as well who are great partners in this effort. And I finally&mdash;I want to give a shout-out to the young people who are here as part of the White House program called Champions for Change. Really remarkable young people. I had a chance to meet them backstage. There's Teressa Baldwin, who's working to prevent teen suicide among Alaska Natives, LeVon Thomas, who's bringing green jobs to the Navajo Nation, Dallas Duplessis, who started a gardening club to promote healthy eating in Tulalip, Washington. She wrote, \\"Our goal is not to be couch potatoes, but to grow some potatoes.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] I think Michelle would like that one. <p>Standing in this room with leaders of all ages, it's impossible not to be optimistic about the future of Indian Country. Obviously, we face tough times. But you still believe that tomorrow can be better than today. You're out there making your communities better places to live. What you expect, and what you deserve, is a Federal Government that helps, not hinders, your efforts. You deserve leaders in Washington who fight for you every single day. <p>That's one of the reasons I ran for this office. When I visited the Crow Nation during the campaign, I said my job was not just to win an election, it was to make sure that Washington starts focusing on you. I promised a true government-to-government relationship, a relationship that recognizes our sometimes painful history, a relationship that respects the unique heritage of Native Americans and that includes you in the dream that we all share. <p>And together, we're building that relationship. I told you I would bring tribal leaders to Washington to reflect&mdash;to develop an agenda that reflects your hopes and your concerns. And now, for a third year in a row, we have kept that promise. I told you that when I was President, we wouldn't just pay lip service to the idea of consultation. And today, we're holding every Cabinet agency responsible for working together with Indian tribes. <p>I told you I'd appoint Native Americans to senior positions in the White House. And I know that many of you have worked with Kim Teehee of Cherokee Nation, my Senior Policy Adviser for Native American issues, and Charlie Galbraith of the Navajo Nation, in our Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. <p>We're working to make our government-to-government relationship even stronger. We asked Congress to recognize the power of tribes to prosecute perpetrators of domestic violence, whether they're Indian or non-Indian. And in the wake of the Carcieri decision, we've asked Congress to restore the Secretary of the Interior's authority to take land into trust for federally recognized Indian tribes. <p>So this new relationship represents a major step forward. It is change. But I promised even more than that. I told you that as President, I would work with you to tackle the most difficult problems facing Native American families. And that's exactly what we've done. We passed the Tribal Law and Order Act and began making Indian Country a safer place to live. We permanently authorized the Indian Health Care Improvement Act and made quality health care accessible to more Native Americans. <p>Just this week, we streamlined leasing regulations, which will lead to more homes, more businesses, more renewable energy on the reservation. That's what change is. <p>And finally, we said that even as we include Indian tribes in the broader promise of America, we're going to keep native traditions alive. So when Michelle launched \\"Let's Move!\\" in Indian Country, she brought lacrosse players to the White House and invited Native American children to plant the \\"three sisters\\" crops in the White House vegetable garden. <p>While our work together is far from over, today we can see what change looks like. It's the Native American-owned small business that's opening its doors or a worker helping a school renovate. It's new roads and houses. It's wind turbines going up on tribal lands and crime going down in tribal communities. That's what change looks like. <p>So we should be proud of what we've done together. But of course, that should sharpen our resolve to do even more. Because as long as Native Americans face unemployment and poverty rates that are far higher than the national average, we're going to have more work to do. And I wake up every day focused on how to get this economy growing and create jobs for every American, faster. We're working to rebuild an economy where no matter who you are, no matter what you look like&mdash;Black, White, Latino, Asian, Native American&mdash;you can make it if you try. <p>And that's why I proposed the \\"American Jobs Act,\\" to help all Americans, including first Americans, make it through these tough times. It's why my administration has addressed the obstacles that are unique to Indian Country by guaranteeing loans for homeowners and small-business owners and tribes. It's why we're working to equip your communities with high-speed Internet access. <p>And even as we meet at this moment, we have to prepare the next generation for the future, which is why earlier today I signed an Executive order to launch the White House Initiative on American Indian and Alaska Native Education. <p>Secretary Duncan&mdash;who is here&mdash;Secretary Salazar, they're going to work together on this effort to prepare Native American youth to compete for the high-skilled, good jobs of tomorrow. We're going to find ways to reduce the dropout rate. We're going to help students who've already dropped out reenter the education system. And we're going to strengthen our tribal colleges and universities. They are cornerstones of their community, and they deserve our support. <p>So we've made progress together. And a lot of that progress is possible because of all of you, because the ideas that you've shared at the last two conferences and that you're sharing at this conference. And that's why I'm looking forward to hearing the results of the discussion that you have today. I want to know what we can do to keep tackling the tough issues, from education to jobs to health care to public safety. <p>It would be nice to say that the work was done, but we know the truth. We haven't solved all our problems. We've got a long road ahead. But I believe that one day, we're going to be able to look back on these years and say that this was a turning point. This was the moment when we began to build a strong middle class in Indian Country, the moment when businesses, large and small, began opening up in reservations, the moment when we stopped repeating the mistakes of the past and began building a better future together, one that honors old traditions and welcomes every Native American into the American Dream. <p>We've got to finish what we started. So today I want to thank all of you for everything that you do. I want to ask you to keep going. And when you go back home, making your communities better places to live, I want you all to know that you've got a partner in Washington. You have an administration that understands the challenges that you face, and most importantly, you've got a President who's got your back. <p>So thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"282" "\"This week, we learned that our economy added another 140,000 private sector jobs in November. Despite some strong headwinds this year, America's economy has now created private sector jobs for the past 21 months in a row, almost 3 million new jobs in all, more than half a million of them in the past 4 months alone. <p>We need to keep this growth going and strengthen it. And that's why we've been fighting to pass a series of jobs bills through Congress, bills that independent economists say will create more jobs and grow the economy even faster. Because now is the time to step on the gas, not slam on the brakes. <p>Unfortunately, too many Republicans in Congress don't seem to share that same sense of urgency. Over the last few months, they've said no to most of these jobs bills: no to putting teachers and firefighters back to work, no to putting construction workers back on the job. And this week, they actually said no to cutting taxes for middle class families. <p>You see, last year, both parties came together to cut payroll taxes for the typical middle class family by about a thousand dollars. But that tax cut is set to expire at the end of this month. If that happens, that same family will see its taxes go up by a thousand dollars. We can't let that happen. In fact, I think we should cut taxes on working families and small-business owners even more. <p>And we're going to keep pushing Congress to make this happen. They shouldn't go home for the holidays until they get this done. And if you agree with me, I could use your help. <p>We've set up a simple tax cut calculator on whitehouse.gov so that you can see exactly what the stakes are for your family. Try it out. Then let your Members of Congress know where you stand. <p>Tell them not to vote to raise taxes on working Americans during the holidays. Tell them to put country before party, put money back in the pockets of working Americans, pass these tax cuts. <p>And we're all in this together. The more Americans succeed, the more America succeeds. And if we remember that and do what it takes to keep this economy growing and opportunity rising, then I'm confident that we'll come out of this stronger than before.\" "
"283" "\"<i>The President.</i> Well, good evening, everybody. Welcome to the White House. What a spectacular-looking crowd here. [<i>Laughter</i>] I want to start by thanking David Rubenstein, Michael Kaiser, and the Kennedy Center Trustees, and everyone who has made the Kennedy Center such a wonderful place for so many people for so many years. I also want to acknowledge my good friend Caroline Kennedy for continuing her family's legacy of supporting the arts. And finally, I want to thank the creator of the Kennedy Center Honors and the Cochair of the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities, George Stevens. George and his son Michael are still bringing this show to life after 34 years, and we are grateful to both of them. So&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]. <p>Tonight we honor five giants from the world of the arts, not just for a single role or a certain performance, but for a lifetime of greatness. And just to be clear, this doesn't mean that they're over the hill. [<i>Laughter</i>] It just means they've come a long way. <p>Now, at first glance, the men and women on this stage could not be more different. They come from different generations, different walks of life. They have different talents, and they've traveled different paths. And yet they belong here together because each of tonight's honorees has felt the need to express themselves and share that expression with the world. <p>It's a feeling that all of us have at some point in our lives. That's why we sing, even if it's just in the shower. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's why we act, even if we never get past the school auditorium. That's why we dance, even if, as Michelle says, I look silly doing it. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's one of the downsides of being President: Your dance moves end up on YouTube. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But tonight's honorees take it a step further. By expressing themselves, they help us learn something about ourselves. They make us laugh, they move us to tears, they bring us together, and they push the boundaries of what we think is possible. And each of them has been blessed with an extraordinary gift. Tonight we thank them for sharing that gift with us. <p>Barbara Cook has been said to have the most magnificent voice in popular music, but she was born into a family that didn't know the first thing about singing. Growing up, while the other kids in her neighborhood were out playing hide and seek, Barbara would be inside listening to opera on the radio. By the time she was 23, Barbara was starring in her first Broadway show, and she went on to win a Tony for her performance as the original \\"Marian the Librarian\\" in \\"The Music Man.\\" <p>But success didn't come without pain, and she faced more than her share of challenges, before a show-stopping concert at Carnegie Hall in 1975 catapulted her back into the spotlight. Barbara's greatest strength has always been her ability to put her own feelings and experiences into her songs. As she says, \\"If I sing about emotion, and you say, yes, I've felt that too, then it brings us together, even if it's just for a little while.\\" <p>These days, Barbara has been through enough to sing just about anything, so now she teaches up-and-coming singers to do the same. The lesson always starts with \\"be yourself,\\" a piece of advice that she has always taken to heart. Maybe that's what has kept her so young. And Barbara says that some days she feels like she is 30, and tonight you look like you're 30. [<i>Laughter</i>] Some days she feels like she's 12, although her knee apparently does not agree. [<i>Laughter</i>] All we know is that we've never heard a voice like hers, so tonight we Barbara&mdash;honor Barbara Cook. <p>Now, Neil Diamond's songwriting career began like so many others: He was trying to impress a girl. [<i>Laughter</i>] The difference was that it worked, and he went on to marry the girl. As Neil says, \\"I should have realized then the potential power of songs and been a little more wary.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Even after such a promising start, music wasn't Neil's first choice. He wanted to go to medical school and find a cure for cancer. But then he met reality, which for him came in the form of organic chemistry. [<i>Laughter</i>] Neil ended up dropping out of college to take a 50-dollar-a-week songwriting job, and the \\"Solitary Man\\" was born. With a voice he describes as being full of gravel, potholes, left turns, and right turns, he went on to sell more than 125 million records. Elvis and Frank Sinatra asked to record versions of his songs, and today, Neil is the rare musician whose work can be heard everywhere from kids' movies to Red Sox games. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>When someone asked him why \\"Sweet Caroline\\" remains so popular, Neil said, \\"It's because anybody can sing, no matter how many drinks you've had.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, his shirts aren't as flashy as they used to be; I noticed you're buttoned up all the way to the top there. [<i>Laughter</i>] Neil can still&mdash;some good laughs here. [<i>Laughter</i>] Neil can still put a generation of fans in their seats. And so tonight we honor one of the great American songwriters for making us all want to sing along. Thank you, Neil Diamond. <p>When Sonny Rollins was growing up, he and his friends would sneak into jazz clubs by drawing mustaches on themselves&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;with an eyebrow pencil&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;to try to look older. Did that work, Sonny? [<i>Laughter</i>] We don't know if it fooled anybody, but they did get into the clubs. <p>Harlem in the 1930s was a hotbed of jazz, and for a young musician with a big horn and bigger dreams, it was heaven. Duke Ellington and Coleman Hawkins lived around the corner. Sonny learned melody and harmony from Thelonious Monk, and Miles Davis was a regular playing partner. <p>It wasn't long before Sonny earned the nickname the \\"Saxophone Colossus\\" and became known as one of the greatest improvisers in the history of jazz. Today, he often plays hour-long solos without any repetition, leaving audiences speechless. People sometimes wonder how he can play for so long, but in Sonny's words, \\"It just means there's something out there, and I know I have to find it.\\" <p>Sonny also loves to roam the crowd during a performance. One story goes that he was halfway through a solo one night when he jumped off the stage and disappeared. [<i>Laughter</i>] Just when the band was about to go looking for him, the solo started back up. Sonny had broken his foot and was lying on the floor, but he finished the set with so much energy and passion, the audience didn't notice. <p>To hear Sonny tell it, he's just keeping things pure. \\"The worst thing in the world to me is to play by rote,\\" he says. \\"You have to play from the inside; that's real jazz.\\" So tonight we honor a real jazz master, Mr. Sonny Rollins. <p>Meryl Streep was once described as a cross between a den-mother and a class cutup. [<i>Laughter</i>] I don't know who that was, but&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]. <p>When a reporter asked Clint Eastwood why he chose Meryl to star opposite him in \\"The Bridges of Madison County,\\" he shrugged and replied, \\"She's the greatest actor in the world.\\" At 15, Meryl won the role of \\"Marian the Librarian\\"&mdash;there's a theme here&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;in her high school's production of \\"The Music Man,\\" following the footsteps of her idol Barbara Cook. [<i>Laughter</i>] That led to Yale drama school and then to Hollywood, where Meryl won two Oscars in 4 years. And then she turned 38&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;which, in Washington at least, according to Meryl, is the sell-by date for Hollywood actresses. And she remembers turning to her husband Don and saying, \\"Well, it's over.\\" <p>Luckily, it was not over. Since then, Meryl has tackled incredibly complex roles, ranging from Julia Child to, most recently, Margaret Thatcher. Today, she's the most nominated actress in the history of the Academy Awards. She's tossed aside more than a few stereotypes along the way. Each of her roles is different and different from what we expect Meryl Streep to be. As she says, \\"I've picked the weirdest little group of personalities, but I think they've all deserved to have a life.\\" For giving life to those characters and joy to so many of us, let's give Meryl Streep a round of applause. <p>One final honoree is something of a regular here at the White House. I was telling him we need to give him a room&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;the Blue Room, the Red Room, and the Yo-Yo Ma room. [<i>Laughter</i>] We keep inviting him, and for some reason, he keeps on coming back. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>When Yo-Yo Ma took his first cello lesson, there wasn't a chair short enough for him, so he sat on three phone books instead. By the age of 4, he was learning the Bach suites. At age 7, he was performing for President Kennedy in this room. Today, he has 16 Grammys and is considered one of the greatest classical musicians alive. <p>But maybe the most amazing thing about Yo-Yo Ma is that everybody likes him. [<i>Laughter</i>] You've got to give me some tips. [<i>Laughter</i>] It's remarkable. <p>In a profession known for, let's face it, some temperament among its stars, Yo-Yo is a little different. He named one of his 300-year-old cellos \\"Petunia.\\" He's a big hugger. [<i>Laughter</i>] For every question you ask him, he asks you two in return. He's been named one of People Magazine's sexiest men alive. [<i>Laughter</i>] He's appeared on \\"Sesame Street\\"&mdash;I thought about asking him to go talk to Congress. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>And yet somehow, he's also found the time to become one of the most innovative and versatile musicians in the world. Yo-Yo likes to say that his goal is to take listeners on a trip with him and make a lasting connection. His sense of curiosity has driven him to experiment from everything from the Argentine tango to Chinese folk music, and he has brought musicians from around the world together with the sheer force of his personality. As he says, \\"If I know what music you love, and you know what music I love, we start out having a better conversation.\\" <p>The great Pablo Casals once described himself as a human being first, a musician second, and a cellist third. There is no doubt that Yo-Yo Ma is a great musician and a great cellist, but tonight we also honor him because he is a great human being. Thank you, Yo-Yo Ma. <p>Barbara Cook, Neil Diamond, Sonny Rollins, Meryl Streep, Yo-Yo Ma: At a time of year when Americans everywhere are counting their blessings, we want to give thanks to their extraordinary contributions. They have been blessings to all of us. We are grateful that they've chosen to share their gifts, to enrich our lives, and to inspire us to new heights. <p>And I think, for all of us, each of us can probably remember some personal moment. Michelle, during the rope line, was talking about how her dad loved jazz and could hear Sonny Rollins blasting through their little house on South Side. And it's true: Everybody sings Neil Diamond songs no matter how many drinks they've had. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Yo-Yo Ma, unfortunately my association with him is studying at law school, listening to Bach and his&mdash;no, it soothed my mind. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Meryl Streep, anybody who saw \\"The French Lieutenant's Woman\\" had a crush on her. I assume they&mdash;everybody remembers that. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>Audience member.</i> [<i>Inaudible</i>] [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> I'm ad libbing here a little bit. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>So each of them have made these extraordinary contributions, and it's worthwhile then for us to commit ourselves to making this a place where the arts can continue to thrive. Because right now, somewhere in America, there is a future Kennedy Center honoree practicing on some phone books or writing songs to impress a girl or wondering if she can cut it on the big stage. Let's make sure our young people can dream big dreams and follow them as far as they can go. And let's make sure the arts continue to be an important&mdash;no, a critical&mdash;part of who we are in the kind of world that we want to live in. <p>Tonight we congratulate all our extraordinary honorees. Thank you very much.\" "
"284" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. My number-one priority right now is doing everything that I can, every single day, to create jobs faster and to provide more security for middle class families and those trying to get into the middle class. And at this moment, that means making sure that nearly 160 million hard-working Americans don't see an increase in their taxes on January 1st. <p>A year ago at this time, both parties came together to cut payroll taxes for the typical American family by about $1,000. But as soon as this year ends, so does that tax cut. If Congress fails to renew this tax cut before then, that same family will see a tax hike of about $1,000 a year. There aren't many folks either in the middle class or those trying to get into the middle class who can afford to give up $1,000, not right now. And that's why Congress must act. <p>Although the unemployment rate went down last month, our recovery is still fragile, and the situation in Europe has added to that uncertainty. And that's why the majority of economists believe it's important to extend the payroll tax cut. And those same economists would lower their growth estimates for our economy if it doesn't happen. <p>Not only is extending the payroll tax cut important for the economy as a whole, it's obviously important for individual families. It's important insurance for them against the unexpected. It will help families pay their bills, it will spur spending, it will spur hiring, and it's the right thing to do. <p>And that's why in my jobs bill I proposed not only extending the tax cut, but expanding it to give a typical working family a tax cut of $1,500 next year. And it was paid for by asking a little more from millionaires and billionaires, a few hundred thousand people paying a little bit more could have not only extended the existing payroll tax cut but expanded it. <p>Last week, virtually every Senate Republican voted against that tax cut. Now, I know many Republicans have sworn an oath never to raise taxes as long as they live. How could it be that the only time there's a catch is when it comes to raising taxes on middle class families? How can you fight tooth and nail to protect high-end tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans and yet barely lift a finger to prevent taxes going up for 160 million Americans who really need the help? It doesn't make sense. <p>Now, the good news is, I think, the American people's voices are starting to get through in this town. I know that last week Speaker Boehner said this tax cut helps the economy because it allows every working American to keep more of their money. I know that over the weekend Senate Republican leaders said we shouldn't raise taxes on working people going into next year. <p>I couldn't agree more. And I hope that the rest of their Republican colleagues come around and join Democrats to pass these tax cuts and put money back into the pockets of working Americans. <p>Now, some Republicans who have pushed back against the idea of extending this payroll tax cut have said that we've got to pay for these tax cuts. And I'd just point out that they haven't always felt that way. Over the last decade, they didn't feel the need to pay for massive tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, which is one of the reasons that we face such large deficits. Indeed, when the Republicans took over the House at the beginning of this year, they explicitly changed the rules to say that tax cuts don't have to be paid for. So forgive me a little bit of a confusion when I hear folks insisting on tax cuts being paid for. <p>Having said that, we all recognize that we've got to make progress on the deficit, and I'm willing to work with Republicans to extend the payroll tax cut in a responsible way. What I'm not willing to do is to pay for the extension in a way that actually hurts the economy. <p>As Americans are well aware, this summer I signed into law nearly $1 trillion in spending cuts with another trillion dollars in cuts in the pipeline. And it would be irresponsible to now make additional deep cuts in areas like education or innovation or our basic safety net that are critical to the economy in order to pay for an extension of the payroll tax cut. We're not going to do that. Nor are we going to undo the budget agreement that I signed just a few short months ago. <p>Finally, with millions of Americans still looking for work, it would be a terrible mistake for Congress to go home for the holidays without extending unemployment insurance. If that happens, then in January they'll be leaving 1.3 million Americans out in the cold. For a lot of families, this emergency insurance is the last line of defense between hardship and catastrophe. Taking that money out of the economy now would do extraordinary harm to the economy. <p>And if you believe that Government shouldn't take money out of people's pockets, I hope Members of Congress realize that it's even worse when you take it out of the pockets of people who are unemployed and out there pounding the pavement looking for work. <p>We are going through what is still an extraordinary time in this country and in this economy. And I get letters every single day, and I talk to people who say to me: This unemployment insurance is what allowed me to keep my house before I was able to find another job; this is what allowed me to still put gas in the tank to take my kids to school. <p>We cannot play games with unemployment insurance when we still have an unemployment rate that is way too high. I've put forward a whole range of ideas for reform of the unemployment insurance system, and I'm happy to work with Republicans on those issues. But right now the most important thing is making sure that that gets extended as well. <p>This isn't just something that I want. This isn't just a political fight. Independent economists, some of whom have in the past worked for Republicans, agree that if we don't extend the payroll tax cut and we don't extend unemployment insurance, it will hurt our economy. The economy won't grow as fast, and we won't see hiring improve as quickly. It will take money out of the pockets of Americans just at a time when they need it. It will harm businesses that depend on the spending just at the time when the economy is trying to get some traction in this recovery. It will hurt all of us. And it will be a self-inflicted wound. <p>So my message to Congress is this: Keep your word to the American people, and don't raise taxes on them right now. Now is not the time to slam on the brakes, now is the time to step on the gas. Now is the time to keep growing the economy, to keep creating jobs, to keep giving working Americans the boost that they need. Now is the time to make a real difference in the lives of the people who sent us here. So let's get to work. <p>Thank you very much.\" "
"285" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello! Thank you, everybody. Please, please have a seat. Thank you so much. Thank you. Good afternoon, everybody. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Good afternoon. <p><i>The President.</i> Well, I want to start by thanking a few folks who've joined us today. We've got the mayor of Osawatomie, Phil Dudley is here. We have your superintendent Gary French in the house. And we have the principal of Osawatomie High, Doug Chisam. Yay! And I have brought your former Governor, who is doing now an outstanding job as Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius is in the house. We love Kathleen. <p>Well, it is great to be back in the State of Tex&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;State of Kansas. I was giving Bill Self a hard time; he was here a while back. As many of you know, I have roots here. I'm sure you're all familiar with the Obamas of Osawatomie. [<i>Laughter</i>] Actually, I like to say that I got my name from my father, but I got my accent and my values from my mother. She was born in Wichita. Her mother grew up in Augusta. Her father was from El Dorado. So my Kansas roots run deep. <p>My grandparents served during World War II. He was a soldier in Patton's army; she was a worker on a bomber assembly line. And together, they shared the optimism of a nation that triumphed over the Great Depression and over fascism. They believed in an America where hard work paid off and responsibility was rewarded and anyone could make it if they tried, no matter who you were, no matter where you came from, no matter how you started out. <p>And these values gave rise to the largest middle class and the strongest economy that the world has ever known. It was here in America that the most productive workers, the most innovative companies turned out the best products on Earth. And you know what? Every American shared in that pride and in that success, from those in the executive suites to those in middle management to those on the factory floor. So you could have some confidence that if you gave it your all, you'd take enough home to raise your family and send your kids to school and have your health care covered, put a little away for retirement. <p>Today, we're still home to the world's most productive workers. We're still home to the world's most innovative companies. But for most Americans, the basic bargain that made this country great has eroded. Long before the recession hit, hard work stopped paying off for too many people. Fewer and fewer of the folks who contributed to the success of our economy actually benefited from that success. Those at the very top grew wealthier from their incomes and their investments, wealthier than ever before. But everybody else struggled with costs that were growing and paychecks that weren't, and too many families found themselves racking up more and more debt just to keep up. <p>Now, for many years, credit cards and home equity loans papered over this harsh reality. But in 2008, the house of cards collapsed. We all know the story by now: mortgages sold to people who couldn't afford them or even sometimes understand them; banks and investors allowed to keep packaging the risk and selling it off; huge bets and huge bonuses made with other people's money on the line; regulators who were supposed to warn us about the dangers of all this, but looked the other way or didn't have the authority to look at all. <p>It was wrong. It combined the breathtaking greed of a few with irresponsibility all across the system. And it plunged our economy and the world into a crisis from which we're still fighting to recover. It claimed the jobs and the homes and the basic security of millions of people, innocent, hard-working Americans who had met their responsibilities, but were still left holding the bag. <p>And ever since, there's been a raging debate over the best way to restore growth and prosperity, restore balance, restore fairness. Throughout the country, it's sparked protests and political movements, from the Tea Party to the people who've been occupying the streets of New York and other cities. It's left Washington in a near-constant state of gridlock. It's been the topic of heated and sometimes colorful discussion among the men and women running for President. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>But, Osawatomie, this is not just another political debate. This is the defining issue of our time. This is a make-or-break moment for the middle class and for all those who are fighting to get into the middle class. Because what's at stake is whether this will be a country where working people can earn enough to raise a family, build a modest savings, own a home, secure their retirement. <p>Now, in the midst of this debate, there are some who seem to be suffering from a kind of collective amnesia. After all that's happened, after the worst economic crisis, the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, they want to return to the same practices that got us into this mess. In fact, they want to go back to the same policies that stacked the deck against middle class Americans for way too many years. And their philosophy is simple: We are better off when everybody is left to fend for themselves and play by their own rules. <p>I am here to say they are wrong. I'm here in Kansas to reaffirm my deep conviction that we're greater together than we are on our own. I believe that this country succeeds when everyone gets a fair shot, when everyone does their fair share, when everyone plays by the same rules. These aren't Democratic values or Republican values. These aren't 1 percent values or 99 percent values. They're American values. And we have to reclaim them. <p>You see, this isn't the first time America has faced this choice. At the turn of the last century, when a nation of farmers was transitioning to become the world's industrial giant, we had to decide: Would we settle for a country where most of the new railroads and factories were being controlled by a few giant monopolies that kept prices high and wages low? Would we allow our citizens and even our children to work ungodly hours in conditions that were unsafe and unsanitary? Would we restrict education to the privileged few? Because there were people who thought massive inequality and exploitation of people was just the price you paid for progress. <p>Theodore Roosevelt disagreed. He was the Republican son of a wealthy family. He praised what the titans of industry had done to create jobs and grow the economy. He believed then what we know is true today, that the free market is the greatest force for economic progress in human history. It's led to a prosperity and a standard of living unmatched by the rest of the world. <p>But Roosevelt also knew that the free market has never been a free license to take whatever you can from whomever you can. He understood the free market only works when there are rules of the road that ensure competition is fair and open and honest. And so he busted up monopolies, forcing those companies to compete for consumers with better services and better prices. And today, they still must. He fought to make sure businesses couldn't profit by exploiting children or selling food or medicine that wasn't safe. And today, they still can't. <p>And in 1910, Teddy Roosevelt came here to Osawatomie, and he laid out his vision for what he called a New Nationalism. \\"Our country,\\" he said, \\". . . means nothing unless it means the triumph of a real democracy . . . of an economic system under which each man shall be guaranteed the opportunity to show the best that there is in him.\\" <p>Now, for this, Roosevelt was called a radical. He was called a socialist&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;even a communist. But today, we are a richer nation and a stronger democracy because of what he fought for in his last campaign: an 8-hour work day and a minimum wage for women, insurance for the unemployed and for the elderly and those with disabilities, political reform and a progressive income tax. <p>Today, over 100 years later, our economy has gone through another transformation. Over the last few decades, huge advances in technology have allowed businesses to do more with less, and it's made it easier for them to set up shop and hire workers anywhere they want in the world. And many of you know firsthand the painful disruptions this has caused for a lot of Americans. <p>Factories where people thought they would retire suddenly picked up and went overseas, where workers were cheaper. Steel mills that needed a hundred&mdash;or a thousand employees are now able to do the same work with a hundred employees, so layoffs too often became permanent, not just a temporary part of the business cycle. And these changes didn't just affect blue-collar workers. If you were a bank teller or a phone operator or a travel agent, you saw many in your profession replaced by ATMs and the Internet. <p>Today, even higher skilled jobs like accountants and middle management can be outsourced to countries like China or India. And if you're somebody whose job can be done cheaper by a computer or someone in another country, you don't have a lot of leverage with your employer when it comes to asking for better wages or better benefits, especially since fewer Americans today are part of a union. <p>Now, just as there was in Teddy Roosevelt's time, there is a certain crowd in Washington who, for the last few decades, have said, let's respond to this economic challenge with the same old tune. The market will take care of everything, they tell us. If we just cut more regulations and cut more taxes, especially for the wealthy, our economy will grow stronger. Sure, they say, there will be winners and losers. But if the winners do really well, then jobs and prosperity will eventually trickle down to everybody else. And, they argue, even if prosperity doesn't trickle down, well, that's the price of liberty. <p>Now, it's a simple theory. And we have to admit, it's one that speaks to our rugged individualism and our healthy skepticism of too much government. That's in America's DNA. And that theory fits well on a bumper sticker. [<i>Laughter</i>] But here's the problem: It doesn't work. It has never worked. It didn't work when it was tried in the decade before the Great Depression. It's not what led to the incredible postwar booms of the fifties and sixties. And it didn't work when we tried it during the last decade. I mean, understand, it's not as if we haven't tried this theory. <p>Remember in those years, in 2001 and 2003, Congress passed two of the most expensive tax cuts for the wealthy in history. And what did it get us? The slowest job growth in half a century, massive deficits that have made it much harder to pay for the investments that built this country and provided the basic security that helped millions of Americans reach and stay in the middle class, things like education and infrastructure, science and technology, Medicare and Social Security. <p>Remember that in those same years, thanks to some of the same folks who are now running Congress, we had weak regulation, we had little oversight, and what did it get us? Insurance companies that jacked up people's premiums with impunity and denied care to patients who were sick, mortgage lenders that tricked families into buying homes they couldn't afford, a financial sector where irresponsibility and lack of basic oversight nearly destroyed our entire economy. <p>We simply cannot return to this brand of \\"you're on your own\\" economics if we're serious about rebuilding the middle class in this country. We know that it doesn't result in a strong economy. It results in an economy that invests too little in its people and in its future. We know it doesn't result in a prosperity that trickles down. It results in a prosperity that's enjoyed by fewer and fewer of our citizens. <p>Look at the statistics. In the last few decades, the average income of the top 1 percent has gone up by more than 250 percent to $1.2 million per year. I'm not talking about millionaires, people who have a million dollars. I'm saying people who make a million dollars every single year. For the top one-hundredth of 1 percent, the average income is now $27 million per year. The typical CEO who used to earn about 30 times more than his or her worker now earns a hundred and ten times more. And yet over the last decade, the incomes of most Americans have actually fallen by about 6 percent. <p>Now, this kind of inequality&mdash;a level that we haven't seen since the Great Depression&mdash;hurts us all. When middle class families can no longer afford to buy the goods and services that businesses are selling, when people are slipping out of the middle class, it drags down the entire economy from top to bottom. America was built on the idea of broad-based prosperity, of strong consumers all across the country. That's why a CEO like Henry Ford made it his mission to pay his workers enough so that they could buy the cars he made. It's also why a recent study showed that countries with less inequality tend to have stronger and steadier economic growth over the long run. <p>Inequality also distorts our democracy. It gives an outsized voice to the few who can afford high-priced lobbyists and unlimited campaign contributions, and it runs the risk of selling out our democracy to the highest bidder. It leaves everyone else rightly suspicious that the system in Washington is rigged against them, that our elected representatives aren't looking out for the interests of most Americans. <p>But there's an even more fundamental issue at stake. This kind of gaping inequality gives lie to the promise that's at the very heart of America: that this is a place where you can make it if you try. We tell people&mdash;we tell our kids&mdash;that in this country, even if you're born with nothing, work hard and you can get into the middle class. We tell them that your children will have a chance to do even better than you do. That's why immigrants from around the world historically have flocked to our shores. <p>And yet over the last few decades, the rungs on the ladder of opportunity have grown farther and farther apart, and the middle class has shrunk. You know, a few years after World War II, a child who was born into poverty had a slightly better than fifty-fifty chance of becoming middle class as an adult. By 1980, that chance had fallen to around 40 percent. And if the trend of rising inequality over the last few decades continues, it's estimated that a child born today will only have a one-in-three chance of making it to the middle class&mdash;33 percent. <p>It's heartbreaking enough that there are millions of working families in this country who are now forced to take their children to food banks for a decent meal. But the idea that those children might not have a chance to climb out of that situation and back into the middle class, no matter how hard they work? That's inexcusable. It is wrong. It flies in the face of everything that we stand for. <p>Now, fortunately, that's not a future that we have to accept, because there's another view about how we build a strong middle class in this country, a view that's truer to our history, a vision that's been embraced in the past by people of both parties for more than 200 years. <p>It's not a view that we should somehow turn back technology or put up walls around America. It's not a view that says we should punish profit or success or pretend that government knows how to fix all of society's problems. It is a view that says in America we are greater together, when everyone engages in fair play and everybody gets a fair shot and everybody does their fair share. <p>So what does that mean for restoring middle class security in today's economy? Well, it starts by making sure that everyone in America gets a fair shot at success. The truth is we'll never be able to compete with other countries when it comes to who's best at letting their businesses pay the lowest wages, who's best at busting unions, who's best at letting companies pollute as much as they want. That's a race to the bottom that we can't win, and we shouldn't want to win that race. Those countries don't have a strong middle class. They don't have our standard of living. <p>The race we want to win, the race we can win is a race to the top, the race for good jobs that pay well and offer middle class security. Businesses will create those jobs in countries with the highest skilled, highest educated workers, the most advanced transportation and communication, the strongest commitment to research and technology. <p>The world is shifting to an innovation economy, and nobody does innovation better than America. Nobody does it better. No one has better colleges. Nobody has better universities. Nobody has a greater diversity of talent and ingenuity. No one's workers or entrepreneurs are more driven or more daring. The things that have always been our strengths match up perfectly with the demands of the moment. <p>But we need to meet the moment. We've got to up our game. We need to remember that we can only do that together. It starts by making education a national mission&mdash;a national mission&mdash;government and businesses, parents and citizens. In this economy, a higher education is the surest route to the middle class. The unemployment rate for Americans with a college degree or more is about half the national average. And their incomes are twice as high as those who don't have a high school diploma. Which means we shouldn't be laying off good teachers right now, we should be hiring them. We shouldn't be expecting less of our schools, we should be demanding more. We shouldn't be making it harder to afford college, we should be a country where everyone has a chance to go and doesn't rack up $100,000 of debt just because they went. <p>In today's innovation economy, we also need a world-class commitment to science and research, the next generation of high-tech manufacturing. Our factories and our workers shouldn't be idle. We should be giving people the chance to get new skills and training at community colleges so they can learn how to make wind turbines and semiconductors and high-powered batteries. And by the way, if we don't have an economy that's built on bubbles and financial speculation, our best and brightest won't all gravitate towards careers in banking and finance. Because if we want an economy that's built to last, we need more of those young people in science and engineering. This country should not be known for bad debt and phony profits. We should be known for creating and selling products all around the world that are stamped with three proud words: Made in America. <p>Today, manufacturers and other companies are setting up shop in the places with the best infrastructure to ship their products, move their workers, communicate with the rest of the world. And that's why the over 1 million construction workers who lost their jobs when the housing market collapsed, they shouldn't be sitting at home with nothing to do. They should be rebuilding our roads and our bridges, laying down faster railroads and broadband, modernizing our schools, all the things other countries are already doing to attract good jobs and businesses to their shores. <p>Yes, business, and not government, will always be the primary generator of good jobs with incomes that lift people into the middle class and keep them there. But as a nation, we've always come together, through our Government, to help create the conditions where both workers and businesses can succeed. And historically, that hasn't been a partisan idea. Franklin Roosevelt worked with Democrats and Republicans to give veterans of World War II, including my grandfather Stanley Dunham, the chance to go to college on the GI bill. It was a Republican President, Dwight Eisenhower, a proud son of Kansas, who started the Interstate Highway System and doubled down on science and research to stay ahead of the Soviets. <p>Of course, those productive investments cost money. They're not free. And so we've also paid for these investments by asking everybody to do their fair share. Look, if we had unlimited resources, no one would ever have to pay any taxes and we would never have to cut any spending. But we don't have unlimited resources. And so we have to set priorities. If we want a strong middle class, then our Tax Code must reflect our values. We have to make choices. <p>Today that choice is very clear. To reduce our deficit, I've already signed nearly $1 trillion of spending cuts into law, and I've proposed trillions more, including reforms that would lower the cost of Medicare and Medicaid. <p>But in order to structurally close the deficit, get our fiscal house in order, we have to decide what our priorities are. Now, most immediately, short term, we need to extend a payroll tax cut that's set to expire at the end of this month. If we don't do that, 160 million Americans, including most of the people here, will see their taxes go up by an average of a thousand dollars starting in January, and it would badly weaken our recovery. That's the short term. <p>In the long term, we have to rethink our tax system more fundamentally. We have to ask ourselves: Do we want to make the investments we need in things like education and research and high-tech manufacturing, all those things that helped make us an economic superpower? Or do we want to keep in place the tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans in our country? Because we can't afford to do both. That is not politics. That's just math. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Now, so far, most of my Republican friends in Washington have refused under any circumstance to ask the wealthiest Americans to go to the same tax rate they were paying when Bill Clinton was President. So let's just do a trip down memory lane here. <p>Keep in mind, when President Clinton first proposed these tax increases, folks in Congress predicted they would kill jobs and lead to another recession. Instead, our economy created nearly 23 million jobs, and we eliminated the deficit. Today, the wealthiest Americans are paying the lowest taxes in over half a century. This isn't like in the early fifties, when the top tax rate was over 90 percent. This isn't even like the early eighties, when the top tax rate was about 70 percent. Under President Clinton, the top rate was only about 39 percent. Today, thanks to loopholes and shelters, a quarter of all millionaires now pay lower tax rates than millions of you, millions of middle class families. Some billionaires have a tax rate as low as 1 percent&mdash;1 percent. <p>That is the height of unfairness. It is wrong. It's wrong that in the United States of America, a teacher or a nurse or a construction worker, maybe earns $50,000 a year, should pay a higher tax rate than somebody raking in $50 million. It's wrong for Warren Buffett's secretary to pay a higher tax rate than Warren Buffett. And by the way, Warren Buffett agrees with me. [<i>Laughter</i>] So do most Americans: Democrats, Independents, and Republicans. And I know that many of our wealthiest citizens would agree to contribute a little more if it meant reducing the deficit and strengthening the economy that made their success possible. <p>This isn't about class warfare. This is about the Nation's welfare. It's about making choices that benefit not just the people who've done fantastically well over the last few decades, but that benefits the middle class and those fighting to get into the middle class and the economy as a whole. <p>Finally, a strong middle class can only exist in an economy where everyone plays by the same rules, from Wall Street to Main Street. As infuriating as it was for all of us, we rescued our major banks from collapse, not only because a full-blown financial meltdown would have sent us into a second depression, but because we need a strong, healthy financial sector in this country. <p>But part of the deal was that we wouldn't go back to business as usual. And that's why last year we put in place new rules of the road that refocus the financial sector on what should be their core purpose: getting capital to the entrepreneurs with the best ideas and financing millions of families who want to buy a home or send their kids to college. <p>Now, we're not all the way there yet, and the banks are fighting us every inch of the way. But already, some of these reforms are being implemented. <p>If you're a big bank or a risky financial institution, you now have to write out a living will that details exactly how you'll pay the bills if you fail, so that taxpayers are never again on the hook for Wall Street's mistakes. There are also limits on the size of banks and new abilities for regulators to dismantle a firm that is going under. The new law bans banks from making risky bets with their customers' deposits, and it takes away big bonuses and paydays from failed CEOs, while giving shareholders a say on executive salaries. <p>This is the law that we passed. We are in the process of implementing it now. All of this is being put in place as we speak. Now, unless you're a financial institution whose business model is built on breaking the law, cheating customers, and making risky bets that could damage the entire economy, you should have nothing to fear from these new rules. <p>Some of you may know, my grandmother worked as a banker for most of her life, worked her way up, started as a secretary, ended up being a vice president of a bank. And I know from her, and I know from all the people I&mdash;that I've come in contact with, that the vast majority of bankers and financial service professionals, they want to do right by their customers. They want to have rules in place that don't put them at a disadvantage for doing the right thing. And yet Republicans in Congress are fighting as hard as they can to make sure that these rules aren't enforced. <p>I'll give you a specific example. For the first time in history, the reforms that we passed put in place a consumer watchdog who is charged with protecting everyday Americans from being taken advantage of by mortgage lenders or payday lenders or debt collectors. And the man we nominated for the post, Richard Cordray, is a former attorney general of Ohio who has the support of most attorney generals, both Democrat and Republican, throughout the country. Nobody claims he's not qualified. <p>But the Republicans in the Senate refuse to confirm him for the job; they refuse to let him do his job. Why? Does anybody here think that the problem that led to our financial crisis was too much oversight of mortgage lenders or debt collectors? <p><i>Audience members.</i> No! <p><i>The President.</i> Of course not. Every day we go without a consumer watchdog is another day when a student or a senior citizen or a member of our Armed Forces&mdash;because they are very vulnerable to some of this stuff&mdash;could be tricked into a loan that they can't afford, something that happens all the time. And the fact is that financial institutions have plenty of lobbyists looking out for their interests. Consumers deserve to have someone whose job it is to look out for them. And I intend to make sure they do. And I want to hear&mdash;I want you to hear me, Kansas: I will veto any effort to delay or defund or dismantle the new rules that we put in place. <p>We shouldn't be weakening oversight and accountability. We should be strengthening oversight and accountability. Give you another example: Too often, we've seen Wall Street firms violating major antifraud laws because the penalties are too weak, and there's no price for being a repeat offender. No more. I'll be calling for legislation that makes those penalties count so that firms don't see punishment for breaking the law as just the price of doing business. <p>The fact is this crisis has left a huge deficit of trust between Main Street and Wall Street. And major banks that were rescued by the taxpayers have an obligation to go the extra mile in helping to close that deficit of trust. At minimum, they should be remedying past mortgage abuses that led to the financial crisis. They should be working to keep responsible homeowners in their home. We're going to keep pushing them to provide more time for unemployed homeowners to look for work without having to worry about immediately losing their house. <p>The big banks should increase access to refinancing opportunities to borrowers who haven't yet benefited from historically low interest rates. And the big banks should recognize that precisely because these steps are in the interest of middle class families and the broader economy, it will also be in the banks' own long-term financial interest. What will be good for consumers over the long term will be good for the banks. <p>Investing in things like education that give everybody a chance to succeed. A Tax Code that makes sure everybody pays their fair share. And laws that make sure everybody follows the rules. That's what will transform our economy. That's what will grow our middle class again. In the end, rebuilding this economy based on fair play, a fair shot, and a fair share will require all of us to see that we have a stake in each other's success. And it will require all of us to take some responsibility. <p>It will require parents to get more involved in their children's education. It will require students to study harder. It will require some workers to start studying all over again. It will require greater responsibility from homeowners not to take out mortgages they can't afford. They need to remember that if something seems too good to be true, it probably is. <p>It will require those of us in public service to make Government more efficient and more effective, more consumer friendly, more responsive to people's needs. That's why we're cutting programs that we don't need to pay for those we do. That's why we've made hundreds of regulatory reforms that will save businesses billions of dollars. That's why we're not just throwing money at education, we're challenging schools to come up with the most innovative reforms and the best results. <p>And it will require American business leaders to understand that their obligations don't just end with their shareholders. Andy Grove, the legendary former CEO of Intel, put it best. He said, \\"There is another obligation I feel personally, given that everything I've achieved in my career, and a lot of what Intel has achieved . . . were made possible by a climate of democracy, an economic climate and investment climate provided by the United States.\\" <p>This broader obligation can take many forms. At a time when the cost of hiring workers in China is rising rapidly, it should mean more CEOs deciding that it's time to bring jobs back to the United States, not just because it's good for business, but because it's good for the country that made their business and their personal success possible. <p>I think about the Big Three auto companies who, during recent negotiations, agreed to create more jobs and cars here in America, and then decided to give bonuses not just to their executives, but to all their employees, so that everyone was invested in the company's success. <p>I think about a company based in Warroad, Minnesota. It's called Marvin Windows and Doors. During the recession, Marvin's competitors closed dozens of plants, let hundreds of workers go. But Marvin's did not lay off a single one of their 4,000 or so employees&mdash;not one. In fact, they've only laid off workers once in over a hundred years. Mr. Marvin's grandfather even kept his eight employees during the Great Depression. <p>Now, at Marvin's, when times get tough, the workers agree to give up some perks and some pay, and so do the owners. As one owner said, \\"You can't grow if you're cutting your lifeblood, and that's the skills and experience your workforce delivers.\\" For the CEO of Marvin's, it's about the community. He said: \\"These are people we went to school with. We go to church with them. We see them in the same restaurants. Indeed, a lot of us have married local girls and boys. We could be anywhere, but we are in Warroad.\\" <p>That's how America was built. That's why we're the greatest nation on Earth. That's what our greatest companies understand. Our success has never just been about survival of the fittest. It's about building a nation where we're all better off. We pull together. We pitch in. We do our part. We believe that hard work will pay off, that responsibility will be rewarded, and that our children will inherit a nation where those values live on. <p>And it is that belief that rallied thousands of Americans to Osawatomie&mdash;maybe even some of your ancestors&mdash;on a rain-soaked day more than a century ago. By train, by wagon, on buggy, bicycle, on foot, they came to hear the vision of a man who loved this country and was determined to perfect it. <p>\\"We are all Americans,\\" Teddy Roosevelt told them that day. \\"Our common interests are as broad as the continent.\\" In the final years of his life, Roosevelt took that same message all across this country, from tiny Osawatomie to the heart of New York City, believing that no matter where he went, no matter who he was talking to, everybody would benefit from a country in which everyone gets a fair chance. <p>And well into our third century as a nation, we have grown, and we've changed in many ways since Roosevelt's time. The world is faster, and the playing field is larger, and the challenges are more complex. But what hasn't changed, what can never change, are the values that got us this far. We still have a stake in each other's success. We still believe that this should be a place where you can make it if you try. And we still believe in the words of the man who called for a New Nationalism all those years ago. \\"The fundamental rule of our national life,\\" he said, \\"the rule which underlies all others&mdash;is that, on the whole, and in the long run, we shall go up or down together.\\" And I believe America is on the way up. <p>Thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"286" "\"<i>The President.</i> Well, good evening, everybody. Welcome to the White House. Thank you all for joining us tonight to celebrate Hanukkah, even if we're doing it a little bit early. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I want to start by recognizing a few folks who are here. The Ambassador to the United States from Israel, Michael Oren, is in the house. <p>We are honored to be joined by one of the Justices of the Supreme Court, Ruth&mdash;Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg is here. We are thrilled to see her. She's one of my favorites. I got to&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;so I've got a soft spot for Justice Ginsburg. <p>And we've got more than a few Members of Congress here and members of my administration in the house, including our new Director of Jewish Outreach, Jarrod Bernstein is here. Where's Jarrod? Hey, Jarrod. <p>I also want to thank the West Point Jewish Chapel Cadet Choir, the Voice of Tradition, for their wonderful performance, but more importantly, for their extraordinary service to our country. <p>And I want to thank all the rabbis and lay leaders who have come far and wide to be here with us today. <p>Now, as I said, we're jumping the gun just a little bit. The way I see it, we're just extending the holiday spirit. We're stretching it out. [<i>Laughter</i>] But we do have to be careful that your kids don't start thinking Hanukkah lasts 20 nights instead of 8. [<i>Laughter</i>] That will cause some problems. <p>This Hanukkah season we remember a story so powerful that we all know it by heart, even us gentiles. It's a story of right over might, of faith over doubt, of a band of believers who rose up and freed their people and discovered that the oil left in their desecrated temple, which should have lasted only 1 night, ended up lasting 8. <p>It's a timeless story. And for 2,000 years, it has given hope to Jews everywhere who are struggling. And today, it reminds us that miracles come in all shapes and sizes. Because to most people, the miracle of Hanukkah would have looked like nothing more than a simple flame, but the believers in the temple knew it was something else. They knew it was something special. <p>This year, we have to recognize the miracles in our own lives. Let's honor the sacrifices our ancestors made so that we might be here today. Let's think about those who are spending this holiday far away from home, including members of our military who guard our freedom around the world. Let's extend a hand to those who are in need and allow the value of <i>tikkun olam</i> to guide our work this holiday season.<p>This is also a time to be grateful for our friendships, both with each other and between our nations. And that includes, of course, our unshakeable support and commitment to the security of the nation of Israel. <p>So while it is not yet Hanukkah, let's give thanks for our blessings, for being together to celebrate this wonderful holiday season. And we never need an excuse for a good party. [<i>Laughter</i>] So we are going to see all of you in a second downstairs&mdash;&mdash; <p><i>The First Lady</i>. No. Aren't we in the Blue Room? <p><i>The President.</i> Or wherever we are. [<i>Laughter</i>] I think we're downstairs. We are downstairs in the Map Room. So as I look around, I see a whole bunch of good friends. We can't wait to give you a hug and a kiss and wish you a happy holiday. The guys with whiskers, I won't give you a kiss. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"287" "\"Today, America faces a make-or-break moment for the middle class. <p>After the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, some still want to return to the same policies that got us into this mess. They're the same policies that have stacked the deck against working Americans for way too long. They're part of a philosophy that says we're better off when everyone is left to fend for themselves and play by their own rules. <p>But I have a different vision. I believe that we are greater together than we are on our own. I believe that this country succeeds when everyone gets a fair shot, everyone does their fair share, and everyone engages in fair play. <p>To ensure fair play, last year, we passed the toughest financial reform in generations. <p>See, for too long, the rules weren't the same on Wall Street as they were on Main Street. Risky bets were made with other people's money. Some folks made a lot of money taking advantage of consumers. It was wrong. And this irresponsible behavior on the part of some contributed to the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. <p>So this financial reform refocuses the financial sector on what's really important: getting capital to entrepreneurs who want to grow their businesses and financing to millions of families who want to buy a house or send their kids to college. <p>A key part of that was putting in place the first-ever consumer watchdog, someone whose job it is to protect American families from being taken advantage of by mortgage lenders, payday lenders, and debt collectors. <p>Tens of millions of Americans use these services. Protecting them from unscrupulous practices is an important job. And that's why I nominated Richard Cordray to serve as the head of this consumer watchdog agency. <p>As the former attorney general of Ohio, Richard helped recover billions of dollars on behalf of retirees and stood up to dishonest lending practices. He has the support of most attorney generals across the country, both Democrats and Republicans. Members of Congress from both parties say he's more than qualified for the job. And yet on Thursday, Republicans blocked his nomination. They refused to even allow it to come up for a vote. <p>That doesn't make any sense. Do Republicans in Congress think our financial crisis was caused by too much oversight of mortgage lenders or debt collectors? Of course not. And every day America has to wait for a new consumer protection watchdog is another day that dishonest businesses can target and take advantage of students, seniors, and servicemembers. <p>So I refuse to take no for an answer. Financial institutions have plenty of high-powered lawyers and lobbyists looking out for them. It's time consumers had someone on their side. <p>And while they're at it, Republicans in Congress should stop the games and extend the payroll tax cut for working Americans. Because if they don't, nearly 160 million Americans will see their taxes go up at the end of this month. <p>Congress cannot end the year by taking money out of the pockets of working Americans. Now's not the time for playing politics. Now's the time to do what's right for the American people. <p>No one should go home for the holidays until we get this done. So tell your Members of Congress, \\"Don't be a grinch.\\" Tell them to do the right thing for you and for our economy. Thanks.\" "
"288" "\"Good evening, everybody. I just want to start by thanking all the folks who have joined us at the National Building Museum. Let's give it up for our host, who also happens to be the host of the best late night show on TBS, Conan O'Brien. [<i>Laughter</i>] And I want to thank all the spectacular artists and choirs and glee clubs who've made this such a spectacular evening. Please give them a big round of applause. <p>I want to congratulate 30 years of \\"Christmas in Washington.\\" It's always an extraordinary honor to be a part of this event because it benefits such a special place, the Children's National Medical Center. For so many children and their parents, the work that they do to save lives and improve care is nothing short of a miracle. And that's fitting, because this is the season to celebrate miracles. <p>This is the season to celebrate the story of how, more than 2,000 ago, a child was born to two faithful travelers who could find rest only in a stable, among cattle and sheep. He was no ordinary child. He was the manifestation of God's love. And every year we celebrate His birth because the story of Jesus Christ changed the world. For me and for millions of Americans, His story has filled our hearts and inspired our lives. It moves us to love one another, to help and serve those less fortunate, to forgive, to draw close to our families, to be grateful for all that has been given to us, to keep faith, and to hold on to an enduring hope in humanity. <p>Service to others, compassion to all, treating others as we wish ourselves to be treated, those values aren't just at the center of Christianity, those are values that are shared by all faiths. So tonight let us all rededicate ourselves to each other. And in that spirit, from my family to yours, happy holidays. Merry Christmas. <p>God bless you all, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"289" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hello, everybody! Hello, Fort Bragg! All the way! <p><i>Audience members.</i> Airborne! <p><i>The President.</i> Now, I'm sure you realize why I don't like following Michelle Obama. [<i>Laughter</i>] She's pretty good. And it is true, I am a little biased, but let me just say it: Michelle, you are a remarkable First Lady. You are a great advocate for military families. And you're cute. [<i>Laughter</i>] I'm just saying&mdash;gentlemen, that's your goal: to marry up. Punch above your weight. <p>Fort Bragg, we're here to mark a historic moment in the life of our country and our military. For nearly 9 years, our Nation has been at war in Iraq. And you, the incredible men and women of Fort Bragg, have been there every step of the way, serving with honor, sacrificing greatly, from the first waves of the invasion to some of the last troops to come home. So as your Commander in Chief, and on behalf of a grateful nation, I'm proud to finally say these two words, and I know your families agree: Welcome home! Welcome home. Welcome home. [<i>Applause</i>.] Welcome home. <p>It is great to be here at Fort Bragg, home of the Airborne and Special Operations Forces. I want to thank General Anderson and all your outstanding leaders for welcoming us here today, including General Dave Rodriguez, General John Mulholland. And I want to give a shout-out to your outstanding senior enlisted leaders, including Command Sergeant Major Roger Howard, Darrin Bohn, Parry Baer. And give a big round of applause to the Ground Forces Band. <p>We've got a lot of folks in the house today. We've got the XVIII Airborne Corps, the Sky Dragons. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Hooah! <p><i>The President. </i>We've got the legendary, All-American 82d Airborne Division. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Hooah! <p><i>The President.</i> We've got America's quiet professionals, our Special Operations Forces. <p><i>Audience members.</i> Hooah! <p><i>The President.</i> From Pope Field, we've got Air Force. <p><i>Audience members. </i>Whoo! <p><i>The President</i>. And I do believe we've got some Navy and Marine Corps here too. <p><i>Audience member.</i> Yes! [<i>Laughter</i>] <p><i>The President.</i> And though they're not here with us today, we send our thoughts and prayers to General Helmick, Sergeant Major Rice, and all the folks from the XVIII Airborne and Bragg who are bringing our troops back from Iraq. We honor everyone from the 82d Airborne and Bragg serving and succeeding in Afghanistan and General Votel and those serving around the world. <p>And let me just say, one of the most humbling moments I've had as President was when I presented our Nation's highest military decoration, the Medal of Honor, to the parents of one of those patriots from Fort Bragg who gave his life in Afghanistan, Staff Sergeant Robert Miller. <p>I want to salute Ginny Rodriguez, Miriam Mulholland, Linda Anderson, Melissa Helmick, Michelle Votel, and all the inspiring military families here today. We honor your service as well. <p>And finally, I want to acknowledge your neighbors and friends who help keep your&mdash;this outstanding operation going, all who help to keep you \\"Army Strong,\\" and that includes Representatives Mike McIntyre and Dave Price and Heath Shuler and Governor Bev Perdue. I know Bev is so proud to have done so much for our military families. So give them a big round of applause. <p>Today I've come to speak to you about the end of the war in Iraq. Over the last few months, the final work of leaving Iraq has been done. Dozens of bases with American names that housed thousands of American troops have been closed down or turned over to the Iraqis. Thousands of tons of equipment have been packed up and shipped out. Tomorrow the colors of United States Forces-Iraq, the colors you fought under, will be formally cased in a ceremony in Baghdad. Then they'll begin their journey across an ocean, back home. <p>Over the last 3 years, nearly 150,000 U.S. troops have left Iraq. And over the next few days, a small group of American soldiers will begin the final march out of that country. Some of them are on their way back to Fort Bragg. As General Helmick said, \\"They know that the last tactical road march out of Iraq will be a symbol, and they're going to be a part of history.\\" <p>As your Commander in Chief, I can tell you that it will indeed be a part of history. Those last American troops will move south on desert sands and then they will cross the border out of Iraq with their heads held high. One of the most extraordinary chapters in the history of the American military will come to an end. Iraq's future will be in the hands of its people. America's war in Iraq will be over. <p>Now, we knew this day would come. We've known it for some time. But still, there is something profound about the end of a war that has lasted so long. <p>Now, 9 years ago, American troops were preparing to deploy to the Persian Gulf and the possibility that they would be sent to war. Many of you were in grade school. I was a State senator. Many of the leaders now governing Iraq, including the Prime Minister, were living in exile. And since then, our efforts in Iraq have taken many twists and turns. It was a source of great controversy here at home with patriots on both sides of the debate. But there was one constant: your patriotism, your commitment to fulfill your mission, your abiding commitment to one another. That was constant. That did not change. That did not waiver. <p>It's harder to end a war than begin one. Indeed, everything that American troops have done in Iraq&mdash;all the fighting and all the dying, the bleeding and the building, and the training and the partnering&mdash;all of it has led to this moment of success. Now, Iraq is not a perfect place. It has many challenges ahead. But we're leaving behind a sovereign, stable, and self-reliant Iraq with a representative government that was elected by its people. We're building a new partnership between our nations. And we are ending a war not with a final battle, but with a final march toward home. <p>This is an extraordinary achievement nearly 9 years in the making. And today we remember everything that you did to make it possible. <p>We remember the early days, the American units that streaked across the sands and skies of Iraq, the battles from Karbala to Baghdad, American troops breaking the back of a brutal dictator in less than a month. <p>We remember the grind of the insurgency, the roadside bombs, the sniper fire, the suicide attacks. From the \\"Triangle of Death\\" to the fight for Ramadi, from Mosul in the north to Basra in the south, your will proved stronger than the terror of those who tried to break it. <p>We remember the specter of sectarian violence, Al Qaida's attacks on mosques and pilgrims, militias that carried out campaigns of intimidation and campaigns of assassination. And in the face of ancient divisions, you stood firm to help those Iraqis who put their faith in the future. <p>We remember the surge, and we remember the \\"Awakening,\\" when the abyss of chaos turned toward the promise of reconciliation. By battling and building block by block in Baghdad, by bringing tribes into the fold and partnering with the Iraqi army and police, you helped turn the tide toward peace. <p>And we remember the end of our combat mission and the emergence of a new dawn, the precision of our efforts against Al Qaida in Iraq, the professionalism of the training of Iraqi security forces, and the steady drawdown of our forces. In handing over responsibility to the Iraqis, you preserved the gains of the last 4 years and made this day possible. <p>Just last month, some of you&mdash;members of the Falcon Brigade&mdash;turned over the Anbar Operations Center to the Iraqis in the type of ceremony that has become commonplace over these last several months. In an area that was once the heart of the insurgency, a combination of fighting and training, politics and partnership brought the promise of peace. And here's what the local Iraqi deputy governor said: \\"This is all because of the U.S. forces' hard work and sacrifice.\\" <p>That's in the words of an Iraqi: hard work and sacrifice. Those words only begin to describe the costs of this war and the courage of the men and women who fought it. <p>We know too well the heavy cost of this war. More than 1.5 million Americans have served in Iraq&mdash;1.5 million. Over 30,000 Americans have been wounded, and those are only the wounds that show. Nearly 4,500 Americans made the ultimate sacrifice, including 202 fallen heroes from here at Fort Bragg&mdash;202. So today we pause to say a prayer for all those families who have lost their loved ones, for they are part of our broader American family. We grieve with them. <p>We also know that these numbers don't tell the full story of the Iraq war, not even close. Our civilians have represented our country with skill and bravery. Our troops have served tour after tour of duty with precious little dwell time in between. Our Guard and Reserve units stepped up with unprecedented service. You've endured dangerous foot patrols, and you've endured the pain of seeing your friends and comrades fall. You've had to be more than soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, and coastguardsmen; you've also had to be diplomats and development workers and trainers and peacemakers. Through all this, you have shown why the United States military is the finest fighting force in the history of the world. <p>As Michelle mentioned, we also know that the burden of war is borne by your families. In countless base communities like Bragg, folks have come together in the absence of a loved one. As the Mayor of Fayetteville put it, \\"War is not a political word here. War is where our friends and neighbors go.\\" So there have been missed birthday parties and graduations. There are bills to pay and jobs that have to be juggled while picking up the kids. For every soldier that goes on patrol, there are the husbands and the wives, the mothers, the fathers, the sons, the daughters praying that they come back. <p>So today, as we mark the end of the war, let us acknowledge, let us give a heartfelt round of applause for every military family that has carried that load over the last 9 years. You too have the thanks of a grateful nation. <p>Part of ending a war responsibly is standing by those who fought it. It's not enough to honor you with words. Words are cheap. We must do it with deeds. You stood up for America; America needs to stand up for you. <p>That's why, as your Commander in Chief, I am committed to making sure that you get the care and the benefits and the opportunities that you've earned. For those of you who remain in uniform, we will do whatever it takes to ensure the health of our force, including your families. We will keep faith with you. <p>We will help our wounded warriors heal, and we will stand by those who've suffered the unseen wounds of war. And make no mistake: As we go forward as a nation, we are going to keep America's Armed Forces the strongest fighting force the world has ever seen. That will not stop. <p>That will not stop. But our commitment doesn't end when you take off the uniform. You're the finest that our Nation has to offer. And after years of rebuilding Iraq, we want to enlist our veterans in the work of rebuilding America. That's why we're committed to doing everything we can to extend more opportunities to those who have served. <p>That includes the post-9/11 GI bill, so that you and your families can get the education that allows you to live out your dreams. That includes a national effort to put our veterans to work. We've worked with Congress to pass a tax credit so that companies have the incentive to hire vets. And Michelle has worked with the private sector to get commitments to create 100,000 jobs for those who've served. <p>And by the way, we're doing this not just because it's the right thing to do by you, we're doing it because it's the right thing to do for America. Folks like my grandfather came back from World War II to form the backbone of this country's middle class. For our post-9/11 veterans, with your skill, with your discipline, with your leadership, I am confident that the story of your service to America is just beginning. <p>But there's something else that we owe you. As Americans, we have a responsibility to learn from your service. I'm thinking of an example, Lieutenant Alvin Shell, who was based here at Fort Bragg. A few years ago, on a supply route outside Baghdad, he and his team were engulfed by flames from an RPG attack. Covered with gasoline, he ran into the fire to help his fellow soldiers and then led them 2 miles back to Camp Victory where he finally collapsed, covered with burns. When they told him he was a hero, Alvin disagreed. \\"I'm not a hero,\\" he said. \\"A hero is a sandwich.\\" [<i>Laughter</i>] \\"I'm a paratrooper.\\" <p>We could do well to learn from Alvin. This country needs to learn from you. Folks in Washington need to learn from you. <p>Policymakers and historians will continue to analyze the strategic lessons of Iraq. That's important to do. Our commanders will incorporate the hard-won lessons into future military campaigns. That's important to do. But the most important lesson that we can take from you is not about military strategy, it's a lesson about our national character. <p>For all of the challenges that our Nation faces, you remind us that there's nothing we Americans can't do when we stick together. <p>For all the disagreements that we face, you remind us there's something bigger than our differences, something that makes us one Nation and one people regardless of color, regardless of creed, regardless of what part of the country we come from, regardless of what backgrounds we come out of. You remind us we're one Nation. <p>And that's why the United States military is the most respected institution in our land because you never forget that. You can't afford to forget it. If you forget it, somebody dies. If you forget it, a mission fails. So you don't forget it. You have each other's backs. That's why you, the 9/11 generation, has earned your place in history. <p>Because of you, because you sacrificed so much for a people that you had never met, Iraqis have a chance to forge their own destiny. That's part of what makes us special as Americans. Unlike the old empires, we don't make these sacrifices for territory or for resources. We do it because it's right. There can be no fuller expression of America's support for self-determination than our leaving Iraq to its people. That says something about who we are. <p>Because of you, in Afghanistan we've broken the momentum of the Taliban. Because of you, we've begun a transition to the Afghans that will allow us to bring our troops home from there. And around the globe, as we draw down in Iraq, we have gone after Al Qaida so that terrorists who threaten America will have no safe haven and Usama bin Laden will never again walk the face of this Earth. <p>So here's what I want you to know and here's what I want all our men and women in uniform to know: Because of you, we are ending these wars in a way that will make America stronger and the world more secure. Because of you. <p>That success was never guaranteed. And let us never forget the source of American leadership: our commitment to the values that are written into our founding documents and a unique willingness among nations to pay a great price for the progress of human freedom and dignity. This is who we are. That's what we do as Americans, together. <p>The war in Iraq will soon belong to history. Your service belongs to the ages. Never forget that you are part of an unbroken line of heroes spanning two centuries, from the colonists who overthrew an empire to your grandparents and parents who faced down fascism and communism to you, men and women who fought for the same principles in Fallujah and Kandahar and delivered justice to those who attacked us on 9/11. <p>Looking back on the war that saved our Union, a great American, Oliver Wendell Holmes, once paid tribute to those who served. \\"In our youth,\\" he said, \\"our hearts were touched with fire. It was given to us to learn at the outset that life is a profound and passionate thing.\\" <p>All of you here today have lived through the fires of war. You will be remembered for it. You will be honored for it, always. You have done something profound with your lives. When this Nation went to war, you signed up to serve. When times were tough, you kept fighting. When there was no end in sight, you found light in the darkness. <p>And years from now, your legacy will endure in the names of your fallen comrades etched on headstones at Arlington and the quiet memorials across our country, in the whispered words of admiration as you march in parades, and in the freedom of our children and our grandchildren. And in the quiet of night, you will recall that your heart was once touched by fire. You will know that you answered when your country called, you served a cause greater than yourselves, you helped forge a just and lasting peace with Iraq and among all nations. <p>I could not be prouder of you, and America could not be prouder of you. <p>God bless you all, God bless your families, and God bless the United States of America.\" "
"290" "\"Hello, everybody. As I said in Kansas last week, the defining issue of our time is whether we can build an economy where hard work pays off and responsibility is rewarded. It's whether this is going to be a country where working people can earn enough to raise a family and build a modest savings and own a home, secure their own retirement, look after their kids. That's the test of our time. <p>In some cases, building this kind of economy is going to require some action from Congress. And right now Congress needs to make sure that 160 million working Americans don't see their taxes go up on January 1. None of the workers who joined us here today can afford a thousand-dollar tax increase next year. And it wouldn't be good for the economy. Every economist indicates that it's important for us to extend the payroll tax cut and make sure that unemployment insurance is extended. So this Congress cannot and should not leave for vacation until that&mdash;until they have made sure that that tax increase doesn't happen. Let me repeat that: Congress should not and cannot go on vacation before they have made sure that working families aren't seeing their taxes go up by a thousand dollars and those who are out there looking for work don't see their unemployment insurance expire. <p>There's no reason why we shouldn't be able to extend these items&mdash;the payroll tax cut, UI&mdash;before the holidays. There's no reason the Government should shut down over this. And I expect all of us to do what's necessary in order to do the people's business and make sure that it's done before the end of the year. <p>Now, only Congress can prevent the payroll tax from going up next year. But there are also some things that we can do without Congress to help make sure that hard work pays off. And that's why we're here today. <p>Right behind me here is my friend Pauline Beck. One day back in 2007, Pauline was my boss. I was in California to take part in an event called \\"Walk a Day in My Shoes,\\" where you'd spend the day working the job of someone who was in the service industry. And I was lucky enough to be paired up with Pauline, and I have tell you, it ended up being one of my favorite days of the entire campaign. <p>Pauline is a home health care worker. When we met, she was getting up every day at 5 a.m. to go to work taking care of an 86-year-old amputee named Mr. John. And each day, she'd dress Mr. John and help him into his wheelchair. She'd make him breakfast. She'd scrub his floors. She'd clean his bathroom. She was his connection to the outside world. And when the workday was done, she would go home to take care of a grandnephew and two foster children who didn't have families of their own. Heroic work and hard work, that's what Pauline was all about. <p>And one of the things I remember about Pauline was her patience. She was patient with me even when I didn't wring out the mop properly or I didn't shake out the sheets before putting them in the laundry bin. But I also remember listening to her talk about the hardships in her life, and she did so without any self-pity. She was glad to be working hard, and she was glad to be helping someone. All she wanted in return for a hard day's work was enough to take care of those kids she was going home to, enough to save a little bit for retirement, maybe take a day off once in a while to rest her aching back. <p>Now, each of the folks who are here today has a story like Pauline's. They represent nearly 1.8 million homecare workers across the country, hard-working professionals, mostly women, who work around the clock so that folks who need help, including many of our family members, can live independently in their own home. Right now home care is one of the fastest growing industries in America, partly because we're getting older as a society. And as the baby boom generation heads into retirement, more and more Americans are going to need the services of these outstanding workers. <p>But here's the thing: As the homecare business has changed over the years, the law hasn't changed to keep up. So even though workers like Pauline do everything from bathing to cooking, they're still lumped in the same category as teenage babysitters when it comes to how much they make. That means employers are allowed to pay these workers less than minimum wage with no overtime. That's right, you can wake up at 5 in the morning, care for somebody every minute of the day, take the late bus home at night, and still make less than the minimum wage. And this means that many homecare workers are forced to rely on things like food stamps just to make ends meet. <p>And that's just wrong. In this country, it's unexcusable. I can tell you firsthand that these men and women, they work their tails off, and they don't complain. And they deserve to be treated fairly. They deserve to be paid fairly for a service that many older Americans couldn't live without. And companies who do pay fair wages to these women shouldn't be put at a disadvantage. <p>Now, 4 years ago, a homecare worker named Evelyn Coke took her case all the way up to the Supreme Court. And Evelyn was working up to 70 hours a week with no overtime pay. But the Court ruled against her, saying that to change the law would require action from Congress or the Department of Labor. I'm sure many of you won't be surprised to know that Congress hasn't acted on this issue so far. <p>Today I will. Today we're guaranteeing homecare workers minimum wage and overtime pay protection. And that's thanks to the hard work of my Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis. We are going to make sure that over a million men and women in one of the fastest growing professions in the country don't slip through the cracks. We're going to make sure that companies who do right by their workers aren't undercut by companies who don't. We're going to do what's fair, and we're going to do what's right. <p>Now, Evelyn Coke didn't live to see this day. But the truth is, Americans like Evelyn and Pauline and the rest of the workers who are here today, they're one of the reasons that I ran for President. They work hard. They play by the rules. In exchange, they just want to see that their hard work and their responsibility is rewarded. It's that simple. Americans all deserve a fair shake and a fair shot. And as long as I have the honor of serving as President, I'm going to do everything in my power to make sure that those very modest expectations are fulfilled. I'm going to make sure that they are treated right. I'm going to make sure that every American is treated fairly. <p>Thanks very much, everybody. Thank you.\" "
"291" "\"Thank you. Please, please have a seat. You're making me blush. [<i>Laughter</i>] Thank you, Eric, for that extraordinary introduction and for your many years of leadership in the Reform movement. And even though it is a few hours early, I'd like to wish all of you <i>shabbat shalom</i>. <p>Now, there are a lot of familiar faces in the house: David Saperstein, Alan Solow, Rick Jacobs, Howard Kohr. <p>I want to welcome Israel's Deputy Prime Minister and Defense Minister Ehud Barak. The cooperation between our militaries has never been stronger, and I want to thank Ehud for his leadership and his lifelong commitment to Israel's security and the quest for a just and lasting peace. <p>I also want to recognize Israeli Ambassador Michael Oren, who's with us here today. <p>And finally, I want to give a shout-out to NFTY, I understand is in the house. Young people are going to lead the way, and they're leading the way. There you go. I'm fired up just listening to them. [<i>Laughter</i>] <p>I am honored to be here because of the proud history and tradition of the Union for Reform Judaism, representing more than 900 congregations, around 1.5 million American Jews. <p>I want to congratulate all of you on the golden anniversary of the Religious Action Center. As Eric mentioned, when President Kennedy spoke to leaders from the RAC in 1961, I was 3 months old, so my memory is a bit hazy. [<i>Laughter</i>] But I am very familiar with the work that you've done ever since, and so is the rest of America. <p>And that's because you helped draft the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act. You helped to liberate Soviet Jews. You have made a difference on so many of the defining issues of the last half-century. And without these efforts, I probably wouldn't be standing here today. So thank you. Thank you. You have brought to life your faith and your values, and the world's a better place for it. <p>Now, since my daughter Malia has reached the age where it seems like there's always a bar or bat mitzvah&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;every weekend, and there is quite a bit of negotiations around the skirts that she wears at these bat mitzvahs. [<i>Laughter</i>] Do you guys have these conversations as well? [<i>Laughter and applause</i>] All right. I just wanted to be clear it wasn't just me. [<i>Laughter</i>] What time you get home. <p>As a consequence, she's become the family expert on Jewish tradition. [<i>Laughter</i>] And if there's one thing I've learned from her, it's that it never hurts to begin a speech by discussing the Torah portion. [<i>Laughter</i>] It doesn't hurt. <p>So this week&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;congregations around the world will retell the story of Joseph. As any fan of Broadway musicals will tell you&mdash;[<i>laughter</i>]&mdash;there is a lot going on in this reading. [<i>Laughter</i>] But many scholars have focused on a single word that Joseph uses when he replies to his father Jacob. <p>In Hebrew, that word is <i>hineni</i>. It translates, \\"I\\"&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;it translates to \\"Here I am.\\" <i>Hineni</i>. It's the same word Abraham uses to reply to God before the binding of Isaac. It's the same word Moses uses when God summons him from the burning bush: <i>Hineni</i>. The text is telling us that while Joseph does not know what lies ahead, he is ready to answer the call. <p>In this case, <i>hineni</i> leads Joseph to Egypt. It sets in motion a story of enslavement and exodus that would come to inspire leaders like Martin Luther King as they sought freedom. It's a story of persecution and perseverance that has repeated itself from Inquisition-era Spain to Czarist Russia to Hitler's Germany. <p>And in that often tragic history, this place, America, stands out. Now, we can't whitewash the past. Like so many ethnic groups, Jews faced prejudice, and sometimes violence, as they sought their piece of the American Dream. But here, Jews finally found a place where their faith was protected, where hard work and responsibility paid off, where no matter who you were or where you came from, you could make it if you tried. Here in America, you really could build a better life for your children. <p>I know how much that story means to many of you, because I know how much that story means to me. My father was from Kenya, my mother was from Kansas&mdash;not places with a large Jewish community. [<i>Laughter</i>] But when my Jewish friends tell me about their ancestors, I feel a connection. I know what it's like to think, \\"Only in America is my story even possible.\\" <p>Now&mdash;I have to interrupt. My friend Debbie Wasserman Schultz just got in the house. She was&mdash;[<i>applause</i>] <p>Now, the Jewish community has always understood that the dream we share is about more than just doing well for yourself. From the moment our country was founded, American Jews have helped make our Union more perfect. Your parents, your grandparents, your great-grandparents, they remembered what it was like to be a stranger, and as a result treated strangers with compassion. They pursued <i>tikkun olam</i>, the hard work of repairing the world. <p>They fought bigotry because they had experienced bigotry. They fought for freedom of religion because they understood what it meant to be persecuted for your religious beliefs. Our country is a better place because they did. The same values that bring you here today led Justice Brandeis to fight for an America that protects the least of these. Those same values led Jewish leaders to found RAC 50 years ago. They led Abraham Joshua Heschel to pray with his feet and march with Dr. King. And over the last 3 years, they have brought us together on the most important issues of our time. <p>When we began this journey, we knew we would have to take on powerful special interests. We would have to take on a Washington culture where doing what's politically convenient is often valued above doing what's right, where the focus is too often on the next election instead of the next generation. <p>And so time and time again, we've been reminded that change is never easy. And a number of the rabbis who are here today, when I see them, they've been saying a prayer. They notice my hair is grayer. [<i>Laughter</i>] But we didn't quit. You didn't quit. And today, we're beginning to see what change looks like. <p>And Eric mentioned what change looks like. Change is the very first bill I signed, the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which says in this country an equal day's work gets an equal day's pay. That's change. <p>Change is finally doing something about our addiction to oil and raising fuel efficiency standards for the first time in 30 years. That's good for our economy, it's good for our national security, and it's good for our environment. <p>Change is confirming two Supreme Court Justices who will defend our rights, including our First Amendment rights surrounding religion&mdash;happen to be two women, by the way. That's also a good thing. <p>Change is repealing \\"don't ask, don't tell,\\" so that in the first time in history, you don't have to hide who you love to serve the country that you love. That's change. <p>Change is working with the Reform movement and other faith-based groups to reform the Federal faith-based initiatives, improving the way we partner with organizations that serve people in need. <p>Change is health care reform that we passed after a century of trying, reform that will finally ensure that in the United States of America, nobody goes bankrupt just because they get sick. That's change. <p>Change is the 2.5 million young people&mdash;maybe some of those NFTY folks&mdash;who have already&mdash;[<i>applause</i>]&mdash;who have health insurance on their parents' plans because of the Affordable Care Act. That's change. <p>It's making family planning more accessible to millions of Americans. It's insurance companies not being able to charge you more just because you're a woman or deny you coverage if you have breast cancer. <p>Change is committing to real, persistent education reform, because every child in America deserves access to a good school and to higher education&mdash;every child. <p>And change is keeping one of the first promises I made in 2008: After nearly 9 years, our war in Iraq is ending this month and our troops are coming home. <p>That's what change is. And none of this would have happened without you. That's the kind of change we'll keep fighting for in the months and years ahead. <p> And just last night you took another step towards the change we need and voted for a set of principles of economic justice in a time of fiscal crisis. And I want to thank you for your courage. That statement could not have come at a more important time, for as you put it, we're at a crossroads in American history. Last Tuesday I gave a speech in Osawatomie, Kansas, where I described that crossroads. And I laid out a vision of our country where everybody gets a fair shot, and everybody does their fair share, and everyone plays by the same rules. And these are not Democratic values or Republican values; they're not Christian values or Jewish values or Hindu or Muslim values. They're shared values, and we have to reclaim them. We have to restore them to a central place in America's political life. <p> I said it last week, I'll say it again: This is not just a political debate; this is a moral debate, this is an ethical debate, it's a values debate. It's the defining issue of our time. It is a make-or-break moment for the middle class and for all those who are fighting to get into the middle class and for those of us who remember parents or grandparents or great-grandparents who had to fight to get in the middle class, but they understood that the American Dream was available to them because we were all in it together. That's what this is about. And last night you reaffirmed the moral dimension of this debate. <p>We have to decide who we are as a country. Is this a place where everyone is left to fend for themselves, the most powerful can play by their own rules? Or do we come together to make sure that working people can earn enough to raise a family, send their kids to college, buy their own home, have a secure health care and a secure retirement? That is the story that almost all of us here share, in one way or another. This is a room full of folks who come from immigrants and remember what it was like to scratch and claw and work. You haven't forgotten. You know what it's like to see those in your own family struggle. <p>Well, we have to apply those same values to the American family. We're not a country that says, you're on your own. When we see neighbors who can't find work or pay for college or get the health care they need, we answer the call. We say, \\"Here I am,\\" and, \\"We will do our part.\\" <p>That's what you affirmed last night. But more importantly, it's what you affirm every day with your words and your actions. And I promise you that as you pray with your feet, I will be right there with you every step of the way. I'll be fighting to create jobs and give small businesses a chance to succeed. I'll be fighting to invest in education and technology. I will fight to strengthen programs like Medicare and Social Security. I will fight to put more money in the pockets of working families. I won't be afraid to ask the most well off among us&mdash;Americans like me&mdash;to pay our fair share, to make sure that everybody's got a shot. I will fight alongside you every inch of the way. <p>And as all of you know, standing up for our values at home is only part of our work. Around the world, we stand up for values that are universal, including the right of all people to live in peace and security and dignity. That's why we've worked on the international stage to promote the rights of women, to promote strategies to alleviate poverty, to promote the dignity of all people, including gays and lesbians and people with disabilities, to promote human rights and democracy. And that's why, as President, I have never wavered in pursuit of a just and lasting peace: two states for two peoples, an independent Palestine alongside a secure Jewish State of Israel. I have not wavered and will not waver. That is our shared vision. <p>Now, I know that many of you share my frustration sometimes, in terms of the state of the peace process. There's so much work to do. But here's what I know. There's no question about how lasting peace will be achieved. Peace can't be imposed from the outside. Ultimately, it is the Israelis and the Palestinians who must reach agreement on the issues that divide them. <p>And the fact that peace is hard can't deter us from trying. Because now more than ever, it's clear that a just and lasting peace is in the long-term interests of Israel. It is in the long-term interests of the Palestinian people. It is in the interest of the region. It is the interest of the United States, and it is in the interest of the world. And I am not going to stop in pursuit of that vision. It is the right thing to do. <p>Now, that vision begins with a strong and secure State of Israel. And the special bonds between our nations are ones that all Americans hold dear because they're bonds forged by common interests and shared values. They're bonds that transcend partisan politics&mdash;or at least they should. <p>We stand with Israel as a Jewish democratic state because we know that Israel is born of firmly held values that we, as Americans, share: a culture committed to justice, a land that welcomes the weary, a people devoted to <i>tikkun olam</i>. <p>So America's commitment and my commitment to Israel and Israel's security is unshakeable. It is unshakeable. <p>I said it in September at the United Nations. I said it when I stood amid the homes in Sderot that had been struck by missiles: No nation can tolerate terror. And no nation can accept rockets targeting innocent men, women, and children. No nation can yield to suicide bombers. <p>And as Ehud has said, it is hard to remember a time when the United States has given stronger support to Israel on its security. In fact, I am proud to say that no U.S. administration has done more in support of Israel's security than ours&mdash;none. Don't let anybody else tell you otherwise. It is a fact. <p>I'm proud that even in these difficult times we've fought for and secured the most funding for Israel in history. I'm proud that we've helped Israel develop a missile defense system that's already protecting civilians from rocket attacks. <p>Another grave concern&mdash;and a threat to the security of Israel, the United States, and the world&mdash;is Iran's nuclear program. And that's why our policy has been absolutely clear: We are determined to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. And that's why we've worked painstakingly from the moment I took office with allies and partners, and we have imposed the most comprehensive, the hardest hitting sanctions that the Iranian regime has ever faced. We haven't just talked about it, we have done it. And we're going to keep up the pressure. And that's why, rest assured, we will take no options off the table. We have been clear. <p>We're going to keep standing with our Israeli friends and allies, just as we've been doing when they've needed us most. In September, when a mob threatened the Israeli Embassy in Cairo, we worked to ensure that the men and women working there were able to get out safely. Last year, when raging fires threatened Haifa, we dispatched fire-fighting planes to help put out the blaze. <p>On my watch, the United States of America has led the way, from Durban to the United Nations, against attempts to use international forums to delegitimize Israel. And we will continue to do so. That's what friends and allies do for each other. So don't let anybody else tell a different story. We have been there, and we will continue to be there. Those are the facts. <p>And when I look back on the last few years, I'm proud of the decisions I've made, and I'm proud of what we've done together. But today isn't about resting on our laurels. As your tradition teaches, we're not obligated to finish the work, but neither are we free to desist from it. <p>We've got to keep going. So today we look forward to the world not just as it is, but as it could be. And when we do, the truth is clear: Our Union is not yet perfect. Our world is still in desperate need of repair. And each of us still hears that call. <p>And the question is, how will we respond? In this moment, every American, of every faith, every background has the opportunity to stand up and say: Here I am&mdash;<i>Hineni</i>. Here I am. I am ready to keep alive our country's promise. I am ready to speak up for our values at home and abroad. I am ready to do what needs to be done. The work may not be finished in a day, in a year, in a term, in a lifetime, but I'm ready to do my part. <p>And I believe that with tradition as our guide, we will seize that opportunity. And in the face of daunting odds, we will make the choices that are hard, but are right. That's how we've overcome tougher times before. That's how we will overcome the challenges that we face today. And together, we will rewrite the next chapter in America's story and prove that our best days are still to come. <p>Thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.\" "
"292" "\"Hello, everybody. In the last few weeks, I set out a simple principle: Congress should not go home for vacation until it finds a way to avoid hitting 160 million Americans with a tax hike on January 1. Extending the payroll tax cut that shows up in people's paychecks every week is an idea that I proposed in September as part of the \\"American Jobs Act.\\" <p>At a time when so many Americans are working harder and harder just to keep up, the extra $1,000 or so that the average family would get from this tax cut makes a real difference when you're trying to buy groceries or pay the bills, make a mortgage or make a repair. And all kinds of independent economists agree: The number-one challenge facing businesses right now is a lack of demand from consumers, which is why more people spending money means companies that are more successful and more able to hire more workers. <p> Today Congress has finally agreed to extend this middle class tax cut into next year. And they've also agreed to another part of my jobs plan, extending unemployment insurance for millions of Americans who are out there trying as hard as they can to find a job. This is spending money that also benefits families and businesses and the entire economy. And it's a lifeline that would have been lost for more than 2 &frac12; million people in the first 2 months of next year if Congress had not acted. <p>So I'm very pleased to see the work that the Senate has done. While this agreement is for 2 months, it is my expectation&mdash;in fact it would be inexcusable for Congress not to further extend this middle class tax cut for the rest of the year. It should be a formality. And hopefully it's done with as little drama as possible when they get back in January. <p>This really isn't hard. There are plenty of ways to pay for these proposals. This is a way to boost the economy that has been supported by these very same Democrats and Republicans in the past. It is something that economists believe will assure that the economy and the recovery is on a more stable footing than it otherwise would be. And my preference, and the preference of most Americans, is that we ask the wealthiest few Americans to pay their fair share and corporations to do without special taxpayer subsidies to cover some of the costs. But I think that it's important for us to get it done. <p>We've got a lot more work to do for the people who sent us here. But today I'm glad that both parties in Congress came together, and I want to thank them for ensuring that as we head into the holidays, folks at home don't have to worry about their taxes going up. <p>So I had a chance to talk to Senator Reid and Senator McConnell. I thanked them for their cooperation on this issue. I'm looking forward to the House moving forward and getting this done when they get back on Monday. And hopefully we're going to be able to make sure that when everybody gets back next year we extend this further all the way to the end of the year. <p>Thank you very much, everybody.\" "
"293" "\"This week marked a historic moment in the life of our country and our military. For nearly 9 years, our Nation has been at war in Iraq. More than 1.5 million Americans have served there with honor, skill, and bravery. Tens of thousands have been wounded. Military families have sacrificed greatly, none more so than the families of those nearly 4,500 Americans who made the ultimate sacrifice. All of them&mdash;our troops, veterans, and their families&mdash;will always have the thanks of a grateful nation. <p>On Thursday, the colors our Armed Forces fought under in Iraq were formally cased in a ceremony in Baghdad before beginning their journey back home. Our troops are now preparing to make their final march across the border and out of the country. Iraq's future will be in the hands of its own people. Our war there will be over. All of our troops will be out of Iraq. And this holiday season, all of us can finally say: Welcome home. <p>This is an extraordinary achievement, one made possible by the hard work and sacrifice of the men and women who had the courage to serve. And there's a lesson to learn from that, a lesson about our character as a nation. <p>See, there's a reason our military is the most respected institution in America. They don't see themselves or each other as Democrats first or Republicans first. They see themselves as Americans first. <p>For all of our differences, all of our disagreements, they remind us that we are all a part of something bigger, that we are one Nation and one people. And for all our challenges, they remind us that there is nothing we can't do when we stick together. <p>They're the finest our Nation has to offer. Many will remain in the military and go on to the next mission. Others will take off the uniform and become veterans. But their commitment to service doesn't end when they take off the uniform, in fact, I'm confident the story of their service to America is just beginning. <p>After years of rebuilding Iraq, it is time to enlist our veterans and all our people in the work of rebuilding America. <p>Folks like my grandfather came back from World War II to form the backbone of the largest middle class in history. And today's generation of veterans&mdash;the 9/11 generation of veterans&mdash;is armed with the skills, discipline, and leadership to attack the defining challenge of our time: rebuilding an economy where hard work pays off, where responsibility is rewarded and anyone can make it if they try. <p>Now it is up to us to serve these brave men and women as well as they serve us. Every day, they meet their responsibilities to their families and their country. Now it's time to meet ours, especially those of us who you sent to serve in Washington. This cannot be a country where division and discord stand in the way of our progress. This is a moment where we must come together to ensure that every American has the chance to work for a decent living, own their own home, send their kids to college, and secure a decent retirement. <p>This is a moment for us to build a country that lives up to the ideals that so many of our bravest Americans have fought and even died for. That is our highest obligation as citizens. That is the welcome home that our troops deserve. <p>Thanks.\" "
"294" "\"<i>The President</i>. Hello, everybody. Sorry to interrupt. <p><i>Press Secretary Carney</i>. It's all yours, sir. <p><i>The President</i>. Thank you. Well, good afternoon, everybody. It is no secret that there hasn't been an abundance of partisanship in Washington this year. And that's why what happened on Saturday was such a big deal. <p>Nearly the entire Senate, including almost all of the Republicans, voted to prevent 160 million working Americans from receiving a tax increase on January 1. Nearly the entire Senate voted to make sure that nearly 2.5 million Americans who are out there looking for a job don't lose their unemployment insurance in the first 2 months of next year. And just about everybody, Democrats and Republicans, committed to making sure that early next year we find a way to extend the payroll tax cut and unemployment insurance through the end of 2012. <p>But now, even though Republicans and Democrats in the Senate were willing to compromise for the good of the country, a faction of Republicans in the House are refusing to even vote on the Senate bill, a bill that cuts taxes for 160 million Americans. And because of their refusal to cooperate, all those Americans could face a tax hike in just 11 days, and millions of Americans who are out there looking for work could find their unemployment insurance expired. <p>Now, let's be clear: Right now the bipartisan compromise that was reached on Saturday is the only viable way to prevent a tax hike on January 1. It's the only one. All of the leaders in Congress, Democrats and Republicans, say they are committed to making sure we extend the payroll tax cut and unemployment insurance for the entire year. And by the way, this is something I called for months ago. <p>The issue is, is that the Republican and Democratic leaders of the Senate worked on a 1-year deal, made good progress, but determined that they needed more time to reach an agreement. And that's why they passed an insurance policy, to make sure that taxes don't go up on January 1. <p>In fact, the House Republicans say they don't dispute the need for a payroll tax cut. What they're really trying to do, what they're holding out for, is to wring concessions from Democrats on issues that have nothing to do with the payroll tax cut, issues where the parties fundamentally disagree. So a 1-year deal is not the issue; we can and we will come to that agreement, as long as it's focused on the payroll tax cut and unemployment insurance and not focused on extraneous issues. <p>The issue right now is this: The clock is ticking; time is running out. And if the House Republicans refuse to vote for the Senate bill, or even allow it to come up for a vote, taxes will go up in 11 days. I saw today that one of the House Republicans referred to what they're doing as, \\"high-stakes poker.\\" He's right about the stakes, but this is not poker, this is not a game&mdash;this shouldn't be politics as usual. Right now the recovery is fragile, but it is moving in the right direction. Our failure to do this could have effects not just on families, but on the economy as a whole. It's not a game for the average family, who doesn't have an extra 1,000 bucks to lose. It's not a game for somebody who's out there looking for work right now and might lose his house if unemployment insurance doesn't come through. It's not a game for the millions of Americans who will take a hit when the entire economy grows more slowly because these proposals aren't extended. <p>I just got back from a ceremony at Andrews Air Force Base, where we received the flag and the colors that our troops fought under in Iraq, and I met with some of the last men and women to return home from that war. And these Americans, and all Americans who serve, are the embodiment of courage and selflessness and patriotism, and when they fight together, and sometimes die together, they don't know and they certainly don't care who's a Democrat and who's a Republican and how somebody is doing in the polls and how this might play in the spin room. They work as a team, and they do their job. And they do it for something bigger than themselves. <p>The people in this town need to learn something from them. We have more important things to worry about than politics right now. We have more important things to worry about than saving face or figuring out internal caucus politics. We have people who are counting on us to make their lives just a little bit easier, to build an economy where hard work pays off and responsibility is rewarded. And we owe it to them to come together right now and do the right thing. That's what the Senate did. Democrats and Republicans in the Senate said, we're going to put our fights on other issues aside and go ahead and do what's right on something we all agree to. Let's go ahead and do it. We'll have time later for the politics; we'll have time later to have fights around a whole bunch of other issues. Right now, though, we know this is good for the economy, and they went ahead and did the right thing. <p>I need the Speaker and House Republicans to do the same: Put politics aside, put aside issues where there are fundamental disagreements and come together on something we agree on. And let's not play brinksmanship. The American people are weary of it; they're tired of it. They expect better. I'm calling on the Speaker and the House Republican leadership to bring up the Senate bill for a vote. Give the American people the assurance they need in this holiday season. <p>Thank you.\" "
"295" "\"Thank you, everybody. Please have a seat. Good afternoon to all of you. Merry Christmas. Happy holidays. <p>We've been doing everything we can over the last few weeks to make sure that 160 million working Americans aren't hit with a holiday tax increase on January 1. We've also been doing everything we can to make sure that millions of people who are out there looking for work in a very tough environment don't start losing their unemployment insurance on January 1. <p>Now, on Saturday, we reached a bipartisan compromise that would do just that: make sure that people aren't seeing a tax cut the first of the year; make sure that they still have unemployment insurance the first of the year. Nearly every Democrat in the Senate voted for that compromise; nearly every Republican in the Senate voted for that compromise. Democrats and even some Republicans in the House voted for that compromise. I am ready to sign that compromise into law the second it lands on my desk. <p>So far, the only reason it hasn't landed on my desk&mdash;the only reason&mdash;is because a faction of House Republicans have refused to support this compromise. <p>Now, if you're a family making about $50,000 a year, this is a tax cut that amounts to about $1,000 a year. That's about 40 bucks out of every paycheck. It may be that there's some folks in the House who refuse to vote for this compromise because they don't think that 40 bucks is a lot of money. But anyone who knows what it's like to stretch a budget knows that at the end of the week, or the end of the month, $40 can make all the difference in the world. <p>And that's why we thought we'd bring your voices into this debate. So many of these debates in Washington end up being portrayed as which party is winning, which party is losing. But what we have to remind ourselves of is this is about people. This is about the American people and whether they win. It's not about a contest between politicians. <p>So on Tuesday, we asked folks to tell us what would it be like to lose $40 out of your paycheck every week. And I have to tell you that the response has been overwhelming. We haven't seen anything like this before. Over 30,000 people have written in so far, as many as 2,000 every hour. We're still hearing from folks. And I want to encourage everybody who's been paying attention to this to keep sending your stories to whitehouse.gov and share them on Twitter and share them on Facebook. <p>The responses we've gotten so far have come from Americans of all ages and Americans of all backgrounds, from every corner of the country. Some of the folks who responded are on stage with me here today, and they should remind every single Member of Congress what's at stake in this debate. Let me just give you a few samples. <p>Joseph from New Jersey talked about how he would have to sacrifice the occasional pizza night with his daughters. He said&mdash;and I'm quoting&mdash;\\"My 16-year-old twins will be out of the house soon. I'll miss this.\\" <p>Richard from Rhode Island wrote to tell us that having an extra $40 in his check buys enough heating oil to keep his family warm for three nights. In his words&mdash;I'm quoting&mdash;\\"If someone doesn't think that 12 gallons of heating oil is important, I invite them to spend three nights in an unheated home. Or you can believe me when I say that it makes a difference.\\" <p>Pete from Wisconsin told us about driving more than 200 miles each week to keep his father-in-law company in a nursing home&mdash;$40 out of his paycheck would mean he'd only be able to make three trips instead of four. <p>We heard from a teacher named Claire from here in DC who goes to the thrift store every week and uses her own money to buy pencils and books for her fourth grade class. Once in a while she splurges on science or art supplies. Losing $40, she says, would mean she couldn't do that anymore. <p>For others, $40 means dinner out with a child who's home for Christmas, a new pair of shoes, a tank of gas, a charitable donation. These are the things at stake for millions of Americans. They matter to people&mdash;a lot. <p>And keep in mind that those are just the individual stories. That doesn't account for the overall impact that a failure to extend the payroll tax cut and a failure to extend unemployment insurance would have on the economy as a whole. We've seen the economy do better over the last couple of months, but there's still a lot of sources of uncertainty out there: what's going on in Europe, what's going on around the world. And so this is insurance to make sure that our recovery continues. <p>So it's time for the House to listen to the voices who are up here, the voices all across the country, and reconsider. What's happening right now is exactly why people just get so frustrated with Washington. This is it; this is exactly why people get so frustrated with Washington. This isn't a typical Democratic versus Republican issue. This is an issue where an overwhelming number of people in both parties agree. How can we not get that done? I mean, has this place become so dysfunctional that even when people agree to things we can't do it? It doesn't make any sense. <p>So, enough is enough. The people standing with me today can't afford any more games. They can't afford to lose $1,000 because of some ridiculous Washington standoff. The House needs to pass a short-term version of this compromise, and then we should negotiate an agreement as quickly as possible to extend the payroll tax cut and unemployment insurance for the rest of 2012. It's the right thing to do for the economy, and it's, most importantly, the right thing to do for American families all across the country. <p>This is not just my view. Just a few hours ago, this is exactly what the Republican Leader of the Senate said we should do. Democrats agree with the Republican Leader of the Senate. We should go ahead and get this done. This should not be hard. We all agree it should happen. I believe it's going to happen sooner or later. Why not make it sooner, rather than later? Let's give the American people&mdash;the people who sent us here&mdash;the kind of leadership they deserve. <p>Thank you, everybody.\" "
"296" "\"Good afternoon, everybody. I know you're all looking forward to spending time with their families over the holidays, but we did have one last piece of business to finish up. I said it was critical for Congress not to go home without preventing a tax increase on 160 million working Americans, and I'm pleased to say that they've got it done. So I want to thank all the Members of Congress for ending the stalemate and making this happen. <p>Because of this agreement, every working American will keep their tax cut, about $1,000 for a typical family. And that's&mdash;translates into an extra $40 or so in every paycheck. Vital unemployment insurance will continue for millions of Americans who are looking for work. And when Congress returns, I urge them to keep working, without drama, without delay, to reach an agreement that extends this tax cut as well as unemployment insurance through all of 2012. <p>Last week, I said that this should be a formality, and that's still the case. So let's make sure that we extend this tax break and unemployment insurance for a full year for our families, but also for our economy. It's the right thing to do because more money spent by more Americans means more businesses hiring more workers. And that's a boost for everybody, and it's a boost that we very much need right now. <p>Finally, I want to take a moment to thank my fellow Americans for bringing their voices to this debate. I met with several here at the White House yesterday. I really think it takes courage to believe that your voice can make a difference. And I promise you, the American people, your voices made a difference on this debate. Whether you tweeted or called or wrote, you reminded people in this town what this debate and what all of our debates should be about. It's about you. It's about your lives. It's about your families. You didn't send us to this town to play partisan games and to see who's up and who's down. You sent us here to serve and make your lives a little bit better, to do what's right. And fortunately, that's how this week ended. <p>So this is some good news, just in the nick of time for the holidays. I do want to be clear though: We have a lot more work to do. This continues to be a make-or-break moment for the middle class in this country, and we're going to have to roll up our sleeves together&mdash;Democrats and Republicans&mdash;to make sure that the economy is growing and to make sure that more jobs are created. <p>We've got an economy that is showing some positive signs. We've seen many consecutive months of private sector job growth. But it's not happening as fast as it needs to. And that means that we've got to redouble our efforts, working together. It also means that we've got to make sure we're rebuilding an economy where if you work hard, that work will be rewarded, the kind of economy where everyone is doing their fair share and everybody plays by the same set of rules, everybody has a fair chance and everybody is acting responsibly, including those of us here in Washington. <p>So there are going to be some important debates next year, some tough fights, I'm sure, in the years to come. But that's the kind of country that I'm fighting for, one where everybody has a fair chance and everybody is doing their fair share. That's the kind of country that I think the American people deserve and the kind of country that American people want. <p>So I want to wish everybody a merry Christmas, happy holidays, a happy New Year to you and your families, and that includes everybody here in the press corps. I know you guys have been working hard, and your families will be happy to spend a little more time with you over the next few days. <p>I also want to make sure to send the warmest holiday wishes to all the men and women in uniform who are serving overseas right now and may not have a chance to see their families during this holiday season. We are grateful for everything that you do.<p>All right? Thank you, guys. Aloha.\" "
"297" "\"<i>The President.</i> Hi everyone. As you gather with family and friends this weekend, Michelle, Malia, Sasha, and I, and of course Bo, want to wish you all merry Christmas and happy holidays. <p><i>The First Lady.</i> This is such a wonderful time of year. It's a time to honor the story of love and redemption that began 2,000 years ago, a time to see the world through a child's eyes and rediscover the magic all around us, and a time to give thanks for the gifts that bless us every single day. <p>This holiday season at the White House, we wanted to show our thanks with a very special holiday tribute to some of the strongest, bravest, and most resilient members of our American family, the men and women who wear our country's uniform and the families who support them. <p><i>The President.</i> For many military families, the best gift this year is a simple one: welcoming a loved one back for the holidays. You see, after nearly 9 years, our war in Iraq is over. Our troops are coming home, and across America, military families are being reunited. <p>So let's take a moment to give thanks for their service, for their families' service, for our veterans' service. And let's say a prayer for all our troops standing post all over the world, especially our brave men and women who are in Afghanistan and serving, even as we speak, in harm's way to protect the freedoms and security we hold so dear. <p><i>The First Lady.</i> Our veterans, troops, and military families sacrifice so much for us. So this holiday season, let's make sure that all of them know just how much we appreciate everything they do. <p>Let's ask ourselves, \\"How can I give back? How can my family serve them as well as they've served us?\\" And one way you can get started is to visit joiningforces.gov to find out how you can get involved right in your own community. <p><i>The President.</i> Giving of ourselves, service to others, that's what this season is all about. For my family and millions of Americans, that's what Christmas is all about. It reminds us that part of what it means to love God is to love one another&mdash;to be our brother's keeper and our sister's keeper. But that belief is not just at the center of our Christian faith, it's shared by Americans of all faiths and backgrounds. It's why so many of us, every year, volunteer our time to help those most in need, especially our hungry and our homeless. <p>So whatever you believe, wherever you're from, let's remember the spirit of service that connects us all to this season as Americans. Each of us can do our part to serve our communities and our country, not just today, but every day. <p><i>The First Lady.</i> So from our family to yours, merry Christmas. <p><i>The President.</i> Merry Christmas, happy holidays, happy new year, everybody.\" "
"298" "\"Hello, everybody. As 2011 comes to an end and we look ahead to 2012, I want to wish everyone a happy and healthy New Year. <p>The last year has been a time of great challenge and great progress for our country. We ended one war and began to wind down another. We dealt a crippling blow to Al Qaida and made America more secure. We stood by our friends and allies around the world through natural disasters and revolutions. And we began to see signs of economic recovery here at home, even as too many Americans are still struggling to get ahead. <p>There's no doubt that 2012 will bring even more change. And as we head into the new year, I'm hopeful that we have what it takes to face that change and come out even stronger: to grow our economy, create more jobs, and strengthen the middle class. <p>I'm hopeful because of what we saw right before Christmas, when Members of Congress came together to prevent a tax hike for 160 million Americans, saving a typical family about $40 in every paycheck. They also made sure Americans looking for work won't see their unemployment insurance cut off. And I expect Congress to finish the job by extending these provisions through the end of 2012. <p>It was good to see Members of Congress do the right thing for millions of working Americans. But it was only possible because you added your voices to the debate. Through e-mail and Twitter and over the phone, you let your representatives know what was at stake: your lives, your families, your well-being. You had the courage to believe that your voices could make a difference. And at the end of the day, they made all the difference. <p>More than anything else, you are the ones who make me hopeful about 2012. Because we've got some difficult debates and some tough fights to come. As I've said before, we are at a make-or-break moment for the middle class. And in many ways, the actions we take in the months ahead will help determine what kind of country we want to be, and what kind of world we want our children and grandchildren to grow up in. <p>As President, I promise to do everything I can to make America a place where hard work and responsibility are rewarded, one where everyone has a fair shot and everyone does their fair share. That's the America I believe in. That's the America we've always known. And I'm confident that if we work together, and if you keep reminding folks in Washington what's at stake, then we will move this country forward and guarantee every American the opportunities they deserve. <p>Thanks for watching, and from Michelle, Malia, Sasha, and Bo, as well as myself, happy New Year.\" "
